Fig. 38.* 82 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The ramus is a strong square-shaped process, differing in direction at various periods of life; thus, in the foetus and infant, it is almost parallel with the body; in youth it is oblique, and it gradually approaches the ver- tical direction until manhood; in old age, after the loss of the teeth, it again declines and assumes the oblique direction. Upon its external sur- face it is rough, for the attachment of the masseter muscle; and at the junction of its posterior border with the body of the bone is a rough tuber- osity, the angle of the lower jaw, which gives attachment by its inner margin to the stylo-maxillary ligament. The upper extremity of the ramus pre- sents two processes, separated by a con- cave sweep, the sigmoid notch. The an- terior is the coronoid process; it is sharp and pointed, and gives attachment by its inner surface to the temporal muscle. The anterior border of the coronoid pro- cess is grooved at its lower part for the buccinator muscle. The posterior pro- cess is the condyle of the lower jaw, which is flattened from before backwards, oblique in direction, and smooth upon its upper surface, to articulate with the glenoid ca- vity of the temporal bone. The constriction around the base of the con- dyle is its ??ec/c, into which is inserted the external pterygoid muscle. The sigmoid notch is crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. The interned surface of the ramus is marked near its centre by a large oblique foramen, the inferior dental, for the entrance of the inferior dental artery and nerve into the dental canal. Bounding this opening is a sharp margin, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament, and passing downwards from the opening a narrow groove which lodges the mylo- hyoidean nerve with a small artery and vein. To the uneven surface above, and in front of the inferior dental foramen, is attached the temporal muscle, and to that below it the internal pterygoid. The internal surface of the neck of the condyle gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle; and the angle to the stylo-maxillary ligament. Development.—By two centres: one for each lateral half, the two sides meeting at the symphysis, where they become united. The lower jaw is the earliest of the bones of the skeleton to exhibit ossification, with the exception of the clavicle ; ossific union of the symphysis takes place during the first year. Articulations.—With the glenoid fossae of the two temporal bones, through the medium of a fibro-cartilage. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen pairs: by the external surface, commencing at the symphysis and proceeding outwards,—levator labii inferioris, depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, platysma myoides, * The lower jaw. 1. The body. 2. The ramus. 3. The symphysis. 4. The fossa ♦'or the depressor labii inferioris muscle. 5. The mental foramen. 6. The external oidique ridge. 7. The groove for the facial artery ; the situation of the groove is marked by a notch in the bone a little in front of the number. 8. The angle. 9. The extremity of the mylo-hyoidean ridge. 10. The coronoid process. 11. The condyle. 12. lhe ‘vgmoid notch 13. The inferior dental foramen. 14. The mylo-hyoidean groove. 15. The alveolar process, t. The middle and lateral incisor tooth of one side. i. The ca- nine tooth, b. The two bicuspides. m. The three inolares.