436 OTIC GANGLION. ganglion, through the pterygoid or Vidian canal, to the foramen jacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, the carotid and petrosal. The carotid branch (n. petrosus profundus) crosses the foramen lacerum, surrounded by the ligamentous substance which closes that opening and enters the carotid canal by several filaments to join the carotid plexus. The petrosal branch (n. petrosus superficialis major) enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, piercing the ligamentous sub- stance of the latter, and passes backwards beneath the Casserian ganglion and dura mater, embedded in a groove upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone, to the hiatus Fallopii. In the hiatus Fallopii the petrosal branch of the Vidian receives a twig from Jacobson’s nerve, and termi- nates in the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. While in the pterygoid canal the Vidian nerve sends off a minute branch wdiich passes through an opening in the sphenoid bone and joins the otic ganglion. The Otic Ganglion (Arnold’s)* is a small oval-shaped and flattened ganglion, resting against the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale ; it is in relation externally with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; internally it rests against the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle ; and posteriorly it is in contact with the arteria me- ningea media. It is closely adherent to the internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling upon that branch. The branches of the otic ganglion are seven in number; two of distri- bution, and five of communication. The branches of distribution are, a small fdament to the tensor tympani muscle, and one to the tensor palati muscle ; the latter is usually derived from the internal pterygoid nerve, at the point where that nerve is enclosed by the ganglion. The branches of communication are, two or three filaments to the outer portion of the inferior maxillary nerve; one or two filaments to the auri- cular nerve; a filament to the chorda tympani; filaments to the arteria meningea media to communicate with the nervi molles; a filament which enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum with the arteria me- ningea media, and accompanies the nervus petrosus superficialis minor to the hiatus Falopii, where it joins the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve; a filament which enters the cranium through a small canal behind the foramen rotundum to join the Casserian ganglion; a fikment which enters a small canal near the foramen ovale to communicate with the Vidian nerve ; and the nervus petrosus superficialis minor. The latter nerve ascends from the ganglion to a small canal situated between the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, and passes backwards on the petrous bone to the hiatus Falopii, where it divides into two filaments. One of these filaments enters the hiatus and joins the intumescentia gan- gliformis of the facial; the other passes to a minute foramen nearer the base of the petrous bone and enters the tympanum, where it communicates with a branch of Jacobson’s nerve. The Submaxillary Ganglion is a small round or triangular ganglion, ♦Frederick Arnold, “Dissertatio Inauguralis de Parte Cephalica Nervi Sympathetici,” Heidelberg, 1826; and “ TJeber den Ohrknoten,” 1828.