492 THE LUNGS. are connected to each other by a membrane of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, which in the space between the extremities of the cartilages, posteriorly, forms a distinct layer. The Longitudinal elastic fibres are situated immediately beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior part of the trachea, and enclose the entire cylinder of the bronchial tubes to their terminations. The Muscular fibres form a thin layer, extending transversely between the extremities of the cartilages. On the posterior surface they are covered in by an areolo-fibrous lamella, in which are lodged the tracheal glands. These are small flattened ovoid bodies, situated in great number between the fibrous and muscular layers of the membranous portion of the trachea, and also between the two layers of elastic fibrous tissue connecting the rings. They pour their secretion upon the mucous membrane. Thyroid Gland. The thyroid gland or body is one of those organs which it is difficult to classify from the absence of any positive knowledge with regard to its function. It is situated upon the trachea, and in an anatomical arrange- ment may therefore be considered in this place, although bearing no part in the function of respiration. This gland consists of two lobes, which are placed one on each side of the trachea, and are connected with each other by means of an isthmus, which crosses its upper rings. There is considerable variety in the situa- tion and breadth of the isthmus, which should be recollected in the per- formance of operations upon the trachea. In structure it is composed, according to Mr. Simon,* of a dense aggregation of minute and inde- pendent membranous cavities enclosed by a plexus of capillary ves- sels, and connected together by areolo-fibrous tissue. The cavities are filled with fluid, in which are found cyto-blasts and cells; the latter mea- suring of an inch in diameter. In young animals the cyto-blasts lie in contact with the internal wall of the cavities, and constitute a kind of tesselated epithelium. The gland is larger in young subjects and in females, than in the adult and males. It is the seat of an enlargement called bronchocele, goitre, or the Derbyshire neck. A muscle is occasionally found connected with its upper border or with its isthmus; and attached, superiorly, to the body of the os hyoides, or to the thyroid cartilage. It was named by Soemmering the “ levator glandula thyroidecefig. 214, p. 487. Vessels and JVerves.—It is abundantly supplied with blood by the supe- rior and inferior thyroid arteries. Sometimes an additional artery is derived from the arteria innominata, and ascends upon the front of the trachea, to be distributed to the gland. The wounding ofi the latter ves- sel, in tracheotomy, might be fatal to the patient. The nerves are derived from the superior laryngeal and sympathetic. THE LUNGS. The lungs are two conical organs, situated one on each side of the chest, embracing the heart, and separated from each other by that organ * The Comparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland. Philosophical Transactions, '844