ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 328 Fig. 159* M '72 lli ?7 r*} ternal beneath the internal lateral ligament. Thev supply the knee joint and the heads of the tibia and fibula. The Sural arteries (sura, the calf) are two large muscular branches, which are distributed to the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The anterior tibial artery passes forwards between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, and through the opening in the upper part of the inter- osseous membrane, to the anterior tibial region. It then runs down the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle joint, where it becomes the dorsalis pedis. Relations.—In its course downwards it rests upon the interosseous membrane (to which it is connected by a little tendinous arch which is thrown across it), the lower part of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the joint. In the upper third of its course it is situated between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, lower down between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis; and just be- fore it reaches the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Its immediate relations are the venae comites and the anterior tibial nerve, which latter lies at first to its outer side, and at about the middle of the leg becomes placed superficially to the artery. Plan of the Relations of the Anterior Tibial Artery. Front. Inner Side. Tibialis anticus, Tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. Deep fascia, Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis, Anterior tibial nerve. Outer Side. Anterior tibial nerve, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis, Tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Behind. Interosseous membrane, Tibia (lower fourth), Ankle joint. Anterior Tibial Artery. * The anterior aspect of the leg and foot, showing the anterior tibial and dorsahs ;.edis arteries, with their branches. 1. The tendon of insertion of the quadriceps ex •e.isor muscle. 2. The insertion of the ligamentum patella) into the lower border of the ,-atella. 3. The tibia. 4. The extensor proprius pollicis muscle. 5. The extensor lon- gus digitorum. 6. The peronei muscles. 7. The inner belly of the gastrocnemius and