352 GENERAL ANATOMY OF LYMPHATICS. faces.* The vasa efferentia escape from the gland on the opposite, but not unfrequently on the same surface ; they consist, like the vasa inferentia at their junction with the gland, of several small vessels which unite after a course of a few lines to form from one to three trunks, often twice as large as the vasa inferentia. Lymphatic vessels admit of a threefold division, into superficial, deep, and lacteals. The superficial lymphatic vessels, on the surface of the body, follow the course of the veins, and pierce the deep fascia in conve- nient situations, to join the deep lymphatics On the surface of organs they converge to the nearest lymphatic trunks. The superficial lymphatic glands are placed in the most protected situations of the superficial fascia, as in the hollow of the ham and groin in the lower extremity, and on the inner side of the arm in the upper extremity. The deep lymphatics, fewer in number and somewhat larger than the superficial vessels, accompany the deeper veins; those from the lower parts of the body converging to the numerous glands seated around the iliac veins and inferior vena cava, and terminating in a large trunk situated on the vertebral column, the thoracic duct. From the upper part of the trunk of the body on the left side, and from the left side of the head and neck, they also proceed to the thoracic duct. Those on the right side of the head and neck, right upper extremity, and right side of the thorax, form a distinct duct which terminates at the point of junction of the sub- clavian with the internal jugular vein on the right side of the root of the neck. The lacteals are the lymphatic vessels of the small intestines ; they have received their distinctive appellation from conveying the milk-like product of digestion, the chyle, to the great centre of the lymphatic system, the thoracic duct. They are situated in the mesentery, and pass through the numerous mesenteric glands in their course. Lymphatic vessels are very generally distributed through the animai tissues; there are, nevertheless, certain structures in which they have never been detected ; for example, the brain and spinal cord, the eye, bones, cartilages, tendons, the membranes of the ovum, the umbilical cord, and the placenta. The anastomoses between these vessels are less frequent than between arteries and veins; they are effected by means of vessels of equal size with the vessels which they connect, and no increase of calibre results from their junction. The lymphatic vessels are smallest in the neck, larger in the upper extremities, and larger still in the lower limbs. For the purpose of effecting the movement of their fluids in a proper direction, lymphatic vessels are furnished with valves, and it is to these that the appearance of constrictions around the cylinders of the vessels, at short distances, is due. Like the valves of veins, the valves of lymphatic vessels are each composed of two semilunar flaps attached by their convex oorder to the sides of the vessel and free by their concave border. This is the general character of the valves, but, as in veins, there are exceptions in their form and disposition; sometimes one flap is so small as to be merely rudimentary, while the other is large in proportion ; sometimes the flap runs all the way round the tube, leaving a central aperture which can only be closed by a contractile power in the valve itself; and some- * See Mr. Lane's article on the “ Lymphatic System/' in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy arm Physiology.