473 STRUCTURE OF HAIRS. Fig. 210* rounding skin, and the horny structure of the nail is consequently continu- ous with that of the epidertna. Hairs are horny appendages of the skin produced by the involution and subsequent evolution of the epiderma; the involution constituting the lot licle in which the hair is enclosed, and the evolution the shaft of the hair. Hairs vary much in size and length in different parts of the body ; in some they are so short as not to appear beyond the folli- cle ; in others they grow to a great length, as on the scalp ; while along the margins of the eyelids and in the whis- kers and beard, they are remarkable for their thickness. Hairs are generally more or less flattened in form, and when the extremity of a transverse section is examined it is found to possess an el- liptical or reniform outline. This ex- amination also demonstrates that the centre of the hair is porous and loose in texture, while its periphery is dense; thus affording ground for its division into a cortical and a medullary portion. The free extremity of a hair is generally pointed, and sometimes split into two or three filaments. Its attached extremity is implanted deeply in the integument extending through the derma into the sub-cutaneous areolar tissue, where it is surrounded by adipose cells. The central extremity of a hair is larger than its shaft, and is called the root or bulb. It is usually conical in its shape. The process of formation of a hair by its follicle is identical with that of the formation of the epiderma by the papillary layer of the derma. Plastic lymph is in the first instance exuded by the capillary plexus of the follicle, the lymph undergoes conversion, first into granules, then into cells, and the latter are elongated into fibres. The cells which are destined to form the surface of the hair go through a different process. They are converted into flat scales, which enclose the fibrous structure of the interior. These scales, as they are successively produced, overlap those which precede and give rise to the prominent and waving lines which may be seen around the circumference of a hair. It is this overlapping line that is the cause of the roughness which we experience in drawing a hair, from its point to its bulb, between the fingers. The bulb is the newly formed portion of the hair; its expanded form is due to the greater bulk of the fresh cells compared with the fibres and scales into which they are subse- quently converted in the shaft. * The anatomy of the skin. 1. The epiderma. 2. The rete mucosum or deep layer of the epiderma. 3. Two of the quadrilateral papillary clumps, such as are seen in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot; they are composed of minute conical papillae. 4. 1 lie deep layer of the derma, the corium. 5. Adipose cells. 6. A sudoriparous gland with its spiral duct, such as is seen in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot. Another sudoriparous gland with a straighter duct, such as is «-een in the scalp. 8 1 wo hairs from the scalp, enclosed in their follicles; their relative depth in the skin is preserved. 9. A pair of sebiparous glands, opening by short ducts into the follicle of the hair. 40 *