254 POSTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral slips are continued on- wards, to be inserted into the base of the third. Relations. — By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the leg am] foot, and with the anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, fibula, ankle joint, extensor brevis digitorum which separates its tendons from the tarsus, and with the metatarsus and phalanges. By its inner surface with the tibialis anticus, extensor pro- prius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels. By its outer border with the peroneus longus and brevis. The Peroneus Tertius (flexor tarsi fibularis) arises from the lower fourth of the fibula, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Although apparently but a mere division or continuation of the extensor longus digitorum, this muscle may be looked upon as analogous to the flexor carpi ulnaris of the fore-arm. Sometimes it is alto- gether wanting. The Extensor Proprius Pollicis lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus ,digitorum. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the fibula and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia of the leg and foot, and with the anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface, with the interosseous membrane, the fibula, the tibia, the ankle joint, the extensor brevis digitorum, and the bones and articulations of the great toe. It is crossed upon this aspect by the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its outer side, with the extensor longus digitorum, and in the foot with the dorsalis pedis artery and veins; the outer side of its tendon upon the dor- sum of the foot being the guide to those vessels. By its inner side, with the tibialis anticus, and with the anterior tibial vessels. Actions.—The tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius are direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg; acting in conjunction with the tibialis posticus, they direct the foot inwards, and with the peroneus longus and brevis, outwards. They assist also in preserving the flatness of the foot during progression. The extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius pollicis, are direct extensors of the phalanges; but, continuing their action, they assist the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius in flexing the entire foot upon the leg. Taking their origin from below, they increase the stability of the ankle joint. Posterior Tibial Region. Superficial Group. Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Dissection.—Make an incision from the middle of the popliteal space, down tne middle of the posterior part of the leg to the heel, bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision, passing between the two malleoli. Turn aside the flaps of integument, and remove the fasciae from the whole of this region : the gastrocnemius muscle will then be exposed. The Gastrocnemius (yatf-^oxv-^iov, the bellied part of the leg) arises, by two heads, from the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being