LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 147 ing the sacrum and ilium; 2. those passing between the sacrum and is- chium, 3. between the sacrum and coccyx ; and 4. between the two pubic bones. 1st, Between the sacrum and ilium. Sacro-iliac anterior, Sacro-iliac posterior. 2d, Between the sacrum and ischium. Sacro-ischiatic anterior (short), Sacro-ischiatic posterior (long). 3d, Between the sacrum and coccyx. Sacro-coccygean anterior, Sacro-coccygean posterior. 4th, Between the ossa pubis. Anterior pubic, Posterior pubic, Superior pubic, Sub-pubic, Interosseous fibro-cartilage. 1. Between the Sacrum and Ilium.—The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of numerous short ligamentous fibres, which pass from bone to bone on the anterior surface of the joint. The postenor sacro-iliac or interosseous ligament is composed of nu- merous strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which pass horizontally be- tween the rough surfaces in the posterior half of the sacro-iliac articulation, and constitute the principal bond of connexion between the sacrum and the ilium. One fasciculus of this ligament, longer and larger than the rest, is distinguished, from its direction, by the name of the oblique sacro- iliac ligament. It is attached, by one extremity, to the posterior superior spine of the ilium; and, by the other, to the third transverse tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum. The surfaces of the two bones forming the sacro-iliac articulation are partly covered with cartilage, and partly rough and connected by the in- terosseous ligament. The antenor or auricular half is coated with carti- lage, which is thicker on the sacrum than on the ilium. The surface of the cartilage is irregular, and provided with a very delicate synovial mem- brane, which cannot be demonstrated in the adult; but is apparent in the young subject, and in the female during pregnancy. 2. Between the Sacrum and Ischium.—The anterior or lesser sacro-ischi- atic ligament is thin, and triangular in form; it is attached by its apex to the spine of the ischium, and by its broad extremity to the side of the sa- crum and coccyx, interlacing its fibres with the greater sacro-ischiatic ligament. The anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is in relation in front with the coc cygeus muscle, and behind with the posterior ligament, with wdiich its fibres are intermingled. By its upper border it forms a part of the lowei boundary of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and by the lowTer, a part oi the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen.