WHITE FIBROUS TISSUE. 134 Fibrous cartilage is composed of a network of white glistening fibres, collected into fasciculi of various size, and containing in its meshes cells and a subfibrous tissue resembling that of reticular cartilage. The fibres of fibrous cartilages are identical with those of fibrous tissue, the cells are large (about y^g^th of an inch) as in reticular cartilage, and the areolie are variable in dimensions. It is this latter character that constitutes the difference between different fibrous cartilages, some being composed al- most entirely of fibres with few and small interstices, as the interarticula cartilages, while others exhibit large spaces filled with an imperfect fibrou tissue and cells, as the intervertebral substance. The fibrous cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups, namely, interarticular, stratiform, interosseous, and free. The instances of inter- articular fibrous cartilages (menisci) are those of the lower jaw, sternal and acromial end of the clavicle, wrist, carpus, knee, to which may be added the fibrous cartilages of circumference, glenoid and cotyloid. The stratiform, fibrous cartilages are such as form a thin coating to the grooves on bone through which tendons play. The interosseous fibrous cartilages are the intervertebral substance and symphysis pubis. The free fibrous cartilages are the tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. The development of cartilage is the same with that of cartilage of bone (page 46), the different forms of cartilage resulting from subsequent changes in the intercellular substance and cells. Thus, for example, in articular cartilage the cells undergo the lowest degree of development, are very disproportionate to the intercellular substance, and the latter remains per manently structureless. In reticular cartilage the cells possess a more active growth, and surpass in bulk the intercellular substance, while the latter is composed also of cells, which assume a fibrous disposition. In fibrous cartilage development is most energetic in the intercellular sub- stance ; this is converted into fasciculi of fibrous tissue, while the inter- spaces are filled with cells and imperfect fibrous tissue in every stage of Fibrous Tissue is one of the most generally dis- tributed of all the animal tissues; it is composed of fibres of extreme minuteness, and presents itself under three elementary forms ; namely, white fibrous tissue, yellow fibrous tissue, and red fibrous tissue. In white fibrous tissue the fibres are cylindrical, exceedingly minute, (about of an inch in di- ameter), transparent and undulating; they are col- lected into small fasciculi (from 3^0 to y^Joo °f an inch) and these latter form larger fasciculi, which according to their arrangement give rise to the pro- duction of thin laminae, membranes, ligamentous bands, and tendinous cords. The connecting me- dium of the fibres in the formation of the primitive fasciculi is a transparent structureless interfibrous substance or blastema, to which in most situations are added numerous minute dark filaments derived from nuclei and thence termed nuclear filaments. * White fibrous tissu*:—2. Straight appearance of the tissue when stretched. 1, 3, 4. 5. Various wavy appearances which the tissue exhibits when not stretched.—Magni- fied 320 diameters. development. Fig. 68.*