507 LARGE INTESTINE. then passes nearly transversely across the third lumbar vertebra ; terminat- ing in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where it is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Ihe first or oblique portion of its course, between two and three inches in length, is completely enclosed by the peritoneum: it is in relation, above with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder; in front with the great omentum and abdominal parietes; and behind with the right border ot the lesser omen- tum and its vessels. The second or perpendicular portion is situated alto- gether behind the peritoneum; it is in relation by its anterior surface with the commencement of the arch of the colon ; by its posterior surface with the concave margin of the right kidney, the inferior vena cava, and the ductus communis choledochus; by its right border with the ascending colon ; and by its left border with the pancreas. The ductus communis choledochus and pancreatic duct open into the internal and posterior side of the perpendicular portion, a little below its middle. The third or transverse portion of the duodenum lies between the diverging layers of the transverse meso-colon, with which and with the stomach it is in rela- tion in front; above, it is in contact with the lower border of the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery and vein being interposed; and, behind, it rests upon the inferior vena cava and aorta. The Jejunum (jejunus, empty) is named from being generally found empty. It forms the upper two-fifths of the small intestine ; commencing at the duodenum, on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and ter- minating in the ileum. It is thicker to the touch than the rest of the intestine, and has a pinkish tinge from containing more mucous membrane than the ileum. The Ileum (s’/Xsiv, to twist, to convolute) includes the remaining three- fifths of the small intestine. It is somewhat smaller in calibre, thinner in texture, and paler than the jejunum; but there is no mark by which to distinguish the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. It terminates in the right iliac fossa, by opening at an obtuse angle into the colon. The jejunum and ileum are surrounded, above and at the sides, by the colon; in front, they are in relation with the omentum and abdominal parietes; they are retained in their position by the mesentery, which con- nects them with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and below they descend into the cavity of the pelvis. At about the lower third of the ileum a pouch-like process or diverticulum of the intestine is occasionally seen. This is a vestige of embryonic structure, and is formed by the obliteration of the vitelline duct at a short distance from the cylinder of the intestine. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine, about five feet in length, is sacculated in appear- ance, and is divided into the ccecum, colon, and rectum. The Ccecum (caecus, blind) is the blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, at the commencement of the large intestine. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, and is retained in its place by the peritoneum which passes over its ante- rior surfaceits posterior surface is connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. Attached to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened caecum found in all mammiferous animals except man and the higher quadrumana. The