71 SPHENOID BONE. hone, are the two pterygoid or Vidian canals, which give passage to the Vidian nerve and artery at each side. The posterior surface is flat and rough, and articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone. In the adult this union is usually completed by bone*, from which circumstance the sphenoid, in conjunction with the occipital, is described by Soemmering and Meckel as a single bone, under the name of spheno-occipital. The posterior surface is continuous on each side with the spinous process, and at the angle of union is the termi- nation of the V idian canal. The lesser wings (processes of Ingrassias) are thin and triangular, the base being attached to the upper and anterior part of the body of the sphe- noid, and the apex extended outwards, and terminating in an acute point. The anterior border is irregularly serrated, the posterior being free and rounded, and received into the fissure of Sylvius of the cerebrum. The inner extremity of this border is the anterior clinoid process, which is sup- ported by a short pillar of bone, giving attachment to a part of the com- mon tendon of the muscles of the orbit. The lesser wing forms the pos- terior part of the roof of the orbit, and its base is traversed by the optic foramen. The greater wings present three surfaces ; a superior or cerebral, which forms part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull, an anterior surface which assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit, and an external sur- face divided into two parts by the pterygoid ridge. The superior part of the external surface enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, and the inferior portion forms part of the zygomatic fossa. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the two, gives attachment to the upper origin of the pterygoideus externus muscle. The spinous processes project backwards at each side from the base of the greater wings of the sphenoid, and are received into the angular inter- vals between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bones. Piercing the base of each process is a large oval opening, the foramen ovale; nearer its apex a smaller opening, the foramen spinosum; and extending downwards from the apex a short spine, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and to the laxator tym- pani muscle. The external border of the spinous process is rough, to articulate with the lower border of the squamous portion of the temporal bone ; the internal forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and is somewhat grooved for the reception of the Eustachian tube. The pterygoid processes descend perpendicularly from the base of the greater wings, and form in the articulated skull the lateral boundaries of the posterior nares'. Each process consists of an external and internal plate, and an anterior surface. The external plate is broad and thin, giving attachment, by its external surface, to the external pterygoid muscle, and by its internal surface to the internal pterygoid. This plate is sometimes pierced by a foramen, which is not unfrequently formed by a process of communication passing between it and the spinous process. The internal pterygoid plate is long and narrow, and terminated at its extremity by a curved hook, the hamular process, around which plays the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a small oblong depression, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the circumflexus or tensor palati muscle. The interval between the two