477 RIGHT AURICLE. from the left ventricle is carried through the aorta, to be distributed to every part of the body, and again returned to the heart by the veins This constitutes the course of the adult circulation. The heart is best studied in situ. If, however, it be removed from the body, it should be placed in the position indicated in the above descrip- tion of its situation. A transverse incision should then be made along die ventricular margin of the right auricle, from the appendix to its right border, and crossed by a perpendicular incision, carried from the side of the superior to the inferior cava. The blood must then be removed. Some line specimens of white fibrin are frequently found with the coagula; occasionally they are yellow and gelatinous. This appearance deceived the older anatomists, who called these substances “ polypus of the heart:” they are also frequently found in the right ventricle, and sometimes in the left cavities. The Right Auricle is larger than the left, and is divided into a prin- cipal cavity or sinus, and an appendix auriculae. The interior of the sinus presents for examination five openings; two valves ; two relicts of foetal structure ; and two peculiarities in the proper structure of the auricle. They may be thus arranged:— Openings Valves Relicts of fcetal structure Stnidure of the auricle . r Superior cava, Inferior cava, < Coronary vein, Foramina Thebesii, Auriculo-ventricular opening. { Eustachian valve, l Coronary valve. ( Annulus ovalis, ( Fossa ovalis. ( Tuberculum Loweri, I Musculi pectinati. The Superior cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and front part of the auricle. The Inferior cava returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens through the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The direction of these twro vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner a stream rushing upwards by the inferior cava would force its current against the septum auricularum ; this is the proper direction of the two currents during fcetal life. The Coronary vein returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and the auriculo- ventricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The Foramina Thebesii* are minute pore-like openings, by which the venous blood exudes directly from the muscular structure of the heart into the auricle, without entering the venous current. These openings are also found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ventricles. * Adam Christian Thebesius. His discovery of the openings now known bv hit name is contained in his “ Dissertatio Medica de Circulo Sanguinis in Corde,” 1708.