215 TRANS VERS A LIS. wards. Some degree of care vill be required in performing this dissec- tion, from the difficulty of distinguishing between this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of cellular tissue is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Near the crest of the ilium, the circumflexa ilii artery ascends between the tw^o muscles, and forms a valuable guide to their separation. Just above Poupart’s ligament they are so closely connected, that it is impossible to divide them. The Transversalis is the internal flat muscle of the abdomen ; it is transverse in the direction of its fibres, as is implied in its name. It arises from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, from the internal lip of the crest of the ilium, its anterior two-thirds ; from the spinous and transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae, and from the inner surfaces of the six in- ferior ribs, indigitating with the diaphragm. Its lower fibres curve down- wards, to be inserted, with the lower fibres of the internal oblique, into the pectineal line, and form the conjoined tendon. Throughout the rest of its extent it is inserted into the crest of the os pubis and linea alba. The lower fourth of its aponeurosis passes in front of the rectus to the linea alba; the upper three-fourths with the posterior lamella of the internal oblique, behind it. The posterior aponeurosis of the transver- salis divides into three lamellae ;—anterior, which is attached to the bases of the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrae; middle, to the apices of the transverse pro- cesses ; and posterior, to the apices of the spinous processes. The anterior and mid- dle lamellae enclose the quadratus lumborum muscle; and the middle and posterior, the erector spinae. The union of the posterior lamella of the transversalis with the poste- rior aponeurosis of the internal oblique, serratus posticus inferior, and latissimus dorsi, constitutes the lumbar fascia. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal oblique, the internal surfaces of the lower libs, and internal intercostal muscles. By its internal surface with the transversalis fascia, which separates it from the peritoneum, with the psoas magnus, and with the lower part of the rectus and pyra- midalis. The spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass beneath the lower bor- der , but have no direct relation with it. * A lateral view of the trunk of the body, showing its muscles, and particularly the transversalis abdominis. 1. The costal origin of the latissimus dorsi muscle. 2. The serratus magnus. 3. The upper part of the external oblique muscle, divided in the di- rection best calculated to show the muscles beneath, without interfering with its indisi- tations with the serratus magnus. 4. Two of the external intercostal muscles. 5. Two ol the internal intercostals. 6. The transversalis muscle. 7. Its posterior aponeurosis. S. Its anterior aponeurosis, forming the most posterior layer of the sheath of the rectus. the lower part of the left rectus, with the aponeurosis of the transversalis passim* m tront. 10. 1 he right rectus muscle. 11. The arched opening left between the lower border of the transversalis muscle and Poupart’s ligament, through which the spermine cord and hernia pass. 12. The gluteus maximus, and inedius, and tensor vagiine femo tin muscles invested by fascia lata*