STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDERMA. 470 papillae of the derma are those which produce the nail; in the dermal follicle of the nail they are long and filiform, while beneath its concave surface they form longitudinal and parallel plications which extend for nearly the entire length of that organ. In structure each papilla is com- posed of a more or less convoluted capillary and a more or less convoluted nervous loop. The Epiderma or cuticle (scarf-skin) is a product of the derma, which it serves to envelope and defend. That surface of the epiderma which is exposed to the influence of the atmosphere and exterior sources of injury is hard and horny in texture, while that which lies in contact with the papillary layer is soft and cellular. Hence the epideima, like the derma, is divisible into two layers, external and internal, the latter being termed the rete mucosum. Moreover, the epiderma is laminated in structure, and the laminae present a progressively increasing tenuity and density as they advance from the inner to the outer surface. This difference of density is dependent on the mode of growth of the epiderma, for as the external surface is constantly subjected to destruction from attrition and chemical action, so the membrane is continually reproduced on its internal surface; new layers being successively formed on the derma to take the place of the old. The theory of growth of the epiderma, deduced from the observations of Schwann, is as follows:—A stratum of plastic lymph (liquor sanguinis) is poured out upon the surface of the derma. This fluid, by virtue of the vital force inherent in itself, and communicated to it by contact with a living tissue, is converted into granules, which are termed cell-germs, or cyto-blasts. By endosmosis, these cyto-blasts imbibe serum from the. plastic lymph and adjacent tissues, and the outermost layer or pellicle of the cyto-blast becomes gradually distended by the imbibed fluid. The cyto-blast has now become a cell, and the solid portion of the cyto-blast, which alwrays remains adherent to some one point of the internal surface of the cell-membrane, is the nucleus of the cell. Moreover, within the nucleus one or several nuclei are formed which are termed nucleoli. By a con- tinuance of the process of imbibition, the cell be- comes more or less spherical; so that, after a time, every part of the surface of the papillary layer of the derma is coated by a thin and membranous stratum, consisting of spherical cells lying closely pressed together, and corresponding with every irregularity which the papillm present. But, as this production of cells is a function constantly in operation, a new layer is formed before the first is completed, and the latter is separated by subsequent formations farther and farther from the surface of the papillary layer. As a consequence of loss of contact with the derma, the vital force is progressively dimi- 209* 5 3 (SS) V '■© J. • * A diagram illustrative of the development of the epiderma, and of epithelia in general, according to the theory of Schwann. 1. A granule or cyto-blast. 2. lhe cell seen rising on the cyto-blast; the latter is now a nucleus, and a nucleolus may be de- tected in its interior. 3. The spheroidal cell. 4. The oval cell. 5. The elliptical cell, b The flattened cell; which, by contact of its walls, is speedily converted into a scale in which the nucleus is lost. 7. A nucleated scale as seen upon its flat surlace. 8. A cluster of such scales