130 ARTICULATIONS. surface, and they are firmly held together by means of short bands of glistening fibres, which are called ligaments (ligare, to bind). The study of the ligaments is named syndesmology (<ruv together, <5s<rjxog bond), which, with the anatomy of the articulations, forms the subject of the present chapter. The forms of articulation met with in the human frame may be consi- dered under three classes : Synarthrosis, Amphi-arthrosis, and Diarthrosis. Synarthrosis ( <ruv, afyuats articulation) is expressive of the fixed form of joint in which the bones are immovably connected with each other. The kinds of synarthrosis are four in number. 1. Sutura. 2. Harmonia. 3. Schindylesis. 4. Gomphosis. The characters of the three first have been sufficiently explained in the preceding chapter, p. 83. It is here only necessary to state that, in the construction of sutures, the substance of the bones is not in immediate contact, but is separated by a layer of membrane which is continuous externally with the pericranium and inter- nally with the dura mater. It is the latter connexion which gives rise to the great difficulty sometimes experienced in tearing the calvarium from the dura mater. Cruveilhier describes this interposed membrane as the sutural cartilage; I never sawr any structure in the sutures which could be regarded as cartilage, and the history of the formation of the cranial bones would seem to point to a different explanation. The fourth, Gom- phosis (ydjafpo?, a nail), is expressive of the insertion of one bone into another, in the same manner that a nail is fixed into a board; this is il- lustrated in the articulation of the teeth with the alveoli of the maxillary bones. Amphi-arthrosis (ay®! both, agAguttig) is a joint intermediate in aptitude for motion between the immovable synarthrosis and the movable diarthro- sis. It is constituted by the approximation of surfaces partly coated with cartilage lined by synovial membrane, and partly connected by interosse- ous ligaments, or by the intervention of an elastic fibro-cartilage which adheres to the ends of both bones. Examples of this articulation are seen m the union between the bodies of the vertebrae, of the sacrum with the coccyx, of the pieces of the sternum, the sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses (n5v, cpbsiv, to grow together), and according to some, of the necks of the ribs with the transverse processes. Diarthrosis (Sid through, agdgufig) is a movable articulation, which constitutes by far the greater number of the joints of the body. The de- gree of motion in this class has given rise to a subdivision into three genera. Arthrodia, Ginglymus, and Enarthrosis. Arthrodia is the movable joint in which the extent of motion is slight and limited, as in the articulation of the clavicle, of the ribs, articular pro- cesses of the vertebrae, axD with the atlas, radius with the ulna, fibula with the tibia, carpal and metacarpal, tarsal and metatarsal bones. Ginglymus (yi/yXufxo$r, a hinge), or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions only, viz. forwards and back- wards ; but the degree of motion may be very considerable. The instances of this form of joint are numerous; they comprehend the elbow, wrist, metacarpo-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the upper extremity; and the knee, ankle, metatarso-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the lower extremity. The lower jaw may also be admitted into this category, as partaking more of the character of the hinge-joint than the less movable arthrodia