MUSCLES OF TIIE ABDOMEN. 211 the abdomen. The two muscles cross ,each other in the direction of their fibres. In structure the intercostal muscles consist of an admixture of muscular and tendinous fibres. They arise (rom the two lips ol the lower border of the ribs, the external from the outer lip, the internal from the inner, and are inserted into the upper border. Relations.—The external intercostals, by their external surface, with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz. the pectoralis major and minor, the serratus magnus, serratus posticus superior and inferior, scalenus posticus; sacro-lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi, with their continuations, the cervicalis ascendens and transversalis colli; the levatores costarum, and the obliquus externus abdominis. By their internal surface with the internal intercostals, the intercostal vessels and nerves, and a thin aponeu- rosis, and posteriorly with the pleura. The internal intercostals, by their external surface with the external intercostals, and intercostal vessels and nerves; by their internal surface with the pleura costalis, the triangularis sterni and diaphragm. Connected with the internal intercostals are a variable number of mus- cular fasciculi, which pass from the inner surface of one rib near its middle to the next or next but one below; these are the subcostal, or more cor- rectly the intracostal muscles. The Triangularis Sterni, situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum, ensi- form cartilage, and sternal extremities of the costal cartilages; and is in- serted by fleshy digitations into the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs, and often into that of the second. Relations.—By its external surface with the sternum, the ensiform carti- lage, the costal cartilages, internal intercostal muscles, and internal mam- mary vessels. By its internal surface with the pleura costalis, the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum and the diaphragm. The lower fibres of the triangularis sterni are continuous with those of the diaphragm. Actions.—The intercostal muscles raise the ribs when they act from above, and depress them when they take their fixed point from below. They are, therefore, both inspiratory and expiratory muscles. The trian- gularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages, and is, therefore, an expi- ratory muscle. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The muscles of this region are, the— Obliquus externus (descendens), Obliquus internus (ascendens), Cremaster, Transversalis, Rectus, Pyramidalis, Quadratus lumborum, Psoas parvus, Diaphragm. Dissection.—The dissection of the abdominal muscles is to be commenced by making three incisionsThe first, vertical, in the middle line, from over the lower part of the sternum to the pubes; the second oblique, from