BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 14 ELLIS (BENJAMIN), M.D. THE MEDICAL FORMULARY: being a Collection of Prescriptions, derived from the writings and practice of many of the most eminent physicians of America and Eurooe. Logether with the usual Dietetic Preparations and Antidotes for Poisons. To which is added an Appendix, on the Endermic use of Medicines, and on the use of Efher and Chloroform. The whole accompanied with a few brief Pharmaceutic and Medical Observations. Tenth edition revised and much extended by Robert P. Thomas, M. D., Professor of Materia Medina in the I hiladelphia College of l harmacy. In one neat octavo volume, of two hundred and ninetv-six pages. (JSoiv Ready. Revised and enlarged to 1854.) After an examination of the new matter and the alterations, we believe the reputation of the work built up by the author, and the late distinguished editor, will continue to flourish under the auspices of the present editor, who has the industry and accu- racy, anti, we would say, conscientiousness requi- site for the responsible task.—A?nerican Journal of Pharmacy, March, 1854. It will prove particularly useful to students and young practitioners, as the most important prescrip- tions employed in modern practice, which lie scat- tered through our medical literature, are here col- lected and conveniently arranged for reference. Charleston Med. Journal and Revieio. ERICHSEN (JOHN), Professor of Surgery in University College, London, &c THE SCIENCE AND ART OP SURGERY; being a Treatise on Surgical Injuries, Diseases, and Operations. Edited by John H. Brinton, M. D. Illustrated with three hundred and eleven engravings on wood. In one large and handsome octavo volume of over nine hundred closely printed pages. (Now Ready.) This is a new work, brought up to May, 1854. It is, in our humble judgment, decidedly the best hook of the kind in the English language. Strange that just such books are notoftener produced by pub lie teachers of surgery in litis country and Great Britain Indeed, it is a matter of great astonishment, but no less true than astonishing, that, of the many works on surgery republished in this country within the last fifteen or twenty years as text-books for medical students, this is the only one, that evert ap- proximates to the fulfilment of the peculiar wants of young men just entering upon the study of tlii« branch of the profession.— Western Jour.of Med. and Surgery. Embracing, as will be perceived, the whole surgi- cal domain, and each division of itself almost com- plete and perfect, each chapter full and explicit, each ,'ubject faithfully exhibited, we can only express our extimate of it in the aggregate. We consider it an excellent contribution to surgery, as probably the best single volume now extant on the subject, and with great pleasure we add it to our text books — Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery. Its value is greatly enhanced by a very copious well-arranged index. We regard this as one of the most valuable contributions to modern surgery. To one entering his novitiate of praclice, we regard it the most serviceable guide which he can consult. He will find a fulness of detail leading him through every step of the operation, and not deserting him '’until the final issue ot the case is decided. For the same rea- son we recommend it to those whose routine of prac- tice lies in such parts of the country that they must rarely encounter cases requiring surgical manage- ment.— Stethoscope. Prof. Erichsen’s work, for it3 size, has not been surpassed; his nine hundred and eight pages, pro- fusely illustrated, are rich in physiological,"patholo- gical. and operative suggestions, doctrines, details, and processes; and will prove a reliable resource for information, both to physician and surgeon, in the hour of peril.—N. 0. Med. and Surg. Journal. FOWNES (GEORGE), P H . D., &c. ELEMENTARY CHEMISTRY; Theoretical and Practical. With numerous illustrations. A new American, from the last and revised London edition. Edited, with Addi- tions, by Robert Bridges, M. D. In one large royal 12mo. volume, of over 550 pages, with 1SI wood-cuts, sheep, or extra cloth. (Noiv Ready.) The lamented death of the author has caused the revision of this edition to pass into the hands oi those distinguished chemists, H. Bence Jones and A. W. Hofmann, who have fully sustained its reputation by the additions which they have made, more especially in the portion devoted to Organic Chemistry, considerably increasing the size of the volume. This labor has been so thoroughly performed, that the American Editor has found but little to add, his notes consisting chiefly of such matters as the rapid advance of the science has rendered necessary, or of investigations which had apparently been overlooked by the author’s friends. The volume is therefore again presented as an exponent of the most advanced state of chemical science, and as not unworthy a continuation of the marked favor which it has received as an ele- mentary text-book. We know of no better text-book, especially in the ' difficult department of organic chemistry, upon which it is particularly full and satisfactory. We would recommend it to preceptors as a capital “ office book” for their students who are beginners in Chemistry. It is copiously illustrated with ex- cellent wood-cuts, and altogether admirably “got up.”—N. J. Medical Reporter, March, 1S54. The work of Dr. Fownes has long been before the public, and its merits have been fully appreci- ated as the best text-book on chemistry now in existence. We do not, of course, place it in a rank superior to the works of Brande, Graham, Turner, Gregory, or Gmelin, but we say that, as a work for students, it is preferable to any of them.—Lon- don Journal of Medicine. A standard manual, which has long enjoyed the reputation of embodying much knowledge in a small space. The author hasuchieved the difficult task of condensation with masterly tact. His book is con- cise without being dry, and brief without being too dogmatical or general.— Virginia Med. and Surgical Journal. A work well adapted to the wants of the student. It is an excellent exposition of the chief doctrines and facts of modern chemistry. The size of the work, and still more the condensed yet perspicuous style in which it is written, absolve it from the charges very properly urged against most manuals termed popular.—Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science. FRICK (CHARLES), M. D. RENAL AFFECTIONS; their Diagnosis and Pathology. With illustrations. One volume, royal 12mo., extra cloth.