12 BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL DUNGLISON (ROBLEY), M.D., Professor of Institutes of Medicine in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. MEDICAL LEXICON; a Dictionary of Medical Science, containing a concise Explanation of the various Subjects and Terms of Physiology, Pathology, Hygiene, Therapeutics, Pharmacology, Obstetrics, Medical Jurisprudence, &c. With the French and other Synonvrnes; Notices of Climate and of celebrated Mineral Waters; Formulae for various Officinal, Empirical, and Dietetic Preparations, etc. Eleventh edition, revised. In one very thick octavo volume, oi over nine hundred large double-columned pages, strongly bound in leather, with raised bands. (Just Issued.) Every successive edition of this work bears the marks of the industry of the author, and of his determination to keep it fully on a level with the most advanced state of medical science. Thus nearly fifteen thousand words have been added to it within the last few years. As a complete Medical Dictionary, therefore, embracing over FIFTY THOUSAND DEFINITIONS, in all the branches of the science, it is presented as meriting a continuance of the great favor and popularity which have carried it, within no very long space of time, to an eleventh edition. Every precaution has been taken in the preparation of the present volume, to render its mecha- nical execution and typographical accuracy worthy of its extended reputation and universal use. The very extensive additions have been accommodated, without materially increasing the bulk of xthe volume by the employment of a small but exceedingly clear type, cast for this purpose. The press has been watched with great care, and every effort used to insure the verbal accuracy so ne- cessary to a work of this nature. The whole is printed on fine white paper ; and, while thus exhi- biting in every respect so great an improvement over former issues, it is presented at the original exceedingly low price. We welcome it cordially; it is an admirable work, and indispensable to all literary medical men. The labor which has been bestowed upon it is something prodigious. The work, however, has now been done, and we are happy in the thought that no flu- man being will have again to undertake the same gigantic task. Revised and corrected from time to time, Dr. Dunglison’s “Medical Lexicon” will last for centuries.—British and Foreign Med. Chirurg. Review, July, 1853. The fact that this excellent and learned work has passed through eight editions, and that a ninth is rendered necessary by the demands of the public, affords a sufficient evidence of the general apprecia- tion of Dr. Dunglison’s labors by the medical pro- fession in England and America. It is a book which will be of great service to the student, in teaching him the meaning of all the technical terms used in medicine, and will be of no less use to the practi- tioner who desires to keep himself on a level with the advance of medical science.—London Medical Times and Gazette. In taking leave of our author, we feel compelled to confess that his work bears evidence of almost incredible labor having been bestowed upon its com- position.— Edinburgh Journal of Med. Sciences, Sept. 1853. valuable work, we directed the attention of our readers to its peculiar merits; and we need do little more than state, in reference to the present reissue, that, notwithstanding the large additions previously made to it, no fewer than four thou- sand terms, not to be found in the preceding edi- tion, are contained in the volume before us.— Whilst it is a wonderful monument of its author’s erudition and industry, it is also a work of great practical utility, as we can testify from our own experience; for we keep it constantly within our reach, and make very frequent reference to it, nearly always finding in it the information we seek. —British and Foreign Med.-Chirurg. Review. It has the rare merit that it certainly has no rival in the English language for accuracy and extent of references. The terms generally include short physiological and pathological descriptions, so that, as the author justly observes, the reader does not possess in this work a mere dictionary, but a book, which, while it instructs him in medical etymo- logy, furnishes him with a large amount of useful information. The author’s labors have been pro- perly appreciated by his own countrymen ; and we can only confirm their judgment, by recommending this most useful volume to the notice of our cisat- lantic readers. No medical library will be complete without it.—London Med. Gazette. A miracle of labor and industry in one who has written able and voluminous works on nearly every branch of medical science. . There could be no more useful book to the student or practitioner, in the present advancing age, than one in which would be found, in addition to the ordinary meaning and deri- vat’on of medical terms—so many of which are of modern introduction—concise descriptions of their explanation and employment; and all this and much more is contained in the volume before us. It is therefore almost as indispensable to the other learned professions as to our own. In fact, to all who may have occasion to ascertain the meaning of any word belonging to the many branches of medicine. From a careful examination of the present edition, we can vouch for its accuracy, and for its being brought quite up to the date of publication ; the author states in his preface that hehasadded to it about four thou- sand terms, which are not to be found in the prece- ding one. — Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Sciences. On the appearance of the last edition of this BY THE SA THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. rapeuties. Third Edition. In two large octav Upon every topic embraced in the work the latest information will be found carefully posted up.— Medical Examiner. The student of medicine will find, in these two elegant volumes, a mine of tacts, a gathering of precepts and advice from the world of experience, that will nerve him with courage, and faithfully direct him in his efforts to relieve the physical suf- It is certainly more complete and comprehensive than any with which we are acquainted in the English language. Few, in fact, could be found better qualified than Dr. Dunglison for the produc- tion of such a work. Learned, industrious, per- severing, and accurate, he brings to the task all the peculiar talents necessary for its successful performance; while, at the same time, his fami- liarity with the writings of the ancient and modern “ masters of our art,” renders him skilful to note the exact usage of the several terms of science, and the various modifications which medical term inology has undergone with the change of theo- ries or the progress of improvement. — American Journal of the Medical Sciences. One of the most complete and copious known to the cultivators of medical science.—Boston Med. Journal. The most comprehensive and best English Dic- tionary of medical terms extant.—Buffalo Medical Journal. [E AUTHOR. l Treatise on Special Pathology and The- > volumes, of fifteen hundred pages. ferings of the race.—Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. It is certainly the most complete treatise of which we have any knowledge.— Western Journal of Medi- cine and Sxtrgery. One of the most elaborate treatises of the kind we have.—Southern Med. and Surg. Journal.