270 PERINEAL FASCIA. rior border it divides into two layers, one of which is continued forwards, and is continuous with the superficial perineal fascia; while the other is Fig. 142 * prolonged backwards to the rectum, and, joining with the anal fascia, assists in supporting the extremity of that intestine. The deep perineal fascia is composed of two layers, which are separated from each other by several important parts, and traversed by the membranous portion of the urethra. The anterior layer is nearly plane in its direction, and sends a sheath forwards around the anterior termination of the membranous ure- thra, to be attached to the posterior part of the bulb. The posterior layer is oblique, and sends a funnel-shaped process backwards, which invests the commencement of the mem- Fig. 143.j- branous urethra and the prostate gland. The inferior segment of this funnel-shaped process is continued backward beneath the prostate gland and the vesiculae seminales, and is continuous with the recto-vesical fascise of Tyr- rell, which is attached poste- riorly to the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and serves the important office of retaining that duplicating in its proper situa- tion. * The pubic arch with the attachments of the perineal fasciae, t, 1, 1. The superfi rial perineal fascia divided by a shaped incision into three flaps ; the lateral flaps are turned over the ramus of the os pubis and ischium at each side, to which they are firmly attached; tne posterior flap is continuous with the deep perineal fascia. 2. The deep perineal fascia. 3. The opening for the passage of the membranous portion of the urethra, previously to entering the bulb. 4. Two projections of the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, corresponding with the position of Cowper's glands. t A side view of the viscera of the pelvis, showing the distribution of the perineal and pelvic fascia?. 1. The symphysis pubis. 2. The bladder. 3. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, passing from the anterior surface of the rectum to the posterior part cf tt.e bladder; from the upper part of the fundus of the bladder it is reflected upon the