404 GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. nuditorius interims, and at the bottom of the meatus it divides into twa branches, cochlear and vestibular. The auditory nerve is soft and pulpy in texture, and receives in the meatus auditorius several filaments from the facial nerve. Eighth Pair. — The eighth pair consists of three nerves, glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory; these are the ninth tenth, and eleventh pairs of Soemmering. Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve. — The glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises by five or six filaments from the groove between the corpus olivare and resti forme, and escapes from the skull at the innermost extremity of the jugular foramen through a distinct opening in the dura mater, lying anteriorly to the sheath of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, and internally to the jugular vein. It then passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and descends along the inferior border of that muscle to the hyo-glossus, beneath which it curves to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the base of the tongue and fauces, to the mucous glands of the mouth, and to the tonsils. While situated in the jugular fossa, the nerve presents two gangliform swellings; one superior (ganglion jugulare of Muller) of small size, and involving only the posterior fibres of the nerve ; the other inferior, nearly half an inch below the preceding, of larger size and occupying the whole diameter of the nerve, the ganglion of Andersch* (ganglion petrosum). The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme to the grey substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are— Communicating branches with the Facial, Pneumogastric, Spinal accessory, Sympathetic. Tympanic, Muscular, Pharyngeal, Lingual, Tonsillitic. The Branches of communication proceed from the ganglion and from the upper part of the trunk of the nerve, and are common to the facial, eighth pair, and sympathetic; they form a complicated plexus at the base of the skull. The Tympanic branch (Jacobson’s nerve) proceeds from the ganglion of Andersch, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately above the gan- glion : it enters a small bony canal in the jugular fossa (page 68) and divides into six branches, which are distributed upon the inner wall of the tympanum, and establish a plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) with the sympathetic and fifth pair of nerves. The branches of distribu- tion supply the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and Eustachian tube: those of communication join the carotid plexus, the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve, and the otic ganglion. * Charles Samuel Andersch. “ Tractatus Anatomico-Pbysiologicus de Nervis Cor poris Humani Aliquibus. 1797.”