384 BASE OF THE BRAIN. which communicates with the cavity of the third ventricle ; and below the termination of the canal, the conical process becomes connected with the pituitary gland. The infundibulum and tuber cinereum form part of the floor of the third ventricle. . The Pituitary gland (hypophysis cerebri), is a small, flattened, reddish- grey body situated in the sella turcica, and closely retained in that situation by the dura mater and arachnoid. It consists of two lobes, closely pressed together, the anterior lobe being the larger of the two, and oblong in shape, the posterior round. Both lobes are connected with the infundibulum, but the latter is so soft in texture as to be generally torn through in the removal of the brain. Indeed, for the purposes of the student, it is better to effect this separation with the knife, and leave the pituitary body in situ, to be examined with the base of the cranium. The Corpora albicantia (mammillaria, pisiformia, bulbi fornicis) are two white convex bodies, having the shape and size of peas, situated behind the tuber cinereum, and between the crura cerebri. They are a part of the crura of the fornix, which, after their origin from the thalami optici, descend to the base of the brain, and making a sudden curve upon them- selves previously to their ascent to the lateral ventricles, constitute the cor- pora albicantia. When divided by section, these bodies will be found to be composed of a capsule of wdiite substance, containing grey matter, the grey matter of the two corpora being connected by means of a commissure. The Locus perforatus is a layer of whitish-grey substance, connect- ed in front with the corpora albi- cantia, behind with the pons Varo- lii, and on each side with the crura cerebri, between which it is situated. It is perforated by several thick tufts of arteries, which are distributed to the thalami optici and third ven- tricle, of which latter it assists in forming the floor. It is sometimes called the pons Tarini. The Cmra cerebri are two thick white cords, which issue from the anterior border of the pons Varolii, and diverge to each side to enter the thalami optici. By their outer side the crura cerebri are continu- ous with the corpora quadrigemina, and, above, they constitute the lower boundary of the aqueduct of Fig. 172* * The under surface or base Of the brain. 1. The anterior lobe of one hemisphere of the cerebrum. 2. The middle lobe. 3. The posterior lobe almost concealed by (4) the hemisphere of the cerebellum. 5. The pyramidal lobe of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum. 6. The pneumogastric lobule. 7. The longitudinal fissure. S. The olfactory nerves, with their bulbous expansions. 9. The substantia perforata at Uie inner termination of the fissure of Sylvius; the three roots of the olfactory nerve are seen upon the substantia perforata. The commencement of the transverse fissure on each side is concealed by the inner border of the middle lobe. 10. The commissure of the optic nerves ; the numeral is placed between the optic nerves as they diverge from the commissure, and rests upon the lamina cinerea of the corpus callosum. 11. The