434 CILIARY GANGLION. ganglion situated within the orbit, between the optic nerve and the exter- nal rectus muscle; it is in close contact with the optic nerve, and is sur- rounded by adipose tissue, which renders its dissection somewhat difficult. Its branches of distribution are the ciliary, which arise from its anterior angles by two groups: the upper group, consisting of about four filaments ; and the lower, of five or six. They accompany the ciliary arteries in a Fig. 196* waving course, and divide into a number of filaments which pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve, and supply the tunics of the eyeball. A small filament is said by Tiedemann, to accompany the arteria centralis retinae into the centre of the globe of the eye. Its branches of communication are three, one, the long root, which pro- ceeds from the posterior superior angle to the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic nerve ; a short thick branch, the short root, from the posterior inferior angle to the inferior division of the third nerve; and a slender filament, the sympathetic root, which passes backwards to the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the carotid plexus. Occasionally the ciliary ganglion s * The cranial ganglia of the sympathetic nerve. 1. The ganglion of Ribes. 2. The filament by which it communicates with the carotid plexus (3). 4. The ciliary or len- ticular ganglion, giving oft' ciliary branches for the supply of the globe of the eye. 5. Part of the inferior division of the third nerve, receiving a short thick branch (the short root) from the ganglion. 6. Part of the nasal nerve, receiving a longer branch (the long root) from the ganglion. 7. A slender filament (the sympathetic root) sent directly backwards from the ganglion to the carotid plexus. 8. Part of the sixth nerve in the cavernous sinus, receiving two branches from the carotid plexus. 9. Meckel’s ganglion (spheno-palatine). 10. Its ascending branches, communicating with the superior maxil- lary nerve. 11. Its descending or palatine branches. 12 Its internal branches, spheno- palatine or nasal. 13. The naso-palatine branch, one of the nasal branches. * The naso-palatine ganglion. 14. The posterior branch of the ganglion, the Vidian nerve. 15. Its carotid branch (n. petrosus profundus) communicating with the carotid plexus. 1 6. Its petrosal branch (n. petrosus superficialis minor), joining the intumescentia gangli- formis of the facial nerve. 17. The facial nerve. 18. The chorda tympani nerve, which descends to join the gustatory nerve. 19. The gustatory nerve. 20. The subinaxillary ganglion, receiving the chorda tympani, and other filaments from the gustatory. 21. 1'he superior cervical ganglion pf the sympathetic.