AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. 15 FERGUSSON (WILLIAM), F. R.S., Professor of Surgery in King’s College, London, &c. A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL SURGERY. Fourth American, from the third and enlarged London edition. In one large and beautifully printed octavo volume, of about seven hundred pages, with three hundred and ninety-three handsome illustrations. (Just Issued.) The most important subjects in connection with practical surgery which have been more recently brought under the notice of, and discussed by, the surgeons of Great Britain, are fully and dispassion- ately considered by Mr. Fergusson, and that which was before wanting lias now been supplied, so that we can now look upon it as a work on practical sur- gery instead of one on operative surgery alone. There was some ground formerly for the complaint before alluded tojThat it dwelt too exclusively on operative surgery; but this defect is now removed, and the book is more than ever adapted for the pur- poses of the practitioner, whether he confines him- self more strictly to the operative department, or follows surgery on a more comprehensive scale.— Medical Times and Gazette. No work was ever written which more nearly comprehended the necessities of the student and practitioner, and was more carefully arranged to that single purpose than this.—N. Y. Med. and Surg. Journal. The addition of many new pages makes this work more than ever indispensable to the student and prac- titioner.—Ranking’s Abstract. Among the numerous works upon surgery pub- lished of late years, we know of none we value more highly than the one before us. It is perhapB tiie very best we have for a text-book and for ordi- nary reference, being concise and eminently practi- cal.— Southern Med. and Surg. Journal. 4 GRAHAM (THOMAS), F. R.S., Professor of Chemistry in University College, London, &c. THE ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY. Including the application of the Science to the Arts. With numerous illustrations. With Notes and Additions, by Robert Bridges, M. D., &c. &c. Second American, from the second and enlarged London edition PART I. (Lately Issued) large 8vo., 430 pages, 185 illustrations. PART II. (Preparing) to match. The great changes which the science of chemistry has undergone within the last, few years, ren- der a new edition of a treatise like the present, almost a new work. The author has devoted several years to the revision of his treatise, and has endeavored to embody in it every fact and inference of importance which has been observed and recorded by the great body of chemical investigators who are so rapidly changing the face of the science. In this manner the work has been greatly increased in size, and the number of illustrations doubled ; while the labors of the editor have been directed towards the introduction of such matters as have escaped the attention of the author, or as have arisen since the publication of the first portion of this edition in London, in 1850. Printed in handsome style, and at a very low price, it is therefore confidently presented to the pro- fession and the student as a very complete and thorough text-book of this important subject. GROSS (SAMUEL D.), M. D., Professor of Surgery in the Louisville Medical Institute, &c. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE URINARY ORGANS. In one large and beautifully printed octavo volume, of over seven hundred pages. With numerous illustrations. A volume replete with truths and principles of the utmost value in the investigation of these diseases.— American Medical Journal. Dr. Gross has brought all his learning, experi- ence, tact, and judgment to the task, and has pro- duced a work worthy of his high reputation. We feel perfectly safe in recommending it to our read- ers as a monograph unequalled in interest and practical value bv any other on the subject in our language.—Western Journal of Med. and Surg. It has remained for an American writer to wipe away this reproach ; and so completely has the task been fulfilled, that we venture to predict for Dr. Gross’s treatise a permanent place in the literature of surgery, worthy to rank with the best works of the present age. Not merely is the matter good, but the getting up of the volume is most creditable » to transatlantic enterprise; the paper and print would do credit to a first-rate London establishment; and the numerous wood-cuts which illustrate it, de- monstrate that America is making rapid advances in this department of art. We have, indeed, unfeigned pleasure in congratulating all concerned iti this pub- lication, on the result of their labours; and expe- rience a feeling something like what.animates a long- expectant husbandman, who, oftentimes disappointed by the produce of a favorite field, is at last agree- ably surprised by a stately crop which may bear comparison with any of its former rivals. The grounds of our high appreciation of the work will he obvious as we proceed ; and we doubt not that the present facilities for obtaining American books will induce many of our readers to verify our re- commendation by their own perusal of it.—British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review. Whoever will peruse the vast amount of valuable practical information it contains, and which we have been unable even to notice, will, we think, agree with us, that there is no work in the English language which can make any just pretensions to be its equal.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. by the same author. (Noia Heady.) A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PAS- SAGES. In one handsome octavo volume, with illustrations. No complete monograph on this interesting and difficult subject has hitherto appeared in any lan- guage. 1 he profession will therefore find a want supplied by ihe present volume, containing an elaborate investigation of the nature, symptoms, and treatment of this class of accidents, founded the details of more than two hundred cases, carefully analyzed and compared. Besides the ex- perience gathered from the author’s practice, and that of numerous friends and correspondents, he lias laboriously collected all the scattered information embodied in medical periodicals, reports of learned societies, and other sources; and, examining the whole bv the aid of the most recent patho- logical and anatomical investigations, he has presented a complete and systematic view of the sub- ject in all its bearings. by the same author. (Preparing.) A RI »8>TEM OF SURGERY ; Diagnostic, Pathological, Therapeutic, and Opera- tive. With very numerous engravings on wood.