RADIUS. 108 upper surface into a shallow cup. Around the margin ot the head is a smooth articular surface, which is broad on the inner side, where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and narrow in the rest of its circumfer- ence, to p ay in the orbicular ligament. Beneath the head is a round constricted neck; and beneath the neck, on its internal aspect, a prominent process, the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is partly smooth, and partly rough; rough below, where it receives the attachment of the ten- don of the biceps; and smooth above, where a bursa is interposed between the tendon and the bone. The shaft of the bone is prismoid, and presents three surfaces. The anterior surface is somewhat concave su- periorly, where it lodges the flexor longus pollicis; and flat below, where it supports the pronator quadratus. At about the upper third of this surface is the nutritious fora- men, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is round above, where it supports the supinator brevis muscle, and marked by several shallow oblique grooves below, which afford attachment to the extensor muscles of the thumb. The external surface is rounded and con- vex, and marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from the tuberosity to the styloid process at the lower extremity of the bone. Upon the inner margin of the bone is a sharp and prominent crest, which gives attachment to the interosseous membrane. The lower extremity of the radius is broad and triangular, and provided with two ar- ticular surfaces; one at the side of the bone, which is concave to receive the rounded head of the ulna; the other at the extremity, and marked by a slight ridge into two facets, one external and triangular, corresponding with the scaphoid; the other square, with the semilunar bone. Upon the outer side of the extremity is a strong conical projection, the styloid process, which gives attachment by its base to the tendon of the supinator longus, and by its apex to the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint. The inner edge of the articular surface affords attachment to the base of the Imer-articular cartilage of the ulna. Immediately in front of the styloid process is a groove, which lodges the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; and behind the process a broader groove, ‘for the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and extensor secundi inter- nodii ; behind this is a prominent ridge, and a deep and narrow groove, for the tendon of the extensor indicis; and still farther back, part of a broad groove, completed by the ulna, for the tendons of the extensoi communis digitorum. Development.—By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one for each ex- tremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after the humerus, and before that in the ulna. The inferior centre appears during the second * The two bones of the fore-arm seen from the front. 1. The shaft of the ulna. 2. The greater sigmoid notch. 3. The lesser sigmoid notch, with which the head of the radius is articulated. 4. The olecranon process. 5. The coronoid process. 6. The nu- tritious foramen. 7. The sharp ridges upon the two bones to which the interosseous membrane is attached. 8. The rapitulum ulnce. 9. The styloid process. 10. The shaft of the radius. 11. Its head surrounded by the smooth border for articulation with the orbicular ligament. 12. The neck of the radius. 13. Its tuberosity. 14. The oblique line 13. Tire lower extremity of the bone 1C. Its styloid process. Fig 52 * 4-