CERVICAL PLEXUS. 412 The Superficialis colli is formed by communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and crosses obliquely behind the external jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, where it divides into an ascend- ing and a descending branch; the descending branch is distributed to the integument on the side and front of the neck, as low down as the clavicle ; the ascending branch passes upwards to the submaxillary region, and divides into four or five filaments, some of which pierce the platysma myoides and supply the integument as high up as the chin and lower part of the face, while others form a plexus with the descending branches of the facial nerve beneath the platysma. One or two filaments from this nerve accompany the external jugular vein. The Auricula,ris magnus, the largest of the three ascending branches of the cervical plexus, also proceeds from the second and third cervical nerve ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends upon that muscle, lying parallel with the external jugular vein, to the parotid gland, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch is distributed to the integument over the parotid gland, to the gland itself, communicating with the facial nerve, and to the external ear. The posterior branch pierces the parotid gland and crosses the mastoid process, where it divides into branches which supply the pos- terior part of the pinna and the integument of the side of the head, and communicate with the posterior auricular branch of the facial and with the occipitalis minor. Previously to its division the auricularis magnus nerve sends off several facial branches which are distributed to the cheek. The Occipitalis minor arises from the second cervical nerve; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid above the preceding, and ascends upon that muscle, parallel with its posterior border, to the lateral and posterior side of the head. It is distributed to the integument asd to the muscles of this region, namely, to the occipito-frontalis, attollens and attrahens aurem, and communicates with the occipitalis major, auri- chlaris magnus and posterior auricular branch of the facial. The Acromiales and Claviculares are two or three large nerves which proceed from the fourth cervical nerve, and divide into numerous branches which pass downwards over the clavicle, and are distributed to the inte- gument of the upper and anterior part of the chest from the sternum to the shoulder. The Communicating branches are filaments which arise from the loop between the first and second cervical nerve, and pass inwards to commu- nicate with the sympathetic, the pneumogastric, and the hypo-glossal nerve. The three first cervical nerves send branches to the first cervical ganglion ; the fourth sends a branch to the trunk of the sympathetic, or to the middle cervical ganglion. From the second cervical nerve a large branch is given off which goes to join the spinal accessory nerve. The Muscular branches proceed from the third and fourth cervical nerves; they aie distributed to the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, and rhomboidei muscles. The Communicans noni is a long slender branch formed by filaments from the first, second, and third cervical nerves; it descends upon the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and forms a loop with the descen- ders noni over the sheath of the carotid vessels. v