RADIAL ARTERY. 301 Fig. 151 * inosculates with the radial recurrent branch. It accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve. In its course it gives off the posterior articular artery, which descends to the elbow joint, and a more superficial branch which inosculates with the in- terosseous articular artery. The Inferior profunda arises from about the middle of the brachial artery, and descends to the space between the inner condyle and olecra- non in company with the ulnar nerve, where it inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent. The Anastomotica magna is given off nearly at right angles from the brachial, at about two inches above the joint. It passes directly inwards, and divides into two branches which inosculate with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and with the inferior profunda. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery, viz. to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, deltoid, brachialis an- ticus and triceps. Varieties of the Brachial Artery.—The most frequent peculiarity in the distribution of branches from this artery is the high division of the radial, which arises generally from about the upper third of the brachial artery, and descends to its normal position at the bend of the elbow. The ulnar artery sometimes arises from the brachial at about two inches above the elbow, and pursues either a superficial or deep course to the wrist; and, in more than one instance, I have seen the interosseous artery arise from the brachial a little above the bend of the elbow. The two profunda arteries occasionally arise by a common trunk, or there maybe two superior profundae. RADIAL ARTERY. The Radial artery, one of the divisions of the brachial, appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of that trunk. It runs along the radial side of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the wrist; it there turns around the base of the thumb, beneath its extensor tendons, and * The arteries of the fore-arm. 1. The lower part of the biceps mnscle. 2. The inner condyle of the humerus with the humeral origin of the pronator radii teres and flexor carpi radialis divided across. 3. The deep portion of the pronator radii teres. 4. The supinator longus muscle. 5. The flexor longus pollicis. 6. The pronator quadratus. 7. The flexor profundus digitorum. 8. The flexor carpi ulnaris. 9. The annular ligament with the tendons passing beneath it into the palm of the hand ; the figure is placed on the tendon of the palmaris longus muscle, divided close to its insertion. 10. The brachial artery. 11. The anastomotica magna inosculating superiorly with the inferior profunda, and inferiorly with the anterior ulna recurrent. 12. The radial artery. 13. The radial recurrent artery inosculating with the termination of the superior profunda. 14. The superficialis volse. 15. The ulnar artery. 16. Its superficial palmar arch giving off di- gital branches to three fingers and a half. 17. The magna pollicis and radialis arteries. 18 The posterior ulnar recurrent. 19. The anterior interosseous artery. 20. The poste- rior interosseous, as it is passing through fhe interosseous membrane.