MUSCLES OF THE BACK. J 99 First Layer. Dissection.—The muscles of this layer are to be dissected by making an incision along the middle line of the back, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the coccyx. From the upper point of this incision carry a second along the side of the neck, to the middle of the clavicle. Infe- riorly, an incision must be made from the extremity of the sacrum, along the crest of the ileum, to about its middle. For the convenience of dis- section, a fourth may be carried from the middle of the spine to the aero mion process. The integument and superficial fascia, together, are to be dissected off the muscles, in the course of their fibres, over the whole of this region. The Trapezius muscle (trapezium, a quadrangle with unequal sides arises from the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the liga- menturq nuchae, supra-spinous ligament, and spinous processes of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae. The fibres converge from these various points, and are inserted into the scapular third of the clavicle, the acromion process, and the whole length of the upper border of the spine of the scapula. The inferior fibres become tendinous near the scapula* and glide over the triangular surface at the posterior extremity of its spine, upon a bursa mucosa. When the trapezius is dissected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a trapezium, or diamond-shaped quadrangle, on the posterior part of the shoulders: hence the muscle was formerly named cucullaris (cucullus, a monk’s cowl). The cervical and upper part of the dorsal portion of the muscle is tendinous at its origin, and forms, with the muscle of the opposite side, a kind of tendinous ellipse. Relations. — By its superficial surface, with the integument and super- ficial fascia, to which it is closely adherent by its cervical portion, loosely by its dorsal portion. By its deep surface, from above downwards, with the complexus, splenius, levator anguli scapulae, supra-spinatus, a smah portion of the serratus posticus superior, rhomboideus minor, rhomboideus major, intervertebral aponeurosis which separates it from the erector spina), and with the latissimus dorsi. The anterior border of the cervical portion of this muscle forms the posterior boundary of the posterior tri- angle of the neck. The clavicular insertion of the muscle sometimes ad- vances to the middle of the clavicle, or as far as the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and occasionally it has been seen to overlap the latter. This is a point of much importance to be borne in mind in the operation for ligature of the subclavian artery. The spinal accessory nerve passes beneath the anterior border, near to the clavicle, previously to its distribu tion to the muscle. The ligamentum nuchce is a thin cellulo-fibrous layer extended from tht tubercle and spine of the occipital bone, to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it is continuous with the supra-spinous ligament. It is connected with the spinous processes of the rest of the cervinl verteorae, with the exception of the atlas, by means of a small fibrous slip which is sent off by each. It is the analogue of an important elastic ligament in animals. The Latissimus Dorsi muscle covers the whole of the lower part of *he back and loins. It arises from the spinous processes of the seven inferior dorsal vertebrae, from all the lumbar and sacral spinous processes, from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and from the three lower ribs; the