5G0 FCETAL LIVER—TESTES. FETAL LIVER. The Liver is the first formed organ in the embryo. It is developed from the alimentary canal, and at about the third week, fills the whole abdomen, and is one-half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth it is of very large size, and occupies the whole upper part of the abdomen. The left lobe is as large as the right, and the falciform liga- ment corresponds with the middle line of the body. The liver diminishes rapidly after birth, probably from obliteration of the umbilical vein. KIDNEYS AND SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The Kidneys present a lobulated appearance in the foetus, which is their permanent type amongst some animals, as the bear, the otter, and cetacea. The Supra-renal capsules are organs which appear, from their early and considerable development, to belong especially to the economy of the foetus. They are distinctly formed at the second month of embryonic life, and are greater in size and weight than the kidneys. At the third or fourth month, they are equalled in bulk by the kidneys; and at birth, they are about one-third less than those organs. VISCERA OF THE PELVIS. The Bladder in the foetus is long and conical, and is situated altogether above the upper border of the ossa pubis, which are as yet small and un- developed. It is, indeed, an abdominal viscus, and is connected supe- riorly with a fibrous cord, called the urachus, of which it appears to be an expansion. The Urachus is continued upwards to the umbilicus, and becomes con- nected with the umbilical cord. In animals it is a pervious duct, and is continuous with one of the membranes of the embryo, the allantois. It has been found pervious in the human foetus, and the urine has been passed through the umbilicus. Calculous concretions have also been found in its course. The Uterus, in the early periods of embryonic existence, appears bifid, from the large size of the Fallopian tubes, and the small development of the body of the organ. At the end of the fourth month, the body assumes a larger bulk, and the bifid appearance is lost. The cervix uteri in the foetus is larger than the body of the organ. The Ovaries are situated, like the testicles, in the lumbar region, neai the kidneys, and descend from thence, gradually, into the pelvis. TESTES. The Testicles in the embryo are situated in the lumbar regions, imme- diately in front of and somewhat below the kidneys. They have, con nected with them inferiorly, a peculiar structure, which assists in their descent, and is called the gubernaculum testis. The Gubernaculum is a soft and conical cord composed of areolar tissue containing in its areolae a gelatiniform fluid. In the abdomen it lies in front of the psoas muscle, and passes along the spermatic canal, which it