188 DEPRESSORS OF THE OS HYOIDES AND LARYNX. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by removing the deep fascia from off the front of the neck between the two sterno-mastoid muscles. The omo-hyoid to be seen in its whole extent requires that the sterno-mastoid muscle should be divided from its origin and turned aside. The Sterno-hyoideus is a narrow riband-like muscle, arising from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and inner extremity of the clavicle. It is inserted into the lower border and posterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. The sterno-hyoidei are separated by a con- siderable interval at the root of the neck, but approach each other as they ascend: they are frequently traversed by a tendinous intersection. Relations.—By its external surface with the deep cervical fascia, the platysma myoides and sterno-mastoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the superior thyroid artery. The Sterno-thyroideus, broader than the preceding beneath which it lies, arises from the posterior surface of the upper bone of the sternum, and from the cartilage of the first rib ; it is inserted into the oblique line on the great ala of the thyroid cartilage. The inner borders of these muscles lie in contact along the middle line, and they are generally marked by a tendinous intersection at their lower part. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the trachea and inferior thyroid veins, with the thyroid gland, the lower part of the larynx, the sheath of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, with the subclavian vein and vena innominata and on the right side with the arteria innominata. The middle thyroid vein lies along its inner border. The Thyro-hyoideus is the continuation upwards of the sterno-thyroid muscle. It arises from the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower border of the body and great cornu of the os .—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the great ala of the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoidean membrane, and the superior laryngeal artery and nerve. The Omo-hyoideus (cUfxog0, shoulder) is a double-bellied muscle passing obliquely across the neck from the scapula to the os hyoides: it forms an obtuse angle behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is retained in that position by means of a process of the deep cervical fascia which is con- nected to the inner border of its tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and from the transverse ligament of the supra-scapular notch, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, the subclavius and clavicle, the deep cervical fascia and platysma myoides, the sterno- mastoid, and the integument. By its deep surface with the brachial plexus, the scaleni muscles, the phrenic nerve, the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, the descendens noni nerve, the sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the sterno-hyoid at its insertion. The sca- pular portion of the muscle divides the great posterior triangle into a su* perior or occipital triangle ; and an inferior or subclavian triangle, which contains the subclavian artery and brachial plexus of nerves; the other t wo boundaries of the latter being the sterno-mastoid in trout and the cla- vicle below. The hyoid portion of the muscle divides the great anterior hyoides. Relati