274 FASCIAE OF THE LEG. tascia ; and then curving upwards over Poupart’s ligament, the hernia will become placed beneath the superficial fascia and integument. The direction which femoral hernia takes in its descent is at first down- wards, then forwards, and then upwards; and in endeavouring to reduce it, the application of the taxis must have reference to this course, and be directed in precisely the reverse order. The coverings of femoral hernia are the Integument, Fascia propria, Superficial fascia, Septum crurale, Cribriform fascia, Peritoneal sac. The Fascia of the leg is strong in the anterior tibial region, and gives origin by its inner surface to the upper part of the tibialis anticus, and ex- tensor longus digitorum muscles. It is firmly attached to the tibia and fibula at each side, and becomes thickened interiorly into a narrow band, the anterior annular ligament, beneath which the tendons of the extensor muscles pass into the dorsum of the foot, in distinct sheaths lined by synovial bursae. Upon the outer side it forms a distinct sheath, which envelopes the peronei muscles, and ties them to the fibula. The anterior annular ligament is attached by one extremity to the outer side of the os calcis, and divides in front of the joint into two bands; one of which is inserted into the inner malleolus, while the other spreads over the inner side of the foot, and becomes con- tinuous with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. The fascia of the dorsum of the foot is a thin layer given off from the lower border of the anterior annular ligament: it is continuous at each side with the lateral portions of the plantar fascia. The fascia of the posterior part of the leg is much thinner than the ant e- rior, and consists of two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer is continuous with the posterior fascia of the thigh, and is increased in thickness upon the outer side of the leg by an expansion derived from the tendon of the biceps; it terminates inferiorly in the external and in- ternal annular ligaments. The deep layer is stretched across between the tibia and fibula, and forms the intermuscular fascia between the superficial and deep layer of muscles. It covers in superiorly the popliteus muscle, receiving a tendinous expansion from the semi-membranosus muscle, and is attached to the oblique line of the tibia. The internal annular ligament is a strong fibrous band, attached above to the internal malleolus, and below to the side of the inner tuberosity of the os calcis. It is continuous above with the posterior fascia of the leg, and below with the plantar fascia, forming sheaths for the passage of the flexor tendons and vessels into the sole of the foot. The external annular ligament, shorter than the internal, extends from the extremity of the outer malleolus to the side of the os calcis, and serves to bind down the tendons of the peronei muscles in their passage beneath the external ankle. The Plantar fascia consists of three portions, a middle and two lateral. The middle portion is thick and dense, and is composed of strong apo- neurotic fibres, closely interwoven with each other. It is attached poste- riorly to the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, and terminates under the heads of the metatarsal bones in five fasciculi. Each of these fasciculi