OPHTHALMIC NERVE. 397 surface without having any connexion with it, and may be followed onwards to the inferior maxillary nerve. The Casserian ganglion divides into three branches, the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The Ophthalmic Nerve is a short trunk, being not more than three quarters of an inch in length; it arises from the upper angle ot the Casse- nan ganglion, beneath the dura mater, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, lying externally to the other nerves; it divides into three branches. Previously to its division it receives several filaments from the carotid plexus, and gives off a small recurrent nerve, that passes backwards with the recurrent branch of the fourth nerve between the two layers of the tentorium to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. The Branches of the ophthalmic nerve are, the— Frontal, Lachrymal, Nasal. The Frontal nerve mounts above the levator palpebrse, and runs for- ward, resting upon that muscle, to the supra-orbital foramen, through which it escapes upon the forehead, with the supra-orbital artery. It sup- plies the conjunctiva and upper eyelid, and the integument of the cranium as far as the vertex. The frontal nerve gives off but one small branch, the supra-trochlear, which passes inwards above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and ascends along the middle line of the forehead, distributing filaments to the integument, to the inner angle of the eye and root of the nose, and to the conjunctiva. The Lachrymal nerve, the smallest of the three branches of the ophthal- mic, receives a filament from the fourth nerve in the cavernous sinus, and passes outwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and in company with the lachrymal artery, to the lachrymal gland, where it divides into two branches. The superior branch passes along the upper surface of the gland and through a foramen in the malar bone, and is distributed upon the temple and cheek, communicating with the subcutaneus malse and facial nerves. The inferior branch supplies the lower surface of the gland and con- junctiva, and terminates in the integu- ment of the upper lid communicating with the facial nerve. The JVasal nerve (naso-ciliaris) passes forwards between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, crosses the optic nerve in company with the ophthalmic artery, and enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen immediately above the internal rectus. It then traverses the upper part of the ethmoid bone to the cribriform plate, and passes downwards through the slit-like opening by the side of the Fig. 180* * A view of the distribution of the trifacial or 5th pair.—1. Orbit. 2. Antrum of High more. 3. Tongue. 4. Lower maxilla. 5. Root of 5th pair forming the ganglion of Casser. 6. 1st branch, Ophthalmic. 7. 2d branch, Superior maxillary. 8. 3d branch, 34