475 OF TIIE VISCERA. and infundibuliform in the upper stratum of the derma, but soon becomes uniform and soft. The infundibuliform projection is drawn out from the duct when the epiderma is removed, and may be perceived on the under surface of the latter as a nipple-shaped cone. A good view ol the sudo- riferous ducts is obtained by gently separating the epiderma of a portion of decomposing skin; or they may be better seen by scalding a piece of skin, and then withdrawing the epiderma from the derma. In both cases it is the lining sheath of epiderma which is drawn out from the duct. CHAPTER XI. OF THE VISCERA. That part of the science of anatomy which treats of the viscera is named splanchnology, from the Greek words tf<7rXay^vov, viscus, and \6yog. The viscera of the human body are situated in the three great internal cavities : cranio-spinal, thorax, and abdomen. The viscera of the cranio- spinal cavity, namely, the brain and spinal cord, with the principal organs of sense, have been already described, in conjunction with the nervous system. The viscera of the chest are : the central organ of circulation, the heart; the organs of respiration, the lungs; and the thymus gland. The abdominal viscera admit of a subdivision into those which properly beiong to that cavity, viz., the alimentary canal, liver, pancreas, spleen, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules; and those of the pelvis; the bladder and internal organs of generation. THORAX. The thorax is the conical cavity, situated at the upper part of the trunk of the body; it is narrow above and broad below, and is bounded by the sternum, six superior costal cartilages, ribs, and intercostal muscles in front; laterally, by the ribs and intercostal muscles ; and, behind, by the same structures, and by the vertebral column, as low down as the upper border of the last rib and the first lumbar vertebra; superiorly, by the thoracic fascia and first rib ; and inferiorly> by the diaphragm. This cavity is much deeper on the posterior than on the anterior wall, in con- sequence of the obliquity of the diaphragm, and contains the heart en- closed in its pericardium, with the great vessels; the lungs, with their serous coverings, the pleurae; the oesophagus; some important nerves; and, in the foetus, the thymus gland. THE HEART. The central organ of circulation, the heart, is situated between the two layers of pleura which constitute the mediastinum, and is enclosed in a proper membrane, the pericardium. Pericardium.—The pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane like the dura mater, and resembles that membrane in deriving its serous layer from the reflected serous membrane of the viscus which it encloses. It consists, therefore, of two layers, an external fibrous and an internal serous. The