THORACIC DUCT. 3G0 Fig. 167* The thoracic duct presents fewer valves in its course than lymphatic vessels generally ; at its termination it is provided with a pair of semilunar valves, which prevent the admission of venous blood into its cylinder. Branches.—The thoracic duct receives at its commencement four or five large lymphatic trunks, which unite to form the receptaculum chyli: it next receives the trunks of the lacteal vessels. Within the thorax it is joined by a large lymphatic trunk from the liver, and in its course through the posterior mediastinum, receives the lymphatic vessels both from the viscera and from the parietes of the thorax. At its curve forwards in the neck it is joined by the lymphatic trunks from the left side of the head and neck, left upper extremity, and from the upper part of the thorax, and thoracic viscera. The Ductus lymphaticus dexter is a short trunk which receives the lymphatic vessels from the right side of the head and neck, right upper extremity, right side of the thorax, l ight lung, and one or two branches from the liver, and terminates at the junction of the right subclavian with the right internal jugular vein, at the point where these veins unite to foim the right vena innorninata. It is provided at its termination with a pair of semilunar valves, which prevent the entrance of blood from the veins. * The course and termination of the thoracic duct. 1. The arch of the aorta. 2. The thoracic aorta. 3. The abdominal aorta ; showing its principal branches divided near their origin. 4. The arteria innorninata, dividing into the right carotid and right sub- clavian arteries. 5. The left carotid. 6. The left subclavian. 7. The superior cava, formed by the union of 8, the two venae innominatae; and these by the junction 9, of the internal jugular and subclavian vein at each side. 10. The greater vena azygos. 11. The termination of the lesser in the greater vena azygos. 12. The receptaculum chyli; several lymphatic trunks are seen opening into it. 13. The thoracic duet, divid- ing opposite the middle of the dorsal vertebrae into two branches which soon reunite ; the course of the duct behind the arch of the aorta and left subclavian artery is shown by a dotted line. 14. The duct, making its turn at the root of the neck and receiving several lymphatic trunks previously to terminating in the posterior aspect of the junc- tion of the internal jugular and subclavian vein. 15. The termination of the trunk of the ductus lymphaticus dexter.