388 CONVERGING FIBRES. The fibres which enclose the corpus olivare, under the name of lascicub siliquse, are separated by that body into two bands; the innermost of the two bands, funiculus siliquce internus, accompanies the fibres of the corpus pyramidale into the crus cerebri. The funiculus siliquce externus unites with a fasciculus proceeding from the nucleus olivse, and the combined column ascending behind the crus cerebelli divides into a superior and an inferior band. The inferior band proceeds with a fasciculus presently to be described, the fasciculus innominatus, into the upper segment of the crus cerebri. The superior band (laqueus) ascends by the side of the pro- cessus e cerebello ad testes, and, crossing the latter obliquely, enters the corpora quadrigemina, in which many of its fibres are distributed, while the rest are continued onwards into the thalamus opticus. The corpora restiformia derive their fibres from the anterior as well as from the posterior columns of the medulla oblongata; they diverge as they approach the cerebellum, and leaving behind them the cavity of the fourth ventricle, enter the substance of the cerebellum, under the form of two rounded cords. These cords envelope the corpora rhomboidea, or gan- glia of increase, and then expand on all sides so as to constitute the cere- bellum. Besides the fibres here described, there are, in the interior of the me- dulla oblongata, behind the corpora olivaria, and more or less apparent between these bodies and the corpora restiformia, two large bundles of fibres, the fasciculi innominata. These fasciculi ascend behind the deep transverse fibres of the pons Varolii, and become apparent in the floor of the fourth ventricle, under the name of fasciculi teretes, or posterior pyramids. From this point they are prolonged upwards beneath the cor- pora quadrigemina into the crura cerebri, of which they form the upper and outer segment, and are thence continued through the thalami optici and corpora striata into the hemispheres. The locus niger of the crus cerebri is a septum of grey matter interposed between these fasciculi and those of the corpora pyramidalia. Converging fibres. — In addition to the diverging fibres which are thus shown to constitute both the cerebrum and cerebellum, by their increase and development, another set of fibres are found to exist, which have for their office the association of the symmetrical halves and distant parts of the same hemispheres. These are called, from their direction, converging fibres, and from their office, commissures. The commissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum are the— Corpus callosum, Fornix, Septum lucidum, Anterior commissure, Middle commissure, Posterior commissure, Peduncles of the pineal gland, Pons Varolii. The Corpus callosum is the commissure of the hemispheres. It is therefore of moderate thickness in the middle, where its fibres pass directly from one hemisphere to the other; thicker in front (genu), where the anterior lobes are connected; and thickest behind (splenium), where