MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 213 round ligament in the female. The upper border of the external oblique is continuous with the pectoralis major. p ... The external oblique is now to be removed by making an incision across the ribs, just below its origin, to its posterior border; and another along Poupart’s ligament and the crest of the ilium. Poupart s ligamen Fig. 116.* •The muscles of the anterior aspect of the trunk; on the left side the superficial .ayer is seen, and on the right the deeper layer. 1. The pectoralis major muscle. 2. The deltoid; the interval between these muscles lodges the cephalic vein. 3. The an terior border of the latissimus dorsi. 4. The serrations of the serratus magnus. 5. The subclavius muscle of the right side. 6. The pectoralis minor. 7. The coracho-brachia- lis muscle. 8. The upper part of the biceps muscle, showing its two heads. 9. The coracoid process of the scapula. 10. The serratus magnus of the right side. 11. The external intercostal muscle of the fifth intercostal space. 12. The external oblique muscle. 13. Its aponeurosis; the median line to the right of this number is the linea alba; the flexuous line to its left is the linea semilunaris; and the transverse lines above and below the number, the lineae transverse. 14. Poupart’s ligament. 15. The external abdominal ring; the margin above the ring is the superior or internal pillar; the margin below the ring, the inferior or external pillar; the curved intercolumnar fibres are seen proceeding upwards from Poupart’s ligament to strengthen the ring. The numbers 14 and 15 are situated upon the fascia lata of the thigh ; the opening im- mediately to the right of 15 is the saphenous opening. 16. The rectus muscle of the right side brought into view by the removal of the anterior segment of its sheath : * the posterior segment of its sheath with the divided edge of the anterior segment. 17 lhe pyramidalis muscle. 18. The internal oblique muscle. 19. The conjoined ten don oi the internal oblique and transversalis descending behind Poupart s ligament to the pectineal line. 20. The arch formed betwe'en the lower curved border of the interna1 oblique muscle and Poupart's ligament, it is beneath this arch that the sperm aiic cord and hernia pass.