superior and middle constrictor muscles, and 194 Fig. Ill* MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. spreads out beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx, its inferior fibres being in- serted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Relations. — By its external surface with the stylo-glossus muscle, external carotid artery, parotid gland, and the middle con- strictor. By its internal surface with the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, superior constrictor, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous membrane. Along its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which crosses it, opposite the root of the tongue, to pass between the superior and middle con- strictor and behind the hyo-glossus. The palato-pharyngeus is described with the muscles of the soft palate. It arises from the soft palate, and is inserted into the inner surface of the pharynx, and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Actions.—The three constrictor muscles are important agents in deglu- tition ; they contract upon the morsel of food as soon as it is received by the pharynx, and convey it downwards into the oesophagus. The stylo- pharyngei draw the pharynx upwards and widen it laterally. The palato- pharyngei also draw it upwards, and with the aid of the uvula close the opening of the fauces. Sixth Group.—Muscles of the Soft Palate. Levator palati, Tensor palati, Azygos uvulse, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus. Dissection. — To examine these muscles, the pharynx must be opened from behind, and the mucous membrane carefully removed from off the posterior surface of the soft palate. The Levator Palati, a moderately thick muscle, arises from the ex- tremity of the petrous bone and from the posterior and inferior aspect of the Eustachian tube, and passing down by the side of the posterior nares spreads out in the structure of the soft palate as far as the middle line. Relations.—Externally with the tensor palati and superior constrictor muscle ; internally and posteriorly with the mucous membrane of the pharynx and soft palate; and by its lower border with the palato-pha- ryngeus. * A side view of the muscles of the pharynx. 1. The trachea. 2. The cricoid car- tilage. 3. The crico-thyroid membrane. 4. The thyroid cartilage. 5. The thyro-hyoi- dean membrane. 6. The os hyoides. 7. The stylo-hyoidean ligament. 8. The oeso- phagus. 9. The inferior constrictor. 10. The middle constrictor. 11. The superior constrictor. 12. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle passing down between the superior and middle constrictor. 13. The upper concave border of the superior constrictor; at this point the muscular fibres of the pharynx are deficient. 14. The pterygo-maxil'ary liga- ment 15. The buccinator muscle. 16. The orbicularis oris. 17. The mylo-hyoideu*.