INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. 249 similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a £>reat increase of power by their attachment to the patella, which acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, by being attached to the pelvis, serves to balance the trunk upon the lower extremity. Internal Femoral Region. Iliacus internus, Adductor brevis, Psoas magnus, Adductor magnus, Pectineus, Gracilis. Adductor longus, Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by the removal of the inner flap of integument recommended in the dissection of the anterior femoral region. The iliacus and psoas arising from within the abdomen, can only be s£en in their entire extent after the removal of the viscera from that cavity. The Iliacus Internus is a flat radiated muscle. It arises from the whole extent of the inner concave surface of the ilium ; and, after joining with the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. A few fibres of this muscle are derived from the base of the sa- crum, and others from the capsular ligament of the hip joint. Relations.—By its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the external cutaneous nerve, and with the iliac fascia, which separates the muscle from the peritoneum, on the right from the caecum, and on the left from the sigmoid flexure of the colon; externally to the pelvis with the fascia lata, rectus, and sartorius. By its posterior surface with the iliac fossa, margin of the pelvis, and with the capsule of the hip joint, a synovial bursa of large size being interposed, which is sometimes continuous with the synovial membrane of the articulation. By its inner border with the psoas magnus and crural nerve. The Psoas Magnus (^oa, lumbus, a loin), situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusiform muscle. It arises from the intervertebral substances, part of the bodies and bases of the trans- verse processes, and from a series of tendinous arches, thrown across the constricted portion of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar vertebras. These arches are intended to protect the lumbar arteries and sympathetic filaments of nerves from pressure, in their passage beneath the muscle. From this extensive origin, the muscle passes along the margin of the brim of the pelvis, and beneath Poupart’s ligament, to its insertion. The tendon of the psoas magnus unites with that of the iliacus, and the con- joined tendon is inserted into the posterior part of the trochanter minor, a bursa being interposed. Relations. — By its anterior surface, with the ligamentum arcuatum in- ternum of the diaphragm, the kidney, the psoas parvus, genito-crural nerve, sympathetic nerve, its proper fascia, the peritoneum and colon, and along its pelvic border with the common and external iliac artery and vein. By its posterior surface, with the lumbar vertebrae, the lumbar ar- teries, quadratus lumborum, from which it is separated by the anterioi layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and with the crural nerve, which, near Poupart’s ligament, gets to its outer side. The lumbar plexus of nerves is situated in the substance of the posterior part of the muscle