STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 171 both surfaces, and containing, somewhere near the centre, one, two, or liree minute dots or granules.” Occasionally they are seen to present ir- regularities of form, which Mr. Bowman is inclined to regard as accidental. They are situated between, and are connected with the fibrils, and are distributed in pretty equal numbers through the fibre. These corpuscles are the nuclei of the nucleated cells from which the muscular fibre was originally developed. From ob- serving, however, that their u absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, relatively to the bulk of the fasciculi, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same,” Mr. Bowman regards it as certain, that “ during development, and subsequently, a further and successive deposit of cor- puscles” takes place. The corpuscles are brought into view only when the muscular fibre is acted upon by a solution of “ one of the milder acids, as the citric. ’ ’ According to my own investigations,! the ultimate fibril of animal life is cylindrical when isolated, and probably polygonal from pressure when forming part of an ultimate fibre or fasciculus. It measures in diameter ^oio^ °f an inch, and is composed of a suc- cession of cells connected bv their flat surfaces. The cells are filled with a transparent substance, which I have termed myoline. The myoline differs in density in different cells, and from this circumstance bestows a peculiarity of character on certain of the cells; for example, when a fibril in its passive state is examined, there will be seen a series of dark oblong bodies se- parated by light spaces of equal length ; now the dark bodies are each composed of a pair of cells contain- ing the densest form of myoline, and are hence highly refractive while the transparent spaces are constituted by a pair of cells containing a more fluid myoline. When the fibrils are collected together so as to form an ultimate fibre or fasciculus, the appearance of the cell is altered; those which look dark in the single fibril, that is, the most refractive, being * Mass of ultimate fibres from the pectoralis major of the human foetus, at nine months. These fibres have been immersed in a solution of tartaric acid, and their ‘numerous corpuscles, turned in various directions, some presenting nucleoli,'’ are shown. From Mr. Bowman's paper. f These were made on dissections of fresh human muscle, prepared with great care by Mr. Lealand, partner of the eminent optician, Mr. Powell. $ Structure of the ultimate muscular fibril and fibre of animal life. a. An ultimate muscular fibril in the state of partial contraction. b. A similar fibril in the state of ordinary relaxation. This fibril measured 1 of an inch in diameter. 20000 c. A similar fibril put upon the stretch, and measuring of an inch in diameter. in Plan of a portion of an ultimate fibre, showing the manner in which the transverse strine are produced by the collocation of the fibrils. Nos. 1, 1. The pair of highly-refractive cells; they form the dark parts of the single fibrils, but the bright parts of the fibre n. In the stretched fibril c, each cell has the appearance of being double. 2, 2. The pair of less refractive cells, light in the single fibrils, but forming the shaded stria in n. The transverse septum between these cells is very conspicuous; and in c two other septa are seen to exist, making the number of transparent cells four. In n, the tier of cells immediately above the dark tier is partia.ly illumined from the obliquity of the light. Fig. 102.* Fig. 103.t J0 — 2 10 |2 i B I I □ B 0 I 0 iE3 — 2 -— ^ * E 0 n 0 I B D B c G G a D 1 2 l 2|l g niti 3 rfctt Mis T