STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF TIIE LIVER. 524 gives off vaginal branches which form a vaginal hepatic plexus, from which the interlobular branches arise, and these latter terminate ultimately in the lobular venous plexuses of the portal vein. The artery ramifies abundantly in the coats of the hepatic ducts, enabling them to provide their mucous secretion; and supplies the vasa vasorum of the portal and hepatic veins, and the nutrient vessels of the entire organ. The Hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by minute radicles, which collect the impure blood from the lobular venous plexus and convey it into the intralobular veins; these open into the sublobular veins, and the sublobular veins unite to form the large hepatic trunks by which the blood is conveyed into the vena cava. Physiological and Pathological Deductions. — The physiological deduc- tion arising out of this anatomical arrangement is, that the bile is wholly secreted from venous blood, and not from a mixed venous and arterial blood, as stated by Muller; for although the portal vein receives its blood from two sources, viz. from the chylopoietic viscera and from the capil- laries of the hepatic artery, yet the very fact of the blood of the latter vessel having passed through its capillaries into the portal vein, or in ex- tremely small quantity into the capillary network of the lobular venous plexus, is sufficient to establish its venous character.* The pathological deductions depend upon the following facts: —Each lobule is a perfect gland; of uniform structure, of uniform colour, and possessing the same degree of vascularity throughout. It is the seat of a double venous circulation, the vessels of the one (hepatic) being situated in the centre of the lobule, and those of the other (portal) in the circum- ference. Now the colour of the lobule, as of the entire liver, depends chiefly upon the proportion of blood contained within these two sets of vessels; and so long as the circulation is natural, the colour will be uni- form. But the instant that any cause is developed which shall interfere with the free circulation of either, there will be an immediate diversity in the colour of the lobule. Thus, if there be any impediment to the free circulation of the venous blood through the heart or lungs, the circulation in the hepatic veins will be retarded, and the sublobular and the intralobular veins will become congested, giving rise to a more or less extensive redness in the centre of each of the lobules, while the marginal or non-congested portion presents a distinct border of a yellowish white, yellow, or green colour, according to the quantity and quality of the bile it may contain. “ This is 4passive congestion’ of the liver, the usual and natural state of the organ after death and, as it commences with the hepatic vein, it maybe called the first stage of hepatic-venous congestion. But if the causes which produced this state of congestion continue, or be from the beginning of a more active kind, the congestion will extend through the lobular venous plexuses 44 into those branches of the portal vein situated in the interlobular fissures, but not to those in the spaces, which being larger, and giving origin to those in the fissures, are the last to be congested.” In this second stage the liver has a mottled appear- ance, the non-congested substance is arranged in isolated, circular, and ramose patches, in the centres of which the spaces and parts of the fissures are seen. This is an extended degree of hepatic-venous congestion; it is * For arguments on this contested question, see the article “Liver.’" in the “ Cyclo jiasdia. ot Anatomy and Physiology,” edited by Dr. Todd.