STRUCTURE OF THE DERMA. 409 stratum, on the other hand, is fine in texture, reddish in colour, soft, raised into minute papillae, and highly vascular and sensitive, these dif- ferences in structure have given rise to a division of the derma into the deep stratum, or coriurn, and the superficial, or papillary layer. In the Corium the areolo-fibrous tissue is collected into fasciculi, which are small and closely interwoven in the superficial strata, large and coarse in the deep strata; in the latter forming an areolar network with large areolae, which are occupied by adipose tissue. These areolae are the channels by which the branches of vessels and nerves find a safe passage to the papillary layer, in which and in the superficial strata of the corium they are principally distributed. The yellow elastic tissue is found chiefly in the superficial strata, the red contractile tissue in the deep. It is to the latter that the nipples and scrotum owe their contractile powers, and the general surface of the skin the contraction which is known by the name of cutis anserina. The corium presents some variety in thickness in dif- ferent parts of the body. Thus in the more exposed regions, as the back, the outer sides of the limbs, the palms, and the soles, it is remarkable for its thickness; while on protected parts it is comparatively thin. On the eyelids, the penis, and the scrotum, it is peculiarly delicate. It is con- nected by its under surface with the common superficial fascia of the body. The Papillary layer of the derma is raised in the form of conical promi- nences or papilke. On the general surface of the body the papillae are short and exceedingly minute ; but in other situa- tions, as the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, and the plantar surface of the feet and toes, they are long and of large size. They also differ in arrangement; for, on the general surface they are distributed at equal distances and without order; whereas, on the palms and soles, and on the corre- sponding surfaces of the fingers and toes, they are collected into little square clumps containing from ten to twenty papillae; and these little clumps are disposed in parallel rows. It is this arrangement 3 in rows that gives rise to the characteristic parallel ridges and furrows which are met with on the hands and feet. The papillae in these little square clumps are for the most part uniform in size and length, but every here and there one papilla may be observed which is longer than the rest. The largest Fig. 208* ♦Anatomy of a portion of skin taken from the palm of the hand. 1. The papillary layer, in which the longitudinal furrows (2) marking the arrangement of the papillae into ridges is shown. Each ridge is moreover divided by transverse furrows (3) into small quadrangular clumps. The quadrangular clumps consist of a tuft of minute conical papilla?, of which one or two are frequently longer and larger than the rest. In this figure the long papillae are alone seen, the rest being too numerous to introduce into a wood-engraving. 4. The rete mucosum raised from the papillary layer and turned back; the under surface of this stratum presents an accurate impression of the papillary layer; on which are seen longitudinal ridges corresponding with the longitudinal fur rows, transverse ridges corresponding with the transverse furrows, and quadrangula’ depressions corresponding with the quadrangular clumps of papillae. Moreover, wher- ever one of the long papillae exists, a distinct conical sheath will be found in the reie mucosum 5, 5. Perspiratory ducts drawn out straight by the separation of the rete mu cosum from the papillary layer; the point at which each perspiratory duct issues from the papillary layer, and pierces the rete mucosum, is the middle of the transverse furrow between the quadrangular masses. 40