142 LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER JAW. 'The posterior ligament is a thin and membranous layer, passing be- tween the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminae of the axis. The capsular ligaments surround the articular processes of the atlas and axis; they are loose, to permit of the freedom of movement which sub- sists between these vertebrae. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous on the outer and anterior part of the articulation, and the synovial mem- brane usually communicates with the synovial cavity between the trans- verse ligament and the odontoid process. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band, which arches across the area of the ring of the atlas from a rough tubercle upon the inner surface of one articular process to a similar tubercle on the other. It serves to retain the odontoid process of the axis, in connexion with the anterior arch of the atlas. As it crosses the odontoid process, some fibres are sent downwards to be at- tached to the body of the axis, and others pass upwards to be inserted into the basi- lar process of the occipital bone; hence the ligament has a cross-like appearance, derived from these appendices, and has been denominated cruciform. A synovial membrane is situated between the transverse ligament and the odontoid process ; and another between that process and the inner surface of the anterior arch of the atlas. Actions.—It is the peculiar disposition of this ligament in relation to the odontoid process, that enables the atlas, and with it the entire cra- nium, to rotate upon the axis; the perfect freedom of movement between these bones being insured by the two synovial membranes. The lower part of the ring, formed by the transverse ligament with the atlas, is smaller than the upper, while the summit of the odontoid process is larger than its base ; so that the process is still retained in its position by the transverse ligament, when the other ligaments are cut through. The ex- tent to which the rotation of the head upon the axis can be carried is de- termined by the odontoid ligaments. The odontoid process with its liga- ments is covered in by the occipito-axoid ligament. 5. Articulation of the lower jaw.—The lower jaw has properly but one ligament, the external lateral; the ligaments usually described are three in number; to which may be added, as appertaining to the mechanism of the joint, an interarticular fibrous cartilage, and two synovial mem branes,— External lateral, Interarticular fibrous-cartilage, Internal lateral, Two synovial membranes, Capsular. * A posterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, the axis, and the occipital none. The posterior part of the occipital bone has been sawn away, anti the arches of the atlas and axis removed. 1. The superior part of the occipito-axoid ligament, ■which has been cut away in order to show the ligaments beneath. 2. 1 he transverse ligament of the atlas. 3. 4. The ascending and descending slips of the transverse liga- ment, which have obtained for it the title of cruciform ligament. 5. One ol the odon- toid ligaments; the fellow ligament is seen on the opposite side. 0. One of the occi* pi’.o-atioid capsular ligaments. 7. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments.