BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 10 CHURCHILL (FLEETWOOD), M . D., M . R. I. A., &c. ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN; including those of Pregnancy and Child- bed. A new American edition, revised by the Author. With Notes and Additions, by D Fran- cis Condie, M. D., author of “ A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children.” In one large and handsome octavo volume, with wood-cuts, pp. 684. (Just Issued.) From the A uthor's Freface. In reviewing this edition, at the request of my American publishers, I have inserted several new sections and chapters, and I have added, I believe, all the information we have derived from recent researches; in addition to which the publishers have been fortunate enough to secure the services of an able and highly esteemed editor in Dr. Condie. We now regretfully take leave of Dr. Churchill’s book. Had our typographical limits permitted, we should gladly have borrowed more from its richly stored pages. In conclusion, we heartily recom- mend it to the profession, and would at the same time express our firm conviction that it will not only add to the reputation of its author, but will prove a work of great and extensive utility to obstetric practitioners.—Dublin Medical Press. Former editions of this work have been noticed in previous numbers of the Journal. The sentiments of high commendation expressed in those notices, have only to be repeated in this; not from the fact that the profession at large are not aware of the high merits which this work really possesses, but from a desire to see the principles and doctrines therein contained more generally recognized, and more uni- versally carried out in practice.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. We know of no author who deserves that appro- bation, on “the diseases of females,” to the same extent that Dr. Churchill does. His, indeed, is the only thorough treatise we know of on the subject; and it may be commended to practitioners and stu- dents as a masterpiece in its particular department. The former editions of this work have been com- mended strongly in this journal, and they have won their way to an extended, and a well-deserved popu- larity. This fifth edition, before us. is well calcu- lated to maintain Dr. Churchill’s high reputation. It was revised and enlarged by the author, for his American publishers, and it seems to us that there is scarcely any species of desirable information on its subjects that may not be found in this work.—The Western Journal of Medicine and Surgery. We are gratified to announce a new and revised edition of Dr. Churchill’s valuable work on the dis- eases of females We have ever regarded it as one of the very best works on the subjects embraced within its scope, in the English language; and the present edition, enlarged and revised by the author, renders it still more entitled to the confidence of the profession. The valuable notes of Prof. Huston have been retained, and contribute, in no small de- gree, to enhance the value of the work. It is a source of congratulation that the publishers have permitted the author to be, in this instance, his own editor, thus securing all the revision which an author alone is capable of making.—The Western Lancet. Asa comprehensive manual for students, or a work of reference for practitioners, we only speak with common justice when we say that it surpasses any other that has ever issued on the same sub- ject from the British press.—The Dublin Quarterly Journal. DEWEES (W. P.), M.D., Sic. A COMPREHENSIVE SYSTEM OF MIDWIFERY. Illustrated by occa- sional Cases and many Engravings. Twelfth edition, with the Author’s last improvements and Corrections. In one octavo volume, of 600 pages. (Just Issued.) BY THE SAME AUTHOR. A TREATISE ON THE PHYSICAL AND MEDICAL TREATMENT OF CHILDREN. Tenth edition. In one volume, octavo, 548 pages. (Just Issued.) BY THE SAME AUTHOR. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF FEMALES. Tenth edition. In one volume, octavo, 532 pages, with plates. (Just Issued.) DICKSON (S. H.), M. D., Professor of Institutes and Practice of Medicine in the Medical College of South Carolina; late Professor of the Institutes and Practice of Medicine in the Medical Department of the University of New York, &c. &c. ELEMENTS OF MEDICINE; A Treatise on Pathology and Therapeutics. In one large and handsome octavo volume. (Preparing.) DANA (JAMES D). ZOOPHYTES AND CORALS. In one volume, imperial quarto, extra cloth, with wood-cuts. ALSO, AN ATLAS TO THE ABOVE, one volume, imperial folio, with sixty-one mag- nificent plates, colored after nature. Bound in half morocco. ALSO, ON THE STRUCTURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF ZOOPHYTES. Sold separate, one vol., cloth. DE LA BECHE (SIR HENRY T.), F. R. S., &c. THE GEOLOGICAL OBSERVER. In one very large and handsome octavo volume, of 700 pages. With over three hundred wood-cuts. (Lately Issued.)