DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. 501 serves to distend for the passage of the testis. It is attached by its supe- rior and larger extremity to the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and by the inferior extremity to the bottom of the scrotum. The gubernaculurn is surrounded by a thin layer of muscular fibres, the cremaster, which pass upwards upon this body to be attached to the testis. Inferiorly, the mus- cular fibres divide into three processes, which, according to Mr. Curling,* are thus attached: “ The external and broadest is connected to Poupart’s ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle forms a lengthened band, which escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends to the bottom of the scrotum, where it joins the dartos; the internal passes in the direc- tion inwards, and has a firm attachment to the os pubis and sheath of the rectus muscle. Besides these, a number of muscular fibres are reflected from the internal oblique on the front of the gubernaculurn.” The Descent of the testicle is gradual and progressive. Between the fifth and sixth months it has reached the lower part of the psoas muscle, and during the seventh it makes its way through the spermatic canal, and descends into the scrotum. While situated in the lumbar region, the testis and gubernaculurn are placed behind the peritoneum, by which they are invested upon their an- terior surface and sides. As they descend, the investing peritoneum is carried downwards with the testis into the scrotum, forming a lengthened Fig. 248.j- Fig. 2494 pouch, which by its upper extremity opens into the cavity of the perito- neum. The upper part of this pouch, being compressed by the spermatic canal, is gradually obliterated, the obliteration extending downwards along the spermatic cord nearly to the testis. That portion of the perito- neum which immediately surrounds the testis is, by the above process, cut off from its continuity with the peritoneum, and is termed the tunica * See an excellent paper “ On the Structure of the Gubernaculurn,” &,c., by Mr. Curl- ing, Lecturer on Morbid Anatomy in the London Hospital, in the Lancet, vol. ii. 1840-41, p. 70. | A diagram illustrating the descent of the testis. 1. The testis. 2. The epididymis. 3, 3. The peritoneum. 4. The pouch formed around the testis by the peritoneum, the future cavity of the tunica vaginalis. 5. The pubic portion of the cremaster attached to the lower part of the testis. 6. The portion of the cremaster attached to Poupart’s liga- ment. The mode of eversion of the cremaster is shown by these lines. 7. The guber- naculum, attached to the bottom of the scrotum, and becoming shortened by the con- traction of the muscular fibres which surround it. 8, 8. The cavity of the scrotum. 4 1° this figure the testis has completed its descent. The gubernaculurn is shortened to its utmost, and the cremaster completely everted. The pouch of peritoneum above the testis is compressed so as to form a tubular canal; 1. A dotted line marks the point at which the tunica vaginalis will terminate superiorly ; and the number 2 its cavity 3. The peritoneal cavity. 2 L