MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 218 arch thrown from the tendon of one crus to that of the other, beneath which pass the aorta, the right vena azygos, and thoracic duct. The great splanchnic nerves pass through openings in the lesser muscle on each side, and the lesser splanchnic nerves through the fibres which arise from the ligamentum arcuatum inter- num. Relations.—By its superior surface with the pleurae, the pericardium, the heart, and the lungs. By its inferior surface with the peritoneum; on the left with the stomach and spleen ; on the right with the convexity of the liver; and behind with the kidneys, the supra-renal capsules, the duodenum, and the solar plexus. By its circumference with the ribs and intercostal muscles, and with the vertebral column. Actions.—The external oblique muscle, acting singly, would draw the thorax towards the pelvis, and twist the body to the opposite side. Both muscles, acting together, would flex the thorax directly on the pelvis. The internal oblique of one side draws the chest downwards and outwards: both together bend it directly forwards. Either transversalis muscle, act- ing singly, will diminish the size of the abdomen on its own side, and both together will constrict the entire cylinder of the cavity. The recti muscles, assisted by the pyramid ales, flex the thorax upon the chest, and, through the medium of the line® transvers®, are enabled to act when their sheath is curved inwards by the action of the transversales. The pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The abdominal are expiratory muscles, and the chief agents of expulsion ; by their action the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the urine from the bladder, the f®ces from the rectum, the bile from the gall-bladder, the ingesta from the stomach and bowels in vomit- ing, and the mucous and irritating substances from the bronchial tubes, * The under or abdominal side of the diaphragm. 1, 2, 3. The greater muscle; the figure 1 rests upon the central leaflet of the tendinous centre ; the number 2 on the left or smallest leaflet; and number 3 on the right leaflet. 4. The thin fasciculus which arises from the ensiform cartilage; a small triangular space is left on either side of this fasciculus, wmch is closed only by the serous membranes of the abdomen and chest. 5. The ligamentum arcuatum externum of the left side. 6. The ligamentum arcuatum internum. 7. A small arched opening occasionally found, through which the lesser splanchnic nerve passes. 8. The right or larger tendon of the lesser muscle ; a mus- cular fasciculus from this tendon curves to the left side of the greater muscle between the oesophageal and aortic openings. 9. The fourth lumbar vertebra. 10. The left or shorter tendon of the lesser muscle. 11. The aortic opening occupied by the aorta which is cut short off. 12. A portion of the oesophagus issuing through the cesophageal opening; in this figure the oesophageal opening is tendinous at its anterior part, a struc- ture which is not. uncommon. 13. The opening for the inferior vena cava, in the ten- dinous centre of the diaphragm. 14. The psoas rnagnus muscle passing beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; it has been removed on the opposite side to show the urch more distinctly. 15. The quadratus lumborum passing beneath the ligamentum arcuatum externum , this muscle has also been removed on the left side. Fig. 118*