443 STRUCTURE OF THE NOSE. with the forehead by means of a narrow bridge ; interiorly, it presents two openings, the nostrils, which overhang the mouth, and are so constructed that the odour of all substances must be received by the nose before they can be introduced within the lips. The septum between the openings ot the nostrils is called the columna. Their entrance is guarded by a num- ber of stiff hairs (vibrissa) which project across the openings, and act as a filter in preventing the introduction of foreign substances, such as dust or insects, with the current of air intended for respiration. The anatomical elements of which the nose is composed, are—1. In- tegument. 2. Muscles. 3. Bones. 4. Fibro-cartilages. 5. Mucous membrane. 6. Vessels and nerves. 1. The Integument forming the tip (lobulus) and wings [nice) of the nose is extremely thick and dense, so as to be with difficulty separated from the fibro-cartilage. It is furnished with an abundance of sebipciroas folli- cles, which, by their oily secretion, protect the extremity of the nose in excessive alternations of temperature. The sebaceous matter of these fol- licles becomes of a dark colour upon the surface, from the attraction of the carbonaceous matter floating in the atmosphere; hence the spotted ap- pearance which the tip of the nose presents in large cities. When the integument is firmly compressed, the inspissated sebaceous secretion is squeezed out from the follicles, and taking the cylindrical form of their excretory ducts, has the appearance of small white maggots with black heads. 2. The Muscles are brought into view by reflecting the integument: they are the pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, dilatator naris, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and depressor labii superioris alceque nasi. They have been already described with the muscles of the face. 3. The Bones of the nose are, the nasal, and nasal processes of the su- perior maxillary. 4. The Fibro-cartilages give form and stability to the outwork of the nose, providing, at the same time, by theAr elasticity, against injuries. They are five in number, namely, the— Fibro-cartilage of the septum, Two lateral fibro-cartilages, Two alar fibro-cartilages. The Fibro-cartilage of the septum,, somewhat trian- gular in form, divides the nose into its two nostrils. It is connected above with the nasal bones and lateral fibro-cartilages ; behind, with the ethmoidal septum and vomer; and below, with the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. The alar fibro-carti- lages and columna move freely upon the fibro-cartilage of the septum, being but loosely connected with it by perichondrium. The Lateral fibro-cartilages are also triangular: they are connected in front, with the fibro-cartilage of the septum ; above, with the nasal bones; * The fibro-cartilages of the nose. 1. One of the nasal bones. 2. The fibro-cartilage of the septum. 3. The lateral fibro-cartilage. 4. The alar fibro-cartilage. 5. The central portions of the alar fibro-cartilages which constitute the columna. 6. The ap- pendix of the alar fibro-cartilage. 7. The nostril. o r