88 BASE OF THE SKULL. into the aqucedudus vestibuli; and below it, partly concealed by the edge of the petrous bone, the aqucedudus cochlea; next, a long fissure, the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen, giving passage externally to the commencement of the internal jugular vein, and internally to the eighth pair of nerves. Converging towards this foramen from behind is the deep groove for the lateral sinus, and from the front the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is a longitudinal ridge, which gives at- tachment to the falx cerebelli, and divides the two inferior fossae of the occipital bone ; and above the ridge is the internal occipital protuberance and the transverse groove lodging the lateral sinus. The external surface of the base of the skull is extremely irregular. From before backwards it is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones ; the vomer ; pterygoid, spinous processes, and part of the body of the sphenoid ; under surface of the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portion of the temporals; and by the occipital bone. The palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones constitute the hard palate, which is raised above the level of the rest of the base, and is surrounded by the alveolar processes containing the teeth of the upper jaw. At the anterior extremity of the hard palate, and directly behind the front incisor teeth, is the anterior pcdatine or incisive foramen, the ter- mination of the anterior palatine canal, which contains the naso-palatine ganglion, and transmits the anterior palatine nerves. At the posterior angles of the palate are the posterior palatine foramina, for the posterior palatine nerves and arteries. Passing inwards from these foramina are the transverse ridges to which are attached the aponeurotic expansions of the tensor palati muscles; and at the middle line of the posterior border, the palate spine, which gives origin to the azygos uvulae. The hard palate is marked by a crucial suture, which distinguishes the four processes of which it is composed. Behind, and above the hard palate, are the poste- rior nares, separated by the vomer, and bounded on each side by the pte- rygoid processes. At the base of the pterygoid processes are the pterygo- palatine canals. The internal pterygoid plate is long and narrow, termi- nated at its apex by the hamular process, and at its base by the scaphoid fossa. The external plate is broad; the space between the two is the pterygoid fossa ; it contains part of the internal pterygoid muscle, and the tensor palati. Externally to the external pterygoid plate is the zygomatic fossa. Behind the nasal fossse, in the middle line, is the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and the basilar process of the occipital bone, and, still further back, the foramen magnum. At the base of the external pterygoid plate, on each side, is the foramen ovale, and behind this the foramen spinosum with the prominent spine which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and the laxator tympani muscle. Running outwards from the apex of the spinous process of the sphenoid 7. The scaphoid fossa. 8. The external pterygoid plate. The interval between 6 and 8 fright side of the figure) is the pterygoid fossa. 9. The zygomatic fossa. 10. The basilar process of the occipital bone. 11. The foramen magnum. 12. The foramen ovale. 13. The foramen spinosum. 14. The glenoid fossa. 15. The meatus audito* rius externus. 16. The foramen lacerum anterius basis cranii. 17. The carotid fora- men of the left side. 18. The foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen. 19. 1 he styioid process. 20. The stylo-mastoid foramen. 21. The mastoid process. 22. Ona of the condyles )f the occipital bone. 23. The posterior condyloid fossa.