207 INGUINAL HERNIA. jie abdomen into the spermatic canal, through the interval abdominal ring, pressing before it a pouch of peritoneum which constitutes the hernial sac, and distending the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia. After emerging through the internal abdominal ring, it passes^V^ beneath the lower and arched border of the transversalis muscle; then beneath the lower border of the internal oblique muscle; and finally through the ex- ternal abdominal ring in the aponeurosis of the external oblique, I rom the transversalis muscle it receives no investment; while passing beneath the lower border of the internal oblique it obtains the cremaster muscle; and, upon escaping at the external abdominal ring, receives the inter- columnar fascia. So that the coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, after it has emerged through the external abdominal ring, are, from the surface to the intestine, the Integument, Cremaster muscle, Superficial fascia, Transversalis, or infundibuliform fascia, Intercolumnar fascia, Peritoneal sac. The spermatic canal, which, in the normal condition of the abdominal parietes serves for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament with its vessels in the female, is about one inch and a half in length. It is bounded in front by the aponeurosis of the external oblique musclebehind by the transversalis fascia, and the conjoined ten- don of the internal oblique and transversalis muscle; above by the arched borders of the internal oblique and transversalis; below by the grooved oorder of Poupart’s ligament, and at each extremity by one of the abdo- minal rings, the internal ring at the inner termination, the external ring at the outer extremity. These relations may be more distinctly illustrated by the following plan— Above. Lower borders of interna] oblique and transversalis muscle. In Front. Below. Grooved border of Poupart’s ligament. There are three varieties of oblique inguinal hernia:—common, congen- ital, and encysted. Common oblique hernia is that which has been described above. Congenital hernia results from the nonclosure of the pouch of peritoneum carried downwards into the scrotum by the testicle, during its descent in the foetus. The intestine at some period of life is forced into this canal, and de- scends through it into the tunica vaginalis where it lies in contact with the testicle; so that congenital hernia has no proper sac, but is contained within the tunica vaginalis. The other coverings are the same as those of common inguinal hernia. Encysted hernia (hernia infantilis, of Hey) is that form of protrusion in which the pouch of peritoneum forming the tunica vaginalis, being only partially closed, and remaining open externally to the abdomen, admits Aponeurosis of exter- nal oblique. Behind. Transversalis fascia. Conjoined tendon of internal oblique and transversalis.