356 LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. these glands pierce the cribriform fascia of the saphenous opening and the sheath of the femoral vessels, to join the lymphatic gland situated in the femoral ring, which serves to establish a communication between the lym- phatics of the lowrer extremity and those of the trunk. The other efferent vessels pierce the fascia lata to join the deep glands. The vessels which pass upwards from the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, ascend along the outer side of the leg, and curve inwards just belowr the knee, to unite with the lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh. The external group consists of a few lymphatic vessels which commence on the outer side of the foot and posterior part of the ankle, and accompany the external saphenous vein to the popliteal region, where they enter the popliteal glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels accompany the deep veins, and communi- cate with the various glands in their course. After joining the deep in- guinal glands they pass beneath Poupart’s ligament, to communicate with the numerous glands situated around the iliac vessels. The deep lym- phatics of the gluteal region follow the course of the branches of the gluteal and ischiatic arteries. The former join the glands situated on the upper border of the pyriformis muscle, and the latter, after communicating with the lymphatics of the thigh, enter the ischiatic glands. LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. The lymphatics of the trunk may be arranged under three heads, super- ficial, deep, and visceral. The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper half of the trunk pass upwards and outwrards on each side, and converge, some to the axillary glands, and others to the glands at the root of the neck. The lymphatics from the mammary glands follow the lowTer border of the pectoralis major, communicating, by means of a chain of lymphatic glands, writh the axil- lary glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the lower half of the trunk, of the gluteal region, perineum, and external organs of generation, converge to the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. Some small glands are situated on each side of the dorsal vein of the penis, near the suspensory ligament; from these, as from the superficial lymphatics, the efferent vessels pass into the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. The Deep lymphatic glands of the thorax are the intercostal, internal mammary, anterior mediastinal, and posterior mediastinal./ The Intercostal glands are of small size, and are situated on each side of the vertebral column, near the articulations of the heads of the ribs, and in the course of the intercostal arteries. The Internal mammary glands, also very small, are placed in the inter- costal spaces, by the side of the internal mammary arteries. The Anterior mediastinal glands occupy the loose areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, resting some on the diaphragm, but the greater number on the large vessels at the root of the heart. The Posterior mediastinal glands are situated along the course of the aorta and oesophagus in the posterior mediastinum, and communicate above with the deep cervical glands, on each side with the intercostal and below with the abdominal glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the thorax are the intercostal, internal mammary, and diaphragmatic.