157 METACARPOPHALANGEAL ARTICULATION. metacarpal articulation a thin interosseous band which passes trom the ulnar edge of the os magnum to the line of junction between the third and fourth metacarpal bones. The dorsal ligaments are strong fasciculi which pass from the second range of carpal to the metacarpal bones. The palmar ligaments are thin fasciculi arranged upon the same plan on the palmar surface. The synovial membrane is a continuation of the great synovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. The capsular ligament of the thumb is one of the three true capsular ligaments of the skeleton ; the other two being the shoulder joint and hip joint. The articulation has a proper synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones of the four lingers are firmly connected at their bases by means of dorsal and palmar ligaments, which ex- tend transversely from one bone to the other, and by interosseous ligaments, which pass between their contiguous surfaces. Their lateral articular facets are lined by a reflec- tion of the great synovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. Actions. — The movements of the metacarpal on the carpal bones are restricted to a slight degree of sliding motion, with the exception of the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. In the latter articulation, the movements are, flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. 10. Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulation. — The metacarpo-phalangeal articulation is a ginglymoid joint; its ligaments are four in number,— Anterior, Two lateral, Transverse. The anterior ligaments are thick and fibro-cartilaginous, and form part of the articulating surface of the joints. They are grooved externally for the lodgment of the flexor tendons, and by their internal aspect form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone. The lateral ligaments are strong narrow fasciculi, holding the bones together at each side. The transverse ligaments are strong ligamentous bands, passing between the anterior ligaments, and connecting together the heads of the meta- carpal bones of the four fingers. *A diagram showing the disposition of the five synovial membranes of the wrist joint. 1. The sacciform membrane. 2. The second synovial membrane. 3, 3. The third, or large synovial membrane. 4. The synovial membrane between the pisiform bone and the cuneiforme. 5. The synovial membrane of the metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 6. The lower extremity of the radius. 7. The lower extremity of the ulna 8. The interarticular fibro-cartilage. S. The scaphoid bone. L. The semilunare. C. The cuneiforme ; the interosseous ligaments are seen passing between these three bones and separating the articulation of the wrist (2) from the articulation of the carpal bones (3). P. The pisiforme. T. The trapezium. 2T. The trapezoides. M. The os magnum. U. 1 lie unciforme; interosseous ligaments are seen connecting the os mag- num with the trapezoides and unciforme. 9. The base of the metacarpal bone of th*s> thumb. 10, 10. The bases of the other metacarpal bones. 14 Fig. 91*