OPTIC NERVE. 394 into an obiong mass of grey and white substance, the bulbus olfactorius, which rests upon the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid bone. From the under surface of the bulbous olfacto- ries are given off the nerves which pass through the cribriform foramina and supply the mucous membrane of the nares; they are arranged into two groups, an inner group, reddish in colour and soft, which spread out upon the septum narium, and an outer group, whiter and more firm, which descend through the bony ca- nals in the outer w7all of the nares, and are distributed upon the superior and middle turbinated bones. Second pair. Optic.—The optic nerve, a nerve of large size, arises from the corpora geniculata on the posterior and inferior aspect of the thalamus opticus and from the nates. Proceeding from this origin it winds around the crus cerebri as a flattened band, under the name of tractus opticus, and joins with its fellow7 in front of the tuber cinereum to form the ovtic commissure (chiasma). The tractus opticus is united with the crus cerebri and tuber cinereum, and is covered in by the pia mater; the commissure is also connected with the tuber cinereum, from which it receives fibres, and the nerve beyond the commissure diverges from its fellow7, becomes rounded in form, and is enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. In passing through the optic foramen the optic nerve receives a sheath from the dura mater, which splits at this point into tw7o layers ; one, which be- comes the periosteum of the * A view of the 2d pair or optic, and the origins of seven other pairs. 1, 1. Globe of the eye, the one on the left hand is perfect, but that on the right has the sclerotic and choroid removed to.show the retina. 2. The chiasm of the optic nerves. 3. The cor- pora albicantia. 4. The infundibulum. 5. The pons "V arolii. 6. The medulla ob- longata. The figure is on the right corpus pyramidale. 7. The 3d pair, motores oculi. 8. 4th pair, pathetici. 9. 5th pair, trigemini. 10th. 6th pair, abducentes. 11. 7th pair, auditory and facial. 12th. 8th pair, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and glosso-pha- ryngeal. 13. 9th pair, hypoglossal. + The isthmus encephali, showing the thalamus opticus, corpora quadrigemina, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata, as viewed from the side. 1. 1 he thalamus opticus. 2. The posterior prominence of this body, tuberculum superius posterius or pulvinar. 3. The corpus genioulatum externum. 4. The corpus geniculatum internum. 5. 1 he commencement of the tractus opticus. G. The pineal gland. 7. The nates. 8. ihe Fig. 17 S.f Fig. 177*