70 Fig. 32.* SPHENOID BONE. fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. Behind and beneath this fissure is the foramen rotundum for the superior maxillary nerve ; and still farther hack, in the base of the spinous process, the foramen ovale for the inferior maxillary nerve, arteria meningea parva, and nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Behind the foramen ovale, near the apex of the spinous process, is the foramen spinosum for the arteria meningea medea. Upon the after o-inferior surface of the sphenoid is a long flattened spine or crest, the superior part of which, crista sphenoidalis, articulates with the central lamella of the ethmoid, while the inferior part longer and sharper, the rostrum sphenoidale, is intended to be inserted into the sheath formed by the upper border of the vomer. On either side of the cris a sphenoidalis is an irregular opening leading into the sphenoidal cells. The sphenoidal cells, which are absent in the young subject, are divided by a median septum which is continuous with the crista, and are partially closed by two thin plates of bone (frequently broken away), the sphenoidal spongy bones. On each side of the sphenoidal cells are the outlets of the optic foramina, sphenoidal fissures, and foramina rotunda, the lesser and greater wings ; and, below, the pterygoid processes. Upon the un- der surface of the body are two thin plates of bone (processus vaginales) proceeding from the base of the pterygoid process at each side, and intended for articulation with the borders of the vomer. On each of these plates, close to the root of the pterygoid process, is a groove (sometimes a complete canal) converted into a canal by the palate hone, the pterygo-palatine canal for the pterygo-palatine artery ; and traversing the roots of the pterygoid processes at their union with the body of the 9. The groove by the side of the sella turcica; for lodging the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves. 10. The sella turcica; the two tubercles in front of the figure are the middle clinoid processes. 11. The posterior boundary of the sella turcica; its projecting angles are the posterior clinoid processes. 12. The basilar portion of the bone. 13. Part of the sphenoidal fissure. 14. The fora- men rotundum. 15. The foramen ovale. 10. The foramen spinosum. 17. The angu- lar interval which receives the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The posterior extremity of the Vidian canal terminates at this angle. 18. The spine of the spinous process; it affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. 19. The border of the greater wing and spinous process, which articulates with the anterior part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 20. The internal border of the spinous process, which assists in the formation of the foramen lacerum basis cranii. 21. That portion of the greater ala which articulates with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. 22. The portion of the greater ala which articulates with the orbital process of the frontal bone. * The antero-inferior view of the sphenoid bone. 1. The ethmoid spine. 2. The rostrum. 3. The sphenoidal spongy bone, partly closing the left opening of the sphe- noidal cells. 4. The lesser wing. 5. The foramen opticum, piercing the base of the lesser wing. 6. The sphenoidal fissure. 7. The foramen rotundum. 8. The orbital surface of the greater wing. 9. Its temporal surface. 10. The pterygoid ridge. 11. The pterygo-palatine canal. 12. The foramen of entrance to the "Vidian canal. 13. The internal pterygoid plate. 14. The hamular process. 15. The external pterygoid plate. 16 The foramen spinosum 17. The foramen ovale. 18. 1 he extremity ol the sninous process of the sphenoid.