420 DORSAL NERVES. The Circumflex Nerve arises from the posterior part of the brachial plexus by a common trunk with the musculo-spiral nerve. It passes downwards over the border of the subscapularis muscle, winds around the neck of the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and ter- minates by dividing into numerous branches, which supply the deltoid muscle. The Branches of the circumflex nerve are muscular and cutaneous The Muscular branches are distributed to the subscapularis, teres minor teres major, latissimus dorsi, and deltoid. The Cutaneous branches pierce the deltoid muscle, and are distributed to the integument of the shoulder. One of these cutaneous branches (cutaneus brachii superior), larger than the rest, wands around the posterior border of the deltoid, and divides into filaments which pass in a radiating direction across the shoulder, and are distributed to the integument. DORSAL NERVES. The dorsal nerves are twelve in number on each side; the first appears between the first and second dorsal vertebrae, and the last between the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar. They are smaller than the lowrer cervical nerves, and diminish gradually in size from the first to the tenth, and then increase to the twelfth. Each nerve, as soon as it has escaped from the intervertebral foramen, divides into two branches; a dorsal branch and the true intercostal nerve. The Dorsal branches pass directly backwards betw-een the transverse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the anterior costo-transverse ligament, where each nerve divides into an anterior or muscular and a posterior or musculo-cutaneous branch. The muscular branch enters the substance of the muscles in the direction of a line corresponding with the interval of separation between the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis, and is distributed to the muscles of the back, its terminal filaments reach- ing to the integument. The musculo-cutaneous branch passes inwards, crossing the semispinalis dorsi to the spinous processes of the dorsal verte- brae, giving off muscular branches in its course; it then pierces the apo- neurosis of origin of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi, and divides into branches which are inclined outwards beneath the integument to which they are distributed. The dorsal branch of the first dorsal nerve resembles in its mode of dis- tribution the dorsal branches of the last cervical. The dorsal branches of the last four dorsal nerves pass obliquely downwards and outwards into the substance of the erector spinae in the situation of the interspace between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. After supplying the erector spinae and communicating freely with each other they approach the surface along the outer border of the sacro-lumbalis, where they pierce the apo- neuroses of the transversalis, internal oblique, serratus posticus inferior, and latissimus dorsi, and divide into internal branches which supply the integument in the lumbar region upon the middle line, and external branches wnich are distribute^ to the integument upon the side of the lumbar and in the gluteal region. Intercostal Nerves.—The Intercostal nerves receive one or tw*o fila- ments from the adjoining ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass forwards in