RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. The orbicular ligament [annular, coronary) is a firm band several lines in breadth, which surrounds the head of the radius, and is attached by each end to the extremities of the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is strong- est behind where it receives the external lateral liga- ment, and is lined on its inner surface by a reflection of the synovial membrane of the elbow joint. The rupture of this ligament permits of the disloca- tion of the head of the radius. « The oblique ligament (called also ligamentum teres in contradistinction from the interosseous ligament) is a narrow slip of ligamentous fibres, descending obliquely from the base of the coronoid process of the ulna to the inner side of the radius, a little below its tuberosity. The interosseus ligament is a broad and thin plane of aponeurotic fibres passing obliquely dowrrwards from the sharp ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient superiorly, is broader in the middle than at each extremity, and is perforated at its lower part for the passage of the anterior interosseous artery. The posterior interos- seous artery passes backwards between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous ligament. This ligament affords an extensive surface for the attachment of muscles. The interosseous ligament is in relation, in front, writh the flexor pro- fundus digitorum, the flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus mus- cle, and with the anterior interosseous artery and nerve; and behind with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor indicis muscle, and near the wrist with the anterior interosseous artery and pos- terior interosseous nerve. The anterior inferior ligament is a thin fasciculus of fibres, passing transversely between the radius and ulna. The posterior inferior ligament is also thin and loose, and has the same disposition on the posterior surface of the articulation. The inter articular, or triangular fibro-cartilage, acts the part of a liga- ment between the lower extremities of the radius and ulna. It is attached by its apex to a depression on the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and by its base to the edge of the radius. This fibro- cartilage is lined upon its upper surface by a synovial membrane, which forms a duplicature between the radius and ulna, and is called the mem- brana sacciformis. By its lower surface it enters into the articulation of the wrrist joint. Actions.—The movements taking place between the radius and the ulna are, the rotation of the former upon the latter; rotation forwards being termed pronation, and rotation backwards supination. In these move- ments the head of the radius turns upon its own axis, within the orbicular ligament and the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna; while inferiorly the dius. 4. The external lateral ligament inserted inferiorly into (5) the orbicular liga- ment. C. The posterior extremity of the orbicular ligament, spreading out at its insertion into the ulna. 7. The anterior ligament, scarcely apparent in this view of the articula- tion. 8. The posterior ligament, thrown into folds by the extension of the joint. * 1. Articular surface of olecranon process of the ulna. 2. Coronoid process, if. Or- bicular ligament surrounding the neck of the radius.