501 ALIMENTARY CANAL. pelvis, as the redo-vesical fold, the false ligaments of the bladder, and the broad ligaments of the uterus. The Appendices epiploicce are small irregular pouches of the peritoneum, filled with hit, and situated like fringes upon the large intestine. Three other duplicatures of the peritoneum are situated in the sides of the abdomen; they are the gastro-phrenic ligament, the gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon. The gastro-phrenic ligament is a small duplicature of the peritoneum, which descends from the diaphragm to the extremity of the oesophagus, and lesser curve of the stomach. The gastro-splenic omentum is the duplicature which connects the spleen to the stomach. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the upper part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and the descending meso-colon, that which retains the sig- moid flexure in connexion with the abdominal wall. Structure of Serous Membrane.—Serous membrane consists of two layers, an external or areolo-fibrous layer, and an internal layer or epithe- lium. The areolo-fibrous layer upon its outer surface is rough and vascu- lar, and adherent to surrounding structures; but on its inner or free sur- face is dense and smooth, and deficient of vessels. The smooth and brilliant surface of serous membrane is due to a distinct epithelium, com- posed of laminae of cells, and flattened polyhedral scales with central nuclei, like the epiderma and epithelium of mucous membrane. Henle has also observed this structure, which may be demonstrated with a good micro- scope, on the surface of all the serous membranes of the body, upon the surface of the lining membrane of arteries and veins, and on synovial membranes. The general characters of a serous membrane are its resemblance to a shut sac, and its secretion of a peculiar fluid, resembling the serum of the blood; but the former of these characters is not absolutely essential to the identity of a serous membrane ; for, as we have shown above, the perito- neum in the female is perforated by the extremities of the Fallopian tubes; while in some aquatic reptiles there is a direct communication between its cavity and the medium in which they live. From the variable nature of the secretion of these membranes, they have been divided into two classes, the true serous membranes, viz. the arachnoid, pericardium, pleurae, peritoneum, and tunicae vaginales, which pour out a secretion containing but a small portion of albumen; and the synovial membranes and bursae, which secrete a fluid containing a larger quantity of albumen. ALIMENTARY CANAL. The Alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, extending from he mouth to the anus. It is variously named in the different parts of its course ; hence it is divided into the Mouth, Pharynx, (Esophagus, Stomach, Small intestine ( Duodenum, <; Jejunum, ( Ileum.