144 Fig. 81.* LIGAMENTS OF TIIE RIBS. Besides the lower jaw, there are several other joints provided with a complete interarticular cartilage, rtnd, con sequently, with two synovial membranes ; the acromio-clavicular and the articulation The interarticular fibrous cartilages of the knee-joint are partial, and there is but one synovial membrane. The articulations of the heads of the ribs with the vertebrae have two synovial membranes, separated by an interarticular ligament, without fibrous cartilage. Actions. — The movements of the lower jaw are depression, by which the mouth is opened; elevation, by which it is closed; a forward and backward movement, and a movement from side to side. In the movement of depression, the interarticular cartilage glides for- wards on the eminentia articularis, carrying with it the condyle. If this movement be carried too far, the superior synovial membrane is ruptured, and dislocation of the fibro-cartilage with its condyle into the zygomatic fossa occurs. In elevation, the fibrous cartilage and condyle are returned to their original position. The forward and backward movement is a gliding of the fibro-cartilage upon the glenoid articular surface, in the antero-posterior direction; and the movement from side to side, in the lateral direction. 6. Articulation of the Ribs with the Vertebrce. — The ligaments of these articulations are so strong as to render dislocation impossible, the neck of the rib would break before displacement could occur; they are divisible into two groups:—1. Those connecting the head of the rib with the bodies of the vertebrce; and, 2. Those connecting the neck and tubercle of the rib with the transverse processes. They are— 1st Group. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate, Interarticular ligament, Capsular, Two synovial membranes. 2d Group. Anterior costo-transverse, Middle costo-transverse, Posterior costo-transverse. The anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament (fig. 72) consists of three short bands of ligamentous fibres that radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior band passes upwards, and is attached to the vertebra above : the middle fasciculus is attached to the interverte- bral substance ; and the inferior, to the vertebrae below. * la this sketch a section has been carried through the joint, in order to show the natural position of the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the manner in which it is adapted to the difference of form of the articulating surfaces. 1. Tho, glenoid fossa. !<;. The eminentia articularis. 3. The interarticular fibro-cartilage. 4. The superior synovial cavity. 5. The inferior synovial cavity. 6. An interarticular fibro-cartilage, removed from the joint, in order to show its oval and concave form 5 it is seen from below of the ulna with the cuneiform bone. they are, the sterno-clavicular articulation