38 HISTOLOGY'. 4. Cartilaginous tissue. 5. Osseous tissue. 6. Petrous tissue. Compound Tissues: 1. Muscular fibrous tissue, 2. Nerve-fibrous tissue. Binary Tissues ,formed of two simple tissues: 1. Areolar tissue, constituted by the white and yellow' fibrous tissues intermixed. 2. Fibro-cartilage, constituted by cartilage and w7hite fibrous tissue intermixed. A certain difference exists between the simple corpuscles and nucleated cells. The corpuscles of the blood, for instance (in the mammalia), are destitute of a nucleus, and are persistent; whereas a nucleated cell is ahvays in a state of progression, either producing a fluid or undergoing a transformation. The 1st variety of epithelium is found wdiere there is a necessity for transparency, as in the capsule of the lens and the posterior layer of the cornea. The membrane in this case may be produced by the develop- ment of a very large cell and the collapse of its walls, so as to cover the whole area, thus constituting a duplicate lamina. The 2d variety is formed of hexagonal plates, adhering to each other and containing a form of carbon ; it is found in the eye, in the lung, and mixed with the cuticle and hair of the negro. The 3d variety constitutes the free surface of many membranes, as the skin, the mucous and serous; it may be found in a single lamina, forming a pavement of nucleated cells, flattened and adhering by their edges ; or it may form superimposed laminae, the exterior of wThich is constantly peeling off*, and the interior as constantly reproducing new cells to keep up the covering. This is the case in the cuticle, and in the mucous membranes of the mouth, oesophagus, rectum, &c. The 4th variety exists in mucous membranes, and consists of conoidal nucleated cells, very firmly paved together. The 5th variety differs only from the last in having the base furnished with vibratile ciliae, which diffuse the secretion, moistening the surface by tneir constant motion. This kind of epithelium occurs in mucous and serous membranes, wrhere the surfaces cannot come together and rub against each other, as in the ventricles of the brain, the trachea, &c. Nails, hairs, and horny excrescences, are manifestly modifications of epithelium, and are hence included in the enumeration as constituting the sixth variety of that tissue. The White fibrous tissue exists in ligaments and tendons, and consti- tutes the principal part of the derm or cutis vera. It is inelastic and in- extensible. The Yellow fibrous tissue is found in the ligamenta flava of the spine, in the middle coat of the arterial system, and in the skin, mixed with the white fibrous element. The Cartilaginous tissue constitutes the cartilage of the ribs, and the ( 1. Striped muscular fibre, l 2. Unstriped muscular fibre.