816 COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. artery runs along the lower border of the last rib, and the last along the crest of the ilium. In passing between the psoas muscles and the verte- brae, they are protected by a series of tendinous arches, which defend them and the communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve from pressure during the action of the muscle. I The Sacra media arises from the posterior part of the aorta at its bifur- cation, and descends along the middle of the anterior surface of the sacrum to the first piece of the coccyx, where it terminates by inosculating with the lateral sacral arteries. It distributes branches to the rectum and ante- rior sacral nerves, and inosculates on either side with the lateral sacral arteries. Varieties in the Branches of the Abdominal Aorta.—The phrenic arteries are very rarely both derived from the aorta. One or both may be branches of the coeliac axis; one may proceed from the gastric artery, from the renal, or from the upper lumbar artery. There are occasionally three or more phrenic arteries. The coeliac artery is very variable in length, and gives off its branches irregularly. There are sometimes two or even three hepatic arteries, one of which may be derived from the gastric or even from the superior mesenteric. The colica media is sometimes derived from the hepatic artery. The spermatic arteries are very variable, both in origin and number. The right spermatic may be a branch of the renal artery, and the left a branch of the inferior mesenteric. The supra-renal arteries may be derived from the phrenic or renal arteries. The renal arteries present several varieties in number; there may be three or even four arteries on one side, and one only on the other. When there are several renal arteries on one side, one may arise from the common iliac artery, from the front of the aorta near its lower part, or from the internal iliac. COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. The abdominal aorta divides opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. Sometimes the bifurcation takes place as high as the third, and occasionally as low as the fifth lumbar vertebra. The common iliac arteries are about two inches and a half in length; they diverge from the termination of the aorta, and pass downwards and out- wards on each side to the margin of the pelvis, opposite the saero-iliac symphysis, where they divide into the internal and external iliac arteries. In old persons the common iliac arteries are more or less dilated and curved in their course. The Right common iliac is somewhat longer than the left, and forms a more obtuse angle with the termination of the aorta; the angle of bifur- cation is greater in the female than in the male. Relations.—The relations of the two arteries are different on the two sides of the body. The right common iliac is in relation in front with the peritoneum, and is crossed at its bifurcation by the ureter. It is in rela- tion posteriorly with the two common iliac veins, and externally with the psoas magnus. The left is in relation in front with the peritoneum, and is crossed by the rectum and superior hannorrhoidal artery, and, at its bifurcation, by the ureter. It is in relation behind with the left common iliac vein, and externally with the psoas magnus.