115 IS CIIIU 31. and coated by cartilage in the fresh bone ; and a posterior portion, which is very rough and uneven for the attachment ot interosseous ligaments. The external surface is uneven, partly convex, and partly concave; it is bounded above by the crest; below by a prominent aich, which forms die upper segment of the acetabulum , and before and behind, by the anterior and posterior borders. Crossing this surtace in an arched direc- tion, from the anterior extremity of the crest to a notch upon the lower part of the posterior border, is a groove, which lodges the gluteal vessels and nerve, the superior curved line ; and below this, at a short distance, a rough ridge, the inf a ior curved line. The surface included between the superior curved line and the crest, gives origin to the gluteus medius muscle ; that between the curved lines, to the gluteus minimus; and the rough interval between the inferior curved line and the arch of the aceta- bulum, to one head of the rectus. The posterior sixth of this surface is rough and raised, and gives origin to part of the gluteus maximus. The crest of the ilium is arched and curved in its direction like the italic letterjf, being bent inwards at its anterior termination, and outwards towards the posterior. It is broad for the attachment of three planes of muscles, which are connected with its external and internal borders or lips, and with the intermediate space. The anterior border is marked by two projections, the anterior superior spinous process, which is the anterior termination of the crest, and the anterior inferior spinous process; the two processes being separated by a notch for the attachment of the sartorius muscle. This border terminates inferiorly in the lip of the acetabulum. The posterior border also presents two projections, the posterior superior and the posterior inferior spinous process, separated by a notch. Inferiorly this border is broad and arched, and forms the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The Ischium is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body, and into a thin and ascending part, the ramus; it may be considered also, for convenience of description, as presenting an external and internal surface, and three borders, posterior, inferior, and superior. The external surface is rough and uneven, for the attachment of muscles; and broad and smooth above, where it enters into the formation of the acetabulum. Below the inferior lip of the acetabulum is a notch, which lodges the obturator externus muscle in its passage outwards to the tro- chanteric fossa of the femur. The internal surface is smooth, and some- what encroached upon at its posterior border by the spine. The posterior border of the ischium presents towards its middle a re- markable projection, the spine. Immediately above the spine is a notch of large size, the great sacro-ischiatic, and below the spine the lesser sacro- ischiatic notch; the former being converted into a foramen by the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, the gluteal vessels and nerve, pudic vessels and nerve, and ischiatic vessels and nerve; and the lesser, completed by the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, to the obturator internus muscle, and to the internal pudic vessels and nerve. 'Hie inferior border is thick and broad, and is called the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is divided into three facets; one anterior, which is rough for the origin of the semi-membranosus ; and two posterior, which are smooth, and separated by a slight ridge for the semi-tendinosus and biceps muscle.^ The inner margin of the tuberosity is bounded by a sharp ridge, which gives attachment to a prolongation of the great sacro-ischiatic