237 EXTENSOR PRIM I INfTERNODII POLLICIS. Dissection.—The muscles of the superficial layer Fig 125* should be removed in order to bring the deep group completely into view. The Supinator Brevis cannot be seen in its en- tire extent until the radial extensors of the carpus are divided from their origin. It arises from the external condyle, from the external lateral and or- bicular ligament, and from the ulna, and winds around the upper part of the radius, to be inserted into the upper third of its oblique line. The pos- terior interosseous artery and nerve are seen perfo- rating the lower border of this muscle. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the pronator radii teres, supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor com- munis digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, the radial artery and veins, the musculo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous nerve. By its deep surface with the elbow-joint and its ligaments, the interosseous membrane, and the radius. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis is placed immediately below the supinator brevis. It arises from the ulna, interosseous membrane, and radius, and is inserted, as its name implies, into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Its tendon passes through the groove immediately in front of the styloid process of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, fascia of the fore- arm, and annular ligament. By its deep surface with the ulna, interosse- ous membrane, radius, tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and supinator longus, and at the wrist with the radial artery. By its upper border with the edge of the supinator brevis. By its lower border with the extensor secundi and primi internodii. The muscle is crossed by branches of the posterior interosseous artery and nerve. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, the smallest of the muscles in this layer, aiises from the interosseous membrane and ulna, and passes through the same groove with the extensor ossis metacarpi, to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—The same as those of the preceding muscle with the* exc tion of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The muscle accompanies the extensc, ossis metacarpi. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis arises from the ulna, and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct canal in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. * The deep layer of muscles on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm. 1. The lowei part of the humerus. 2. The olecranon. 3. The ulna. 4. The anconeus muscle. 5 ri he supinator brevis muscle. 6. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 7. The exten- sor primi internodii pollicis. 8. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 9. The ex tensor indicis. 10. The first dorsal interosseous muscle. The other three dorsal inter ossei are seen between the metacarpal bones of their respective fingers.