186 PLATYSMA MYOIDES. 8 Muscles of the Larynx. Orico-thyroideus, Crico-arytmnoideus, posticus, Crico-arytsenoideus, lateralis, Thyro-arytsenoideus, Arytamoideus. Dissection.—The dissection of the neck should be commenced by making an incision along the middle line of its fore part from the chin to the sternum, and bounding it superiorly and inferiorly by two transverse incisions; the superior one being carried along the margin of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the tubercle on the occipital bone, the inferior one along the clavicle to the acromion process. The square dap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia, and on the removal of a thin layer of superficial fascia the platysma myoides will be exposed. The Platysma Myoides (VXamg, pug siSog, broad muscle-like lamella), is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated between the two layers of the superficial cervical fascia; it arises from the integument over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards along the side of the neck to be inserted into the side of the chin, oblique line of the lower jaw, the angle of the mouth, and into the cellular tissue of the face. The most anterior fibres are continuous beneath the chin, with the muscle of the opposite side ; the next interlace with the depressor anguli oris, and depressor labii inferioris, and the most posterior fibres are disposed in a transverse direction across the side of the face, arising in the cellular tissue covering the parotid gland, and inserted into the angle of the mouth, constituting the risorius Santorini. The entire muscle is ana- logous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, the panniculus carnosus. Relations.—By its external surface with the integument, with which it is closely adhe- rent below, but loosely above. By its internal surface, belowr the clavicle, with the pectoralis major and deltoid; in the neck, with the external jugular vein and deep cervical fascia; on the face, with the parotid gland, the masseter, the facial artery and vein, the buccinator, the depressor anguli oris, and the depressor labii inferioris. On raising the platysma throughout its whole extent, the s*erno-mastoid is brought into view. The Sterno-cleido-mastoid is the large oblique muscle of Fig. 109* * The muscles of the anterior aspect of the neck ; on the left side the superficial mus* c!es are seen, and on the right the deep. 1. Ihe posterior belly of the digastricus mus- cle 2. Its anterior belly. The aponeurotic pulley, through which its tendon is seen passing,* is attached to the body of the os hyoides. 3, 4. The stylo-hyoideus muscle, transfixed by the posterior belly of the digastricus. 5. Ihe mylo-hyoideus. b. 1 ha