08 TEETH—ERUPTION. be incisor or canine, the newly-formed layer has the figure of a small hollow cone ; if molar, there will be four or five small cones correspond- ing with the number of tubercles in its crown. These cones are united by the formation of additional layers, the pulp becomes gradually sur- rounded and diminishes in size, evolving fresh layers during its retreat into the jaws until the entire tooth with its fangs is completed, and the small cavitas pulpse of the perfect tooth alone remains, communicating through the opening in the apex of each fang with the dental vessels and nerves. The number of roots appears to depend upon the number of nervous filaments sent to each pulp. When the formation of the ivory has commenced, the enamel organ becomes transformed into a laminated tissue, corresponding with the direction of the fibres of the enamel, and the crystalline substance of the enamel is secreted into its meshes by the vascular lining of the sac. The cementum appears to be formed at a later period of life, either by a deposition of osseous substance by that portion of the dental sac, which continues to enclose the fang, and acts as its periosteum, or by the con- version of that membrane itself into bone; the former supposition is the more probable. The formation of ivory commences in the first permanent molar pre- viously to birth. Eruption.—When the crown of the tooth has been formed and coated with enamel, and the fang has grown to the bottom of its socket by the progressive lengthening of the pulp, the formation of ivory, and the ad- hesion of the ivory to the contiguous portion of the sac, the pressure ot the socket causes the reflected portion of the sac and the edge of the tooth to approach, and the latter to pass through the gum. The sac has thereby resumed* its original follicular condition, and has become continuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth. The opened sac now begins to shorten more rapidly than the fang lengthens, and the tooth is quickly drawn upwards by the contraction, leaving a space between the extremity of the unfinished root and the bottom of the socket, in which the growth and completion of the fang is more speedily effected. During the changes which have here been described as taking place among the dental sacs contained within the jaws, the septa between the sacs, which at first were composed of spongy tissue, soon became fibrous, and were afterwards formed of bone, which was developed from the sur- face and proceeded by degrees more deeply into the jaws, to constitute the alveoli. The sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, at first enclosed in the submucous cellular tissue of the deciduous dental sacs, and received Pig. 47.-|- during their growth into crypts situated behind the deciduous /v teeth, advanced by degrees beneath the fangs of those teeth, |:\ and became separated from them by distinct osseous alveoli. The necks of the sacs of the permanent teeth, by which they I !1\ originally communicated with the mucous lining of the second- I \ Ib\ aiTgro°ve, still exist, in the form of minute obliterated cords, / ||A separated from the deciduous teeth by their alveolus, but com- ( municating through a minute osseous canal with the fibrous tissue of the palate, immediately behind the corresponding de- * Mr. Nasmyth is of opinion that it is “ by a process of absorption, and not of disrup- don, that the tooth is emancipated.” Medico-chirurgical Transactions. 1839. ■j- Temporary tooth with the capsule of its permanent successor attached to it by the gubernaculum dentis.