STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. 520 quantity of fat; they rest on the diaphragm, on the anterior lamella of the transversalis muscle, which separates them from the quadratus lumborum, and on the psoas magnus. The right kidney is somewhat lower than the left, from the position of the liver; it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the liver and descending portion of the duodenum, which rest against it; and it is covered in by the ascending colon and by its flexure. The left kidney, higher than the right, is covered, in front, by the great end of the stomach, by the spleen, descending colon with its flexure, and by a portion of the small intestines. The anterior surface of the kidney is convex, while the posterior is flat; the superior extremity is in relation with the supra-renal capsule ; the convex border is turned outwards to- wards the parietes of the abdomen; the concave border looks inwards towards the vertebral column, and is excavated by a deep fissure, the hilus renalis, in which are situated the vessels and nerves and pelvis of the kidney; the renal vein being the most anterior, next the renal artery, and lastly the pelvis. The kidney is dense and fragile in texture, and is invested by a proper fibrous capsule, which is easily torn from its surface. When divided by a longitudinal incision, carried from the convex to the concave border, it is found to present in its interior two structures, an external or vascular (cortical), and an internal or tubular (medullary) substance. The tubular portion is formed of pale reddish-coloured conical masses, corresponding by their bases with the vascular structure, and by their apices with the hilus of the organ ; these bodies are named cones (pyramids of Malpighi), and are from eight to fifteen in number. The vascular portion is com- posed of blood-vessels and of the plexiform convolutions of uriniferous tubuli, and not only constitutes the surface of the kidney, but dips be- tween the cones and surrounds them nearly to their apices. The cones or pyramids of the tubular portion of the kidney are com- posed of minute straight tubuli uriniferi, of about the diameter of a fine hair. The tubuli commence at the apices of the cones, and pursue a pa- rallel course towards the periphery of the organ, bifurcating from point to point, and separated only by minute straight blood-vessels, and a small quantity of parenchymatous substance. At the bases of the pyramids the tubuli collect into smaller conical fasciculi, which are prolonged into the substance of the cortical portion of the kidney, and have interposed be- tween them processes of the vascular structure. In the smaller pyramids the fasciculi separate into their component tubules, which, after a course marked by “ tortuosities, plexuses, convolutions, and dilatations,” ter* minate, according to Mr. Bowman,f in small round bodies, the corpora * A section of the kidney, surmounted by the supra-renal capsule ; the swellings on the surface mark the original constitution of the organ of distinct lobes. 1. The supra renal capsule. 2. The vascular portion of the kidney. 3, 3. Its tubular portion, con- sisting of cones. 4, 4. Two of the papillae projecting into their corresponding calices. 0. 5, 5. The three infundibula; the middle 5 is situated in the mouth of a calyx. 0 The pelvis. 7. The ureter. t On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney. Philosophies! Transactions, 1842. 45 21