13 and scientific publications. DUNGLISON (ROBLEY), M. D., Professor of Institutes of Medicine in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Seventh edition. Thoroughly revised and exten- sively modified and enlarged, with nearly five hundred illustrations. In two large and hand- somely printed octavo volumes, containing nearly 1450 pages. It has long since taken rank as one of the medi- cal classics of our language. To say that it is by far the best text-book of physiology ever published in this country, is but echoing the general testi- mony of the profession.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. There is no single book we would recommend to the student or physician, with greater confidence than the present, because in it will be found a rnir- i rorof almost every standard physiological work of the day. We most cordially recommend the work to every member of the profession, and no student should be without it. It is the compietest work on Physiology in the English language, and is highly creditable to the author and publishers.—Canadian Medical Journal. The most cortiplete and satisfactory system of Physiology in the English language.—Amer. Med. Journal. The best work of the kind in the English lan- 2,'uage.—Silliman'1 s Journal. O O The most full and complete system of Physiology in our language.— Western Lancet. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. (Just Is Sited.) GENERAL THERAPEUTICS AND MATERIA MEDIC A; adapted for a Medical Text-book. Fifth edition, much improved. With one hundred and eighty-seven illus- trations. In two large and handsomely printed octavo vols., of about 1100 pages. The new editions of the United States Pharmacopoeia and those of London and Dublin, have ren- dered necessary a thorough revision of this work. In accomplishing this the author has spared no pains in rendering it a complete exponent of all that is new and reliable, both in the departments of Therapeutics and Materia Medica. The book has thus been somewhat enlarged, and a like im- provement will be found in every department of its mechanical execution. As a convenient text- book for the student, therefore, containing within a moderate compass a satisfactory resume of its important subject, it is again presented as even more worthy than heretofore of the very great favor which it has received. In this work of Dr. Dunglison, we recognize the ! same untiring industry in the collection and em- bodying of facts on the several subjects of which he treats, that has heretofore distinguished him, and we cheerfully point to these volumes, as two of the most interesting that we know of. In noticing the additions to this, the fourth edition, there is very little in the periodical or annual literature of the profession, published in the interval which has elapsed since the issue of the first, that has escaped the careful search of the author. As a book for reference, it is invaluable.—Charleston Med. Jour- nal and Review. It may be said to be the work now upon the sub- jects upon which it treats.— Western Lancet. As a text-book for students, for whom it is par- ticularly designed, we know of none superior to it.—St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal. It purports to be a new edition, but it is rather a new book, so greatly has it been improved, both in the amount and quality of the matter which it contains.—N. O. Medical and Surgical Journal. We bespeak for this edition, from the profession, an increase of patronage over any of its former ones, on account of its increased merit. — N. Y. Journal of Medicine. We consider this work unequalled.—Boston Med . and Surg. Journal. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. NEW REMEDIES, WITH FORMULAE FOR THEIR ADMINISTRATION. Sixth edition, with extensive Additions. In one very large octavo volume, of over 750 pages. One of the most useful of the author’s works.— Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. This well-known and standard book has now reached its sixth edition, and has been enlarged and improved by the introduction of all the recent gifts to therapeutics which the last few years have so richly produced, including the anaesthetic agents, &c. This elaborate and useful volume should be found in every medical library, for as a book of re- ference, for physicians, it is unsurpassed by any other work in existence, and the double index for diseases and for remedies, will be found greatly to enhance its value.—New York Med. Gazette. Tiie great learning of the author, and his remark- able industry in pushing his researches into every source whence information is derivable, has enabled him to throw together an extensive mass of facts and statements, accompanied by full reference to authorities; which last feature renders the work practically valuable to investigators who desire to examine the original papers.— The American Journal of Pharmacy. DURLACHER (LEWIS). A TREATISE ON CORNS, BUNIONS, THE DISEASES OF NAILS, AND THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF THE FEET. la one 12mo. volume, cloth, pp. 134. DE JONGH (L. J.), M. D., &c. THE THREE KINDS OF COD-LIYER OIL, comparatively considered, with their Chemical and Therapeutic Properties. Translated, with an Appendix and Cases, by Edward Carry, M. D. To which is added an article on the subject from “Dunglison on New Remedies.” In one small 12mo. volume, extra cloth. DAY (GEORGE E.), M. D. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT AND MORE IMPORTAN1 DISEASES OF ADVANCED LIFE. With an Appendix on a new and successful mode of treating Lumbago and other forms of Chronic Rheumatism. One volume, octavo, 226 pages.