Ill LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. ligaments form a strong sheath around the vessels and nerves which pass through the carotid and jugular foramina. The capsular ligaments are the thin and loose ligamentous capsules which surround the synovial membranes of the articulations between the condyles of the occipital bone and the superior articular processes or the atlas. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous upon the anterior and external part of the articulation. The movements taking place between the cranium and atlas, are those of flexion and erection, giving rise to the forward nodding of the head. When this motion is increased to any extent the whole of the cervical region concurs in its production. 3. Articulation of the Axis with the Occipital bo7ie.—The ligaments of this articulation are three in number,— Occipito-axoid, Two odontoid. The occipito-axoid ligament (apparatus ligamentosus colli) is a broad band, which covers in the odontoid process and its ligaments. It is attached below to occipital bone. It is firmly connected opposite the body of the axis, with the dura mater; and sometimes is described as consisting of a central and two lateral portions; this, however, is an unnecessary refinement. The odontoid ligaments (alar) are two short and thick fasciculi of fibres, which pass outwards from the apex of the odontoid process, to the sides of the occipital foramen and condyles. A third and smaller fasciculus (ligamentum suspensorium), or middle straight ligament, proceeds from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. These ligaments serve to limit the extent to which rotation of the head may be carried, hence they are termed check ligaments. 4. Articulation of the Atlas with the Axis.—The ligaments of this arti- culation are five in number,— Anterior atlo-axoid, Two capsular, Posterior atlo-axoid, Transverse. The anterior ligament consists of ligamentous fibres, which pass from the anterior tubercle and arch of the atlas to the base of the odontoid pro- cess and body of the axis, where they are continuous with the commence- ment of the anterior common ligament. * The upper part of the vertebral canal, opened from behind in order to show the occipito-axoid ligament. 1. The basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 2. Section of the occipital bone. 3. The atlas, its posterior arch removed. 4. The axis, the posterior arch also removed. 5. The occipito-axoid ligament, rendered prominent at its middle by die projection of the odontoid process. 6. Lateral and capsular ligament of the oe- cipito-atioid articulation. 7. Capsular ligament between the articulating processes o' the atlas and axis. the body of the axis, where it is continu- ous with the posterior common ligament; superiorly it is inserted by a broad ex- pansion, into the basilar groove of the