159 HIP JOINT — KNEE JOINT. the under part, and extends further upon the neck of the femur on the anterior and superior than on the posterior and inferior side, being attached to the intertrochanteric line in front, to the base of the great tro- chanter above, and to the middle ol the neck of the femur behind. 'Phe iliofemoral ligament (fig. 83, 9) is an accessory and radiating band, which descends obliquely from the anterior inferior spinous process cf the ilium to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and strengthens the an- terior portion of the capsular ligament. The ligamentum teres (fig. 84, 7), triangular in shape, is attached by a round apex to the depression just below the middle of the head of the femur, and by its base, which divides into two fasciculi, into the borders of the notch of the acetabulum. It is formed by a fasciculus of fibres, of variable size, surrounded by synovial membrane; sometimes the synovial membrane alone exists, or the ligament is wholly absent. The cotyloid ligament (fig. 84, 6) is a prismoid cord of fibro-cartilage, attached around the margin of the acetabulum, and serving to deepen that cavity and protect its edges. It is much thicker upon the upper and pos- terior border of the acetabulum than in front, and consists of fibres which arise from the whole circumference of the brim, and interlace with each other at acute angles. The transverse ligament is a strong fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the cotyloid ligament, and extended across the notch in the acetabulum. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the articular branches of the internal circumflex and obturator arteries enter the joint. The fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum is filled by a mass of fat, covered by synovial membrane, which serves as an elastic cushion to the head of the bone during its movements. This was considered by Havers as the synovial gland. The synovial membrane is extensive; it invests the head of the femur, and is continued around the ligamentum teres into the acetabulum, whence it is reflected upon the inner surface of the capsular ligament back to the head of the bone. The muscles immediately surrounding and in contact with the hip joint are, in front, the psoas and iliacus, which are separated from the capsular ligament by a large synovial bursa; above, the short head of the rectus, and the gluteus minimus; behind, the pyriformis, gemellus superior, obtu- rator internus, gemellus inferior, and quadratus femoris; and to the inner side, the obturator externus and pectineus. Actions.—The movements of the hip joint are very extensive ; they are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. 2. Knee Joint. — The knee is a ginglymoid articulation of large size, and is provided with numerous ligaments; they are thirteen in number. Anterior or ligamentum patellae, Posterior or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Internal lateral, Two external lateral, Anterior or external crucial, Posterior or internal crucial, The first five are external to the articulation; the next five are internal Transverse, Two coronary, Ligamentum mucosum, ) ~ , Ligamenta alaria, y *alse* Two semilunar fibro-cartilages, Synovial membrane.