SUPERIOR LARYNGEAL NERVE. 406 Cardiac, Inferior or recurrent laryngeal, Pulmonary anterior, Pulmonary posterior, (Esophageal, Gastric. Fig. 183* The Branches of communication form part of the complicated plexus at (he base of the skull. The branches to the ganglion of Andersch are given oJFby the superior ganglion in the jugular fossa. The Auricular nerve is given off from the lower part of the jugular ganglion, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately below, and re- ceives immediately after its origin a small branch of communication from the glosso-pharyngeal. It then passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and on the outer side of that vessel enters a small canal (page 68) in the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the stylo-mastoid foramen. Guided by this canal it reaches the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and joins the fa- cial nerve. In the aqueductus Fallopii the auri- cular nerve gives off two small filaments, one of f which communicates with the posterior auricular branch of the facial, while the other is distri- buted to the pinna. The Pharyngeal nerve arises from the pneu- mogastric, immediately above the gangliform plexus, and descends behind the internal carotid artery to the upper border of the middle constric- tor, upon which it forms the pharyngeal plexus assisted by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic. The pha- ryngeal plexus is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Superior laryngeal nerve arises from the gangliform plexus of the pneumogastric, of which it appears to be almost a continuation; hence this plexus was named by Sir Astley Cooper the u ganglion of the superior laryngeal branch A The nerve descends behind the internal carotid artery to the opening in the thyro-hyoidean mem brane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and arytenoideus muscle. On the latter, and behind the cricoid cartilage, • Origin and distribution of the eighth pair of nerves. 1, 3, 4. The medulla oblongata, 1 Is the corpus pyramidale of one side. 3. The corpus olivare. 4. The corpus resti- forme. 2. The pons Varolii. 5. The facial nerve. 6. The origin of the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve. 7. The ganglion of Andersch. 8. The trunk of the nerve. 9. The spinal accessory nerve 10. The ganglion of the pneumogastric nerve. 11. Its plexiform gan-