AXILLARY ARTERY—BRANCHES. ,301 axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the latissimus dorsi, where it becomes the brachial. Relations.—After emerging from beneath the margin of the costo-cora- coid membrane, it is in relation with the axillary vein, which lies at first to the inner side, and then in front of the artery. Near the middle of the axilla it is embraced by the two heads of the median nerve, and is covered in by the pectoral muscles. Upon the inner or thoracic side it is in rela- tion, first, with the first intercostal muscle; it next rests upon the first serration of the serratus magnus; and is then separated from the chest by the brachial plexus of nerves. By its outer or humeral side it is at first separated from the brachial plexus by a triangular interval of areolar tis- sue ; it next rests against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle ; and thirdly, upon the coraco-brachialis muscle. The relations of the axillary artery may be thus arranged :— In Front. Inner or Thoracic Side. Outer or Humeral Side. Pectoralis major, Pectoralis minor, Pectoralis major. First intercostal muscle, First serration of serra- tus magnus, Plexus of nerves. Plexus of nerves, Tendon of sub- scapularis, Coraco-brachialis. Branches.—The branches of the Axillary artery are seven in number:—- Thoracica acromialis, Superior thoracic, Inferior thoracic, Thoracica axillaris, Subscapular, Circumflex anterior, Circumflex posterior. The thoracica acromialis and superior thoracic are found in the triangular space above the pectoralis minor. The inferior thoracic and thoracica axillaris, below the pectoralis minor. And the three remaining branches below the lower border of the sub- scapularis. The Thoracica acromialis is a short trunk which ascends to the space above the pec- toralis minor muscle, and divides into three branches, thoracic, which is distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland; acromial, which passes outwards to the acromion, and inosculates with branches of the supra-scapular artery; and descending, which follows the interspace between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, and is in relation with the cephalic vein. Fig. 150.* * The axillary and brachial artery, with their branches. 1. The deltoid muscle. 2 The biceps. 3. The tendinous process given off from the tendon of the biceps, to die deep fascia of the fore-arm. It is this process which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 4. The outer border of the brachialis anticus muscle. 5. The supinator longus. G. The coraco-brachialis. 7. The middle portion of the triceps 26