138 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Fig. 72 * Fig. 73.f Bodies.—The Anterior common ligament is a broad and riband-like band of ligamentous fibres, extending along the front surface of the verte- bral column, from the axis to the sacrum. It is intimately connected with the intervertebral substances, and less closely with the bodies of the \er- tebrse. In the dorsal region it is thicker than in the cervical and lumbar, and consists of a median and two lateral portions, separated from each other by a series of openings for the passage of vessels. The ligament is composed of fibres of various length closely inter- woven with each other; the deeper and shorter crossing the intervertebral sub- stances from one vertebra to the next; and the superficial and longer fibres crossing three or four vertebrae. The anterior common ligament is in relation by its posterior or vertebral surface, with the intervertebral substances, the bodies of the vertebrae, and with the vessels, principally veins, which separate its central from its lateral portions. By its anterior or visceral surface it is in relation in the neck, with the longus colli muscles, the pharynx and the oesophagus; in the thoracic region, with the aorta, the venae azygos, and thoracic duct; and in the lumbar region with the aorta, right renal artery, right lumbar arteries, arteria sacra media, vena cava in- ferior, left lumbar veins, receptaculum chyli, the com- mencement of the thoracic duct, and the tendons of the lesser muscle of the diaphragm with the fibres of which the ligamentous fibres interlace. The Posterior common ligament lies upon the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, and extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is broad opposite the inter- vertebral substances, to which it is closely adherent; ana narrow and thick over the bodies of the vertebrae, from which it is separated by the veins of the base of the ver- tebrae. It is composed like the anterior ligament of shorter and longer fibres which are disposed in a similar manner. The posterior common ligament is in relation by its antenor surface with the intervertebral substances, the bodies of the vertebrae, and with the venae basum vertebrarum ; and by its posterior surface with the dura mater of the spinal cord, some loose areolar tissue and numerous small veins being interposed. The intervertebral substance is a lenticular disc of fibrous cartilage, * The anterior ligaments of the vertebrae, and ligaments of the ribs. 1. The anterior common ligament. 2. The anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament. 3. The ante- rior costo-transverse ligament. 4. The interarticular ligament connecting the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and separating the two synovial membranes of this articulation. j- A posterior view of the bodies of three dorsal vertebrae, connected by their interver- tebral substance 1, 1. The laminae (2) have been sawn through near the bodies of the vertebrae, and the arches and processes removed* in order to show (3) the posterior common ligament. A part of one df the openings in the posterior surface of the ver- tebrae, for the transmission of the vena basis vertebrae, is seen at 4, by the side of the narrow and unattached portion of the ligament.