547 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. part, and one in thickness, and is divisible into fundus, body, cervdx, and os uteri. At the period of puberty the uterus weighs about one ounce and a half; after parturition from two to three ounces; and at the ninth month of utero-gestation from two to four pounds. The Fundus and body are enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which is connected with the sides of the pelvis, and forms a transverse septum between the bladder and rectum. The folds formed by this du- plicature of peritoneum on either side of the organ are the broad ligaments of the uterus. The cervix is the lower portion of the organ ; it is distin- guished from the body by a well-marked constriction ; around its circum- ference is attached the upper end of the vagina, and at its extremity is .an opening which is nearly round in the virgin, and transverse after parturi- tion, the os uteri, bounded before and behind by two labia; the anterior labium being the most thick, and the posterior somewhat the longest. The opening of the os uteri is of considerable size, and is named the ori- ficium uteri externum; the canal then becomes narrowed, and at the upper end of the cervix is constricted into a smaller opening, the orificium internum.* At this point the canal of the cervix expands into the shallow triangular cavity of the uterus, the infe- rior angle corresponding with the ori- ficium internum, and the two superior angles, which are funnel-shaped, and re- present the original bicornute condition of the organ, with the commencement of the Fallopian tubes. In the canal of the cervix uteri are two or three longitudinal folds, to which numerous oblique folds converge so as to give the idea of branches from the stem of a tree ; hence this appearance has been denominated the arbor vitce uterina. Between these folds, and around the os uteri, are nu- merous mucous follicles. It is the closure of the mouth of one of these follicles, and the subsequent distention of the follicle with its proper secretion, that occasions those vesicular appearances, so often noticed within the mouth and cervix of the uterus, called the ovula of JYaboth. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three tunics: of an external or serous coat, derived from the peritoneum, which constitutes the duplicatures on each side of the organ called the broad ligaments ; of a middle or muscu- lar coat, which gives thickness and bulk to the uterus ; and of an internal or mucous membrane, which lines its interior, and is continuous on the one hand with the mucous lining of the Fallopian tubes, and on the other with that of the vagina. In the unimpregnated state the muscular coat is ex- ceedingly condensed in texture, offers resistance to section with the scalpel, * The orificium internum is not unfrequently obliterated in old persons. Indeed, this obliteration is so common, as to have induced Mayer to regard it as normal. t Section of the uterus (transverse). The two bristles are introduced into the orifice* m the fallopian tubes. Fig. 243.f