ON THE LYMPHATICS. 351 portal canals, and give off vaginal and interlobular veins, and the latter terminate in the lobular venous plexus of the lobules of the liver. The portal vein within the liver receives the venous blood from the capillaries of the hepatic artery. PULMONARY VEINS. The pulmonary veins, four in number, return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart; they differ from the veins in general, in the area of their cylinders being very little larger than that of the corresponding arteries, and in accompanying singly each branch of the pulmonary artery. They commence in the capillaries upon the parietes of the intercellular passages and air-cells, and unite to form a single trunk for each lobe. The vein of the middle lobe of the right lung unites with the superior vein, so as to form the two trunks which open into the left auricle. Sometimes they remain separate, and then there are three pul- monary veins on the right side. The right pulmonary veins pass behind the superior vena cava to the left auricle, and the left behind the pulmo- nary artery; they both pierce the pericardium. Within the lung the branches of the pulmonary veins are behind the bronchial tubes, and those of the pulmonary artery in front; but at the root of the lungs the veins are in front, next the arteries, and then the bronchi. There are no valves in the pulmonary veins. CHAPTER VIII. ON THE LYMPHATICS. The lymphatic vessels, or absorbents, have received their double appel- lation from certain phenomena which they present; the former name being derivable from the appearance of the limpid fluid (lympha, water) which they convey; and the latter from their supposed property of absorbing foreign substances into the system. They are minute, delicate, and trans- parent vessels, remarkable for their general uniformity of size, for a knotted appearance which is due to the presence of numerous valves, for the fre- quent dichotomous divisions which occur in their course, and for their division into several branches immediately before entering a gland. Their office is to collect the products of digestion and the detrita of nutrition, and convey them into the venous circulation near the heart. Lymphatic vessels commence in a delicate network which is distributed on the cutaneous surface of the body, on the various surfaces of organs and throughout their internal structure; and from this network the lym- phatic vessels proceed, nearly in straight lines, in a direction towards the root of the neck. In their course they are intercepted by numerous small, spheroid, or oblong, or flattened bodies, lymphatic glands. The lymphatic vessels entering these glands are termed vasa inferentia or afferentia, and those which quit them, vasa eferentia. The vasa inferentia vary in num her from two to six, they divide at the distance of a few lines' from the gland into several smaller vessels, and enter it by one of the flattened sur-