292 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. The Cavernous portion is situated in the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, and is in relation by its outer side with the lining membrane of the sinus, the sixth nerve, and the ascending branches of the carotid plexus. The third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves are placed in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus brane of the sinus. The Cerebral portion of the artery is enclosed in a sheath of the arach noid, and is in relation with the optic nerve. At its point of division it i situated in the fissure of Sylvius. Branches.—The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no branches: from the other portions are derived the following:— Tympanic, Anterior meningeal, Ophthalmic, Anterior cerebral, ' Middle cerebral, Posterior communicating, Choroidean. \ The Tympanic is a small branch which enters the tympanum through a minute foramen in the carotid canal. The Anterior meningeal is distributed to the dura mater and Casserian ganglion. The Ophthalmic artery arises from the cerebral portion of the internal carotid, and enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, immediately to the outer side of the optic nerve. It then crosses the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit, and runs along the lower border of the superior oblique muscle, to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, the frontal and nasal. Branches.—The branches of the ophthalmic artery may be arranged into two groups: first, those distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts; and, secondly, those which supply the muscles and globe of the eye. They are— First Group. Lachrymal, Supra-orbital, Posterior ethmoidal, Anterior ethmoidal, Palpebral, Frontal, Nasal. The Lachrymal is the first branch of the ophthalmic artery, and is usu ally given off immediately before that artery enters the optic foramen. It follows the course of the lachrymal nerve, along the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. The small branches which escape from the gland supply the conjunctiva ami upper eyelid. The lachrymal artery gives off a malar branch which passes through the malar bone into the temporal fossa and inosculates with the deep temporal arteries, while some of its branches become subcutaneous on the cheek, and anastomose with the transverse facial. Second Group. Muscular, Anterior ciliary, Ciliary short and long, Centralis retina). , and are separated from the artery by the lining mem-