51 LUMBAR VERTEBRA. backwards. The superior articular processes are concave, and look back- wards and inwards; the inferior convex, and look forwards and outwards. Projecting backwards and upwards from the superior articular process is a short and flattened tubercle or posterior transverse process, and in a strongly marked vertebra there is not unfrequently at the base of this a smaller tubercle which has a direction downwards. The last lumbar ver- tebra differs from the rest in having the body very much bevelled poste- riorly, so as to be thick in front and thin behind, and the transverse pro- cess thick and large. General Considerations.—Viewed as a whole, the vertebral column represents two pyramids applied base to base, the superior being formed by all the vertebrae from the second cervical to the last lumbar, and the inferior by the sacrum and coccyx. Examined more attentively, it will be seen to be composed of four irregular pyramids, applied to each other by their smaller extremities and by their bases. The smaller extremity of the uppermost pyramid is formed by the axis, or second cervical ver- tebra ; and its base, by the first dorsal. The second pyramid is inverted; having its base at the first dorsal, and the smaller end at the fourth. The third pyramid commences at the fourth dorsal, and gradually enlarges to tlie fifth lumbar. The fourth pyramid is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. The bodies of the vertebrae are broad in the cervical region; narrowed almost to an angle in the middle of the dorsal, and again broad in the lumbar region. The arches are broad and imbricated in the cervical and dorsal regions, the inferior border of each overlapping the superior of the next; in the lumbar region an interval is left between them. A consider- able interval exists between the cranium and atlas, and another between the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum. The spinous processes are horizontal in the cervical, and become gradu- ally oblique in the upper part of the dorsal region. In the middle of the dorsal region they are nearly vertical and imbricated, and towards its lower part assume the direction of the lumbar spines, which are quite horizontal. The transverse processes developed in their most rudimentary form in the axis, gradually increase in length to the first dorsal vertebra. In the dorsal region they project obliquely backwards, and diminish sud- denly in length in the eleventh and twelfth vertebrae where they are very small In the lumbar region they increase to the middle transverse pro- cess, and again subside in length to the last. The transverse processes consist essentially of two parts, the anterior of which in the dorsal region is the rib, while the posterior retains the name of the transverse process. In the cervical region these two elements are quite apparent, both by their different points of attachment to the ver- tebra, and by the vertebral foramen which divides them at their base. In the lumbar region the so-called transverse processes are in reality lumbar ribs, while the transverse processes will be found behind them in a rudi- mentary state, developed, like the true transverse processes in the cervical region, from the superior articular processes. When the anterior and posterior transverse processes are examined in relation with each other, they will be observed to converge; if they were prolonged they would unite as in the cervical region and enclose a foramen, or they would rest in contact as in the dorsal region, or become consolidated as in the form- ation of the sacrum. Moreover, the posterior transverse processes are