100 MYLO-IIYOIDEUS—GENIO-HYOIDEUS. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the posterior belly of the digastricus, the parotid gland and submaxillary gland ; its deep relations are similar to those of the posterior belly of the digastricus. The digastricus and stylo-hyoideus must be removed from their con- nexion with the lower jaw and os hyoides, and turned aside in order to see the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoideus (jualXr), mola, i. e. attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a broad triangular plane of muscular fibres, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the inferior wall or floor of the mouth. It arises from the molar ridge on the lower jaw, and proceeds obliquely inwards to be inserted into the raphe of the two muscles and into the body of the os hyoides ; the raphe is sometimes deficient at its anterior part. Relations.—By its superficial, or inferior surface, with the platysma myoides, the digastricus, the supra-hyoidean fascia, the submaxillary gland and the submental artery. By its deep or superior surface, with the genio- hyoideus, the genio-hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the gustatory nerve, the hypoglossal nerve, Wharton’s duct, the sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. After the mylo-hyoideus has been examined, it should be cut away from its origin and insertion, and completely removed. The view of the next muscles would also be greatly improved by dividing the lowTer jaw on the near side of the symphysis, and drawing it outwards, or by removing it altogether, if the ramus have been already cut across in dissecting the in- ternal pterygoid muscle. The tongue may then be drawn out of the mouth by means of a hook. The Genio-hyoideus (yevsov, the chin) arises from a small tubercle upon the inner side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and is inserted into the upper part of the body of the os hyoides. It is a short and slender muscle, very closely connected with the border of the following. Relations.—By its superficial or inferior surface, with the mylo-hyoideus, by the deep or superior surface, with the lower border of the genio-hyo- glossus. The Genio-hyo-glossus (yAojfXtfa, the tongue) is a triangular muscle, narrow and pointed at its origin from the lower jaw, broad and fan-shaped at its attachment to the tongue. It anses from a tubercle immediately above that of the genio-hyoideus, and spreads out to be inserted into the whole length of the tongue, from its base to the apex, and into the body of the os hyoides. Relations. — By its inner surface with its fellow of the opposite side. By its outer surface with the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo* glossus, lingualis, the sublingual gland, the lingual artery, and the hypo- glossal nerve. By its upper border with the mucous membrane of the door of the mouth, in the situation of the fraenum linguae; and by the lower border with the genio-hyoideus. dictions.—The whole of this group of muscles acts upon the os hyoides when the lowrer jaw is closed, and upon the lower jaw when the os hyoides is drawn downwards, and fixed by the depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. The genio-hyo-glossus is, moreover, a muscle of the tongue ; its action upon that organ shall be considered with the next group.