155 WRIST JOINT. radius presents a concavity which moves upon the rounded head of the ulna. The movements of the radius are chiefly limited by the anterior and posterior inferior ligaments, hence these are not unfrequently ruptured in great muscular efforts. 7. Wrist Joint.—The wrist is a ginglymoid articulation ; the articular surfaces entering into its formation being the radius and under surface of the triangular iibro-cartilage above, and the rounded surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone below; its ligaments are four in number,— Anterior, Internal lateral, Posterior, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and mem- branous layer consisting of three fasciculi, which pass between the lower part of the radius and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone. The posterior ligament, also thin and loose, passes between the posterior surface of the ra- dius, and the posterior surface of the semilunar and cuneiform bone. The internal lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament is attached by one extremity to the styloid process of the ra- dius, and by the other to the side of the scaphoid bone. The radial artery rests on this ligament as it passes backwards to the first metacarpal space. The synovial membrane of the wrist joint lines the under surface of the radius and inter- articular cartilage above, and the first row of bones of the carpus below. The relations of the wrist joint are the flexor and extensor tendons by which it is surrounded, and the radial and ulnar artery. Actions.—The movements of the wrist joint are flexion, extension, ad- duction, abduction, and circumduction. In these motions the articular surfaces glide upon each other. * The ligaments of the anterior aspect of the wrist and hand. 1. The lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. The anterior inferior radio-ulnar ligament. 3. The an- terior ligament of the wrist joint. 4. Its external lateral ligament. 5. Its internal lateral ligament. 6. The palmar ligaments of the carpus. 7. The pisiform bone with its ligaments. 8. The ligaments connecting the second range of carpal bones with the metacarpal and the metacarpal with each other. • 9. The capsular ligament of the carpo metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 10. Anterior ligament of the metacarpo-pha- langeal articulation of the thumb. 11. One of the lateral ligaments of that articulation. 12. Anterior ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the index finger; this ligament has been removed in the other fingers. 13. Lateral ligaments of tli’e same articulation ; the corresponding ligaments are seen in the other articulations. 14. Trans- verse ligament connecting the heads of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers; the same ligament is seen between the other fingers. 15. Anterior and one lateral ligament of the phalangeal articulation of the thumb. 16. Anterior and lateial ligaments of the phalangeal articulations cf the index finger; the anterior ligaments are removed in the other fingers.