DEPRESSORS OP THE OS HYOIDES AND LARYNX. 187 the neck, and is situated between two layers of the deep cervical fascia It arises, as implied in its name, from the sternum and clavicle (xXs»(W), and passes obliquely upwards and backwards to be inserted into the mas- toid process and into the superior curved line of the occipital bone, lhe sternal portion arises by a rounded tendon, increases in breadth as it ascends, and spreads out to a considerable extent at its insertion, lhe clavicular portion is broad and fleshy, and separate from the sternal portion below, but becomes gradually blended with its posterior surface as it ascends. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument, the platysma myoides, the external jugular vein, superficial branches of the anterior cervical plexus of nerves, and the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. By its deep surface with the deep layer of the cervical fascia; with the sterno-clavicular articulation, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid, scaleni, levator anguli scapulae, splenii, and the posterior belly of the di- gastric muscle; with the phrenic nerve, and the posterior, and supra-sca- pular artery; with the deep lymphatic glands, the sheath of the common carotid and internal jugular vein, the descendens noni nerve, the external carotid artery and its posterior branches, the commencement of the internal carotid artery; with the cervical plexus of nerves, the pneumogastric, the spinal accessory, the hypoglossal, the sympathetic and the facial nerve, and with the parotid gland. It is pierced on this aspect by the spinal ac- cessory nerve and by the branches of the mastoid artery. The anterior border of the muscle is the posterior boundary of the great anterior triangle, the other two boundaries being the middle line of the neck in front, and the lower border of the jaw above. It is the guide to the operations for the ligature of the common carotid artery and arteria innominata, and for cesophagotomy. The posterior border is the anterior boundary of the great posterior triangle ; the other two boundaries being the anterior border of the trapezius behind, and the clavicle below. Actions.—The platysma produces a muscular traction on the integu- ment of the neck, which prevents it from falling so flaccid in old persons as would be the case if the extension of the skin were the mere result of elasticity. It draws also upon the angle of the mouth, and is one of the depressors of the lower jaw. The transverse fibres draw the angle of the mouth outwards and slightly upwards. The sterno-mastoid muscles are the great anterior muscles of connexion between the thorax and the head. Both muscles acting together bow the head directly forwards. The cla- vicular portions, acting more forcibly than the sternal, give stability and steadiness to the head in supporting great weights. Either muscle acting singly would draw the head towards the shoulder of the same side, and carry the face towards the opposite side. Second Group.—Depressors of the Os Ilyoides and Larynx. genio-hyoideus. 7. The tongue. 8. The hyo-glossus. 9. The stylo-glossus. 10. The stylo-pharyngeus. 11. The sterno-mastoid muscle. 12. Its sternal origin. 13. Its cla vicular origin. 14. The sterno-hyoid. 15. The sterno-thyroid of the right side. 16. I he thyro-hyoid. 1 /. The hyoid portion of the omo-hyoid. 18, 18. Its scapular portion t on the left side, the tendon of the muscle is seen to be bound down by a portion of the deep cervical fascia. 19. The clavicular portion of the trapezius. 20. The sealenu* anticus of the right side. 21. The scalenus posticus. Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid.