left ventricle. 481 sinuses are situated behind the valves at the commencement of the aorta, and are larger and more capacious than those of the pulmonary artery. Hie Pulmonary artery commences by a scalloped border, correspond- ing with the three valves which are attached along its edge. It is con- nected to the ventricle by muscular fibres, and by the lining membrane of the heart. The Left auricle is somewhat smaller, but thicker, than the right; of a cuboid form, and situated more posteriorly. The appendix auricula is constricted at its junction with the auricle, and has a foliated appear- ance ; it is directed forwards towards the root of the pulmonary artery, to which the auricula? of both sides appear to converge. The left auricle is to be laid open by a shaped incision, the horizontal section being made along the border, which is attached to the base of the ventricle. It presents for examination five openings, and the muscular structure of the appendix; these are— Four pulmonary veins, Auriculo-ventricular opening, Musculi pectinati. The Pulmonary veins, two from the right and two from the left lung, open into the corresponding sides of the auricle. The two left pulmonary veins terminate frequently by a common opening. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the aperture of communication be- tween the auricle and ventricle. The Musculi pectinati are fewer in number than in the right auricle, and are situated only in the appendix auriculae. Left Ventricle.—The left ventricle is to be opened by making an incision a little to the left of the septum ventriculoram, and continuing it around the apex of the heart to the auriculo-ventricular opening behind. The left ventricle is conical, both in external figure and in the form of its internal cavity. It forms the apex of the heart, by projecting beyond the right ventricle, while the latter has the advantage .in length towards the base. Its walls are about seven lines in thickness, those of the right ventricle being about two lines and a half. It presents for examination, in its interior, two openings, two valves, and the tendinous cords and muscular columns; the}' may be thus arranged: Auriculo-ventricular opening, Aortic opening. Mitral valves, Semilunar valves. Chordae tendineae, Columnae carneae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, but smaller in size than that of the right side. The Mitral valves are attached around the auriculo-ventricular opening, as are the tricuspid in the right ventricle. They are thicker than the tri- cuspid, and consist of only two segments, of which the larger is placed 41 2 f