427 SACRAL PLEXUS. nerve, a third to the viscera of the pelvis commu- nicating with the hypogastric plexus, and a fourth to the coccygeus muscle, and to the integument around the anus. The fifth anterior sacral nerve presents about half the size of the fourth; it di- vides into two branches, one of which communi- cates with the fourth, the other with the sixth. The sixth sacral nerve (coccygeal) is exceedingly small; it gives off an ascending filament which is continuous with the communicating branch of the fifth; and a descending filament which passes downwards by the side of the coccyx and traverses the fibres of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament to be distributed to the gluteus maximus and to the integument. All the anterior sacral nerves receive branches from the sacral ganglia of the sympathetic at their emergence from the sacral foramina. SACRAL PLEXUS. The Sacral plexus is formed by the lumbo-sacral and by the anterior branches of the four upper sacral nerves. The plexus is triangular in form, the base corresponding w'ith the whole length of the sacrum, and the apex with the lowrer part of the great ischiatic foramen. It is in relation behind with the pyriformis muscle, and in front with the pelvic fascia, wThich latter separates it from the branches of the internal iliac artery, and from the viscera of the pelvis. The Branches of the sacral plexus are divisible into the internal and the external; they may be thus arranged :— Internal. External. Visceral, Muscular, Muscular. Gluteal, Internal pudic, Lesser ischiatic, Greater ischiatic. The Visceral nerves are three or four large branches which are derived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves: they ascend upon the side of the rectum and bladder; in the female upon the side of the rectum, the va- gina and the bladder; and interlace with the branches of the hypogastric plexus, sending in their course numerous filaments to those viscera. The Muscular branches given off within the pelvis are one or two twigs to the levator ani; an obturator branch; which curves around the spine of the ischium to reach the internal surface of the obturator interims mus- cle ; a coccygeal branch; and an hsemorrhoidal nerve which passes through the twTo ischiatic openings and descends to the termination of the rectum to supply the sphincter and the integument. * A view of the branches of the ischiatic plexus to the hip and back of the thigh. 1, 1. Posterior sacral nerves. 2. Nervi glutei. 3. The internal pudic nerve (nervus puden- dalis longus superior). 4. The lesser ischiatic nerve, giving off the perineal cutaneous fpudemlalis longus inferior), and 5. 1 he ramus femoralis cutaneus posterior. The re- ference to the great ischiatic has been omitted. It is seen to the right of 3.