183 BUCCINATOR—PTER YGOIDEI. the temporal ridge on the side of the skull, extending from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the mastoid portion of the temporal; interiorly, it is connected to the upper border of the zygoma. The muscle aiises by tendinous fibres from the whole length of the temporal ridge, and by muscular fibres from the temporal fascia and entire surface of the temporal fossa. Its fibres converge to a strong and narrow tendon, which is inserted into the apex of the coronoid process, and for some way down upon its inner surface. Relations. —By its external surface with the temporal fascia, which se- parates it from the attollens and attrahens aurem muscle, the temporal vessels and nerves ; and with the zygoma and masseter. By its internal surface with the bones forming the temporal fossa, the external pterygoid muscle, a part of the buccinator, and the internal maxillary artery with its deep temporal branches. By sawing through the coronoid process near to its base, and pulling it upwards, together with the temporal muscle, which may be dissected from the fossa, we obtain a view of the entire extent of the buccinator and of the external pterygoid muscle. The Buccinator (buccina, a trumpet), the trumpeter’s muscle, arises from the alveolar process of the superior maxillary and from the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, as far forward as the second bicuspid tooth, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. This ligament is the raphe of union between the buccinator and superior constrictor muscle, and is attached by one extremity to the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the extremity of the molar ridge. The fibres of the muscle converge towards the angle of the mouth where they cross each other, the superior being continuous with the infe- rior segment of the orbicularis oris, and the inferior with the superior segment. The muscle is invested externally by a thin fascia. Relations.—By its external surface, posteriorly with a large and rounded mass of fat, which separates the muscle from the ramus of the lower jaw, the temporal, and the masseter; anteriorly with the risorius Santorini, the zygomatici, the levator anguli oris, and the depressor anguli oris. It is also in relation with a part of Stenon’s duct, which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, with the transverse facial artery, the branches of the facial and buccal nerve, and the facial artery and vein. By its internal surface with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The External Pterygoid is a short and thick muscle, broader at its origin than at its insertion. It arises by two heads, one from the pterygoid ridge on the greater ala of the sphenoid; the other from the external pterygoid plate and tuberosity of the palate bone. The fibres pass back- wards, to be inserted into the neck of the lower jaw and the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The internal maxillary artery frequently passes between the two heads of this muscle. Relations. — By its external surf ace, with the ramus of the lower jaw, the temporal muscle, and the internal maxillary artery ; by its internal surface, with the internal pterygoid muscle, internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, arteria meningea media, and inferior maxillary nerve ; and by its upper border, with the muscular branches of the inferior maxillary nerve ; the internal maxillary artery passes between the two heads of this muscle, an 1 its lower origin is pierced by the buccal nerve