FCETAL CIRCULATION. 554 Fis- 245 * buted by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities; the greater portion is conveyed by the internal iliac, hypogas- tric, and umbilical arteries to the pla- centa ; the hypogastric arteries proceed- ing from the internal iliacs, and passing by the side of the fundus of the bladder” and upwards along the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, where they become the umbilical arteries. < From a careful consideration of this circulation, we perceive — 1st. That the pure blood from the placenta is distri- buted in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circu- lation. Hence arises the abundant nutri- tion of that organ, and its enormous size in comparison with other viscera. 2dly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of a double current; the one coming from the inferior cava, the other from the superior, and that they must cross each other in their re- spective course. How this crossing is effected the theorist will wonder; not so the practical anatomist; for a cursory examination of the foetal heart will show, 1. That the direction of entrance of the two vessels is so opposite, that they may discharge their currents through the same cavity without admixture. 2. That the inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle. 3. That by the aid of the Eustachian valve, the current in the inferior cava will be almost entirely excluded from the right ventricle. 3dly. That the blood which circulates through the arch of the aorta comes directly from the placenta; and, although mixed with the impure * The fcetal circulation. 1. The umbilical cord, consisting of the umbilical vein and two umbilical arteries; proceeding from the placenta (2). 3. The umbilical vein dividing into three branches; two (4, 4), to be distributed to the liver; and one (5), the ductus venosus, which enters the inferior vena cava (6). 7. The portal vein, re- turning the blood from the intestines, and uniting with the right hepatic branch. 8. The right auricle; the course of the blood is denoted by the arrow, proceeding from 8, to 9, the left auricle. 10. The left ventricle ; the blood following the arrow to the arch of the aorta (11), to be distributed through the branches given off by the arch to the head and upper extremities. The arrows 12 and 13, represent the return of the blood from the head and upper extremities through the jugular and subclavian veins, to the supe- rior vena cava (14), to the right auricle (8), and in the course of the arrow through the right ventricle (15), to the pulmonary artery (16). 17. The ductus arteriosus, which appears to be a proper continuation of the pulmonary artery, the olfsets at each side are the right and left pulmonary artery cut off; these are of extremely small size as com- pared with the ductus arteriosus. The ducti*s arteriosus joins the descending aorta (18, 18), which divides into the common iliacs, and these into the internal iliacs, which become the hypogastric arteries (19), and return the blood along the umbilical cord tc the placenta; while the other divisions, the external iliacs (20), are continued into the lower extremities. The arrows at the terminations of these vessels mark the return of the venous blood by the veins ta the nlerior cava.