SPLENIC ARTERY. 31 J The Branches of the hepatic artery are, the Pyloric, Gastro-duodenalis, ( Gastro-epiploica dextra, £ Pancreatico-duodenalis Cystic. The Pyloric branch, given off from the hepatic near the pylorus, is dis- tributed to the commencement of the duodenum and to the lesser curve of the stomach, where it inosculates with the gastric artery. The Gastro-duodenalis artery is a short but large trunk, which descends behind the pylorus, and divides into twro branches, the gastro-epiploica dextra, and pancreatico-duodenalis. Previously to its division, it gives off some inferior pyloric branches to the small end of the stomach. The Gastro-epiploica dextra runs along the great curve of the stomach lying between the two layers of the great omentum, and inosculates at about its middle with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic artery. It supplies the great curve of the stomach and the great omentum ; hence the derivation of its name. The Pancreatico-duodenalis curves along the fixed border of the duo- denum, partly concealed by the attachment of the pancreas, and is distri- buted to the pancreas and duodenum. It inosculates inferiorly with the first jejunal, and with the pancreatic branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The Cystic artery, generally a branch of the right hepatic, is of small size, and ramifies between the coats of the gall-bladder, previously to its distribution to the mucous membrane. The Splenic artery, the largest of the three branches of the cceliac axis, passes horizontally to the left along the upper border of the pancreas, and divides into five or six large branches, which enter the hilus of the spleen, and are distributed to its structure. In its course it is tortuous and serpentine, and frequently makes a complete turn upon itself. It lies in a narrow groove in the upper border of the pancreas, and is accom- panied by the splenic vein, and by the splenic plexus of nerves. The Branches of the splenic artery are the— Pancreaticae parvse, Pancreatica magna, Vasa brevia, Gastro-epiploica sinistra. The Pancreaticce parvce are numerous small branches distributed to the pancreas, as the splenic border runs along its upper border. One of these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. The Vasa brevia are five or six branches of small size which pass from the extremity of the splenic artery and its terminal branches, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach, to which they are distributed, inosculating with branches of the gastric artery and gastro-epiploica sinistra. The Gastro-epiploica sinistra appears to be the continuation of the splenic artery; it passes forwards from left to right, along the great curve ol the stomach, lying between the layers of the great omentum, and inos-