273 FEMORAL HERNIA. Poupart’s ligament be carefully 144 * divided, the sheath may be isolated, and its continuation with the trans- versalis and iliac fascia clearly de- monstrated. In this view the sheath of the femoral vessels is an infundi- buliform continuation of the abdo- minal fascia?, closely adherent to the vessels a little way down the thigh, but much larger than the vessels it contains at Poupart’s ligament. If the sheath be opened, the artery and vein will be found lying side by side, and occupying the outer two- thirds of the sheath, leaving an in- fundibuliform interval between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath. The superior opening of this space is named the femoral ring; it is bounded in front by Poupart’s ligament, behind by the os pubis, internally by Gimbernat’s ligament, and externally by the femoral vein. The interval itself serves for the passage of the super- licial lymphatic vessels from the saphenous opening to a lymphatic gland, which generally occupies the femoral ring; and from thence they proceed into the current of the deep lymphatics. The femoral ring is closed merely by a thin layer of subserous areolar tissue,! which retains the lymphatic gland in its position, and is named septum crurale; and by the peritoneum. It follows from this description, that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the parietes of the abdomen, particularly in the female, where the femoral arch, or space included between Poupart’s ligament and the border of the pelvis, is larger than in the male, while the structures which pass through it are smaller. It happens consequently, that, if violent or continued pressure be made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced through the femoral ring into the infundibuliform space in the sheath of the femoral vessels, carrying before it the peritoneum and the septum crurale,— this constitutes femoral hernia. If the causes which give rise to the formation of this hernia continue, the intestine, unable to extend further down the sheath, from the close connexion of the latter with the vessels, will in the next place be forced forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, carrying before it two additional coverings, the sheath of the vessels, or fascia'propria, and the cribriform * A section of the structures which pass beneath the femoral arch. 1. Poupart’s liga- ment. 2, 2. The iliac portion of the fascia lata, attached along the margin of the crest of the ilium, and along Poupart's ligament, as far as the spine of the os pubis (3). 4. The pubic portion of the fascia lata, continuous at 3 with the iliac portion, and passing outwards behind the sheath of the femoral vessels to its outer border at 5, where it divides into two layers ; one is continuous with the sheath of the psoas (6) and iliacus (7) ; the other (8) is lost upon the capsule of the hip joint (9). 10. The crural nerve, enclosed in the sheath of the psoas and iliacus. 11. Gimbernat’s ligament. 12. The femoral ring, within the femoral sheath. 13. The femoral vein. 14. The femoial ar tery; the two vessels and the ring are surrounded by the femoral sheath, and thir septa are sent between the anterior and posterior wall of the sheath, dividing the artery from the vein, and the vein from the femoral ring. t *1)13 areolar tissue is sometimes very considerably thickened jy a deposit of within its areolae, and forms a thick stratum over the hernial stjc