240 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Dissection.—Turn aside the ulnar flap of integument in the palm of the hand: in doing this, a subcutaneous muscle, the palmaris brevis will be exposed. After examining this muscle remove it with the deep fascia, in order to bring into view the muscles of the little finger. The Palmaris Brevis is a thin plane of muscular fibres which arises from the annular ligament and palmar fascia, and passes transversely in- wards, to be inserted into the integument on the inner border of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fat and integument of the ball of the little finger. By its deep surface with the internal portion of the palmar fascia, which separates it from the ulnar artery veins, and nerve, and from the muscles of the inner border of the hand. The Abductor Minimi Digiti is a small tapering muscle which arises from the pisiform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the deep fascia and the palmaris brevis: by its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner border with the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti is a small muscle arising from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and inserted into the base of the first phalanx. It is sometimes wanting. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the palmar fascia, and the palmaris brevis. By its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi, and metacarpal bone. Externally with the abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated near its origin by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve and communicating artery. Internally with the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus. The Flexor Ossis Metacarpi (adductor, opponens) arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the flexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti. By its deep surface with the interossei muscles of the last metacarpal space, the metacarpal bone, and the flexor tendons of the little finger. Palmar Region. Lumbricales, Interossei palmares, Interossei dorsales. The Lumbricales, four in number, are accessories to the deep flexor muscle. They arise from the tendons of the deep flexor; the first and second from the palmar side, the third from the ulnar, and the fourth from the radial side; and are inserted into the aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendons on the radial side of the fingers. The third, or that of the tendon of the ring finger, sometimes bifurcates, otherwise it is inserted wholly into the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Relations.—In the palm of the hand wuth the flexor tendons ; at their insertion, with the tendons of the interossei and the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. The Palmar Interossei, three in number, are placed upon the meta- carpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the base of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the base of the first