530 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. Malpighiana, or, according to Krause and the recent investigations of Mr. Toynbee,* by anastomoses and caecal extremities. The average d ameter of the tubuli uriniferi in the cortical portion of the kidney is the of an inch, of which about two-thirds are occupied by a nucleated epithelium, the remaining third representing the area of the tube. According to Mr. Bowman, the epithelium is ciliated in that part of the tubule which is neai the Malpighian body, and which, according to the same authority, is very much constricted. In the cortical portion of the kidney are contained a multitude of minute, red, globular bodies, the corpora Malpighiana, or glomeruli. Each Mal- pighian body, about of an inch in diameter, is composed of a plexus of capillary vessels, and, in addition, according to Mr. Toynbee, of a coil of an uriniferous tubule; the tuft of capillaries and the coil of the tubule both being enclosed in a thin, membranous capsule. According to Mr. Bowman, the capsule of the Malpighian body is the origin of the uriniferous tubule expanded into a globular form for the reception of the capillary tuft. The capillary vessels of the vascular tuft are arranged in loops closely packed together, and surrounded by an epithelium which is conti- nuous with a similar structure lining the inner surface of the capsule. They are derived from a small artery, which, after piercing the capsule, immediately divides in a radiated manner into several branches. From the interior of this little vascular ball a vein proceeds, smaller than the corresponding artery, and pierces the capsule close by the artery, to com- municate with the efferent vessels of other Malpighian bodies and consti- tute a venous plexus. The cones or mamillary processes of the interior of the kidney are in- vested by mucous membrane, which is continuous at their apices with the uriniferous tubuli, and is reflected from their sides so as to form around each a cup-like pouch, or calyx. The calices communicate with a com- mon cavity of larger size, situated at each extremity, and in the middle of the organ ; and these three cavities, the infundibula, constitute by their union the large membranous sac, which occupies the hilus renalis, the pelvis of the kidney. > The kidney in the embryo and foetus consists of lobules. See the ana- tomy of the foetus in the succeeding Chapter. The Ureter, (ou^ov, urine, <rtysiv, to keep,) the excretory duct of the kid- ney, is a membranous tube of about the diameter of a goose-quill, and nearly eighteen inches in length; it is continuous superiorly with the pel- vis of the kidney, and is constricted inferiorly, where it lies in an oblique direction between the muscular and mucous coats of the base of the blad- der, and opens upon its mucous surface. Lying along the posterior wall of the abdomen, it is situated behind the peritoneum, and is crossed by the spermatic vessels; in its course downwards it rests against the anterior surface of the psoas, and crosses the common iliac artery and vein, and then the external iliac vessels. Within the pelvis it crosses the umbilical artery and the vas deferens in the male, and the upper part of the vagina in the female. There are sometimes two ureters to one kidney. The ureter, the pelvis, the infundibula, and the calices are composed of two coats, an external or fibrous coat, the tunica propria; and an internal mucous coat, which is continuous with the mucous membrane of the * On the intimate Structure of the Human Kidney, &c. Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, vol. xxix., 1846.