12* 2 a ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 49T Fig. 218.* employ the term inguinal region, in reference to the vicinity of Poupart’a ligament. Position of the Viscera.— In the upper zone will be seen the liver, ex- tending across from the right to the left side ; the stomach and spleen on the left, and the pancfeas and duodenum behind. In the middle zone is the transverse portion of the colon, with the upper part of the ascending and descending colon, omentum, small intestines, mesentery, and, behind, the kidneys and supra-renal capsules In the inferior zone is the lower part of the omentum and small intestines, the csecum, ascending and de- scending colon with the sigmoid flexure, and ureters. The smooth and polished surface, which the viscera and panetes of the abdomen present, is due to the peritoneum, which should in the next place be studied PERITONEUM. The Peritoneum (rfsgirsivsiv, to extend around) is a serous membrane, and therefore a shut sac: a single exception exists in the human subject to this character, viz. in the female, where the peritoneum is perforated by the open extremities of the Fallopian tubes, and is continuous with their mucous lining. * The viscera of the abdomen in situ. 1, 1. The liaps of the abdominal parietea turned aside. 2. The liver, its left lobe. 3. Its right lobe. 4. The fundus of the gall- bladder. 5. The round ligament of the liver, issuing from the cleft of the longitudinal fissure, and passing along the parietes of the abdomen to the umbilicus. 6. Part of the broad ligament of the liver. 7. The stomach. 8. Its pyloric end. 9. The commence ment of the duodenum, a. The lower extremity of the spleen, b, b. The greater omen- tum. c, c. The small intestines, d. The caecum. e. The appendix caeci. /. The a? cending colon, g, g. The transverse colon, h. The descending colon, i. The sigmoid flexure of the colon, k. Appendices epiploicae connected with the sigmoid flexure. i hree ridges, representing the cords of the urachus and the umbilical arteries ascending o *he umbilicus m. Part of the under surface of the diaphragm.