musci.es of tiie hand. of the abductor pollicis muscle; the middle portion has been removed. 3. The flexor 235 The Flexor Ossis Metacarpi (oppo- nens pollicis) arises from the trapezium and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the abductor pollicis. By its deep surface, with the trapezio-metacarpal ar- ticulation, and with the metacarpal bone. Internally, with the llexor brevis pollicis. The llexor ossis metacarpi may now be divided from its origin and turned aside, in order to show the next muscle. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis consists of two portions, between which lies the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The external portion arises from the trapezium and annular ligament; the internal por- tion, from the trapezoides and os mag- num. They are both inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, having a sesamoid bone in each of their tendons, to protect the joint. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the external portion of the palmar fascia. By its deep surface, with the adductor pollicis, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and trapezio-metacarpal articulation. By its ex- ternal surface, with the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner surface, with the tendons of the long flexor muscles and first lumbricalis. The Adductor Pollicis is a triangular muscle ; it arises from the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger ; and the fibres converge to its insertion into the base of the first phalanx. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, ten- dons of the deep flexor of the fingers, lumbricales, and deep palmar arch. By its posterior surface with the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers, the interossei of the second interosseous space, and the abductor indicis. Its inferior border is subcutaneous. Ulnar, or Hypothenar Region. Palmaris brevis, Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Flexor ossis metacarpi (adductor). *The muscles of the hand. 1. The annular ligament. 2, 2. The origin and insertion o«sis metacarpi, or opponens pollicis. 4. One portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 5. The deep portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 6. The adductor pollicis. 7, 7. The lumbricales muscles, arising from the deep flexor tendons, upon which the numbers are placed. The tendons of the flexor sublimis have been removed from the palm of tne hand. 8. One of the tendons of the deep flexor, passing between the two terminal slips of the tendon of the flexor sublimis, to reach the last phalanx. 9. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, passing between the two portions of the flexor brevis to the last F halanx. 10. 1 he abductor minimi digiti. 11. 1 he flexor brevis minimi digiti. The edge of the flexor ossis metacarpi, or adductor minimi digiti, is seen projecting beyond the inner border of the flexor brevis. 12. The prominence of the pisiform bone. 13 I he first dorsal interosseous muscle. Fig. 126.*