549 APPENDAGES OF THE UTERUS. tfiises with the different morbid affections of the uterus. If these nerves of the uterus could not be demonstrated, its physiology and pathology would be completely inexplicable.”* APPENDAGES OF THE UTERUS. The Appendages of the uterus are enclosed by the lateral duplicatures of peritoneum, called the broad ligaments. They are the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. The Fallopian! tubes or oviducts, the uterine trumpets of the French writers, are situated in the upper border of the broad ligaments, and are connected with the superior angles of the uterus. They are somewhat trumpet-shaped, being smaller at the uterine than at the free extremity, and narrower in the middle than at either end. Each tube is about four or five inches in length, and more or less fiexuous in its course. The canal of the Fallopian tube is exceedingly minute; its inner extremity opens by means of the ostium uterinum into the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus, and the opposite end into the cavity of the peritoneum. The free or expanded extremity of the Fallopian tube presents a double and sometimes a triple series of small processes or fringes, which surround the margin of the trumpet or funnel-shaped opening, the ostium abdominale. This fringe-like appendage to the end of the tube has gained for it the appellation of the fimbriated extremity; and the remarkable manner in which this circular fringe applies itself to the surface of the ovary during sexual excitement, the additional title of morsus diaboli. A short liga- mentous cord proceeds from the fimbriated extremity to be attached to the distal end of the ovary, and serves to guide the tube in its seizure of that organ. The Fallopian tube is composed of three tunics, an external and loose investment derived from the peritoneum; a middle or muscular coat, con- sisting of circular [internal] and longitudinal [external] fibres, continuous with those of the uterus; and an internal or lining mucous membrane, which is continuous on the one hand with the mucous membrane of the uterus, and at the opposite extremity with the peritoneum. In the minute canal of the tube the mucous membrane is thrown into longitudinal folds or rugae, which indicate the adaptation of the tube for dilatation. The Ovaries are two oblong flattened and oval bodies of a whitish colour, situated in the posterior layer of peritoneum of the broad ligaments. They are connected to the upper angles of the uterus at each side by means of a rounded cord, consisting chieflv of muscular fibres derived from the uterus, the ligament of the ovary. By the opposite extremity they are connected by another and a shorter ligament to the fimbriated aperture of the Fallopian tube. In structure the ovary is composed of a cellulo-fibrous parenchyma or stroma, traversed by blood-vessels, and enclosed in a capsule consisting of three layers: a vascular layer, which is situated most internally, and sends processes inwards to the interior of the organ; a middle or fibrous layer of considerable density, and an external investment of peritoneum. * Philosophical Transactions for 1842. t Gabriel Fallopius, a nobleman of Modena, was one of the founders of modern ana- tomy. He was Professor at Ferrara, then at Pisa, and afterwards succeeded Vesalius at Padua. His principal observations are collected in a work, “ Observations Anato- micae. ’ which he published in 1501.