DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. 5 v 4l> The growth of bone in length takes place at the extremity of the dia- physis, and in bulk by fresh deposition on the surface; while the medul- lary canal is formed and increased by absorption from within. The period of ossification is different in different bones; the order of succession may be thus arranged :— Dunns' the fifth week, ossification commences in the clavicle, lower o * 7 jaw, and upper jaw. During the sixth week, in the femur, humerus, tibia, radius, and ulna. During the seventh and eighth weeks, in the fibula, frontal, occipital, sphenoid, ribs, parietal, temporal, nasal, vomer, palate, vertebrae, first three pieces of sacrum, malar, metacarpus, metatarsus, third phalanges of the hands and feet, and ilium. During the third month, in the first and second phalanges of the hands and feet, lachrymal bone, and ischium. During the fifth month, in the mastoid portion of the temporal, ethmoid, inferior turbinated, sternum, os pubis, and last two pieces of sacrum. During the sixth month, in the body and odontoid process of the axis, and in the calcaneus. During the seventh month, in the astragalus. During the tenth month, in the cuboid bone and os hyoides. During the first year, in the coracoid process of the scapula; first piece of the coccyx, inferior turbinated bone, last piece of the sternum, anterior arch of the atlas, os magnum, os unciforme, and external cuneiform bone. During the third year, in the cuneiform of the carpus, internal cuneiform of the tarsus, and patella. During the fourth year, in the middle cuneiform and scaphoid of the tarsus. During the fifth year, in the trapezium and os semilunare. During the seventh year, in the second piece of the coccyx. During the eighth year, in the scaphoid of the carpus. During the ninth year, in the os trapezoides. During the twelfth year, in the os fisiforme and third piece of the coccyx. During the eighteenth year, in the fourth piece of the coccyx. The ossicula auditus are the only bones completely ossified at birth; the vertebrae are not completed until the five-and-twentieth year. The entire osseous framework of the body constitutes the skeleton, which in the adult man is composed of two hundred and forty-six distinct bones. They may be thus arranged:— Head 8 Ossicula auditus 6 Face 14 Teeth 32 Vertebral column, including sacrum and coccyx 26 Os hyoides, sternum, and ribs 26 Upper extremities . 64 Lower extremities 62 Sesamoid bones 8 246 The skeleton is divisible into: 1. The vertebral column, or central axis. 2. The head and face, or superior development of the central axis. 3