INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 317 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The Internal Iliac artery is a short trunk, varying in length from an inch to two inches. It descends obliquely to a point opposite the upper margin of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, where it divides into an ante- r>or and a posterior trunk. Fig. 156.* Relations.—This artery rests externally on the sacral plexus and on the origin of the pyriformis muscle; posteriorly it is in relation with the in- ternal iliac vein, and anteriorly with the ureter. Branches.—The branches of the anterior trunk are the— Umbilical, Middle vesical, Middle haemorrhoidal, An»l in the female the— Ischiatic, Internal pudic. Uterine, And of the posterior trunk, the— Uio-lumbar, Obturator, Vaginal. Lateral sacral, Gluteal. The umbilical artery is the commencement of the fibrous cord into which the umbilical artery of the foetus is converted after birth. In after life, the cord remains pervious for a short distance, and constitutes the umbilical artery of the adult, from which the superior vesical artery is given off to the fundus and anterior aspect of the bladder. The cord may * The distribution and branches of the iliac arteries. 1. The aorta. 2. The left com- mon iliac artery. 3. The external iliac. 4. The epigastric artery. 5. The circumflexa ilii. 6. The internal iliac artery. 7. Its anterior trunk. 8. Its posterior trunk. 9. The umbilical artery giving off (10) the superior vesical artery. After the origin of tins branch, the umbilical artery becomes converted into a fibrous cord—the umbilical liga- ment. 11. The internal pudic artery passing behind the spine of the ischium (12) and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament. 13. The middle haemorrhoidal artery. 14. The ischiatic artery, also passing behind the anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament to escape from the pelvis. 15. Its inferior vesical branch. 16. The ilio-lumbar, the first branch of the pos- terior trunk (8) ascending to inosculate with the circumflexa ilii artery (5) and form an Rrch along the crest of the ilium. 17. The obturator artery. 18. The lateral sacral. 19. The gluteal artery escaping from the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. 20. 4he sacra media. 21. The right common iliac arteiy cur ihort. 22. The femoral artery. 27*