377 FORNIX. tremit}, and the two ends carefully dissected away. The anterior portion will be retained only by the septum lucidum, but the posterior will be found incorporated with the white layer beneath, which is the lornix. Fornix. — The fornix (arch) is a triangular lamina of white substance, broad behind, and extending into each lateral ventricle: narrow in front, where it terminates in two crura, which arch downwards to the base ot the brain. The two crura descend in a curved direction to the base ol the brain, embedded in grey substance, in the lateral walls ol the third ventricle, and lying directly behind the anterior commissure. At the base of the brain they make a sudden curve upon themselves and constitute the corpora albicantia, from which they may be traced upwards to their origin in the thalami optici. Opening transversely beneath these two crura, just as they are about to arch downwards, is the foramen of communication between the lateral and the third ventricles, the foramen of Monro; or foramen commune anterius. The choroid plexuses communicate, and the veins of the corpora striata pass through this opening. The lateral thin edges of the fornix are continuous posteriorly with the concave border of the hippocampus major at each side, and form the nar- row white band called corpus fimhriatum (posterior crus of the fornix). In the middle line the fornix is continuous with the corpus callosum, and at each side with the hippocampus major and minor. Upon the under surface of the fornix towards its posterior part, some transverse lines are seen passing between the diverging corpora limbriata: this appearance is termed the lyra (corpus psalloides), from a fancied resemblance to the strings of a harp. The fornix may now be removed by dividing it across anteriorly, and turning it backwards, at the same time separating its lateral connexions with the hippocampi. If the student examine its under sur- face, he will perceive the lyra above described. Beneath the fornix is the velum interpositum, a duplica- ture of pia mater introduced into the interior of the brain, through the transverse fissure. The velum is continuous at each side with the choroid plexus, and contains in its in- ferior layer two large veins (the vence Galeni) which re- * The mesial surface of a longitudinal section of the brain. The incisior. has been carried along the middle line; between the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and through the middle of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. 1. The inner surface of the left hemisphere. 2. The divided surface of the cerebellum, showing the arbor vitm. 3. 1 he medulla oblongata. 4. The corpus callosum curving downwards in front to ter- minate at the base of the brain, and rounded behind to become continuous with 5, the fornix. 6. One of the crura of the fornix descending to 7, one of the corpora albicantia. 8. The septum lucidum. 9. The velum interpositum, communicating with the pia mater of the convolutions through the fissure of Bichat. 10. Section of the middle commissure situated in the third ventricle. 11. Section of the anterior commissure. 12. Section o.' the posterior commissure; the commissure is somewhat above and to the left of the numeral. The interspace between 10 and 11 is the foramen commune anterius, in which the crus of the fornix (G) is situated. The interspace between 10 and 12 is tha QO * oZ Fig. 171.*