MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 207 anterior intertransversales are thin, and occupy only part of the space be- tween the transverse processes. Analogues of posterior intertransversales exist in the form of small muscular fasciculi (interobliqui) extended be tween the rudimentary posterior transverse processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae. With regard to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed, that no regularity attends their attachments. At the best, a knowledge of their exact connexions, even were it possible to retain it, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. I have therefore endea- voured to arrange a plan, by which they may be more easily recollected, by placing them in a tabular form (p. 208), that the student may see, at a single glance, the origin and insertion of each, and compare the natural grouping and similarity of attachments of the various layers. In this manner also their actions will be better comprehended, and learnt with greater facility. Actions.—The upper fibres of the trapezius draw the shoulder upwards and backwards; the middle fibres, directly backwards; and the low7er downwnrds and backwards. The lowTer fibres also act by producing ro- tation of the scapula upon the chest. If the shoulder be fixed the upper fibres will flex the spine towards the corresponding side. The latissimus dorsi is a muscle of the arm, drawing it backwards and dowmvards, and at the same time rotating it inwards; if the arm be fixed, the latissimus dorsi will draw7 the spine to that side, and, raising the low7er ribs, be an inspiratory muscle ; and if both arms be fixed, the tw'o muscles w ill draw the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or wnlking on crutches. The levator anguli scapulae lifts the upper angle of the scapula, and with it the entire shoulder, and the rhomboidei carry the scapula and shoulder up- wards and backwards. In examining the following table, the student will observe the constant recurrence of the number four in the origin and insertion of the muscles. Sometimes theybtzr occurs at the top or bottom of a region of the spine, and frequently includes a part of twro regions, and takes two from each, as in the case of the serrati. Again, he will perceive that the muscles of the upper half of the table take their origin from spinous processes, and pass outwTards to transverse, wdiereas the lowTer half arise mostly from transverse processes. To the student, t ,en, w7e commit these reflections, and leave it to the peculiar tenor of his owTn mind to make such arrange- ments as will be best retained by his memory. The serrati are respiratory muscles acting in opposition to each other, the serratus posticus superior drawing the ribs upwards, and thereby ex- panding the chest; and the inferior drawdng the low er ribs dowmvards and diminishing the cavity of the chest. The former is an inspiratorv, the latter an expiratory muscle. The splenii muscles of one side draw the vertebral column backwards and to one side, and rotate the head to- wards the corresponding shoulder. The muscles of opposite sides, acting together, will draw7 the head directly backwards. They are the natural antagonists of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The sacro-lumbalis with its accessory muscle, the longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, are known by the general term of erectores spina, which sufficiently expresses their action. They keep the spine supported in the vertical position by their broad origin from below, and by means of then