21 AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. MILLER (JAMES), F. R.S.E., Professor of Surgery in the University of Edinburgh, &c. PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. Third American, from the second and revised Edinburgh edition. Revised, with Additions, by F. W. Sargent, M. D., author of “ Minor Sur- g-orv,” Ac. In one large and very beautiful volume, of seven hundred and fifty-two pages, with two hundred and forty exquisite illustrations on This edition is far superior, both in the abundance and quality of its material, to any of the preceding. We hope it will be extensively read, and the sound principles which are herein taught treasured up for future application. The work takes rank Moth Watson's Practice of Physic; it certainly does not fall behind that great work in soundness of princi- ple or depth of reasoning and research. No physi- cian who values his reputation, or seeks the interests of his clients, can acquit, himself before his God and the world without making himself familiar with the sound and philosophical views developed in the fore- going book.—New Orleans Med. and Surg. Journal. Without doubt the ablest exposition of the prin- ciples of that branch of the healing art in any lan- wood. gunge. This opinion, deliberately formed after a careful study of the first edition, we have had no cause to change on examining the second. This edition has undergone thorough revision by the au- thor; many expressions have been modified, and a mass of new matter introduced. The book is got up iu the finest style, and is an evidence of the progress of typography in our country.—Charleston Medical Journal and Review. We recommend it to both student and practitioner, feeling assured that as it now comes to us, it pre- sents the most satisfactory exposition of the modern doctrines of the principles of surgery to be found in any volume in any language.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. by the same author. (Noiv Ready.) THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Third American from the second Edin- burgh edition. Edited, with Additions, by F. W. Sargent, M. D , one of the Surgeons to Will’s Hospital, Ac. Illustrated by three hundred and nineteen engravings on wood. In one large octavo volume, of over seven hundred pages. No encomium of ours could add to the popularity of Miller’s Surgery. Its reputation in this country is unsurpassed by that of any other work, and, when taken in connection with the author’s Principles of Surgery, constitutes a whole, without reference to which no conscientious surgeon would be willing to practice his art The additions, by Dr. Sargent, liave materially enhanced the value of the work.— Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. It is seldom that two volumes have ever made so profound an impression in so short a time as the “ Principles” and the “ Practice” of Surgery by Mr. Miller—or so richly merited the reputation they have acquired. The author is an eminently sensi- ble, practical, and well-informed man, who knows exactly what lie is talking about and exactly how to talk it.—Kentucky Medical Recorder. The two volumes together form a complete expose of the present state of Surgery, and they ought to be on the shelves of every surgeon.—N. J. Med. Re- porter. By the almost unanimous voice of the profession, his works, both on the principles and practice of surgery have been assigned the highest rank. If we were limited to but one work on surgery, that one should be Miller’s, us we regard it, superior to all others.—St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal. The author distinguished alike as a practitioner and writer, has in this and his “ Principles,” pre- sented to the profession one of the most complete and reliable systems of Surgery extant. His style of writing is original, impressive, and engaging, ener- getic, concise, and lucid. Few have the faculty of condensing so much in small space, and at the same time so persistently holding the attention; indeed, he appears to make the very process of condensation a means of eliminating attractions. Whether as a text-book for students or a book of reference for practitioners, it cannot be too strongly recommend- ed—Southern Journal of the Medical and Physical Sciences. MALGAIGNE (J. F.). OPERATIVE SURGERY, based on Normal and Pathological Anatomy. Trans- lated from the French, by Frederick Brittan, A. B., M. D. With numerous illustrations on wood. In one handsome octavo volume, of nearly six hundred pages. We unhesitatingly pronounce it the very best profession in any language.—Charleston Med. and guide in surgical operations that has come before the Surg. Journal. MO H R (FRANCIS), PH. D., AND REDWOOD (T H EO P H 1 L U S). PRACTICAL PHARMACY. Comprising the Arrangements, Apparatus, and Manipulations of the Pharmaceutical Shop and Laboratory. Edited, with extensive Additions, by Prof. William Procter, of the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. In one handsomely printed octavo volume, of 570 pages, with over 500 engravings on wood. It is a book, however, which will be in the hands of almost everyone who is much interested in phar- maceutical operations, as we know of no other pub- lication so well calculated to fill a void long felt.— Medical Examiner. The book is strictly practical, and describes only manipulations or methods of performing the nume- rous processes the pharmaceutist has to go through, in the preparation and manufacture of medicines, together with all the apparatus and fixtures neces- sary thereto. On these matters, this work is very full and complete, and details, in a style uncom- monly clear and lucid, not only the more compli- cated and difficult processes, but those not less im- portant ones, the most simple and common.—B uffalo Medical Journal. The country practitioner who is obliged to dis- pense his own medicines, will find it a most valuable assistant.—Monthly Journal and Retrospect. MACKENSIE (W.), M.D., Surgeon Oculist in Scotland in ordinary to Her Majesty, Sec. &c. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE EYE. To which is prefixed an Anatomical Introduction explanatory of a Horizontal Section of the Human Eyeball. Bv Thomas Wharton Jones, F. R. S. From the Fourth Revised and Enlarged London Edition. With Notes and Additions by Addinell IIewson, M. D., Physician to Wills Hospital. &c. &c. In one very large and handsome octavo volume, with plates and numerous wood-cuts. {Preparing.) J he reputation which this work has universally attained will be enhanced by the present edition. Besides the thorough revision by the aulhor which it has enjoyed in recently passing through the press in London, the additions by the editor will embrace whatever is necessary to adapt it com- pletely to the wants of the American practitioner, constituting it a library of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery.