83 TABLE OF DEVELOPMENTS, ARTICULATIONS, ETC. buccinator, and masseter; by the internal surface, also commencing at the symphysis, the genio-hyo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, mylo-hyoideus, digas- tricus, superior constrictor, temporal, external pterygoid, and internaJ pterygoid. rable showing the Points of Development, Articulations, and Attachment of Muscles, of the Bones of the Head. Development. Occipital . , 7 Parietal .... 1 Frontal .... 2 Temporal . . . 5 Sphenoid 12 Ethmoid 3 Nasal .... 1 Superior maxillary 4 Lachrymal . 1 Malar .... 1 Palate .... 1 Inferior turbinated 1 f Vomer .... 1 Lower jaw . . . 2 Articulations. Attachment of Muscles. 6 • • 13 pairs. 5 • • 1 muscle. 12 • • 2 pairs. 5 • • 14 muscles. 12 • • 12 pairs. 13 • • none. 4 • • none. 9 • • 9 muscles. 4 • • 1 ib. 4 • • 5 ib. 6 • • 4 ib. 4 • • none. 6 • • none. o • • 14 pairs. SUTURES. The bones of the cranium and face are connected with each other by means of sutures (sutura, a seam), of which there are four principal varie- ties—serrated, squamous, harmonia, and schindylesis. The serrated suture is formed by the union of two borders possessing serrated edges, as in the coronal, sagittal, and lambdoid sutures. In these sutures the serrations are formed almost wholly by the external table, the edges of the internal table lying merely in apposition. The squamous suture (squama, a scale) is formed by the overlapping of the bevelled edges of two contiguous bones, as in the articulation between the temporal and the lower border of the parietal. In this suture the ap- proximated surfaces are roughened, so as to adhere mechanically with each other. The harmonia suture (a^sfv, to adapt) is the simple apposition of conti- guous surfaces, the surfaces being more or less rough and retentive. This suture is seen in the connection between the superior maxillary bones, or of the palate processes of the palate bones with each other. The schindylesis suture (<r^»v(5uXr)a,ic:, a fissure) is the reception of one bone into a sheath or fissure of another, as occurs in the articulation of the ros- trum of the sphenoid with the vomer, or of the latter with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, and with the crista nasalis of the superior maxil- lary and palate bones. The serrated suture is formed by the interlocking of the radiating fibres along the edges of the flat bones of the cranium during growth. When this process is retarded in the infant by over-distension of the head, as in hydrocephalus, and sometimes without any such apparent cause, distinct ossific centres are developed in the interval between the edges; and, being surrounded by the suture, from independent pieces, which are called ossa