278 AORTA. the branches of that trunk with their subdivisions, which together consti- tute the efferent portion of the systemic circulation; and then the pul- monary artery as the efferent trunk of the pulmonary circulation. Fig. 145.* AORTA. The aorta arises from the left ventricle, at the middle of the root of the heart, and opposite the articulation of the fourth costal cartilage with the sternum. At its commencement it presents three dilatations, called the sinus aortici, which correspond with the three semilunar valves. It as- cends at first to the right, then curves backwards and to the left, and de- scends on the left side of the vertebral column to the fourth lumbar verte- bra. Hence it is divided into—ascending—arch—and descending aorta. * The large vessels which proceed from the root of the heart, with their relations ; the heart has been removed. 1. The ascending aorta. 2. The arch. 3. The thoracic portion of the descending aorta. 4. The arteria innominata, dividing into, 5, the right carotid, which again divides at 6, into the external and internal carotid ; and 7, the right subclavian artery. 8. The axillary artery; its extent is designated by a dotted line. 9. The brachial artery. 10. The right pneumogastric nerve running by the side of the common carotid, in front of the light subclavian artery, and behind the root of the right lung. 11. The left common carotid, having to its outer side the left pneumo- gastric nerve, which crosses the arch of the aorta, and as it reaches its lower border is seen to give off the left recurrent nerve. 12.‘The left subclavian artery becoming axil- lary and brachial in its course, like the artery of the opposite side. 13. The trunk of the pulmonary artery connected to the concavity of the arch of the aorta by a fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus arteriosus. 14. The left pulmonary artery. 15. The right pulmonary artery. 16. The trachea. 17. The right bronchus. 18. The left bronchus. 19, 19. The pulmonary veins. 17, 15, and 19, on the right side, and 14, 18, and 19, on the left, constitute the roots of the corresponding lungs, and the relative posi- tion of these vessels is preserved. 20. Bronchial arteries. 21, 21. Intercostal arteries; the branches from the front of the aorta above and below the number 3 are pericardiac and oesophageal branches.