TRANSVERSUS PERINEI. 991 mg it as in a sling, as described by Mr. Wilson, but merely an upper origin of the transverse muscle. Fig. 119* The compressor urethrae may be considered either as two symmetrica muscles meeting at the raphe, or as a single muscle: I have adopted the latter course in the above description, as appearing to me the more con- sistent with the general connexions of the muscle, and with its actions. The Transversus Perinei arises from the tuberosity of the ischium on each side, and is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perineum, f Relations.—By its superficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, and superficial perineal artery. By its deep surface with the deep perineal fascia, and internal pudic artery and veins. By its posterior border it is in relation with that portion of the superficial perineal fascia which passes back to become continuous with the deep fascia. To dissect the compressor urethrce, the whole of the preceding muscles should be removed, so as to render the glistening surface of the deep peri- neal fascia quite apparent. The anterior layer of the fascia should then be carefully dissected away, and the corpus spongiosum penis divided through its middle, separated from the corpus cavernosum, and drawn forwards, to put the membranous portion of the urethra, upon which the muscle is spread out, on the stretch. The muscle is, however, better seen in a dissection made from within the pelvis, after having turned * The muscles of the perineum. 1. The acceleratores urime muscles; the figure rests upon the corpus spongiosum penis. 2. The corpus cavernosum of one side. 3. The erector penis of one side. 4. The transversus perinei of one side. 5. The triangular space through which the deep perineal fascia is seen. 6. The sphincter ani; its ante- rior extremity is cut oft'. 7. The levator ani of the left side ; the deep space between the tuberosity of the ischium (8) and the anus, is the ischio-rectal fossa; the same fossa is seen upon the opposite side. 9. The spine of the ischium. 10. The left coccygeu* muscle. The boundaries of the perineum are well seen in this engraving. f I have twice dissected a perineum in which the transversus perinei was of large size, and spread out as it approached the middle line, so as to become fan-shaped. The posterior fibres were continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side ; but the anterior were prolonged forwards upon the bulb and corpus spongiosum of the urethra, as far as the middle of the penis, forming a broad layer which usurped the place ar.d office of the accelerator urinae. 19*