external occipital protuberance. 3. The spine. 4. The inferior curved line. 5. The OCCIPITAL BONE. 59 Occipital Bonf..—This bone is situated at the posterior part and base of the cranium. It is trapezoid in figure, and divisible into two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. External Surface.—Crossing the middle of the bone transversely, from one lateral angle to the other, is a prominent ridge, the superior curved line. In the middle of the ridge is a projection, called the external occipital ance; and descending from it a rtical ridge, the spine. Above and below the superior curved line the surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles. About three-quarters of an inch below this line is another trans- verse ridge, the inferior curved line, and beneath the latter the foramen mag- num. On each side of the foramen magnum, nearer to its anterior than its posterior segment, and encroaching somewhat upon the opening, is an ob- long articular surface, the condyle, for articulation with the atlas. The con- dyles approach towards each other an- teriorly, and their articular surfaces look downwards and outwards. Directly behind each condyle is an irregular fossa, and a small opening, the posterior condyloid foramen, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the condyle is the anterior condyloid foramen, for the hypoglossal nerve; and on the outer side of each condyle a projecting ridge, the transverse process, excavated in front by a notch which forms part of the jugular foramen. In front of the foramen magnum is a thick square mass, the basilar process, and in the centre of the basilar process a small tubercle for the attachment of the superior and middle constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Internal Surface. — Upon the internal surface is a crucial ridge, which divides the bone into four fossre; the two superior or cerebral fossse lodging the posterior lobes of the cerebrum ; and the two inferior or cerebellar, the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The superior arm of the crucial ridge is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri; the inferior arm is sharp and prominent, for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and slightly grooved for the two occipital sinuses. The transverse ridge gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and is deeply grooved for the lateral sinuses. At the point of meeting of the four arms is a projection, the internal occipital protuberance, which corre sponds with the similar process situated upon the external surface of the bone. The convergence of the four grooves forms a slightly depressed fossa, upon which rests the torcular Herophili. In the centre of the * The external surface of the occipital bone. 1. The superior curved line. 2. The foramen magnum. 6. The condyle of the right side. 7. The posterior condyloid fossa, in which the posterior condyloid foramen is found. 8. The anterior condyloid foramen, concealed by the margin of the condyle. 9. The transverse process; this process upon the internal surface of the bone forms the jugular eminence. 10. The notch in front oe the jugular eminence which forms part of the jugular foramen. 11. The basilar process 12. 12. The rough projections into which the odontoid ligaments are inserted. protuber small ve: Fig. 22 *