421 SECOND INTERCOSTO-HUMERAL NERVE. the intercostal space with the intercostal vessels, lying below the veins ana artery, and supplying the intercostal muscles in their course. At the termi- nation of the intercostal spaces near the sternum, the nerves pierce the in- tercostal and pectoral muscles, and incline downwards and outwards to be distributed to the integument of the mamma and front of the chest, lhose which are situated between the false ribs pass behind the costal cartilages, and between the transversalis and obliquus internus muscles, and supply the rectus and the integument on the front of the abdomen. rIhe first and last dorsal nerves are exceptions to this distribution. The anterior branch of the first dorsal nerve divides into two branches; a smaller, which takes its course along the under surface of the first rib to the sternal extremity of the first intercostal space; and a larger, which crosses obliquely the neck of the first rib to join the brachial plexus. The last dorsal nerve, next in size to the first, sends a branch of communication to the first lumbar nerve, to assist in forming the lumbar plexus. The Branches of each intercostal nerve are, a muscular twig to i\ie in- tercostal and neighbouring muscles, and a cutaneous branch which is given off at about the middle of the arch of the rib. The first intercostal nerve has no cutaneous branch. The cutaneous branches of the second and third intercostal nerves are named, from their origin and distribution, in- ter costo-humeral. The First Intercosto-humeral Nerve is of large size; it pierces the external intercostal muscle of the second intercostal space, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is distri- buted to the integument of the inner side of the arm. The external branch communicates with the nerve of Wrisberg, and divides into filaments which supply the integument upon the inner and posterior aspect of the arm as far as the elbow. This nerve sometimes takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg. The Second Intercosto-humeral Nerve is much smaller than the preceding; it emerges from the external intercostal muscle of the third intercostal space between the serrations of the serratus rnagnus muscle, and divides into filaments which are distributed to the integument of the shoulder. One of these filaments may be traced inwards to the integu- ment of the mamma. The two intercosto-humeral nerves not unfrequently communicate previously to their distribution. The cutaneous branches of the fourth and fifth intercostal nerve send anterior twigs to the integument of the mammary gland and posterior fila- ments to the scapular region of the back. The cutaneous branches of the remaining intercostal nerves reach the surface between the serrations of the serratus rnagnus muscle above and the external oblique below, and each nerve divides into an anterior and a posterior branch; the former being distributed to the integument of the antero-lateral, and the latter to that of the lateral part of the trunk. The cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is remarkable for its size (n. clunium superior anticus) ; it pierces the internal and external oblique muscles, crosses the anterior part of the crest of the ilium, and is distri- buted to the integument of the gluteal region as low down as the trochante1' major. 36