URINARY BLADDER. 533 to its summit, whence it is guided to the anterior wall of the abdomen by the umbilical ligaments and urachus. The muscular coat consists of two Fig. 234 * layers, an external layer composed of longitudinal fibres, the detrusor urinae; and an internal layer of oblique and transverse fibres irregularly distributed. The anterior longitudinal fibres commence by four tendons (the tendons of the bladder or of the detrusor urinae), two superior from the ossa pubis, and twro inferior from the rami of the ischia, and spread out as they ascend upon the anterior surface of the bladder to its fundus; they then converge upon the posterior surface of the organ, and descend to its neck, where they are inserted into the isthmus of the prostate gland, and into a ring of muscular tissue, which surrounds the commencement of the prostatic portion of the urethra. Some of the anterior fibres are also attached to this ring. The lateral fibres commence at the prostate gland and the muscular ring of the urethra on one side, and spread out as they ascend upon the side of the bladder to descend upon the opposite side, and be inserted into the prostate and opposite segment of the same ring. Two bands of oblique fibres are described by Sir Charles Bell, as * A side view of the viscera of the male pelvis, in situ. The right side of the pelvis has been removed by a vertical section made through the os pubis near the symphysis; and another through the middle of the sacrum. 1. The divided surface of the os pubis. 2. The divided surface of the sacrum. 3. The body of the bladder. 4. Its fundus; from the apex is seen passing upwards the urachus. 5. The base of the bladder. 6. The ureter. 7. The neck of the bladder. 8, 8. The pelvic fascia; the fibres immediately above 7 are given off from the pelvic fascia, and represent the anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. The prostate gland. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. 11. The deep perineal fascia formed of two layers. 12. One of Cowper's glands between the two layers of deep perineal fascia, and beneath the membranous portion of the urethra. 13. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum. 14. The body of the corpus spongiosum. 15. The right crus penis. 16. The upper part of the first portion of the rectum. 17. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 18. The second portion of the rectum. 19. The right vesieula seminalis. 20. The vas deferens pi* ^l*e covered by the descending layer of the pelvic fascia, just as it is making ;T' bend backwards to constitute the third portion. 22. A part of the levator ani muscle investing the lower part of the rectum. 23. The external sphincter ani. 24. The in- ter', al between the deep and superficial perineal fascia: they are seen to be continuous beneath the number. 45*