seen ramifying. 12. The omo-hyoid crossing the common carotid artery (13), and in ^08 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. Spinal Accessory Nerve.—The spinal accessory nerve arises by several filaments from the side of the spinal cord as low down as the fourth or fifth cervical nerve, and ascends behind the ligamentum denticulatum, and between the anterior and poste- rior roots of the spinal nerves, to the foramen lacerum posterius. It com- municates in its course with the pos- terior root of the first cervical nerve, and entering the foramen lacerum becomes applied against the poste- rior aspect of the ganglion jugulare of the pneumogastric, being con- tained in the same sheath of dura mater. In the jugular fossa it di- vides into two branches ; the smaller joins the pneumogastric immediately below the jugular ganglion, and con- tributes to the formation of the pha- ryngeal nerve; the larger or true continuation of the nerve passes backwards behind the internal jugu- lar vein, and descends obliquely to the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It pierces the sterno-mastoid, and then passes obliquely across the neck, communicating with the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves, and is distributed to the trapezius. The spinal accessory sends numerous twigs to the sterno-mastoid in its passage through that muscle, and in the trapezius the nervous filaments may be traced downwards to its lower border. The pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves together (nervus vagus cum accessorio) resemble a spinal nerve, of which the former with its ganglion is the posterior and sensitive root, the latter the anterior and motor root. Ninth Pair.-)- Hypoglossal Nerve (lingual). The hypoglossal nerve arises from the groove between the corpus pyramidale and corpus olivare * The anatomy of the side of the neck, showing the nerves of the tongue. 1. A frag- ment of the temporal bone containing the meatus auditorius externus, mastoid, and sty- loid process. 2. The stylo-hyoid muscle. 3. The stylo-glossus. 4. The stylo-pharyn- geus. 5. The tongue. 6. The hyo-glossus muscle ; its two portions. 7. The genio-hyo- glossus muscle. 8. The genio-hyoideus ; they both arise from the inner surface of the symphysis of the lower jaw. 9. The sterno-hyoid muscle. 10. The sterno-thyroid. 11. The thyro-hyoid, upon which the thyro-hyoidean branch of the hypoglossal nerve is ‘.ernal jugular vein (14). 15. The external carotid giving off its branches. 16. The internal carotid. 18. The gustatory nerve giving off a branch to the submaxillary gan glion (18), and communicating a little further on with the hypoglossal nerve. 19. The submaxillary, or Wharton’s duct, passing forwards to the sublingual gland. 20. The giosso-pharyngeal nerve, passing in behind the hyo-glossus muscle. 21. The hypoglos- sal nerve curving around the occipital artery. 22. The descendens noni nerve, form- ing a loop with (23) the communicans noni, which is seen to be arising by fila- ments from the upper cervical nerves. 24. The pneumogastric nerve, emerging from between the internal jugular vein and common carotid artery, and entering the chest. 25. The facial nerve, emerging from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and crossing the exter- nal carotid artery. t The twelfth pair according to the arrangement of Soemmering. Fig. 184.»