29G VERTEBRAL AND BASILAR ARTERIES. Branches.—The greater part of the branches of the subclavian are given off from the artery before it arrives at the margin of the first rib. The profunda cervicis and superior intercostal frequently encroach upon the second portion, and not unfrequently a branch or branches may be found proceeding from the third portion. The primary branches are five in number, the first three being ascend- ing, and the remaining two descending: they are the— Vertebral, Thyroid axis, Profunda cervicis, Superior intercostal, Internal mammary. ’ Inferior thyroid, Supra-scapular, Posterior scapular, ^ Superficial cervicis. Fig. 148.* The Vertebral artery is the first and the largest of the branches of the subclavian artery; it ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, ex- cepting the last; then winds backwards around the articulating process of the atlas ; and, piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The two arte- ries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. In the foramina of the transverse processes of the vertebrae the artery lies in front of the cer- vical nerves. Dr. John Davyf has observed that, when the vertebral arteries differ in size, the left is generally the larger: thus in ninety-eight cases he found the left vertebral the larger twenty-six times, and the right only eight. In the same number of cases he found a small band stretching across the cylinder of the basilar artery, near the junction of the two vertebral arteries, seventeen times, and in a few instances a small communicating trunk between the two vertebral arteries previously to their union. I have several times seen this communicating branch, and have a preparation now before me in which it is exhibited. The Basilar artery, so named from its position at the base of the brain, runs forwards to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, where it divides into four ultimate branches, two to either side. Branches. — The branches of the vertebral and basilar arteries are the following:— * The branches of the right subclavian artery. 1. The arteria innominata. 2. The right carotid. 3. The first portion of the subclavian artery. 4. The second portion 5. The third portion. 6. The vertebral artery. 7. The inferior thyroid. 8. The thyroid axis. 9. The superficialis cervicis. 10. The profunda cervicis. 11. The posterior scapular or transversalis colli. 12. The supra-scapular. 13. The internal mammary arteiy. 14. The superior intercostal. -f Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1839.