PELVIS. 117 commences in the primitive pieces, immediately after that in the vertebrae, firstly in the ilium, then in the ischium, and lastly in the pubes; the first ossihc deposits being situated near to the future acetabulum. At birth the acetabulum, the crest of the ilium, and the ramus of the pubes and ischium, are cartilaginous. The secondary centres appear at puberty, and the en- tire bone is not completed until the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With three bones; sacrum, opposite innominatum, and femur. Attachments of Muscles and Ligaments.—To thirty-five muscles; to the ilium, thirteen; by the outer lip of the crest, to the obliquus externus for two-thirds, and to the latissimus dorsi for one-third its length, and to the tensor vaginae femoris by its anterior fourth ; by the middle crest, to the internal oblique for three-fourths its length, by the remaining fourth to the erector spinte; by the internal lip, to the transversalis for three-fourths, and to the quadratus lumborum by the posterior part of its middle third. By the external surface, to the gluteus medius, minimus and maximus, and to one head of the rectus ; by the internal surface, to the iliacus ; and by the anterior border to the sartorius, and the other head of the rectus. To the ischium, sixteen ; by its external surface, the adductor magnus and obturator externus; by the. internal surface, the obturator internus and levator ani; by the spine, the gemellus superior, levator ani, coccygeus, and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament; by the tuberosity, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, erec- tor penis, transversus perinei, and great sacro-ischiatic ligament; and by the ramus, the gracilis, accelerator urinse, and compressor urethrae. To the os pubis, fifteen; by its upper border, the obliquus externus, obliquus internus, transversalis, rectus, pyramidalis, pectineus, and psoas parvus; by its external surface, the adductor longus, adductor brevis, and gracilis ; by its internal surface, the levator ani, compressor urethrae, and obturator internus; and by the ramus, the adductor magnus, and accelerator urinae. The pelvis considered as a whole is divisible into a false and true pelvis; the former is the expanded portion, bounded on each side by the ossa ilii, and separated from the true pelvis by the linea ilio-pec- tinea. The true pelvis is all that portion which is situated beneath the linea ilio-pectinea. This line forms the margin or brim of the true pelvis, while the included area is called the inlet. The form of the inlet is heart-shaped, ob- tusely pointed in front at PELVIS. Fig. 56* * A female pelvis, t. The last lumbar vertebras. 2, 2. The intervertebral substance connecting the last ivmbar vertebra with the fourth and sacrum. 3. The promontory