FIBULA. J23 Fig. 60.* downwards beyond the articular surface of the tibia, forming the externa» malleolus. Its external side presents a rough and triangular surface, which is subcutaneous. Upon the internal surface is a smooth triangular facet, to articulate with the astragalus; and a rough depression, for the attach- ment of the interosseous ligament. The anterior border is thin and sharp ; and the posterior, broad and grooved, for the tendons of the peronei muscles. To place the bone in its proper position, and ascertain to which leg it belongs, let the inferior or flattened ex- tremity be directed downwards, and the narrow border of the malleolus forwards; the triangular subcutaneous surface will then point to the side corresponding with the limb of which the bone should form a part. The shaft of the fibula is prismoid, and presents three surfaces; external, internal, and posterior; and three borders. The external surface is the broadest of the three; it commences upon the anterior part of the bone above, and curves around it so as to terminate upon its posterior side below. This surface is completely occu- pied by the two peronei muscles. The internal surface commences on the side of the superior articular surface, and terminates below, by narrowing to a ridge, which is continuous with the anterior border of the malleolus. It is marked along its middle by the interosseous ridge, which is lost above and below in the inner border of the bone. The postenor surface is twisted like the external; it commences above on the posterior side of the bone, and terminates belowT on its internal side; at about the middle of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed downwards. The internal border commences superiorly in common with the interosseous ridge, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lines, which bound the triangular subcutaneous surface of the external malleolus. The external border begins at the base of the styloid process upon the head of the fibula, and winds around the bone, following the di- rection of the corresponding surface. The posterior border is sharp and prominent, and is lost inferiorly in the interosseous ridge. Development. —By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after its appearance in the tibia; at birth the extremities are cartilaginous, an ossific deposit * The tibia and fibula of the right leg articulated and seen from behind. 1. The ar- ticular depression for the external condyle of the femur. 2. The articular depression for the internal condyLe ; the prominence between the two numbers is the spinous pro- cess. 3. The fossa and groove for the insertion of the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. 4. The popliteal plane, for the support of the popliteus museje. o. The po- pliteal line. 6. The nutritious foramen. 7. The surface of the shaft upon which the flexor longus digitorum muscle rests. 8. The broad groove on the back part of the innei malleolus, for the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus. 9. The groove for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 10. The shaft of the fibula. The flexor longus pollicis muscle lies upon this surface of the bone ; its superior limit being marked by the oblique line immediately above the number. 11. The styloid processor! the head of the fibula for the attachment of the tendon of the biceps muscle. 12. The subcutaneous surface of the lower part of the shaft of the fibula. 13. The external malleolus formed by the lower extremity of the fibula. 14. The groove upon the pos- terior part of the external malleolus for the tendons of the peronei muscles.