398 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. crista galli into the nose, where it divides into two branches—an internal branch supplying the mucous membrane, near the anterior openings of the nares; and an external branch which passes between the fibro-cartilages, and is distributed to the integument at the extremity of the nose. The Branches of the nasal nerve within the orbit are, the ganglionic, ciliary, and infra-trochlear; in the nose it gives off one or twTo filaments to the anterior ethmoidal cells and frontal sinus. The ganglionic branch passes obliquely forwards to the superior angle of the ciliary ganglion, forming its superior long root. The ciliary branches are tw’o or three fila- ments which are given off by the nasal as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass between that tunic and the choroid to be distributed to the iris. The infra-trochlear is given off just as the nerve is about to enter the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It passes along the superior border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the eye, where it communicates with the supra-trochlear nerve, and supplies the lachrymal sac, caruncula lachrymalis, conjunctiva, and inner angle of the orbit. The Superior Maxillary Nerve, larger than the preceding, proceeds from the middle of the Casserian ganglion ; it passes forwards through the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the canal in the floor of the orbit, along w7hich it runs to the infra-orbital fora- men. Emerging on the face, beneath the levator labii superioris muscle, it divides into a number of branches, which are distributed to the lower eyelid and conjunctiva, and to the muscles and integument of the upper lip, nose, and cheek, forming a plexus with the facial nerve. The Branches of the superior maxillary nerve are divisible into three groups: — 1. Those which are given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa. 2. Those in the infra-orbital canal; and 3. Those on the face. They may be thus arranged: Spheno-maxillary fossa, Infra -orbital canaly C Orbital, < Two from Meckel’s ganglion, ( Posterior dental. ( Middle dental, ^ Anterior dental. On the face, ( Muscular, £ Cutaneous. The Orbital branch (n. subcutaneus malae) enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches, temporal and malar; the temporal branch ascends along the outer wrall of the orbit, and, after receiving a branch from the lachrymal nerve, passes through a canal Inferior maxillary. 9. Frontal branch, dividing into external and internal frontal at 14. 10. Lachrymal branch, dividing before entering the lachrymal gland. 11. Nasal branch, fust under the figure is the long root of the lenticular or ciliary ganglion, and a few of the ciliary nerves. 12. Internal nasal, disappearing through the anterior ethmoidal fora- men. 13. External nasal. 14. External and internal frontal. 15. Infra-orbitary nerve. Ifi. Posterior dental branches. 17. Middle dental branch. 18. Anterior dental nerve. ? 0. Terminating branches of infra-orbital, called labial and palpebral. 20. Subcutaneus malae or orbitar branch. 21. Pterygoid or recurrent, from Meckel’s ganglion. 22. Five anterior branches of 3d of 5th, being nerves of motion, and called masseter. temporal, pterygoid and buccal. 23. Lingual branch joined at an acute angle by the chorda tym- oani. 24. Inferior dental nerve terminating in, 25. Mental branches. 2G. Superficial tnnporal nerve. 27. Auricular branches. 28. Mylo-hyoid branch.