241 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of tfte extensor tendon of the same linger. The first belongs to the index finger; the second to the ring linger; and the third to the little finger; the middle finger being ex- cluded. Relations.—By their palmar surface with the flexor tendons and with the deep muscles in the palm of the hand. By their dorsal surface with the dorsal interossei. On one side with the metacarpal bone, on the other with the corresponding dorsal interosseous. Dorsal Interossei.—On turning to the dorsum of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are seen in the four spaces between the ^metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles and arise by two heads, from the adjoining sides of the base of the metacarpal bones. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges, and aponeurosis of the extensor tendons. The first is inserted into the index finger, and from its use is called abductor indicis,:J the second and third are inserted into the middle finger compensating its exclusion from the palmar group ; the fourth is attached to the ring finger; so that each finger is provided with two interossei, with the exception of the little finger, as may be shown by means of a table, thus:— r i r ( one dorsal (abductor mdicis). Index finger, < n v n J b J ( one palmar. Middle finger, two dorsal. n. n ( one palmar, Ring finger, < K , ’ oj & > ^ one dorsal. Little finger, remaining palmar. Relations.—By their dorsal surface with a thin aponeurosis which sepa ates them from the tendons on the dorsum of the hand. By their palmar * Palmar interossei. 1. Adductor indicis. 2. Abductor annularis. 3. Interosseous auricularis. t Dorsal interossei. 1. Abductor indicis. 2. Abductor medii. 3. Adductor medii. 4. Adductor annularis. t Horner divides this muscle and calls one portion of it abductor indicis and the other prior indicis. Wilson’s description is the best, as it makes the analogy between the foot and hand complete, whilst there is a great discrepancy in Horner’s mode of describing them.—G. 21 Q