490 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. connexion with the chordae vocales, act upon the whole length of those cords. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus laryngis and the sac itself: by its attachment to the epiglottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the opening of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn upwards and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the aryteno-epiglottideus, the “functions appear to be,” writes Mr. Hilton, “ to compress the subjacent glands which open into the pouch; to diminish the capacity of that cavity, and change its form; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage.” Mucous Membrane.—The aperture of the larynx is a triangular or cord- iform opening, broad in front and narrow behind; bounded anteriorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the arytenoideus muscle, and on either side by a fold of mucous membrane stretched between the side of the epi- glottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. On the margin of this aryteno-epiglottidean fold the cuneiform cartilage forms a prominence more or less distinct. The cavity of the larynx is divided into two parts by an oblong constriction produced by the prominence of the chordae vocales. That portion of the cavity which lies above the constriction is broad and triangular above, and narrow below; that which is below7 it, is narrow above and broad and cylindrical below7, the circumference of the cylinder corresponding with the ring of the cricoid ; while the space included by the constriction is a narrow, triangular fissure, the glottis or rima glottidis. The form of the glottis is that of an isosceles triangle, bounded on the sides by the chordae vocales and inner surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and behind by the arytenoideus muscle. Its length is greater in the male than in the female, and in the former measures somewhat less than an inch. Immediately above the prominence caused by the chorda vocalis, and ex- tending nearly its entire length on each side of the cavity of the larynx, is an ellipt ical fossa, the ventricle of the larynx. This fossa is bounded be- low7 by the chorda vocalis, which it serves to isolate, and above by a. border of mucous membrane folded upon the lower edge of the superior thyro- arytenoid ligament. The whole of the cavity of the larynx, with its pro- minences and depressions, is lined by mucous membrane, which is con- tinuous superiorly with that of the mouth and pharynx, and inferiorly is prolonged through the trachea and bronchial tubes into the lungs. In the ventricles of the larynx the mucous membrane forms a caecal pouch of va- riable size, termed by Mr. Hilton the sacculus laryngis.* The sacculus * This sac was described by Mr. Hilton before he was aware that it had already been pointed out by the older anatomists. I myself made a dissection, which I still possess, of the same sac in an enlarged state, during the month of August, 1837, without any knowledge either of Mr. Hilton’s labours or Morgagni's account. The sac projected considerably above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremity had been snipped off on one side in the removal of the muscles. The larynx was presented to me by Dr. George Moore of Camberwell ; he had obtained it from a child who died of bronchial disease; and he conceived that this peculiar disposition of the mucous membrane might possibly explain some of the symptoms by which the case was ac- companied. Cruveillder made the same observation in equal ignorance of Morgagni's description, for we read in a note at page 677, vol. ii. of his Anatomxe Descriptive,—“J'ai vu pour la premiere fois cette arridre cavite chez un individu effecte de phthisie laryngee, on elIe ebait tr6s-deve>oppee. Je fi^ des recherches sur le larynx d'autres individus, et je trouvai que cette disposition etait constante. Je ne savais pas alors que Morgagni