192 MUSCLES OF T1IE PHARYNX. The Styl o-glossus arises from the apex of the styloid process, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament; it divides upon the side of the tongue into two portions, one transverse, which passes transversely inwards be- tween the two portions of the hyo-glossus, and is lost among the transverse fibres of the substance of the tongue, and another longitudinal, which spreads out upon the side of the tongue as far as its tip. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, the gustatory nerve, the parotid gland, sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the tongue. By its internal surface with the tonsil, the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus muscle. The Palato-glossus passes between the soft palate, and the side of the base of the tongue, forming a projection of the mucous membrane, which is called the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Its fibres are lost superiorly among the muscular fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, and inferiorly among the fibres of the stylo-glossus upon the side of the tongue. This muscle with its fellow constitutes the constrictor isthmi faucium. Actions.—The genio-hyo-glossus muscle effects several movements of the tongue, as might be expected from its extent. When the tongue is steadied and pointed by the other muscles, the posterior fibres of the genio- hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its original position. The whole length of the muscle acting upon the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered con- vex from before backwards by the linguales. The hyo-glossi, by drawing down the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato-glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo-glossi. Thus the whole of the complicated move- ments of the tongue may be explained, by reasoning upon the direction of the fibres of the muscles, and their probable actions. The palato-glossi muscles, assisted by the uvula, have the power of closing the fauces com pletely, an action which takes place in deglutition. Fifth Group.—Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, * * Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. Dissection.—To dissect the pharynx, the trachea and oesophagus are to oe cut through at the lower part of the neck, and drawn upwards by di- viding the loose cellular tissue which connects the pharynx to the vertebral column. The saw is then to be applied behind the styloid processes, and the base of the skull sawn through. The vessels and loose structure should be removed from the preparation, and the pharynx stuffed with tow or wool for the purpose of distending it, and rendering the muscle more easy of dissection. The pharynx is invested by a proper pharyngeal fascia. The Constrictor Inferior, the thickest of the three muscles of tins class, arises from the upper rings of the trachea, the cricoid cartilage, and the oblique line of the thyroid. Its fibres spread out and are inserted into