VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 559 real weight of the lung, the respired lung being actually heavier than the foetal. Thus the weight of the fcetal lung, at about the middle period of uterine life, is to the weight of the body as 1 to 60.* But, after respira- tion, die relative weight of the lung to the entire body is as 1 to 30. FCETAL HEART. The Heart of the foetus is large in proportion to the size of the body; it is also developed very early, representing at first a simple vessel, and un- dergoing various degrees of complication until it arrives at the compound character which it presents after birth. The two ventricles form, at one period, a single cavity, which is afterwards divided into two by the septum ventriculorum. The two auricles communicate up to the moment of birth, the septum being incomplete, and leaving a large opening between them, the foramen ovale (foramen of Botalf). The Ductus arteriosus is another peculiarity of the foetus connected with the heart; it is a communication between the pulmonary artery and the aorta. It degenerates into a fibrous cord after birth, from the double cause, of a diversion in the current of the blood towards the lungs, and from the pressure of the left bronchus, caused by its distension with air. VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. At an early period of uterine life, and sometimes at the period of birth, as I have twice observed in the imperfectly developed foetus, two minute fibrous threads may be seen passing from the umbilicus to the mesentery. These are the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The Omphalo-mesenteric are the first developed vessels of the germ: they ramify upon the vesicula umbilicalis, or yolk-bag, and supply the newly formed alimentary canal of the embryo. From them, as from a centre, the general circulating system is produced. After the establish- ment of the placental circulation they cease to carry blood, and dwindle to the size of mere threads, which may be easily demonstrated in the earty periods of uterine life; but are completely removed, excepting under pe- culiar circumstances, at a later period. The Stomach is of small size, and the great extremity but little deve- loped. It is also more vertical in direction the earlier it is examined, ? position that would seem due to the enormous magnitude of the liver, anc particularly of its left lobe. The Appendix vermiformis cceci is long and of large size, and is con- tinued directly from the central part of the cul-de-sac of the caecum, of which it appears to be a constricted continuation. This is the character of the appendix caeci in the higher quadrumana. The large intestines are filled with a dark green viscous secretion, called meconium (txipcuv, poppy), from its resemblance to the inspissated juice of the poppy. The Pancreas is comparatively larger in the foetus than in the adult. The Spleen is comparatively smaller in the foetus than in the adult. • Cruveilhier, Anatomie Descriptive, vol. ii. p. 621. t Leonard Botal, of Piedmont, was the first of the moderns who pave an account of this opening in a work published in 15G5. His description is very imperfect. The foramen was well known to Galen.