CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. 480 acute ; in the female, and before puberty in the male, it is obtuse. Where the pomum Adami is prominent, a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. Each ala is quadrilateral in shape, and forms a rounded border poste- riorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. Upon the side of the ala is an oblique line, or ridge, di- rected downwards and forwards, and bounded at each extremity by a tubercle. Into this line the sterno-thyroid muscle is inserted ; and from it the thyro-hyoid and inferior constrictor take their origin. In the receding cingle, formed by the meeting of the two alae upon the inner side of the cartilage, and near its lower border, are attached the epiglottis, the chord® vocales, the thyro-arytenoid, and thyro-epiglottidean muscles. The Cricoid (xei'xoc;—sTSos, like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front, and broad behind, where it is surmounted by two rounded .surfaces, which articulate with the arytenoid cartilages. At the middle line, poste- riorly, is a vertical ridge which gives attachment to the (Esophagus, and on each side of the ridge are the depressions which lodge the crico-aryte- noidei postici muscles. On either side of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The Arytenoid cartilages (a£ura/va,* a pitcher), two in number, are tri- angular and prismoid in form. They are broad and thick below where they articulate with the upper border of the cricoid cartilage; pointed above, and prolonged by two small pyriform cartilages, cornicula laryngis (capitula Santorini), which are curved inwards and backwards, and they each present three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and internal. The poste- rior surface is concave, and lodges part of the arytenoideus muscle; the internal surface is smooth, and forms part of the lateral wall of the larynx ; the anterior or external surface is rough and irregular, and gives attach- ment to the chorda vocalis, thyro-arytenoideus, crico-arytenoideus lateralis and posticus, and, above these, to the base of the cuneiform cartilage. The Cuneiform cartilages are two small cylinders of fibn> cartilage, about seven lines in length, and enlarged at each extremity. By the lower end, or base, the cartilage is attached to the middle of the external surface of the arytenoid, and by its upper extremity forms a prominence in the border of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of membrane. They are some- times wanting. In the male, the cartilages of the larynx are more or less ossified, par- ticularly in old age. The Epiglottis (sffiyXwTr/V, upon the tongue) is a fibro-cartilage of a yellowish colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in shallow pits upon its surface. It is shaped like a cordate leaf, and is placed immediately in front of the opening of the larynx, which it closes completely when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle, between the two alee of the thyroid cartilage. Ligaments.—The Ligaments of the larynx are numerous, and may be arranged into four groups: 1. Those which articulate the thyroid with the os hyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epiglottis. * This derivation has reference to the appearance of both cartilages taken together and covered by mucous membrane. In animals, which were the principal subjects of dissection among the ancients, the opening of the larynx with the arytenoid cartilage bears a striking resemblance to the mouth of a pitcher having a large spout.