474 SUDORIPAROUS GLANDS. The colour of the hair, like that of the epiderma, is clue to the colora tion of the primitive granules of the cells. The Sebiparous glands are sacculated glandular organs embedded in the substance of the derma, and presenting every variety of complexity, from the simplest pouch-like follicle to the sacculated and lobulated gland. In some situations, the excretory ducts of these glands open independently on the surface of the epiderma; while in others, and the most numerous, they terminate in the follicles of the hairs. The sebiparous glands asso- ciated writh the hairs are racemiform and lobulated in structure, consisting of sacculi wTich open by short pedunculated tubuli into a common excre- tory duct, and the latter, after a short course, terminates in the hair-follicle. In the scalp there are twTo of these glands to each hair-follicle. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and con- stantly associated wTith small hair-follicles. In the meatus auditorius the sebiparous (ceruminous) glands are also large and lobulated, but the largest are those of the eyelids, the Meibomian glands. The excretory ducts of sebiparous glands offer some diversity in different parts of the body: thus, in many situations they are short and straight, while in others, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, wrhere the epiderma is thick, they assume a spiral arrangement. The sebiferous ducts are lined by an inversion of the epiderma, which forms a thick and funnel-shaped cone at its commencement, but soon becomes uniform and soft. Sebi- parous glands are met with in all parts of the body, but are most abundant in the skin of the face, and in those situations which are naturally exposed to the influence of friction. The sebaceous substance, when it collects in inordinate quantities within the excretory ducts, becomes the habitat of a very remarkable parasitic animal, the stecitozoon folliculorum. The Sudoriparous glands are situated deeply in the corium and also m the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where they are surrounded by adipose cells. They are small, oblong bodies, composed of one or more convo- luted tubuli, or of a congeries of globular sacs, which open into a common efferent duct. The latter ascends from the gland through the derma and epiderma, and terminates on the surface by a funnel-shaped and oblique aperture or pore. The efferent duct presents some variety in its course upwards; thus within the derma it is curved and serpentine, and if the epiderma be thin, it proceeds more or less directly to the excreting pore. Sometimes it is spirally curved within the derma, and having passed the latter, is regularly and beautifully spiral in its passage through the epi- derma, the last turn forming an oblique and valvular opening on the sur- face. The spiral course of the duct is especially remarkable in the thick epiderma of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. On those parts of the skin where the papillae are irregularly distributed, the efferent ducts of the sudoriparous glands open on the surface also irregularly, while on the palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet, the pores are situated at regular distances along the ridges, at points corresponding with the inter- vals of the small, square-shaped, clumps of papillse. Indeed, the aper- tures of the pores, seen upon the surface of the epidermal ridges, give rise to the appearance of small transverse furrows, which intersect the ridges from point to point. The efferent duct and the component sacs and tubuli of the sudoriparous giand are lined by an inflection of the epiderma. This inflection is thick