r>s COCCYX. the body, and one for each lateral portion. In the progress of growth, and after puberty, fourteen epiphysal centres are added, namely, two for the surfaces of each body, one lor each auricular surface, and one for the thin edge of each lateral border. Ossification begins in the bodies of the sacral pieces somewhat later than in those of the true vertebrae; the first three appearing during the eighth and ninth week, and the last two at about the middle of the intra-uterine existence. Ossification of the lamella; takes place during the interval between the sixth and the ninth month. The epiphyses for the upper and under surface of the bodies are developed during the interval between the fifteenth and eighteenth year ; and for the auricular and marginal piece, after twenty. The two lower vertebral pieces, although the last to appear, are the first to be completed (between the fourth and fifth year), and to unite by their bodies. The union of the bodies takes place from below upwards, and finishes between the twenty- fifth and the thirtieth year, with the first two pieces. Articulations.—With four bones ; the last lumbar vertebra, ossa inno- minata, and coccyx. Attachment of Muscles. — To seven pairs; in front the pyriformis, on the side the coecygeus, and behind the gluteus maximus, latissimus dorsi, longissimus dorsi, sacro-lumbalis, and multifidus spinse. The Coccyx (xoxxug cuckoo, from resembling a cuckoo’s beak) is com- posed of four small pieces, which form the caudal termination of the ver- tebral column. The superior piece is broad, and expands laterally into two transverse processes ; it is surmounted by an oval articular surface and two cornua, the former to articulate with the apex of the sacrum, and the latter with the sacral cornua. The lateral wings sometimes become connected with the sacrum, and convert the notches for the fifth pair of sacral nerves into foramina. The remaining three pieces diminish in size from above downwards. Development.—By four centres ; one for each piece. Ossification com- mences in the first piece soon after birth; in the second, between five and ten years; in the third, between ten and fifteen; and in the fourth, be- tween fifteen and twenty. The pieces unite at an earlier period than the bodies of the sacrum, the first two pieces first, then the third and fourth, and lastly, the second and third. Between forty and sixty years, the coccyx becomes consolidated with the sacrum ; this event taking place later in the female than in the male. Articulations.—With the sacrum. Attachment of Muscles.—To three pairs, and one single muscle; gluteus maximus, coccygeus, posterior fibres of the levator ani, and sphincter ani. OF THE SKULL. The skull, or superior expansion of the vertebral column, is divisible into two parts, — the cranium and the face; the former being adapted, by its form, structure, and strength, to contain and protect the brain, and the latter the chief organs of sense. The Cranium is composed of eight separate bones; viz., the Occipital, Two temporal, Two parietal, Sphenoid, Frontal, Ethmoid.