LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 149 sacrum with the coccyx posteriorly, extending as far as the apex of the latter bone. Between the two bones is a thin disc of soft fibrous cartilage. In females there is frequently a small synovial membrane. 1 his articulation admits of a certain degree of movement backwards during parturition. The ligaments connecting the different pieces of the coccyx consist ol a few scattered anterior and posterior fibres, and a *hin disc of interosseous cartilage: they exist only in the young subject; in the adult the pieces become ossified. 4. Between the Ossa Pubis. — The anterior pubic ligament is composed of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely across the union of the two bones from side to side, and form an interlacement in front of the sym- physis. The posterior pubic ligament consists of a few irregular fibres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly. The superior pubic ligament is a thick band of fibres connecting the angles of the pubic bones superiorly, and filling the inequalities upon the surface of the bones. The sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres connecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the upper boundary of the pubic arch. The interosseous fibro-cartilage unites the two surfaces of the pubic bones, in the same manner as the intervertebral substance connects the bodies of the vertebrae. It resembles the intervertebral substance also in being composed of oblique fibres disposed in concentric layers, which are more dense towards the surface than near the centre. It is thick in front, and thin behind. A synovial membrane is sometimes found in the poste- rior half of the articulation. This articulation becomes movable towards the latter term of pregnancy, and admits of a slight degree of separation of its surfaces. The obturator ligament or membrane is not a ligament of articulation, but simply a tendino-fibrous membrane stretched across the obturator foramen. It gives attachment by its surfaces, to the two obturator mus- cles, and leaves a space in the upper part of the foramen, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The numerous vacuities in the walls of the pelvis, and their closure by ligamentous structures, as in the case of the sacro-ischiatic fissures and obturator foramina, serve to diminish very materially the pressure on the soft parts during the passage of the head of the foetus through the pelvis in parturition. LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Ligaments of the upper extremity may be arranged in the order ot the articulations between the different bones; they are, the 1. Sterno-clavicular articulation. 2. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. 3. Ligaments of the scapula. 4. Shoulder joint. 5. Elbow joint. 6. Radio-ulnar articulation. 7. Wrist joint. 8. Articulation between the carpa. bones. 9. Carpo-metacarpal articulation - 10. Metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tion. 11. Articulation of the phalanges. — The sterno-clavicular is an arthiu 1. Sterno-clavicular Articulation. dial articulation ; its ligaments are, 13 *