TEMPORAL BONE. 61 five openings, the two upper ones being the largest, and occupying the superior compartment of the reniform fossa, and the two or three inienoi ones, smaller than the upper, the inferior compartment. Behind the latter, at the distance of a line and a half, and on the posterior wall of the meatus, is a cluster of three or four oblique openings, two of which are minute. The inferior and larger compartment of the reniform fossa pre- sents a well-marked spiral groove, which commences on the convex border of the fossa, immediately below the line of openings above described, and, sweeping round the convexity of the inferior compartment, and becoming deeper as it proceeds, terminates by a small round aperture in the centre of the spire The uppermost of the openings of the reniform fossa is the aperture of the aquasductus Fallopii, and gives passage to the facial nerve. The rest are cul de sacs, pierced at the bottom by a number of minute foramina for the passage of filaments of the vestibular nerve, while the cluster of three openings on the posterior wall of the meatus are intended for single filaments of the same nerve. The spiral groove corresponds with the base of the cochlea, and being pierced by a number of minute foramina for filaments of the cochlear nerve, is named tractus spiralis foraminulentus. The opening in the centre of the spiral impression leads into a canal which occupies the central axis of the modiolus, and is thence called tubulus centralis modioli. The basilar surface is rough and irregular, and enters into the formation of the under surface of the base of the skull. Projecting downwards, near its middle, is a long sharp spine, the styloid process, occasionally connected with the bone only by cartilage, and lost during maceration, particularly in the young subject. At the base of this process is a rough sheath-like ridge, into which the styloid process appears implanted, the vaginal pro- cess. In front of the vaginal process is a broad triangular depression, the glenoid fossa, bounded in front by the eminentia articularis, behind by the vaginal process, and externally by the rough lip of the processus audi- torius. This fossa is divided transversely by the glenoid fissure (fissura Glaseri), which lodges the extremity of the processus gracilis of the malleus, and transmits the laxatar tympani muscle, chorda tympani nerve, and anterior tympanic artery. The surface of the fossa in front of this fissure is smooth, to articulate with the condyle of the lower jaw ; and that behind the fissure is rough, for the reception of a part of the parotid gland. At the extre- mity of the inner angle of the glenoid fossa is the foramen of the Eusta- chian tube; and separated from it by a thin lamella of bone, called pro- cessus cochleariformis, a small canal for the transmission of the tensor tympani muscle. Directly behind, and at the root of the styloid process, is the stylo-mastoid foramen, the opening of exit of the facial nerve, and of entrance of the stylo-mastoid artery. Nearer the apex of the bone is a openings on the posterior wall of the meatus. 4. The spirally-grooved base of the cochlea. h. A section of the temporal bone, right side, showing the curved direction of tne meatus auditorius externus. i. The edge of the processus auditorius. 2. The groove into which the membrana tympani is inserted. The obliquity of the line from 2 to 3 indicates the oblique termination of the meatus, and the consequent oblique direction of the membrana tympani. 4, 4. The cavity of the tympanum. f>. The opening of the Eustachian tube. G. Part of the aquteductus Fallopii. 7. Part of the carotid ca nal. c. The annulus membrana* tympani or temporal bone ~f the foetal skull, right side.