438 INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. the carotid foramen in the petrous bone to opposite the lo wer border of the third cervical vertebra. It is in relation in front with the sheath of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein; and behind with the rectus anticus major muscle. Its branches, like those of all the sympathetic ganglia in the trunk, are divisible into superior, inferior, external, and internal; to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The superior (carotid nerve) is a single branch which ascends by the side of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches ; one lying to the outer side, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two branches enter the carotid canal, and by their communications with each other and with the petrosal branch of the Vidian, constitute the carotid plexus. The inferior or descending branch, sometimes two, is the cord of com- munication with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets: those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and hypoglossal nerves; and those which communicate with the three first cervical nerves. The internal branches are three in number: pharyngeal, to assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus; laryngeal, to join the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches; and the superior cardiac nerve, or nervus super- ficialis cordis. The anterior branches accompany the carotid artery with its branches, around which they form intricate plexuses, and here and there small gan- glia; they are called, from the softness of their texture, nervi molles, and from their reddish hue, nervi subrufi. The Middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is of small size, and sometimes altogether wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and rests upon the inferior thyroid artery. This relation is so constant, as to have induced Haller to name it the u thyroid ganglion.” Its superior branch, or branches, ascend to communicate with the supe- rior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical ganglion ; one of these frequently passes in front of the subclavian artery, the other be- hind it. Its external branches communicate with the third, fourth, and fifth cer- vical nerves. Its internal branches are, filaments which accompany the inferior thyroid artery, the inferior thyroid plexus; and the middle cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The Inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much larger than the preceding, and is constant in its existence. It id of a semilunar form, and is situated upon the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral artery : hence its title to the designation “ vertebral ganglion.” Its superior branches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion. The inferior branches pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The external branches consist of two sets; one which communicates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and first dorsal nerve;