FACIAL NERVE. 402 crus cerebelli, and comes into relation with the auditory nerve, with whick it enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying at first to the inner side of, and then upon that nerve. At the bottom of the meatus it enters the canal expressly intended for it, the aqueductus Fallopii, and directs its course forwards towards the hiatus Fallopii, where it forms a gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangliformis), and receives the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. It then curves backwards towards the tympanum, and descends along the inner wall of that cavity to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Emerg- ing at the stylo-mastoid foramen it passes forwards within the parotid gland, crossing the external jugular vein and external carotid artery, and at the ramus of the lower jaw divides into two trunks, temporo-facial and cervico-fcicial. These trunks at once split into numerous branches, which, after forming a number of looped communications (pes anserinus) with each other over the masseter muscle, spread out upon the side of the face, from the temple to the neck, to be distributed to the muscles of this exten- sive region. The communications which the facial nerve maintains in its course are the following: in the meatus auditorius, it sends one or two filaments to the auditory nerve ; the intumescentia gangliformis receives the nervus petrosus superficialis major and minor, and sends a twig back to the auditory nerve; behind the tympanum the nerve receives one or two twigs from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen it receives a twig from the glosso-pharyngeal, and in the parotid gland one or two large branches from the anterior auricular nerve. Besides these, the facial nerve has numerous peripheral communications, with the branches of the fifth nerve on the face, and of the cervical nerves in the parotid gland and neck. The numerous com- munications of the facial nerve obtained for it the designation of nervus sympatheticus minor. The Branches of the facial nerve are— Within the aqueductus Fallopii, After emerging at the stylo-mastoid foramen, On the face, ( Tympanic, J Chorda tympani. C Posterior auricular, < Stylo-hyoid, ( Digastric. C Temporo-facial, ( Cervico-facial. The Tympanic branch is a small filament distributed to the stapedius muscle. The Chorda tympani quits the facial just before that nerve emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends by a distinct canal to the upper part of the posterior wall of the tympanum, where it enters that cavity through an opening situated between the base of the pyramid and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes invested by mu cous membrane. It then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to the anterior inferior angle of the cavitj, and escapes through a distinct opening in the fissura Glaseri, and joins the gustatory nerve at an acute angle between the two pterygoid muscles. Enclosed in the sheath of the gustatory nerve, it descends to the submaxillary gland, where it unites with the submaxillary ganglion The Posterior auricular nerve ascends behind the ear, between the