460 DISTRIBUTION OF THE AUDITORY NERVE. of four layers; an external or serous layer, derived from the lining mem- brane of the labyrinth ; a vascular layer, in which an abundance of minute vessels are distributed; a nervous layer, formed by the expansion of the filaments of the vestibular nerve; and an internal and serous membrane, by which the limpid fluid which fills its interior is secreted. Some patches of pigment have been observed by Mr. Wharton Jones in the tissue of the membranous labyrinth of man. Among animals such spots are constant. The membranous labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid, first well de- scribed by Scarpa, and thence named liquor Scarpse (endolymph,* vitreous humour of the ear), and contains two small calcareous masses, called otoconites. The otoconites (ouV, wtoxo'vi£, the ear-dust) consist of an assemblage of minute, crystalline particles of carbonate and phosphate of lime, held together by animal substance, and probably retained in form by a reflection of the lining membrane of the membranous labyrinth. They are found suspended in the liquor Scarpae; one in the sacculus communis, the other in the sacculus proprius, from that part of each sac with which the nerves are connected. The Auditory nerve divides into twTo branches at the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus; a vestibular nerve and a cochlear nerve. The vestibular nerve, the most posterior of the two, divides into three branches, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch gives off a number of filaments which pass through the minute openings of the eminentia pyramidalis and superior ventricle of the vesti- bule, and are distributed to the sacculus communis and ampullae of the perpendicular and horizontal semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch sends off numerous filaments, which pass through the openings of the macula cribrosa in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and are dis- tributed to the sacculus proprius. The inferior and smallest branch takes its course backwards to the posterior w’all of the vestibule, and gives olf filaments which pierce the wrall of the ampullary dilatation of the oblique canal to be distributed upon its ampulla. According to Stiefensand there is in the situation of the point of entrance of the nervous filaments into the ampulla a deep depression upon the exterior of the membrane, and upon the interior a corresponding projection, which forms a kind of transverse septum, partially dividing the cavity of the ampulla into twro chambers. In the substance of the sacculi and ampullae, the nervous filament's radiate in all directions, anastomosing with each other and forming interlacements and loops, and they terminate upon the inner surface of the membrane in minute papillae, resembling those of the retina. The Cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments which enter the foramina of the tractus spiralis foraminulentus in the base of the cochlea, and passing upwards in the canals of the modiolus, bend outwards at right angles, to be distributed in the tissue of the lamina spiralis. The central portion of the nerve passes through the tubulus centralis of the modiolus, and supplies the apicial portion of the lamina spiralis. In the lamina spiralis the nervous filaments lying side by side on an even plane form numerous anastomosing loops, and spread out into a nervous membrane. * Antonio Scarpa is celebrated for several beautiful surgical and anatomical mono- eiaphs; as, for example, hie work on “Aneurism,” “ De Auditu et Olfactu,” ic c. An account of the aqua labyrinthi will be found in his anatomical observations “ De Struc- ture Fenestrac Rotundte, et de Tympano Secundario.”