372 CEREBRUM. distributing multitudes of minute straight vessels to the grey substance. In the substantia perforata, again, and locus perforatus, it gives oil’ tufts of small arteries, which pierce the white matter to reach the grey substance* in the interior. But upon the crura cerebri, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, its vascular character seems almost lost. It has become a dense fibrous membrane, difficult to tear off, and forming the proper sheath of the spina cord. The pia mater is the nutrient membrane of the brain, and derives it bbod from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Its JVerves are the minute filaments of the sympathetic, which accom pany the branches of the arteries. C EREBRUM. The Cerebrum presents on its surface a number of slightly convex ele- vations, the convolutions, (gyri) which are separated from each other by sulci of various depth.* It is divided superiorly into two hemispheres by the great longitudinal fissure, which lodges the falx cerebri, and marks the original development of the brain by two symmetrical halves. Each hemisphere, upon its under surface, admits of a division into three lobes, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by the fissure of Sylvius, f The middle lobe is received into the middle fossae of the base of the skull, and is separated from the posterior by a slight impression produced by the ridge of the petrous bone. The posterior lobe is supported by the tentorium. If the upper part of one hemisphere, at about one-third from its summit, be removed with a scalpel, a centre of white substance will be observed, surrounded by a narrow border of grey, which follows the line of the sulci and convolutions, and presents a zigzagform. This section from exhibit- ing the largest surface of medullary substance demonstrable in a single hemisphere is called centrum ovale minus; it is spotted by numerous small red points (puncta vasculosa) which are produced by the escape of blood from the cut ends of minute arteries and veins. Now separate carefully the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and a broad band of white substance (corpus callosum) will be seen to connect them ; it will be seen also that the surface of the hemisphere where it comes in contact with the corpus callosum is bounded by a large convolution (gyrus fornicatus) which lies horizontally on that body, and maybe traced forwards and backwards to the base of the brain, terminating by each ex- tremity at the fissure of Sylvius. The sulcus between this convolution and the corpus callosum has been termed, very improperly, the u ventricle of the corpus callosum,” and some longitudinal fibres (strise longitudinales laterales), which are brought into view when the convolution is raised, were called by Reil the “ covered band.” If, now, the upper part of each hemisphere be removed to a level with the corpus callosum, a large ex- panse of medullary matter, surrounded by a zigzag line of grey substance corresponding with the convolutions and sulci of the two hemispheres, will be seen; this is the centrum ovale majus of Vieussens. * In estimating the surface of the brain, which, according to Baillarger, averages in iound numbers, 670 square inches, these convolutions and the laminee of the cerebellum are supposed to be unfolded. -j- James Dubois, a celebrated professor of anatomy in Paris, where he succeeded Vi dius in 1550, although known much earlier by his works and discoveries, but particu larly by his violence in the defence of Galen. His name was latinised to Jacobus Sylvius.