DEVELOPMENT OF VERTEBRAE. 55 directed upwards, and if they were prolonged, they would come into con- tact with a small tubercle which is found at the base of the posterior trans- verse process (in strongly-marked vertebrae) in the vertebra above. This junction would form a posterior intervertebral foramen, as actually occurs in the sacrum. In brief, the lumbar vertebrae exhibit those transitional changes which are calculated, by an easy gradation, to convert separate vertebrae into a solid bone. The transverse processes of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae are very interesting in a transcendental point of view, as exhibiting a tendency which exists obscurely in all the rest, namely, to trifurcate. Now, supposing these three branches to be length- ened in order to fulfil their purposes, the anterior would constitute the articulation or union with a rib, while the superior and inferior would join similar branches in the vertebra above and below, and so form the poste- rior intervertebral foramen. The intervertebral foramina formed by the juxtaposition of the notches are smallest in the cervical region, and gradually increase to the last lum- bar. On either side of the spinous processes, and extending the whole length of the column, is the vertebral groove, which is shallow and broad in the cervical, and deeper and narrower in the dorsal and lumbar regions. It lodges the principal muscles of the back. Viewed from the side, the vertebral column presents several curves, the principal of which is situated in the dorsal region, the concavity looking forwards. In the cervical and lumbar regions the column is convex in front; and in the pelvis an anterior concave curve is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. Besides the antero-posterior curves, a slight lateral curve exists in the dorsal region, having its convexity towards the right side. Development.—The vertebrae are developed by three primary and five secondary centres or epiphyses. The primary centres are, one for each lamella, and one for the body; the epiphyses, one for the apex of the spinous process, one for that of each transverse process, and one for the upper and under surface of the body. Exceptions to this mode of deve- lopment are met with in the atlas, axis, vertebra prominens, and lumbar vertebrae. The atlas has four centres: one for each lateral mass, one (sometimes two) for the anterior arch, and one for the centre of the poste- rior arch. The axis has five: one (sometimes two) for the body, two for the odontoid process, appearing side by side in its base, and one for each lamella. The vertebra prominens has two additional centres for the ante- rior or costal segments of the transverse processes, and the lumbar vertebrae two for the posterior segments of the transverse processes. The primary centres of the vertebrae make their appearance during the seventh or eighth week of embryonic existence, the lamella being some- what in advance of that for the body. From the former are produced the spinous, transverse, and articular processes, and the sides of the body; they unite, to complete the arch, one year after birth, and with the bodv during the fifth year. The epiphyses, for the extremities of the spinous and transverse processes, make their appearance at fifteen or sixteen, and become united between twenty and twenty-five. The epiphyses of the body are somewhat later in appearance, and are consolidated between the periods of twenty-five and thirty years of age. The ossific centres for the lateral masses of the atlas appear at the same time with those of the other vertebrae; they unite posteriorly at the end of the second year, by the intervention of the centre for the posterior arch.