483 FIBRES OF TIIE VENTRICLES. m the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, I am indebted for the fol- lowing summary of their distribution :— For the sake of clearness of description the fibres of the ventricles have been divided into three layers, superficial, middle, and internal, all of which are disposed in a spiral direction around the cavities of the ventri- cles. The mode of formation of these three layers will be best understood by adopting the plan pursued by Mr. Searle in tracing the course of the fibres from the centre of the heart towards its periphery. The left surface of the septum ventriculorum is formed by a broad and thick layer of fibres, which proceed backwards in a spiral direction around the posterior aspect of the left ventricle, and become augmented on the left side of that ventricle by other fibres derived from the bases of the two columnse papillares. The broad and thick band formed by the fibres from these two sources, curves around the apex and lower third of the left ven- tricle to the anterior border of the septum, where it divides into two bands, a short or apicial band, and a long or basial band. The Short or apicial band is increased in thickness at this point by re- ceiving a layer of fibres (derived from the root of the aorta and carneae columnae) upon its internal surface, from the right surface of the septum ventriculorum; it is then continued onwards in a spiral direction from left to right, around the lower third of the anterior surface, and the middle third of the posterior surface of the right ventricle to the posterior border of the septum. From the latter point the short band is prolonged around the posterior and outer border of the left ventricle to the anterior surface of the base of that ventricle, and is inserted into the anterior border of the left auriculo-ventricular ring, and the anterior part of the root of the aorta and pulmonary artery. The Long or basial band, at the anterior border of the septum, passes directly backwards through the septum, (forming its middle layer,) to the posterior ventricular groove, where it becomes joined by fibres derived from the root of the pulmonary artery. It then winds spirally around the middle and upper third of the left ventricle to the anterior border of the septum, where it is connected by means of its internal surface with the superior fibres derived from the aorta, which form part of the right wall of the septum. From this point it is continued around the upper third of the anterior and posterior surface of the right ventricle to the posterior border of the septum, where it is connected with the fibres constituting the right surface of the septum ventriculorum. At the latter point the fibres of this band begin to be twisted upon themselves, like the strands of a rope, the direction of the twist being from below upwards. This arrangement of fibres is called by Mr. Searle “ the rope it is continued spirally upwards, forming the brim of the left ventricle, to the anterior surface of the base of that ventricle, where the twisting of the fibres ceases. The long band then curves inwards towards the septum, and spreads out upon the left surface of the septum into the broad and thick layer of fibres with which this description commenced. The most inferior of the fibres of the left surface of the septum ventri- culorum, after winding spirally around the internal surface of the apex of the left ventricle, so as to close its extremity, form a small fasciculus, riosus ; the letter is placed in the cleft formed by the bifurcation of the pulmonary r. tery. g. The left pulmonary artery, h. The right ventricle, t. The point of the appendix of the right auricle.