ANTERIOR SCAPULAR REGION. 226 nally by the ribs. In this space are found the axillary vessels and nerves, and in it the subclavian artery may be tied below the clavicle. The Subclavius muscle arises by a round tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle. This muscle is concealed by the costo-coracoid membrane, an extension of the deep cervical fascia, by which it is invested. Relations.—By its upper surface with the clavicle. By the lower with the subclavian artery and vein and brachial plexus, which separate it from the first rib. In front with the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid mem- brane being interposed. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm against the thorax, while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in raising the shoulder as in supporting weights. The lower fibres depress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus, in drawing up and expanding the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws upon the coracoid process, and assists in rotating the scapula upon the chest. The subclavius draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. All the muscles of this group are agents in forced respiration, but are in- capable of acting until the shoulders are fixed. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. The Serratus Magnus (serratus, indented like the edge of a saw), arises by fleshy serrations from the nine upper ribs excepting the first, and extends backwards upon the side of the chest, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula upon its anterior aspect. In structure the muscle is composed of three portions, a superior portion formed by two serrations attached to the second rib, and inserted into the inner sur- face of the superior angle of the scapula, a middle portion composed of the serrations connected with the third and fourth ribs, and inserted into the greater part of the posterior border, and an inferior portion consisting of the last five serrations which indigitate with the obliquus externus and form a thick muscular fasciculus which is inserted into the scapula near its inferior angle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the pectoralis major and mi- nor, the subscapularis, and the axillary vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the ribs and intercostal muscles, to which it is connected by an extremely loose cellular tissue. Actions.—The serratus magnus is the great external inspiratory muscle, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and thereby increasing the cavity of the chest. Acting upon the scapula, it draws the shoulder for- wards, as we see to be the case in diseased lungs, where the chest has become almost fixed from apprehension of the expanding action of the respiratory muscles. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The Subscapularis muscle arises from the whole of the under suiface of the scapula excepting the superior and inferior angle, and terminates by