69 SPHENOID BONE. hyoid and stylo-maxillary; and by the petrous portion, to the levator lialati, tensor tympani, and stapedius. ♦ Sphenoid Bone. — The sphenoid (<npf*v, a wedge) is an irregular bone situated at the base of the skull, wedged between the other bones of the cranium, and entering into the formation both of the cranium and face. It bears some resemblance, in form, to a bat with its wings extended, and is divisible into body, wings, and processes. The body forms the central mass of the bone, from which the wings and processes are projected. From the upper and anterior part of the body extend on each side two small triangular plates — the lesser wings ; from either side and expanding laterally are the greater wings; proceeding backwards from the base of the greater wings, the spinous processes, and downwards, the pterygoid processes. The body presents for examination a superior or cerebral surface, an antero-inferior surface, and a posterior surface. Superior Surface. — At the anterior extremity of this surface is a small projecting plate, the ethmoidal spine, and spreading out on either side the lesser wings. Behind the ethmoidal spine in the middle line is a rounded elevation, the olivary process, which supports the commissure of the optic nerves; and on either side of the posterior margin of this process is a tubercle, the middle clinoid process. Passing outwards and forwards from the olivary process, are the optic foramina, which transmit the optic nerves and ophthalmic arteries. Behind the optic foramina are two sharp tuber- cles, the anterior clinoid processes, which are the inner terminations of the lesser wings. Beneath these processes, on the sides of the olivary process, are two depressions* for the last turn of the internal carotid arteries. Be- hind the olivary process is the sella turcica (ephippiunT, the deep fossa which lodges the pituitary gland and circular sinus ; behind and somewhat overhanging the sella turcica, is a broad rough plate (dorsum ephippii) bounded at each angle by a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes ; and behind this plate an inclining surface (clivus Blumenbachii), which is con- tinuous with the basilar process of the occipital bone. On either side of the sella turcica is a broad groove (carotid) which lodges Flg- 3Lt the internal carotid artery, the cavernous sinus, and the orbi- tal nerves. Immediately exter- nal to this groove, at the junc- tion of the greater wings with the body, are four foramina: the first is a broad interval, the sphenoidal fissure, which separates the greater and lesser wings, and transmits the third, * These depressions are occasionally, as in a skull before me, converted into fora mina by the extension of a short bony pillar from the middle to the anterior clinoid process. f The superior or cerebral surface of the sphenoid bone. 1. The processus olivaris. 2. The ethmoidal spine. 3. The lesser wing of the left side. 4. The cerebral surface of the greater wing of the same side. f>. The spinous process. 6. The extremity of the pterygoid process of the same side, projecting downwards from the under surface ot the body oi the bone. 7 the foramen opticurn. 8. The anterior clynoid process.