322 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. peritoneum, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its commencement it is crossed by the ureter, and near its termination by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve and the circumflexa ilii vein. Externally it lies against the psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the iliac fascia; and posteriorly it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which, at the femoral arch, becomes placed to its inner side. The artery is surrounded throughout the whole of its course by lymphatic vessels and glands. Branches.—Besides several small branches which supply the glands surrounding the artery, the external iliac gives off two branches, the— Epigastric, Circumflexa ilii. The Epigastric artery arises from the external iliac near Poupart’s liga- ment ; and passing forwards between the peritoneum and transversalis fascia, ascends obliquely to the sheath of the rectus. It enters the sheath near its lowTer third, and passes upwards behind the rectus muscle, to which it is distributed, and in the substance of that muscle inosculates, near the ensiform cartilage, writh the termination of the internal mammary artery. It lies internally to the internal abdominal ring and immediately above the femoral ring, and is crossed near its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round ligament in the female. The only branches of the epigastric artery wrorthy of distinct notice are the Cremasteric, which accompanies the spermatic cord and supplies the cremaster muscle ; and the ramusculus which inosculates with the obtura- tor artery. The epigastric artery forms a prominence of the peritoneum wdiich di- vides the iliac fossa into an internal and an external portion; it is from the former that direct inguinal hernia issues, and from the latter, oblique inguinal hernia. The Circumflexa ilii arises from the outer side of the external iliac, nearly opposite the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely along Povu- part’s ligament, and curving around the crest of the ilium between the attachments of the internal oblique and transversalis muscle, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar and inferior lumbar artery. Opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, it gives off a large ascending branch which passes upwards between the internal oblique and transversalis, and divides into numerous branches which supply the abdominal muscles, and inosculate with the inferior intercostal and with the lumbar arteries. Varieties in the branches of the external iliac.—The epigastric artery not unfrequently* gives off the obturator, which descends in contact with the external iliac vein, to the obturator foramen. In this situation the artery w'ould lie to the outer side of the femoral ring, and would not be endan- gered in the operation for dividing the stricture of femoral hernia. But occasionally the obturator passes along the free margin of Gimbernat’s l igament in its course to the obturator foramen, and wrould completely en- circle the neck of the hernial sac,—a position in which it could scarcely * The proportion in which high division of the obturator artery from the epigastric occurs, is stated to be one in three. In two hundred and fifty subjects examined by Cloquet with a view to ascertain how frequently the high division took place, lie found the obturator arising from the epigastric on both sides one hundred and fifty times j on one side twenty-eight times, and six times it arose from the femoral artery.