125 SCArilOTD AND CUNEIFORM BONES. Mirfaee is a projecting process (sustentaculum tali), Fis- Gl* which supports the anterior articulating surface of the astragalus, and serves as a pulley to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Upon the anterior extremity is a llat articular surface, surmounted by a rough pro- jection, which affords one ol the guides to the surgeon in the performance of Chopart’s operation. I he pos- terior extremity is prominent and convex, and consti- tutes the posterior tuberosity; it is smooth for the upper half of its extent, where it corresponds with a bursa; and rough below, tor the insertion of the ten do Achillis ; the lower part of this surface is bound- ed by the two inferior tuberosities. Articulations.—With two bones; the astragalus and cuboid. In their articulated state a large oblique canal is situated between the astragalus and calcaneus, being formed by the apposition of the two grooves sulcus tali and calcanei. This groove is called the sinus tarsi, and serves to lodge a strong interosseous ligament which binds the two bones together. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine; by the poste- rior tuberosity, to the tendo Achillis and plantaris; by the inferior tube- rosities and under surface, to the abductor pollicis, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis digitorum, flexor accessorius, and to the plantar fascia; and by the external surface, to the extensor brevis digitorum. The Scaphoid bone may be distinguished by its boat-like figure, con- cave on one side, and convex with three facets upon the other. It pre- sents for examination an anterior and posterior surface, a superior and inferior border, and two extremities, one broad, the other pointed and thick. The anterior surface is convex, and divided into three facets, to articulate with the three cuneiform bones; and the posterior concave, to articulate with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior border is convex and rough, and the inferior somewhat concave and irregular. The external extremity is broad and rough, and the internal pointed and prominent, so as to form a tuberosity. The external extremity sometimes presents a facet of articulation with the cuboid. If the bone be held so that the convex surface with three facets look forwards, and the convex border upwards, the broad extremity wilb point to the side corresponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones; astragalus and three cuneiform bones, sometimes also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The Internal Cuneiform may be known by its irregular wedge-shape, and by being larger than the two other bones bearing the same name. It * The dorsal surface of the left foot. 1. The astragalus; its superior quadrilateral articular surface. 2. The anterior extremity of the astragalus, which articulates with (4) the scaphoid bone. 3. The os calcis. 4. The scaphoid bone. 5. The internat cuneiform bone. 6. The middle cuneiform bone. 7. The external cuneiform bone. 8. The cuboid bone. 9. The metatarsal bones of the first and second toes. 10. The first phalanx of the great toe. 11. The second phalanx of the great toe. 12. The fir»i phalanx of the second toe. 13. Its second phalanx. 14. Its third phalanx. 11*