414 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. pital artery. The occipitalis majoi sends numerous branches to the mus- cles of the neck, and is distributed to the integument of the scalp, as far forwards as the middle of the vertex of the head. Its branches commu- nicate with those of the occipitalis minor. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The Brachial or axillary plexus of nerves is formed by communications V between the anterior branches of the four last cervical and first dorsal nerve. These nerves are all similar in size, and their mode of disposition in the formation of the plexus is the following: the fifth and sixth nerves unite to form a common trunk, which soon divides into two branches; the last cervical and first dorsal also unite immediately upon their exit from the intervertebral foramina, and the common trunk resulting from their union after a short course also di- vides into two branches; the seventh nerve passes outwards between the common trunks of the two preceding, and opposite the clavicle divides into a superior branch which unites with the inferior division of the supe- rior trunk, and an inferior branch which communicates with the superior division of the inferior trunk : from these divisions and communications the brachial plexus results. The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus by means of a branch sent down from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and by the inferior branch of origin of the phrenic nerve, and also sends filaments of communication to the sympathetic. The plexus is broad in the neck, narrows as it descends into the axilla, and again en- larges at its lower part where it divides into its six terminal branches. Relations.—The brachial plexus is in relation in the neck with the two scaleni muscles, between which its nerves issue; lower down it is placed between the clavicle and subclavius muscle above, and the first rib and first serration of the serratus magnus muscle below. In the axilla, it is situated at first to the outer side and then behind the axillary artery, rest- ing by its outer border against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. At this point it completely surrounds the artery by means of the two cords which are sent off to form the median nerve. Its Branches may be arranged into two groups, humeral and descend- ing “ * A view of the brachial plexus of nerves and branches of arm. 1, 1. The scalenus nnticus muscle, in front of which are the roots of the plexus. 2, 2. The median nerve 3 The ulnar nerve. 4. The branch to the biceps muscle. 5. The nerves of Wrisbeig 6 The phrenic nerve from the 3d and 4th cervical.