15G CARPOMETACARPAL ARTICULATIONS 8. Articu^itions between the Carpal Bones.—These are amphi-arthronial joints, with the exception of the conjoined head of the os magnum and unciforme, which is received into a cup formed by the scaphoid, semi- lunar, and cuneiform bone, and constitutes an enarthrosis. The ligaments are, Dorsal, Interosseous fibro-cartilage, Palmar, Anterior annular. The dorsal ligaments are ligamentous bands, that pass transversely and longitudinally from bone to bone, upon the dorsal surface of the carpus. The palmar ligaments are fasciculi of the same kind, but stronger than the dorsal, having the like disposition upon the palmar surface. The interosseous ligaments are fibro-cartilaginous lamellae situated be- tween the adjoining bones in each range: in the upper range they close the upper part of the spaces between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cunei- form bones; in the lower range they are stronger than in the upper, and connect the os magnum on the one side to the unciforme, on the other to the trapezoides, and leave intervals through which the synovial membrane is continued to the bases of the metacarpal bones. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band, which con- nects the bones of the two sides of the carpus. It is attached by one ex- tremity to the trapezium and scaphoid, and by the other to the unciform process of the unciforme and the base of the pisiform bone, and forms an arch over the anterior surface of the carpus, beneath which the tendons of the long flexors and the median nerve pass into the palm of the hand. The articulation of the pisiform bone with the cuneiform, is provided with a distinct synovial membrane, which is protected by fasciculi of liga- mentous fibres, forming a kind of capsule around the joint; they are in- serted into the cuneiforme, unciforme, and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Synovial Membranes.—There are five synovial membranes entering into the composition of the articulations of the carpus:— The first is situated between the lower end of the ulna and the interar- ticular fibro-cartilage ; it is called sacciform, from forming a sacculus be- tween the lateral articulation of the ulna with the radius. The second is situated between the lower surface of the radius and in- terarticular fibro-cartilage above, and the first range of bones of the carpus below. The third is the most extensive of the synovial membranes of the wrist; it is situated between the tw'o rows of carpal bones, and passes between the bones of the second range, to invest the carpal extremities of the four metacarpal bones of the fingers. The fourth is the synovial membrane of the articulation of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. The fifth is situated between the pisiform and cuneiform bone. Actions.—Very little movement exists between the bones in each range, but more is permitted between the two ranges. The motions in the latter situation are those of flexion and extension. 9. The Carpo-metacarpal Articulations. — The second row of bones of the carpus articulates with the metacarpal bones of the four fingers by dorsal and palmar ligaments; and the metacarpal bone of the thumb with trie trapezium by a true capsular ligament. There is also in the carpo-