255 PLANTARIS—SOLEUS. the longest. They unite to form the beautiful muscle so Fig. 133 * characteristic of this region of the limb. It is inserted, of rsa of ed Relations. —By its superficial surface, with the deep fascia of the leg, which separates it from the external saphenous vein, and with the external saphenous nerve. By its deep surface, with the lateral portions of the pos- terior ligament of the knee joint, the popliteus, plantaris, and soleus. The internal head of the muscle rests against the posterior surface of the internal condyle of the femur; the external head against the outer side of the external condyle. In the latter, a sesamoid bone is sometimes found. The Plantaris (planta, the sole of the foot), an ex- tremely diminutive muscle, situated between the gastroc- nemius and soleus, arises from the outer condyle of the femur; and is inserted, by its long and delicately slender tendon, into the inner side of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, by the side of the tendo Achillis: having crossed obliquely between the two muscles. The Soleus (solea, a sole), is the broad muscle upon which the plantaris rests. It arises, from the head and upper third of the fibula, from the oblique line and middle third of the tibia. Its fibres converge to the tendo Achillis, by which it is inserted into the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. Between the fibular and tibial origins of this muscle is a tendinous arch, beneath which the popliteal vessels and nerve pass into the leg. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the gastrocnemius and plan- taris. By its deep surface, with the intermuscular fascia, which separates it from the flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis, from the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and from the peroneal vessels. Actions.—The three muscles of the calf draw powerfully on the os cal- cis, and lift the heel; continuing their action, they raise the entire body. This action is attained by means of a lever of the second power, the ful- crum (the toes) being at one end, the weight (the body supported on the tibia) in the middle, and the power (these muscles) at the other extremity. They are, therefore, the walking muscles, and perform all movements that require the support of the whole body from the ground, as dancing, leaping, &c. Taking their fixed point from below, they steady the leg upon the foot. * The superficial muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg. 1. The biceps muscle forming the outer hamstring. 2. The tendons forming the inner hamstring. 3. The popliteal space. 4. The gastrocnemius muscle. 5, 5. The soleus. 6. The tendo Achillis 7. The posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. 8. The tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles passing behind the outer ankle. 9. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum passing into the foot behind the inner ankle. by means of the tendo Achillis, into the lower part the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, a synovial br being placed between that tendon and the upper part the tuberosity. The gastrocnemius must be remov from its origin, and turned down, in order to expose t next muscle.