512 PAPILLARY LAYER—FIBROUS LAYER. The Proper mucous, or Papillary layer is analogous to the papillary layer of the skin, and, like it, is the formative structure by which the epi- thelium is produced. Its surface presents several varieties of appearance when examined in different parts of its extent. In the stomach it forms polyhedral cells, into the floor of which the gastric follicles open. In the small intestine it presents numerous minute, projecting papillae, called villi. The villi are of two kinds, cylindrical and laminated, and so abun- dant, as to give to the entire surface a beautiful velvety appearance. In the large intestine the surface is composed of a fine network of minute polyhedral cells, more numerous than those of the stomach, but resem- bling them in receiving the secretion from numerous perpendicular fol- licles into their floors. The Fibrous layer (sub-mucous, nervous) is the membrane of support to the mucous membrane, as is the corium to the papillary layer of the skin. It gives to the mucous membrane its strength and resistance, is but loosely connected with the mucous layer, but is firmly adherent to the muscular stratum, and is called, in the older works on anatomy, the unervous coat.” Glands. — In the loose areolar tissue connecting the mucous with the hbrous layer, are situated the glands and follicles belonging to the mucous membrane : these are the— Pharyngeal glands, (Esophageal glands, Gastric follicles, Duodenal glands (Brunner’s), Glandulse solitariae, Glandulae aggregate (Peyer’s), Simple follicles (Lieberkiihn’s). The Pharyngeal glands are situated in considerable numbers beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx, particularly around the posterior nares. Two of these glands, of larger size than the rest, and lobulated in structure, occupy the margin of the opening of the Eustachian tube. The Oesophageal glands are small lobulated bodies, situated in the sub- mucous tissue, and opening upon the surface of the oesophagus by a long excretory duct, which passes obliquely through the mucous membrane. The Gastric follicles are long tubular follicular glands, situated perpen- dicularly side by side in every part of the mucous membrane of the sto- mach. At their terminations they are dilated into small lateral pouches, which give them a clustered appearance. This character is more clearly exhibited at the pyloric than at the cardiac end of the stomach. They are intended, very probably, for the secretion of the gastric fluid. The Duodenal, or Brunner’s* glands, are small flattened granular bodies, compared collectively by Von Brunn to a second pancreas. They resemble in structure the small salivary glands, so abundant beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth and lips; and, like them, they open upon the surface by minute excretory ducts. They are limited to the duodenum. The Solitary glands are of two kinds, those of the small and those of the large intestine. The former are small circular patches, surrounded * John Conrad von Brunn: “Glandulae Duodeni seu Pancreas Secundarium,’’ 1715.