541 TESTES—EPIDIDYMIS. which is derived from the aortic and renal plexus, the genitai branch of tlie genito-crural nerve, and the scrotal branch of the ilio-scrotal. The Vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testicle, is situated along the posterior border of the cord, where it may easily be distinguished by the hard and cordy sensation which it communicates to the fingers. Its parietes are very thick and tough, and its canal extremely small, and lined by the mucous membrane continued from the urethra. The Coverings of the spermatic cord are, the spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and fascia propria. The spermatic fascia is a prolongation of the intercolumnar fascia, derived from the borders of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testicle in the foetus. The cremasteric co- vering (erythroid) is the thin muscular expansion formed by the spreading out of the fibres of the cremaster, which is likewise carried down by the testis during its descent. The fascia propria is a continuation of the infundibuliform process from the transversalis fascia, which immediately invests the vessels of the cord, and is also obtained during the descent of the testis. TESTES. Fig. 238 * The Testis (testicle) is a small oblong and rounded gland, somewhat compressed upon the sides and behind, and suspended in the cavity of the scrotum by the spermatic cord. Its position in the scrotum is oblique; so that the upper extremity is directed upwards and forwards, and a little out- wards ; the lower, downwards and backwards, and a little inwards; the convex border looks forwards and downwards, and the flattened border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. Lying against its outer and posterior body is a flattened body which follows the course of the testicle, and extends from its upper to its lower extremity; this body is named, from its relation to the testis, epi- didymis (txl, upon, 615ufiog, the testicle); it is divided into a central part or body, an upper extremity or globus major, and a lower extremity, globus minor (cauda) epididymis. The globus major is situated against the upper end of the testicle, to which it is closely adherent; the globus minor is placed at its lower end, is attached to the testis by areolar tissue, and curves upwards, to become continuous with the vas deferens. The testis is invested by three tunics, tunica vagi- nalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa, and is connected to the inner surface of the dartos by a large quantity of extremely loose areolar tissue, * A transverse section of the testicle. 1. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis; the most external layer is the tunica vaginalis reflexa; and that in contact with the organ, the tunica vaginalis propria. 2. The tunica albuginea. 3. The mediastinum testis, giving off numerous fibrous cords in a radiated direction to the internal surface of the tunica albuginea. The cut extremities of the vessels below the number belong to the rete testis ; and those above, to the arteries and veins of the organ. 4. The tunica vascu- losa, or pia mater testis. 5. One of the lobules, consisting of the convolutions of the tubuli seminiferi, and terminating by a single duct, the vas rectum. Corresponding lobules are seen between the other fibrous cords of the mediastinum. G. Section of the epididymis. 46