390 SPINAL CORD. slender filaments* of areolar tissue, and by a longitudinal lamella which is attached to the posterior aspect of the cord. The areolar tissue is most abundant in the cervical region, and diminishes in quantity from above downwards; and the longitudinal lamella is complete only in the dorsal region. The arachnoid passes off from the cord on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath; and is then reflected on the dura mater, to constitute its serous surface. A connexion exists in several situations between the arachnoid of the cord and that of the dura mater. The space between the arachnoid and the spinal cord is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the sub-arachnoidean space. It is occupied by a serous fluid, sufficient in quantity to expand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the theca vertebralis. The sub-arachnoidean fluid keeps up a constant and gentle pressure on the entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the cord, giving to those delicate structures the advantage of the principles so use- fully occupied by Ur. Arnott in the hydrostatic bed. The Pia mater is the immediate investment of the cord ; and, like the other membranes, is continuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane; but is dense and fibrous in structure, and contains but few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a duplicature into the fissura longitudinalis anterior, and an- other, extremely delicate, into the fissura longitudinalis posterior. It forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the nerves, and for the nerves them- selves ; and, inferiorly, at the conical termination of the cord, is prolonged downwards as a slender ligament (filum terminate), which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura mater lining the canal of the coccyx. This attachment is a rudiment of the original extension of the spinal cord into the canal of the sacrum and coccyx. The pia mater has, distributed to it, a number of nervous plexuses derived from the sympathetic. The Membrana dentata (ligamentum dentatum) is a thin process of pia mater sent off from each side of the cord throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The number of serrations on each side is about twenty, the first being situated on a level with the occipital foramen, and having the vertebral artery and hypoglossal nerve passing in front and the spinal accessory nerve behind it, and the last opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. Below this point, the membrana dentata is lost in the filum terminale of the pia mater. The use of this membrane is to maintain the position of the spinal cord in the midst of the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal cord of the adult extends from the pons Varolii to opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a rounded point; in the child, at birth, it reaches to the middle of the third lumbar vertebra, and in the embryo is prolonged as far as the coccyx. It pre- sents a difference of diameter in different parts of its extent, and exhibits th-^ee enlargements. The uppermost of these is the medulla oblongata; the next corresponds with the origin of the nerves destined to the upper extremities; and the lower enlargement is situated near its termination, * According to Mr. Rainey, these filaments are nervous fasciculi, having their origin in the arachnoid^ and passing to the arteries of the cord. See page 371.