376 FASCIA DENTATA. face of the thalamus opticus, upon which are the two projections calleq corpus geniculatum internum and externum; and the inferior wail by the various parts which are sometimes spoken of as the contents of the middle cornu : these are the— Hippocampus major, Pes hippocampi, Pes accessorius, Corpus fimbriatum, Choroid plexus, Fascia dentata, Transverse fissure. The Hippocampus major or cornu Ammonis, so called from its resem- blance to a ram’s horn, the famous crest of Jupiter Ammon, is a consider- able projection from the inferior wall, and extends the whole length of the middle cornu. Its extremity is likened to the foot of an 'animal, from its presenting a number of knuckle-like elevations upon the surface, and is named pes hippocampi. The hippocampus major is the internal surface of the convolution (gyrus fornicatus) of the lateral edge of the hemisphere, the convolution which has been previously described as lying upon the corpus callosum and extending downwards to the base of the brain to terminate at the fissure of Sylvius. If it be cut across, the section will be seen to resemble the extremity of a convoluted scroll, consisting of alter- nate layers of white and grey substance. The hippocampus major is con- tinuous superiorly with the fornix and corpus callosum, deriving from the latter its medullary layer. The Pes accessorius is a swelling somewhat resembling the hippocampus major, but smaller in size; it is situated on the outer wrall of the cornu, and is frequently absent. The Corpus fimbriatum (tenia hippocampi) is the narrow white band which is prolonged from the central cavity of the ventricle, and is attached along the inner border of the hippocampus major. It is lost inferiorly on the hippocampus. Fascia dentata:—if the corpus fimbriatum be carefully raised, a narrow serrated band of grey substance, the margin of the grey substance of the middle lobe, will be seen beneath it; this is the fascia dentata. Beneath the corpus fimbriatum will be likewise seen the transverse fissure of the brain, which has been before described as extending from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, across to the same point on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the choroid plexus, and the latter obtains its supply of blood. The fissure is bounded on one side by the corpus fimbriatum, and on the other by the under surface of the thalamus opticus. The internal boundary of the lateral ventricle is the septum lucidum. This septum is thin and semi-transparent, and consists of two laminse of cerebral substance attached above to the under surface of the corpus cal- losum at its anterior part, and below to the fornix. Between the two layers is a narrow space, the fifth ventricle, which is lined by a proper membrane. The fifth ventricle may be shown, by snipping through the septum lucidum transversely with the scissors. The corpus callosum should now be cut across towards its anterior ex-