252 SEMI-MEMBRANOSUS. two muscles being closely united for several inches below their origin, [t is inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. pv(r 13[ * Relations.—By its superficial surface with the glu- teus maximus, fascia lata, and at its insertion with the synovial bursa which separates its tendon from the ex- pansion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the semi-membranosus, adductor magnus, internal head of the gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, the synovial bursa common to it and the tendon of the gracilis being interposed. By its inner border with the gracilis; and by its outer border with the biceps. These two muscles must be dissected from the tube- rosity of the ischium, to bring into view the origin of the next. The Semi-membranosus, remarkable for the tendi- nous expansion upon its anterior and posterior surface, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the common origin of the two preceding muscles. It is inserted into the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia; at its insertion the tendon splits into three portions, one of which is inserted in a groove on the inner side of the head of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The second is continuous with an aponeurotic expansion that binds down the popliteus muscle, the popliteal fascia; and the third turns up- wards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the middle portion of the posterior ligament of the knee joint (ligamentum posticum Winslowii). The tendons of the last two muscles, viz. the semi-tendinosus and ircmi-membranosus, with those of the gracilis and sartorius, form the inner hamstring. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, biceps, semi-tendinosus, fascia lata, and at its insertion with the tendinous expan- sion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the quadratus femoris, ad- ductor magnus, internal head of the gastrocnemius, the knee joint, from which it is separated by a synovial membrane, and the popliteal artery and vein. By its inner border with the gracilis. By its outer border with the great ischiatic nerve, and in the popliteal space with the popliteal artery and vein. If the semi-membranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adduc- tor magnus, upon which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions. — These three hamstring muscles are the direct flexors of the * The muscles of the posterior femoral and gluteal region. 1. The gluteus medius. 2. The gluteus maximus. 3. The vastus externus, covered in by fascia lata. 4. The long head of the biceps. 5. Its short head. G. The semi-tendinosus. 7. The senu membranosus. 8. The gracilis. 9. A part of the inner border of the adductor magnus. JO. The edge of the sartorius. 11. The popliteal space. 12. The gastrocnemius muscle; its two heads. The tendon of the biceps forms the outer hamstring; and the sartorius with the tendons of the gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus, the inner hamstring.