51 CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. narrow and long, and the included spinal fo- ramen large and triangular. The superior in- tervertebral notches are slightly deeper than the inferior; the inferior being the broadest. The spinous process is short and bifid at the extre- mity, increasing in length from the fourth to the seventh. The transverse processes are also short and bifid, and deeply grooved along the upper surface for the cervical nerves. Piercing the base of the transverse process is the vertebral foramenf, which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein, and vertebral plexus of nerves, in this region are formed by two small developments which proceed, the one from the side of the body, the other from the pedicle of the vertebra, and unite near their extremities to enclose the circular area of the vertebral foramen. The anterior of these developments is the rudiment of a cervi- cal rib ; and the posterior, the analogue of the transverse processes in the dorsal region. The extremities of these developments are the anterior and posterior tubercles of the transverse process. The articular processes are oblique ; the superior looking upwards and backwards; and the infe- rior, downwards and fonvards. There are three peculiar vertebrae in the cervical region:—The first, or atlas ; the second, or axis; and the seventh, or vertebra prominens. The Jitlas (named from supporting the head) is a simple ring of bone, without body, and composed of arches and processes. The anterior arch has a tubercle on its anterior surface, for the attachment ofthelongus colli muscle : and on its posterior aspect is a smooth surface, for the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis. The posterior arch is longer and more slender than the anterior, and flattened from above dowmwards; at its middle is a rudimentary spinous process; and upon its upper surface, near the articular pro- cesses, a shallow^ groove§ at each side, which represents a superior intervertebral notch, and supports the vertebral artery previously to its passage through the dura mater, and the first cervical nerve. * A central cervical vertebra, seen upon its upper surface. 1. The body, concave in the middle, and rising on each side into a sharp ridge. 2. The lamina. 3. The pedi- cle, rendered concave by the superior intervertebral notch. 4. The bifid spinous process. 5. The bifid transverse process. The figure is placed in the concavity between the an- terior and posterior tubercles, between the two processes which correspond with the rudimentary rib and the true transverse process. 6. The vertebral foramen. 7. The superior articular process, looking backwards and upwards. 8. The inferior articular process. t Sometimes, as in a vertebra now before me, a small additional opening exists by the side of the vertebral foramen, in which case it is traversed by a second vein. t 1 he upper surface of the atlas. 1. The anterior tubercle projecting from the ante- rior arch. 2. The articular surface for the odontoid process upon the posterior surface of' the anterior arch. 3. The posterior arch, with its rudimentary spinous process. 4. The intervertebral notch. 5. The transverse process. 6. The vertebral foramen. 7. Superior articular surface. 8. The tubercle for the attachment of the transverse liga ment. The tubercle referred to is just above the head of the figure ; the convexity be low it is the margin of the inferior articulating process. § This groove is sometimes converted into a foramen. Fig. 17.* Fig. 16.* The transverse processes