TRACHEA. 491 laryngis is directed upwards, sometimes extending as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and occasionally above that border. When dissected from the interior of the larynx it is found covered by the aryteno- epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which latter is attached to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament below; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered by the thyro-epi- glottideus muscle. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the open- ings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are situated in the submucous tissue, and give to its external surface a rough and ill-dissected appearance. The secretion from these glands is intended for the lubrica- tion of the chordae vocales, and is directed upon them by two small val- vular folds of mucous membrane, which are situated at the entrance of the sacculus. Glands. — The bodies known as the glands of the larynx, namely, the epiglottic and the arytenoid, are very improperly named. The former is a mass of areolo-fibrous and adipose tissue, situated in the triangular space between the front surface of the apex of the epiglottis, the hyo-epiglotti- dean and the thyro-hyoidean ligament. The latter is the body which forms a prominence in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane, and has been described among the cartilages as the cuneiform car- tilage. Vessels and JVerves.— The Artenes of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The JVerves are the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal; both branches of the pneumogastric. The two nerves communicate with each other freely ; but the superior laryngeal is distri- buted principally to the mucous membrane at the entrance of the larynx; the recurrent, to the muscles. THE TRACHEA. The Trachea extends from opposite the fifth cervical vertebra to oppo- site the third dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi. The right bronchus, larger than the left, passes ofif nearly at right angles to the upper part of the corresponding lung. The left descends obliquely, and passes beneath the arch of the aorta, to reach the left lung. The Trachea is composed of— Fibro-cartilaginous rings, Fibrous membrane, Mucous membrane, Longitudinal elastic fibres, Muscular fibres, Glands. The Fibro-cartilaginous rings are from fifteen to twenty in number, and extend for two-thirds around the cylinder of the trachea. They are defi- cient at the posterior part, where the tube is completed by fibrous mem- brane. The last ring has usually a triangular form in front. The rings nvait indiqng et mitre presenter la m6me disposition.” Cruveilhier compares its form very aptly to a “Phrygian casque ” and Morgagni s figure, Ad vers. 1. Epist. Anat. 3. plate fig. 4, has the same appearance. Bu* neither of these anatomists notice the foilicuUu glands described by Mr. Hilton.