403 AUDITORY NERVE. Fig. 182* meatus and mastoid process, and divides into an anterior and a poste- rior branch. The anterior branch receives a filament of communication from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and distributes filaments to the re- trahens and attollens aurem muscles and to the pinna. The posterior branch commu- nicates with the auricularis magnus and occipitalis minor, and is distributed to the poste- rior belly of the occipito-fron- talis. The Stylo-hyoid branch is distributed to the stylo-hyoid muscle. The Digastric branch sup- plies the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, and com- municates with the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerve. The Temporo-facial gives off a number of branches, which are distri- buted over the temple and upper half of the face, supplying the muscles of this region, and communicating with the branches of the auricular, the subcutaneus malae, and the supra-orbital nerve. The inferior branches, which accompany Stenon’s duct, and form a plexus with the terminal branches of the infra-orbital nerve. The Cervico-facial divides into a number of branches that are distri- buted to muscles on the lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. The cervical branches form a plexus with the superficialis colli nerve over the submaxillary gland, and are distributed to the platysma myoides. Auditory Nerve (portio mollis).—The auditory nerve takes its origin in the line* transvers* (strise medullares) of the anterior wall or floor of the fourth ventricle, and winds around the corpus restiforme, from which it receives fibres, to the posterior border of the crus cerebelli. It then passes forwards upon the crus cerebelli in company with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove on its superior surface, and enters the meatus * The distribution of the facial nerve and the branches of the cervical plexus. 1. The facial nerve, escaping from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and crossing the ramus of the Jnver jaw; the parotid gland has been removed :n order to see the nerve more dis- tinctly. 2. The posterior auricular branch; the digastric and stylo-mastoid filaments are seen near the origin of this branch. 3. Temporal branches, communicating with (4) the branches of the frontal nerve. 5. Facial branches, communicating with (6) the infra-orbital nerve. 7. Facial branches, communicating with (8) the mental nerve, k Cervico-facial branches, communicating with (10) the superficialis colli nerve, and forming a plexus (11) over the submaxillary gland. The distribution of the branches of die facial in a radiated direction over the side of the face and their looped commu- nications constitute the pes anserinus. 12. The auricularis magnus nerve, one of the ascending branches of the cervical plexus. 13. The occipitalis minor, ascending along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. 14. The superficial and deep de- scending branches of the cervical plexus. 15. The spinal accessory nerve, giving off a branch to the external surface of the trapezius muscle. 16. The occipitalis major nerve, the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve.