164 ANKLE JOINT. contact. This articulation is so firm that the fibula is likely to be broken in the attempt to rupture the ligament. The anterior inferior ligament is a broad band, consisting of two fasci culi of parallel fibres which pass obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articulation of the two bones at their inferior extremity, from the tibia to the fibula. The posterior inferior ligament (fig. 98, 2) is a similar band upcn th posterior surface of the articulation. Both ligaments project somewdia below the margin of the bones, and serve to deepen the cavity of articu lation for the astragalus. The transverse ligament (fig. 98, 3) is a narrow band of ligamentous fibres, continuous wTith the preceding, and passing transversely across the back of the ankle joint between the two malleoli. The synovial membrane of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, is a duplicature of the synovial membrane of the ankle joint reflected upwards for a short distance between the tw7o bones. Actions.—An obscure degree of movement exists between the tibia and fibula, which is principally calculated to enable the latter to resist injury, by yielding for a trifling extent to the pressure exerted. 4. Ankle joint.—The ankle is a ginglymoid articulation ; the surfaces entering into its formation are the under surface of the tibia wTith its mal- leolus and the malleolus of the fibula, above, and the surface of the astra- galus with its two lateral facets, below. The ligaments are three in number: Anterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia to the astragalus in front of the articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the extensor tendons of the great and lesser toes, with the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, and with the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Posteriorly it lies in contact with (he extra-synovial adipose tissue and with the synovial membrane. Fig. 96.* Fig. 97,-f * An internal view of the ankle joint. 1. The internal malleolus of the tibia. 2, 2 Fait of the astragalus : the rest is concealed by the ligaments. 3. The os calcis. 4. The scaphoid bone. 5. The internal cuneiform bone. 6. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament. 7. The anterior ligament. 8. The tendo Achillis ; a small bursa is seen interposed between the tendon and the tuberosity of the os calcis. j- An external view of the ankle-joint. 1. The tibia. 2. Ihe external malleolus of the fibula. 3, 3. The astragalus. 4. The os calcis. 5. The cuboid bone. 6. The ante- rior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament attached to the astragalus. 7. Its middle iaseiculus, attached to the os calcis. 8. Its posterior fasciculus, attached to the astra gains 9. The anterior ligament of the ankle.