ARCII OF THE AORTA. 279 Relations.—The ascending aorta has in relation with it, in front, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, thoracic fascia, and pericardium ; behind, the right pulmonary veins and artery; to the right side, the right auricle and superior cava; and to the left, the left auricle and the trunk of the pulmonary artery. Plan of the Relations of the Ascending Aorta. In Front. Pericardium, Thoracic fascia, Pulmonary artery. Right Side. Superior cava, Right auricle. Ascending Aorta. Behind. Right pulmonary artery, Right pulmonary veins. Left Side. Pulmonary artery. Left auricle. Arch.—The upper border of the arch of the aorta is parallel with th«* upper border of the second sterno-costal articulation of the right side in front, and the second dorsal vertebra behind, and terminates opposite the lower border of the third. The anterior surface of the arch is crossed by the left pneumogastric nerve, and by the cardiac branches of that nerve and of the sympathetic. The posterior surface of the arch is in relation with the bifurcation of the trachea and great cardiac plexus, the cardiac nerves, left recurrent nerve, and the thoracic duct. The superior border gives off the three great arte- ries, viz. the innominata, left carotid, and left subclavian. The inferior border, or concavity of the arch, is in relation with the remains of the ductus arteriosus, the cardiac ganglion and left recurrent nerve, and has passing beneath it the right pulmonary artery and left bronchus. Plan of the Relations of the Arch of the Aorta. Above. In Front. Left pneumogastric nerve, Cardiac nerves. Arteria innominata, Left carotid, Left subclavian. Behind. Bifurcation of the trachea, Great cardiac plexus, Cardiac nerves, Left recurrent nerve, Thoracic duct. Below. Cardiac ganglion, Remains of ductus arteriosus, Left recurrent nerve, Right pulmonary artery, Left bronchus. Arch of the Aorta. l'he descending aorta is subdivided in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk, into the thoracic and abdominal aorta.