191 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. Fourth Group.—Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus, Stylo-glossus, Hyo- glossus, Palatoglossus. Lingualis, These are already exposed by the preparation we have just made ; there remains, therefore, only to dissect and examine them. The Genio-hyo-glossus, the first of these muscles, has been described with the last group. The Hvo-glossus is a square-shaped plane of muscle, arising from th whole length of the great cornu and from the body of the os hyoides, an inserted between the stylo-glossus and lingualis into the side of the tongue. The direction of the fibres of that portion of the muscle which arises from the body is obliquely backwards ; and that from the great cornu obliquely forwards; hence they are described by Albinus as two distinct muscles, under the names of the basio-glossus, and cerato-glossus, to which he added a third fasciculus, arising from the lesser cornu, and spreading along the side of the tongue, the chondro-glossus. The basio-glossus slightly overlaps the cerato-glossus at its upper part, and is separated from it by the transverse portion of the stylo-glossus. Relations.—By its external surface Fig. no.* with the digastric muscle, the stylo- hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and mylo- hyoideus, with the gustatory nerve, the hypoglossal nerve, Wharton’s duct and the sublingual gland. By its internal surface with the middle constrictor of the pharynx, the lingualis, the genio- hyo-glossus, the lingual artery, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Lingualis.—The fibres of this muscle may be seen towards the apex of the tongue, issuing from the interval between the hyo-glossus and genio- hyo-glossus ; it is best examined by removing the preceding muscle. It consists of a small fasciculus of fibres, running longitudinally from the base, where it is attached to the os hyoides, *o the apex of the tongue. It is in re- lation by its under surface with the ranine artery. * The styloid muscles and the muscles of the tongue. 1. A portion of the temporal 'one o the left side of the skull, including the styloid and mastoid processes, and the meatus auditonus externus. 2, 2. The right side of the lower jaw, divided at its sym- physis; the left side having been removed. 3. The tongue. 4. The genio-hyoideus muscle, o. l ie genio-hyo-glossus. G. The hyo-glossus muscle, its basio-glossus portion V Its cerato-glossus port.on. 8. The anterior fibres of the lingualis issuing from between the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus^ 9. The stylo-glossus muscle, with a small portion > Theyo°,'TX1 r7 i • ,he S7'°-hyoid- 1L The stylo-pharyngeus muscle. ;• nV' ° h{°'de.S• lo- ril,e thyro-hyoidean membrane. 14. The thyroid cartilage, r' 7 thyr°; lyoideus muscle arising from the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage. % \ cartl]a?e- ll- dhe crico-thyroidean membrane, through which the ope- rJIiat^"80101117 1S P ' 18< he tmchea- ly* The commencement ol tb» Ci— CO