105 HUMERUS. the glenoid cavity. It is about two inches in length and very strong; it gives attachment to several ligaments and muscles. Development.—By six centres ; one for the body, one for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the interior angle, and one for the posterior border. The ossific centre for the body appears in the infra- spinous fossa at about the same time with the ossification of the vertebrae ; for the coracoid process during the first year; the acromion process at puberty; the inferior angle in the fifteenth year; and the posterior border at seventeen or eighteen. Union between the coracoid process and body takes place during the fifteenth year; the bone is not complete till manhood. Articulations.—With the clavicle and humerus. Attachment of Muscles.—To sixteen ; by its anterior surface to the sub- scapularis; posterior surface, supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus ; superior border, omo-hyoid ; posterior border, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, rhomboideus major, and serratus magnus; anterior border, long head of the triceps, teres minor, and teres major; upper angle of the glenoid cavity, to the long tendon of the biceps; spine and acromion to the trapezius and deltoid; coracoid process, to the pectoralis minor, short head of the biceps, and coraco-brachialis. The ligaments attached to the coracoid process are, the coracoid, coraco-clavicular, and coraco-humeral, and the costo-coracoid membrane. Humerus.—The humerus is a long bone divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity presents a rounded head; a constriction imme- diately around the base of the head, the neck; a greater and a lesser tuberosity. The greater tuberosity is situated most externally, and is separated from the lesser by a vertical furrow, the bicipital groove, which lodges the long tendon of the biceps. The edges of this groove below the head of the bone are raised and rough, and are called the anterior and posterior bicipital ridge; the former serves for the insertion of the pecto- ralis major muscle, and the latter of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The constriction of the bone below the tuberosities is the surgical neck, and is so named, in contradistinction to the true neck, from being the seat of the accident called by surgical writers fracture of the neck of the humerus. The shaft of the bone is prismoid at its upper part, and flattened from before backwards below. Upon its outer side, at about its middle, is a rough triangular eminence, which gives insertion to the deltoid ; and ini mediately on each side of this eminence is a smooth depression, corres- ponding with the two heads of the brachialis anticus. Upon the inner side of the middle of the shaft is a ridge, for the attachment of the coraco brachialis muscle; and behind, an oblique and shallow groove, which lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The foramen for the medullary vessels is situated upon the inner surface of the shaft of the bone a little below the coraco-braehial ridge; it is directed downwards. The lovjer extremity is flattened from before backwards, and is termi nated inferiorly by a long articular surface, divided into two parts by an elevated ridge. The external portion of the articular surface is a rounded protuberance, eminentia capitata, which articulates with the cup-shaped