60 OCCIPITAL BONE. Fig. 23 * basilar portion of the bone \s the foramen magnum, oblong in form, and larger behind than before, ^transmitting the spinal cord, spinal accessory nerves, and vertebral arteries. Upon the lateral margins of the foramen magnum are two rough eminences, which give attachment to the odon- toid ligaments, and immediately above these the openings of the anterior con- dyloid foramina. In front of the fora- men magnum is the basilar process, grooved on its surface, for supporting the medulla oblongata, and along each lateral border, for the inferior petrosal sinuses. On each side of the foramen magnum is a groove, for the termina- tion of the lateral sinus; a smooth sur- face, which forms part of the jugular fossa; and a projecting process, which divides the two, and is called the jugular eminence. Into the jugular fossa will be seen opening the posterior condyloid foramen. The superior borders are very much serrated, and assist in forming the lambdoidal suture; the inferior are rough, but not serrated, and articulate with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by means of the eddita- mentum suturee lambdoidalis. The jugular eminence and the side of the basilar process articulate with the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the intermediate space, which is irregularly notched, forms the poste- rior boundary of the jugular foramen, or foramen lacerum posterius. The angles of the occipital bone are the superior, inferior, and two lateral. The superior angle is received into the interval formed by the union of the posterior and superior angles of the parietal bones, and cor- responds with that portion of the foetal head which is called the posterior fontanelle. The inferior angle is the articular extremity of the basilar process. The lateral angles at each side project into that interval formed by the articulation of the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Development.—By seven centres ; four for the four parts of the expanded portion divided by the crucial ridge, one for each condyle, and one for the basilar process. Ossification commences in the expanded portion of the bone at a period anterior to the vertebrae; at birth the four remaining pieces are distinct; they are united at about the fifth or sixth year. After twenty the basilar process unites with the body of the sphenoid. * The internal surface of the occipital bone. 1. The left cerebral fossa. 2. The left cerebellar fossa. 3. The groove for the posterior part of the superior longitudinal sinus. 4. The spine for the falx cerebelli, and groove for the occipital sinuses. 5. The groove for the left lateral sinus. 6. The internal occipital protuberance, the groove on which lodges the torcular Herophili. 7. The foramen magnum. 8. The basilar process, grooved for the medulla oblongata. 9. The termination of the groove for the lateral sinus, bounded externally by the jugular eminence. 10. The jugular fossa; this fossa is completed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone. 11. The superior border. 12, The inferior border. 13. The border which articulates with the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and which is grooved by the inferior petrosal sinus. 14. The ante tior crmdy'oid foramen.