302 VARIETIES OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The Superior thoracic (short) frequently arises by a common trunk with the preceding; it runs along the upper border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland, inosculat ing with the intercostal and mammary arteries. The Inferior thoracic (long external mammary) descends along the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest. It is distri- buted to the pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, and subscapu- laris muscle, to the axillary glands and mammary gland ; inosculating with the superior thoracic, intercostal, and mammary arteries. The Thoracica axillaris is a small branch distributed to the plexus of nerves and glands in the axilla. It is frequently derived from one of the other thoracic branches. The Subscapular artery, the largest of the branches of the axillary, runs along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it inosculates with the posterior scapular, a branch of the subclavian. It supplies, in its course, the muscles on the under surface and inferior border of the scapula, and the side of the chest. At about an inch and a half from the axillary, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapula, which passes backwards through the triangular space bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps, and beneath the infra-spinatus to the dorsum of the scapula, where it is distributed, inosculating with the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. The Circumflex arteries wind around the neck of the humerus. The anterior,very small, passes beneath the coracobrachialis- and short head of the biceps, and sends a branch upwards along the bicipital groove to supply the shoulder joint. The Posterior circumflex, of larger size, passes backwards through the quadrangular space bounded by the teres minor and major, the scapular head of the triceps and the humerus, and is distributed to the deltoid muscle and joint. Sometimes this artery is a branch of the superior pro- funda of the brachial. It then ascends behind the tendon of the teres major, and is distributed to the deltoid without passing through the quad- rangular space. The posterior circumflex artery sends branches to the shoulder joint. Varieties of the Axillary artery.—The most frequent peculiarity of this kind is the division of the vessel into two trunks of equal size : a muscular trunk, which gives off some of the ordinary axillary branches and supplies the upper arm, and a continued trunk, which represents the brachial ar- tery. The next most frequent variety is the high division of the ulnai which passes down the arm by the side of the brachial artery, and superfi- cially to the muscles proceeding from the inner condyle, to its ordinary distribution in the hand. In this course it lies immediately beneath the muscle. 8. Its inner head. 9. The axillary artery. 10. The brachial artery ;—a dark line marks the limit between these two vessels. 11. The thoracica acromialis artery dividing into its three branches; the number rests upon the coracoid process. 12. I he superior and inferior thoracic arteries. 13. The serratus magnus muscle. 14. The subscapular artery. The posterior circumflex and thoracica axillaris branches are seen in the figure between the inferior thoracic and subscapular. Tli3 anterior circumflex is observed, between the two heads of the biceps, crossing the neck of the humerus. 15. The superior profunda artery. 16. The inferior profunda. 17. The anastomotica magna inosculating inferiorly with the anterior ulnar recurrent. 18. The termination of the superior profunda, inosculating with the radial recurrent in the interspace be- tween the brachialis anticus and supinator longus.