FISSURES OF TIIE LIVER. 5J7 which divide its surface into five compartments or lobes, two principal and tnree minor lobes ; they are the— Fissures. Longitudinal fissure, Fissure of the ductus venosus, Transverse fissure, Fissure for the gall-bladder, Fissure for the vena cava. Lobes. Right lobe, Left lobe, Lobus quadratus, Lobus Spigelii, Lobus caudatus. The Longitudinal fissure is a deep groove running from the notch upon he anterior margin of the liver, to the posterior border of the organ. At about one-third from its posterior extremity it is joined by a short but deep fissure, the transverse, which meets it transversely from the under part of the right lobe. The longitudinal fissure in front of this junction lodges the fibrous cord of the umbilical vein, and is generally crossed by a band of hepatic sub- stance called the pons hepatis. The Fissure for the ductus venosus is the shorter portion of the longitu- dinal fissure, extending from the junctional termination of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and containing a small fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. This fissure is therefore but a part of the longitudinal fissure. Fig. 227 * is The Transverse fissure is the short and deep fissure, about two inches in length, through which the hepatic ducts, hepatic artery, and portal vein enter the liver. Hence this fissure was considered by the older anatomists as the gate (porta) of the liver; and the large vein entering the organ at * The under surface of the liver. 1. The right lobe. 2. The left lobe. 3. The lobus quadratus. 4. The lobus Spigelii. 5. The lobus caudatus. 6. The longitudinal fissure ; the numeral is placed on the rounded cord, the remains of the umbilical vein. 7. The pons hepatis. 8. The fissure for the ductus venosus; the obliterated cord of the ductus is seen passing backwards to be attached to the coats of the inferior vena cava (9). 10. The gall-bladder lodged in its fossa. 11. The transverse fissure, containing, from before backwards, the hepatic duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein. 12. The vena cava. 13. A depression corresponding with the curve of the colon. 14. A double de* pression produced by the right kidney and its supra-renal capsule. 15. The rough sur face on the posterior border of the liver left uncovered by peritoneum ; the cut edge or peritoneum surrounding this surface forms part of the coronary ligament, id. The notch on the anterior border, separating the two lobes. 17. The notch on the posterior border, corresponding with the vertebral column. 44