447 SECOND TUNIC. of the cornea proper,” and of the lining membrane of the anterior chamber of die eyeball The cornea elastica is remarkable for its perfect transpa- rency, even when submitted for many days to the action of water orjalco- hol; while the cornea proper is rendered opaque by the same immersion. To expose this membrane, Dr. Jacob suggests that the eye should be placed in water for six or eight days, and, then, that all the opaque cornea should be removed layer after layer. Another character of the cornea elastica is its great elasticity, which causes it to roll up when divided or torn, in the same manner as the capsule of the lens. The use of this layer, according to Dr. Jacob, is to “ preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper.” The opacity of the cornea, produced by pressure on the globe, results from the infiltration of fluid into the areolar tissue connecting its layers. This appearance cannot be produced in a sound living eye. Dissection.—The sclerotic and cornea are now to be dissected away from the second tunic; this, with care, may be easily performed, the only connexions subsisting between them being at the circumference of the iris, the entrance of the optic nerve, and the perforation of the ciliary nerves and arteries. Pinch up a fold of the sclerotic near its anterior circumfer- ence, and make a small opening into it, then raise the edge of the tunic, and with a pair of fine scissors, having a probe point, divide the entire circumference of the sclerotic, and cut it away bit by bit. Then separate it from its attachment around the circumference of the iris by a gentle pressure with the edge of the knife. The dissection of the eye must be conducted under water. In the course of this dissection the ciliary nerves and long ciliary arteries will be seen passing forwards between the sclerotic and choroid to be dis- tributed to the iris. Second tunic.—The second tunic of the eyeball is formed by the cho- roid, ciliary ligament, and iris, the ciliary processes being an appendage developed from its inner surface. The Choroid* is a vascular membrane of a rich chocolate-brown colour upon its external surface, and of a deep black colour within. It is con- nected to the sclerotic, externally, by an extremely fine areolar tissue, and by nerves and vessels. Internally it is in simple contact with the third tunic of the eye, the retina. It is pierced posteriorly for the passage of the optic nerve, and is connected anteriorly with the iris, ciliary processes, and with the line of junction of the cornea and sclerotic, by a dense white structure, the ciliary ligament, which surrounds the circumference of the iris like a ring. The choroid membrane is composed of three layers:—an external or venous layer, which consists principally of veins arranged in a peculiar manner: hence they have been named venae vorticosce. The marking on * The word choroid has been very much abused in anatomical language ; it was origi- nally applied to the membrane of the foetus called chorion from the Greek word ydpiov, domicilium, that membrane being, as it were, the abode or receptacle of the fetus Xoptov comes from %topsu>, to take or receive. Now it so happens that the chorion m the ovum is a vascular membrane of peculiar structure. Hence the term choroid, *optov h6oj. like the chorion, has been used indiscriminately to signify vascular structures, as in the choroid membrane of the eye, the choroid plexus, &,c., and we find Crnveil- hier in his work on Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 463, saying in a note, “ Choro'ide est synonyme de vasculeuse.”