287 TRANSVERSAL IS FACIEI. 4. The Mastoid artery turns downwards from its origin, to be dis- tributed to the sterno-mastoid muscle, and to the lymphatic glands ol the neck; sometimes it is replaced by two small branches. 5. The Occipital artery, smaller than the anterior branches, passes backwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, the trachelo- mastoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It then ascends between the splenius and complexus muscles, and divides into two branches which are distributed upon the occiput, anastomosing with the opposite occipital, the posterior auricular, and temporal artery. The hypoglossal nerve curves around this artery near its origin from the external carotid. Branches.—It gives off only two branches deserving of name, the infe- rior meningeal and princeps cervicis. The Inferior meningeal ascends by the side of the internal jugular vein, and passes through the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed to the dura mater. The Arteria princeps cervicis is a large and irregular branch. It de- scends the neck between the complexus and semi-spinaJis colli, and inos- culates with the profunda cervicis of the subclavian. This branch is the means of establishing a very important collateral circulation between the branches of the carotid and subclavian, after the ligature of the common carotid artery. 6. The Posterior auricular artery arises from the external carotid, above the level of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and ascends be- neath the lower border of the parotid gland, and behind the concha, to be distributed by two branches to the external ear and side of the head, anas- tomosing with the occipital and temporal arteries; some of its branches pass through fissures in the fibro-cartilage, to be distributed to the anterior surface of the pinna. The anterior auricular arteries are branches of the temporal. Branches.—The posterior auricular gives off but one named branch, the stylo-mastoid, which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen to be distributed to the aquaeductus Fallopii and tympanum. 7. The Ascending pharyngeal artery, the .smallest of the branches of the external carotid, arises from that trunk near its bifurcation, and as- cends between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, where it divides into two branches; meningeal, which enters the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed to the dura mater; and ;pharyngeal. It supplies the pharynx, tonsils, and Eustachian tube. 8. The Parotidean arteries are four or five large branches which are given off from the external carotid whilst that vessel is situated in the pa- rotid gland. They are distributed to the structure of the gland, their ter- minal branches reaching the integument and the side of the face. 9. The Transversalis Faciei arises from the external carotid, whilst that trunk is lodged within the parotid gland; it crosses the massetei muscle, lying parallel with and a little above Stenon’s duct; and is dis- tributed to the teinporo-maxillary articulation, and to the muscles and in