KITCHEN GARDEN. 68 " Or, if you prefer : tie in bundles the beet you have carefully chosen, wash it, throw iu some nitre, and boil it with water; then put it into a saucepan with sun-raisin wine, pepper, cummin, and a little oil; at the moment of ebullition add a mixture of gravy and coarsely chopped walnuts; cover the saucepan for an instant, uncover, and serve."" The skilful artist is pleased for the third time to mention this culi- nary herb; and this is the new preparation which he gives :— " When you have boiled beet in water until it is tender, add a pulp of leeks, some coriander, and cummin seed, carefully combined with flour and sun-made wine; place these different ingredients in a saucepan, and add gravy, oil, and vinegar."33 By tasting one of these dishes you will be convinced that Martial did not understand them; or, perhaps, he composed his epigram after dinner. One species of beet is well known in its two principal varieties, under the name of beet-root and white-beet. The southern parts of Europe appear to be the native countries of the beet. It serves as food for both man and cattle. Sugar is extracted from the root, and potash from the stalks and leaves. Beet-root is preserved, after stripping it completely of its leaves, and the earth which remains on them, in greenhouses, in dry cellars, and even in trenches covered with earth, in layers, lengthwise, with sand. They are thus preserved until the following May. " Beet-root is eaten cooked in ashes or in water, and seasoned in various ways; they are excellent in salad, either by themselves, or mixed with endives or dandelion, &c."—Bosc. SPINACH. It does not appear that spinach was known to the Greeks and Romans. Some authors think that it might be the chrysolacanon of the Greeks,31 but it is probable that this was no other than the orach;35 Beckmann30 thinks, with several botanists, that this plant came from Spain; and, indeed, it has been often called the Spanish vef/ctabk'.37 We only speak of this plant by way of memento, and regret that our