54 DRIED VEGETABLES. eminence over all that were boiled in the saucepan, and offered to the God of Day and the Fine Arts.8 Is it possible to imagine a more brilliant rehabilitation ? If we are to believe Isidorus, this plant was the first culinary vege- table of which man made use ;9 he was, therefore, bound to preserve a grateful remembrance of it. King David did not deem it unworthy of him,10 and the Prophet Ezekiel was commanded to mix it with the different grains of which he made his bread.11 We possess few certain indications proving the different culinary combinations1 to which beans gave rise among the ancients. All we know is, that they ate them boiled,12 perhaps with bacon; raw,13 with salt, we should imagine ; or fried14 with fat, butter, or oil. Two kinds especially attracted the attention of true connoisseurs of that class of gourmets elect, whose palate is ever testing, and whose sure taste detects and appreciates shades, of almost imperceptible tenuity —first, the bean of Egypt, recommended for its rich, nutritious, and whole- some pulp; this bean was also cultivated in Syria and Cilicia:" and secondly, the Greek bean, which passed at Rome for a most delicious dish.16 Certain gastronomists, however, preferred another vegetable of which we are going to speak. Ever since the middle ages the bean has played a very important part in the famous " Twelfth-night cake," almost all over Europe. The ephemeral royalty it bestowed was often sung by the poets, and consecrated in chronicles. Thomas Eandolph informs us that Lady Elemyng was queen of the bean in 15G3.17 Some clays after the Duke of Guise was assassinated by Poltrot. History has its puerilities as well as its great tragedies. The Spaniards had also their Twelfth-night cake. When John, Duke of Braganza, had obtained the crown of Portugal (J 640), Phi- lip IV. of Spain informed Count Olivares of the event, and added, as if it were a consolation for the loss of a kingdom, that this new sovereign was nothing more than a "king of the bean."18 Philip was mistaken. These cakes were made in former days nearly in the same manner that we make them now. Sometimes they contained honey, flour, ginger, and pepper. One portion was for God, another for the Holy Virgin, and three others for the Magi; that is to say, they gave all these portions to the poor.19