CEREALS. 22 Africa furnished 40,000,000 of bushels; Egypt 20,000,000, and the remainder came from Greece, Asia, Syria, Gaul, and Spain.40 The erudite are not agreed as to the aboriginal country of corn: some say it is Egypt, others Tartary, and the learned Bailly, as well as the traveller Pallas, affirm that it grows spontaneously in Siberia. Be that as it may, the Phocians brought it to Marseilles before the Romans had penetrated into Gaul. The Gauls ate the corn cooked, or bruised in a mortar; they did not know for a long time how to make fermented bread. The Chinese attribute to Ohin-Nong, the second of the nine emperors of China who preceded the establishment of the dynasties (more than 2,207 years B.C.), the discovery of corn, rice, and other cereals. We find in the Black Book of the Exchequer, that in the reign of Henry I., when they reduced the victuals (for the king's household) to the estimate of money, a measure of wheat to make bread for the service of one hundred men, one day, was valued only at one shilling.41 But in the reign of Henry III., about the 43rd year, the price was mounted up to fifteen and twenty shillings a quarter.'12 The ancients, as well as the moderns, caused wheat to undergo certain- preparations to enable it to be transformed into bread, we shall enume- rate in the following chapter the different processes by which they obtained flour, the essential foundation of the food of man. Cereals.—This name has been given to all plants of the gramineous family, the fundamental base of the food of man. The cereals, properly speaking, are limited to wheat, rye, barley, and oats; however, there are others, such as canary grass, Indian corn, millet, rice, &c, &c. The immediate and most abundant principle of all these plants is the fecule, or flour, and the vegeto-animal matter of which bread is made, and other preparations for food, and fermented liquors; these cereals are given green or dry to cattle as forage; their straw covers houses, and serves as litter and manure. Cereals was also the name given to a feast in honour of Ceres, insti- tuted at Rome by the edile Mumonius, and celebrated every year on the ?th of April. The ladies of Rome appeared clothed in white, and holding torches in remembrance of the travels of that divinity. Cakes sprinkled with salt and grains of incense, honey, milk, and wine, were offered to that goddess. Pigs were sacrificed to her. The cereals of die Romans were the thesmophories with the Greeks.