374 THE TABLE SEATS. the skins of clogs or wolves." These different authorities are easily re- conciled ; for they relate to different cantons of Gaul. The use of couches was not unknown in the middle ages; we find the proof of it in the fabliaux of the 13th century. We have also the description of a magnificent repast given by a bishop to two great officers of Charlemagne, at which the prelate was seated, or lying, on feather cushions.68 But this fashion was unsuccessful, and people preferred wooden seats and stools, covered with carpet. When they gave a great feast, they seated the guests on benches—bancs—whence comes the word "banquet."69 Henry III. of France introduced arm-chairs for himself, and folding stools for his suite.70 Sometimes people eat on the floor. St. Arnold, Bishop of Soissons, took his repast in that manner on the day of the dedication of a church, after having had carpets spread on the ground.71 In winter the banqueting place was spread with straw or hay, and in summer with grass and leaves. Pub- licans and tavern-keepers decorated their rooms in like manner.72 The gallautry of the middle ages had led to the adoption of a rather singular custom, which consisted in placing the guests two and two, man and woman, and serving for each couple one common dish, which they called " eating ,in the same porringer." Neither had they more than one cup. In families the same goblet served for all. Saint Ber- landa was disinherited by her father, who was exasperated because, under pretext that he was leprous, she had washed his goblet before making use of it for herself.73 A passage in Martial would seem to imply that the guests, among the Eomans, laid the cloth themselves ;74 that is to say, they spread on the sigma the stuff, more or less precious, with which it was to be adorned. A somewhat whimsical custom was established in the middle ages of chivalry. When it was intended to affront any one, a herald, or king-at- arms, was sent to cut the cloth before him, and turn his bread upside down. That was called " cutting away the cloth," and was practised in reference to cowards and faithless vassals. It is thought that Bertrand Duguesclin was the originator of this custom.75 Mention is made of table-cloths in the life of St. Eloi. They were in use on common tables; but the costly ones were not covered. These cloths were plushed and shaggy, as Ave find by the description of Nigcllus, the author of a poem on Louis-le-Debonnaire. They were of vast dimensions. In the inventory of certain effects in the monastery