MODERN BANQUETS.* We have endeavoured to describe in the preceding pages some of those antique entertainments, which seem to he the summum bonum of the gigantic power of those shameless dominators of the Roman empire, whose reigns might be counted as so many banquets, and for whom the entire world was transformed into one vast market. We are reduced to despair when we attempt to depict such sensualism, and we also despair of inspiring belief. When one goes back into those old pagan times,—when one shuts out the world as it is, to evoke the manners and customs of days gone by, and breathe in their atmosphere,—the mind experiences a sort of stupefaction, so much is it immersed in the senses, so thick is the moral dark- ness, so low has man fallen ! And, as if it had been decreed that everything should concur to consummate the annihilation of the human species, on the one hand, almost the whole family of man was, for the first time since their dispersion, collected into one body under the Roman domination, which spread its corruption throughout the several members ; while, on the other hand, the hordes of barbarians who pressed round—like fero- cious beasts waiting till the arena opened—were about to over-run the earth, in the absence of any civilising element that could interpose to stay the destruction, by snatching the conquered from the hands of victory, and the conquerors them- selves from their own ferocity. It belongs not to us to portray this fearful cataclysm, this sudden transition from the development of all the arts which perpetuate the enjoyments of life to the profound ignorance, the savage rudeness, which the northern conquerors im- posed on enslaved Europe. The fifth was the last century of Rome. It was then that barbarism be- came everywhere victorious. The Vandals were masters of Africa,"the Lombards of Italy, the "Visigoths of Spain, the Franks of Gaul. Literature followed the destiny of the empire, and seemed to perish at the same time. It is, however, impossible for nations not to receive, as an inheritance from people civilised before themselves, a great part of their intellectual cultivation. Happily modern Europe was swayed by this law : the barbarians reduced Rome by the force of arms, —Rome triumphed in the long run over the barbarians by the genius of civi- lisation and her arts. * The following descriptions of various banquets and bills of fare are bore introduced, in the anticipation that in aftel years they may prove interesting, and induce, for tbe future, culinary artists to enlarge and preserve those magiric archives.