FEATHERED GAME. 190 The Athenians were fond of seeing them fight, and raised them for this cruel sport.23 Alexander Severus also sought in these sanguinary struggles relief from the cares of royalty.24 Aristippus, a more humane, perhaps a more luxurious, philosopher, gave as much as fourteen shillings for a fine fat partridge,25 which, passing from the aviary to the kitchen, escaped the fatal vicissitudes of a desperate combat. In Greece, people who knew how to enjoy life thought much of the leg of this warlike bird.20 It was fashionable not to touch any other part. At Eome, when politeness was not of so much consequence, they sometimes ventured on the breast. We, barbarians, eat the entire partridge. THE QUAIL. The dead may be raised by the means of a quail, said the ancients. Now for the proof: Hercules having been killed in Lybia, Iolaiis took one of these birds, which fortunately happened to be at hand, and placed it beneath his friend's nose. The hero no sooner smelt it than his eyes opened to the light, and Acheron was forced to give up his prey.27 The learned Bochart denies this prodigy.28 He affirms that Hercules was subject to epileptic attacks, and that, during a fit, they caused him to smell a quail, whose odour quickly cured him.29 The Phoenicians insisted that he was quite dead, and they all cried out, "A miracle!"30 The reader must decide between them and Bochart. In the Desert the Israelites fed on quails ;31 and this food, reserved for them by Divine goodness, caused no discomfort among the fugitive tribes. The Greeks served them on their tables with partridges :32 they raised them in aviaries, and eat them all the year round.33 Aristotle speaks most highly of them, and does not attribute to them any dangerous property.3* However, quails were banished from all Boman tables: they were no longer carefully fattened :35 they were cursed, and accused of causing epilepsy in those who partook of their fatal and seductive flesh.30 The authority of Galen confirmed this strange pre- judice,37 and these innocent birds, having lost all reputation in Italy, no