12 AGRICULTURE. on tillage and sowing, and also on the gathering of olives, on the tithes which were paid to the priests, and the portion set aside for- the poor. They also mention some species of excellent wheat, barley, rice, figs, dates, &c, which were gathered in Judea.14 The soil of this delicious country was astonishingly fertile,15 the opera- tion of tillage was easy, and the cattle here supplied a greater abundance of milk than anywhere else;16 we will just remark that even the names of several localities indicate some of these advantages. For instance, Capernaum signified a beautiful country town; Gennesareth, the garden of the groves; Bethsaida, the house of plenty ; Nain was indebted for its sweet name to the beauty of its situation; and Magdela, on the borders of the sea of Galilee, to its site, and the happy life of its inha- bitants. Next to the Hebrews, in agriculture, came the Egyptians, a strange and fantastical people, who raised the imperishable pyramids, the statue of Memnon, and the lighthouse of Alexandria, and who yet prayed reli- giously every morning to their goddess—^radish, or their gods—leek and onion.17 Whatever there may be of folly and rare industry in this mix- ture, we cannot but agree that the art of agriculture was very ancient in Egypt, as the father of the faithful—Abraham—retired into that country at a time of famine ;18 and, later, the sons of Jacob went there also to purchase corn.19 We know that the Romans called this province the granary of the empire, and that they drew from it every year twenty million bushels of corn.20 If we are to believe the Egyptians, Osiris, son of Jupiter (and hence a demi-god of good family), taught them the art of tilling the ground by aid of the plough.21 This instrument, we may easily believe, was much less complicated than ours of the present day; there is no doubt that in the beginning, and for a great length of time afterwards, DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. L No. 1. Represents nn Egyptian labourer tilling the ground with a pickaxe of a simple form ; drawn at Thebes, by Mons. Neetoul, member of the commission of the French expedition in Egypt, from point- ings in the subterranean vaults of Minich. No. 2. Is a sketch of the plough, which a great number of Egyptian figures hold as an attribute ; this was taken from the subterranean vault of Eileithya; it represents the plough guided by a labourer, and drawn by oxen tied by the horns, and whipped by a second labourer, whilst a third, placed by the side of the oxen, throws before them the seeds which are to be covered by the ploughed earlh. No. 3. A basket to carry the seeds. On the tombs of the kings of Thebes is seen painted a sower, •with a basket like this, an attribute which is seen hanging on the back of the divinity Osiris. No. 4. Represents an Egyptian with a sickle, much like in shape to a scythe; and Denon, of the French expedition, proved that corn was also cut with a scythe.