27(i SEASONINGS. Others, thinking this little tale on the subject of cinnamon rather too dramatic, pretended that the shrub furnishing it was found only on high mountains, to which man was forbidden all access. But fortunately certain birds—the phoenix, among others—great amateurs of aromatics, make their nests of its small branches ; these nests are taken, and in this manner, whether the year be good or bad, a sufficient stock of cinnamon is obtained without much trouble.7'1 Pliny recognises two kinds of it— one white, the other black, both of which were brought to Rome from Ethiopia, in the reign of Vespasian.75 Eighty years after (a.d. 104), Galen informs us that cinnamon was still very scarce in Italy; that the Emperors alone possessed any; and that they even preserved it among the curiosities they made it their pleasure to collect and keep in their palaces.70 The same writer regards this so precious and uncommon cinnamon as an excellent cordial and a good digestive.77 We may add that it was only well known in Europe after the fre- quent voyages of the Portuguese to India.78 However, in 1103, an abbot of St. Gilles, in Languedoc, having a favour to ask of Louis-le-Jeuue, thought there was no better means of persuading him to grant it than to send him a small stock of cinnamon.79 Our forefathers (in the middle ages) had their tables furnished with linnamon sauce; nutmeg, mustard, and garlic sauces; cold sauces; parsley and vinegar sauces, hot sauces, hell sauces, burgher sauces; cherry, plum, mulberry, grape, gorse, rose, and flower sauces. They were served with roast meat. Cinnamon is daily employed in medicine, in diarrhoea, several fevers, &c, &c, and in pharmacy. That from China is much thicker than the others, its colour darker, and its odour more powerful; essential oil is drawn from it, and preserved in flagons, sealed with the arms of government, and sold at a very high price. CLOVES. Cloves were very little known to the ancients. Theophrastus, Dioscorides, and Galen do not speak of them. Pliny says that some cloves were brought to Rome, very similar to