200 FEATHERED GAME. China is covered with spawn, which has the appearance of half-dissolved glue, and that he had learned from the Malays and the Cochin Chinese that the salangan builds its nest with this spawn. All agreed on this point. The bird picks it up as he skims the water, or from the rocks where the spawn coagulates. It is at the end of July and the com- mencement of August that the Cochin Chinese collect the nests, and, as the young birds are hatched in March and April, the species do not suffer by it. By the subsequent examination of these nests it was found that they presented the form of the half of a hollow, lengthened ellipsoid. They are composed, externally, of very thin laminae, nearly concentric, and laid one over the other. The interior presents several layers of irregular net-work, superposed one over another, and formed of a multi- tude of threads of the same matter as the external laminae, and which cross and re-cross in every direction. Their composition, which has a slight taste of salt, is of a yellowish white and demi-transparent; it softens in warm water without dissolving, and increases in volume. It is a substantial food, and would be excel- lent for persons suffering from exhaustion, whose debile stomachs ill perform their functions. Poivre declares that he never eat anything more fortifying than a pottage made with these nests and some good meat. The salangan nests are of two sorts—the white and the black It appears that the white nests are those of the same year, and that the black ones belong to an epoch less recent. The birds are engaged about two months in preparing them, and the Chinese do not take them away until the young ones are feathered, and begin to be pretty strong on the wing.104 This nomenclature would be incomplete, did we not briefly mention some kinds of game which appeared with more or less favour on-the tables of the ancients. The Wood-Hen, dear to the Greeks/4 was not common at Eome in the time of Varro. The curious reared them in aviaries with other rare birds.85 The Bustard, the Water-Hen, and the Teal, found many admirers.86