347 REPASTS. Solon decreed that the Athenians should assemble at the Prytanea to eat together—sometimes one, sometimes another—at the public ex- pense. Each was invited in his tarn, and was expected to be there on the day named.85 The Prytanea of Athens, Megara, Olympia, and Cyzica, contained a great number of porticoes, under which were the tables at which the citizens sat. The founder of Eome also had the wisdom to ordain that, in certain cases, the inhabitants of the same ward should take their repasts in common, as a sign of peace and good feeling; nay, more: he decreed these suppers to be a part of the religious worship, and they were called " sacred banquets."86 Man abuses every thing. The Eomans, tired of eating merely to support life, and disdaining, little by little, that austere sobriety which rendered them the masters of the world, gave themselves up at last to unbridled luxury, Avhich appears to have redoubled during the war of Italy, and the civil wars of Marius, 83 B.C. Cornelius Sylla assumed the government, and one of the terrible dictator's laws {Lex Cornelia) renewed the ancient sumptuary regulations, and fixed the prices of pro- visions.87 Julius Csesar also made great efforts to oppose the redoubt- able invasions of Eoman gastronomy. That prince stationed guards in the markets, with orders to seize whatever they found there in contra- vention of the laws. If, through want of vigilance or fidelity, they allowed anything to escape, it was sure to be confiscated by more active agents, on the very tables, and in presence of the assembled guests.88 Eesistance only increased the evil. Augustus thought to render the laws more efficacious by modifying them. He permitted twelve persons to meet in honour of the twelve great gods, and to spend eight shillings in ordinary repasts; twelve shillings in the banquets of the calends, the ides, and the nones; and even two pounds on wedding days and the day following.89 Tiberius granted still more. Under his reign, a worthy citizen might spend for supper the sum of four pounds, without having to fear that any one would find fault with it.00 Caligula, Claudius, and Nero—doubtless better judges of liberty than their predecessors—allowed every one the right to ruin himself as joy- ously as he pleased. These good princes, so far from repressing the luxury of the table, strove to fortify it with the authority of their examples.01 w 2