STONE EKUIT. CHERRY TREE. When on a very hot summer day some inviting cherries deliciously quench our burning thirst, we very little think of offering to Mithridates a souvenir of affection and gratitude. Such is man : he enjoys his wealth, and cares very little for the benefactor who has procured it for him. This ancient King of Pontus, of toxologic memory, and better known by physicians than gardeners, did not, however, pass the whole of his life in composing poisons and their antidotes; for his royal hands planted, and sometimes grafted, and it is to this useful pastime that we are indebted53 for the sweet fruit, the name of which recalls to mind the city or country which was its birth-place. Ancient authors have told us, it is true, that Europe is indebted for its cherries to Lucullus,54 and that he made use of the cherry tree to ornament his triumphal car; honour is therefore due to the Eoman general, but on condition that Mithridates shall lose nothing of his glory, or be eclipsed by the renown of this great conqueror. The researches of several naturalists lead us to believe that cherry trees already existed at that period in Gaul. This tree delights in cold climates; and the wildest forests of France contain almost the whole of its varieties. Perhaps at Kome they knew no other than the wild cherry tree, which on that account was very little sought after, and Lucullus probably brought it to notice by bringing some grafts or fruits from Cerasus. In this manner the passage of Pliny" and that of Virgil56 can very well be explained, which present the cherry tree as a new guest. Moreover, the Milesian, Xenophanes, and the physician, Diphilus of Siphne, have spoken of cherries long before Lucullus was in existence. Diphilus praises them in the strongest terms ; he says they are stomachic, and have a delicious flavour.67 This certainly cannot apply to the sour wild fruit which is to be met with in the woods, and with which the most inexperienced palate is never twice caught. At all events the authority of Theophrastus would be sufficient to remove all doubts, if any still remained. He informs us that, in his time, the good cherries of Mithridates passed from Lower Asia into