DRINKING CUPS. 319 apartment: the hardest metal could never have resisted this terrible shock. Ccesar appeared moved, and was silent. The artist, with a triumphant smile, picked up the vase, which had only a slight dent, and which, by striking it with the hammer, was soon brought to its original state. This being done, no doubt remained on his mind that he had conquered the good graces of the Emperor, and the esteem of an astonished court. Tiberius asked him if he was the only one who knew how to work crystal in so remarkable a manner ? The workman imme- diately answered that no one possessed his secret. " Very well," said Caesar, " let his head be struck off without loss of time; for if this strange invention were known, gold and silver would very soon have not the least value."27 Thus did the Emperor Tiberius encourage artists and the arts. There were, besides, cups made of the most pure crystal, " the brittleness of which seems to have added to their jDi-ico,"28 and which were paid for dearer than gold and precious stones ;2D but much less, however, than those famous Murrhine vases, which have so long exer- cised the useless sagacity of ancient commentators. Among the rich spoils that Pompey, conqueror of Mithridates and master of a part of Asia, ostentatiously displayed in his triumph,30 the Romans, for the first time, admired vases and cups, the material and workmanship of which surpassed all that the imagination could fancy the most graceful and delicate.31 They were much in request; the price was exorbitant, and thenceforth they were indispensable. One of the ancient consuls thought himself too happy to give only a little more than £G,000 for one of those Murrhines. Such was the name given to this brittle and rare novelty. Petronius paid for a large basin £28,800; DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XX. This vase, made of one single piece of crystal, is in its original size; the delicacy of the work gives a great value to it. The body of the vase, and all other parts in relief, are of glass. It was discovered in 1725, and is preserved in the cabinet of the Marquis of Trivulsi, at Milan. The fillet round the body, and those forming the ordinary motto of the feasts—" BIDE VIVAS MULTIS ANNIS"— are isolated from the body of the cup about one quarter of an inch, and are attached to it by threads or fillets of glass, very fine. They are not soldered to the cup, but the whole of the labour is worked on a turning lathe, being seen more or less angular as the instrument may have been led to penetrate in the most difficult pirns. The inscription is green; the fillet is blue: these two colours are very bright. The cup is an opaque or changing colour, without being able to distinguish whether that hue was intended to be bo, as it happens to glass which has remained a long while buried, exposed to the vapours of a dunghill, or a sewer, &c, &c. A second antique vase is known to exist, whose work- manship is similar.'—" Mistoire dc I'An" Liv. I., Chap. I., page .15.—Paris : Janson.