THIS KITCHEN. 2(11 The stags' feet which terminate the handles, and the fillets with which they are ornamented, bear witness by their execution to the rare talent of the goldsmith. They are five inches and a half in length, and have only two prongs.80 Other servants dispose the earthenware pails, in which the wine is to be placed to cool,81 and prepare the drinking cups and crystal flagons.82 One of them replenishes with vinegar, salt} and pepper, little vases de- signated by the name of acetabulum, " vinegar cruet." 83 These are so many models of the most exquisite elegance, in bronze, silver, and, sometimes, gold. They are manufactured simply of earthenware, for the use of the middle classes of people.Si The knives, destined to serve at table, are of brilliant steel, and care- fully sharpened; they bear each on the handle some whimsical ornament, and seem to have served as models for those which were so much in fashion towards the beginning of the 17th century, and which were called Chinese knives.85 The most precious plate is arranged before the arrival of the guests on the abacus, or sideboard, which decorates the dining room. This splendid piece of furniture, which will be noticed hereafter, was intro- duced into Rome 187 years B.C. It was also called the Delphic table.80 However, the Archimagirus has drawn up a list of the repast, which contains the bill of fare of the dishes, and which, both in Greece and Rome, was always presented to the guests.87 He descends from his platform, and goes to cast an inspiring glance on the work of each subordinate. Nothing escapes his learned investigation, from the peacocks' eggs of the first service, to the soft cheese commonly eaten at the third.88 Above all, he examines with minute attention the ovens, at which preside those second cooks of whose talents he is not certain, and who belong to that class of erratic artists who are to be met with every day at the forum, DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XV. No. 1. Roman silver spoon, found at Autun, in France. Martial says expressly that spoons were used by the ancients to eat eggs and shell fish. No. 2. Brass knife, from Herculaneum. The shape of the handle is rather singular, being too small for the hand, but it was probably covered with horn, wood, or ivory. However, it may have been, the knife is thirteen inches in length, from the tip to the ring, which was used to hang it up. The handle is three inches long, and the blade in its largest width is one inch and a quarter. It was used- no doubt for sacrifices. No. 3. A simpulum, or a sort of spoon for salt or eggs. No. 4. A simpulum, or cup with a long handle, commonly ending with a hook, which was used as a ladle to take wine or other liquids out of large vessels. No. 5. Fork mentioned in the text, and given as antique in the " Ricm il d' Autiq.," III., PI. ot