SEASONINGS. 2GS exacting a duty for e.very measure carried away. But, wonderful to relate, hardly was the royal edict published, when the salt springs were found to be so nearly dried up, that they hardly furnished wherewith to season a small stew. Lysimachus comprehended the meaning of this prodigy, and abolished the tax. The salt re-appeared.8 At Eome, in the time of her Kings, every one was free to sell salt, and its price became excessively high. The republican government withdrew this right from private individuals, and from that time the common people easily procured all the salt they required, and which they willingly eat with bread.9 Ancus Martius was the first Kornan who established salt works near Ostia towards the mouth of the Tiber.10 Afterwards, others were formed, not only in Eome, but in the provinces. These were of two kinds, public and private. The first belonged to the republic, and formed part of the emperor's domain; malefactors were condemned to labour in the salt-works, and it was generally women on whom this punishment was inflicted.11 Ancus Martius was also the first who placed a duty on salt. It was abolished after the expulsion of the Kings, but was afterwards again established. Down to the 14th century salt was a commodity of trade open to every one in France. Philip the Long and Philip of Valois were the first to impose a momentary tax on it; but after the fatal battle of Poictiers, in which John was taken prisoner, Charles, his son, in order to pay the ransom of that monarch, had recourse, among other extraordinary means, to the establishment of the salt tax. The idea was found to be good, and it has never since been given up.12 There are four sorts of salt which are employed to season dishes, obtained either from the evaporation of sea water, from certain lakes or salt marshes, and also from saliferous sources drawn out of the bosom of the earth in compact masses. Its particular savour is well known; it is soluble in water, and easily becomes damp. In the scientific language, this substance is called hydrochlorate of soda. BRINE. This was water in which bay salt had been dissolved. At Eome, it was served at table to be mixed with the meat precisely in the same