410 MODERN BANQUETS. We hardly need mention the annual entertainment which takes place on the 9th of November, when the city of London makes a king of a citizen. In the course of the year 1844, King Louis Philippe paid a visit to her Majesty Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle, and during the time a series of banquets were given in honour of the King's visit hy her Majesty. The gold plate—worth, it is said, a million sterling—was used on that occasion. We shall not attempt to describe the extraordinary beauty of that service: the value in itself must leave the impression that nothing like it is in existence. In the year 1848 the return of Lord Hardinge, Governor-General of India, from his glorious campaigns in the East, was solemnised by a sumptuous banquet offered to his lordship by the members of the Carlton Club. In the year 1850 the annual meeting of the Royal Agricultural Society was held in the fine old city of Exeter, where the Society was welcomed with the most enthusiastic rejoicings, and we had the honour of being selected by the committee to provide a dinner for one thousand and fifty members. As this rustic banquet was admitted to be one of no ordinary kind we give here the general bill of fare, and a short narrative of the first attempt to roast a whole ox by gas. GRAND AGRICULTURAL PAVILION DINNER. 33 Dishes of Eibs of Beef. -3 35 Dishes of Roast Lamb. _ A 99 Dishes of Galantine of Veal. 3 O B cj 29 Dishes of Ham. ^ P > SP 66 Dishes of Pressed Beef. eg O 2 Rounds of Beef & la Garrick. 264 Dishes of Chicken. 33 French raised Pies a la Soyer. 198 Spring Mayonnaise Salad. o a 264 Cherry, Gooseberry, Raspberry, and Currant Tarts. >sr & 33 Exeter Puddings. pq 198 Dishes of Hot Potatoes. Homer tells us that a royal culinary artist placed before Ajax and his voracious companions in arms a whole bullock roasted. Since those heroic ages many no doubt have shared the same fate ; and we know that in this country, on the occasion of a rich heir coming of age, a roasted ox is often given to the tenants as a substantial fare, with a well-nursed butt of ale, twenty-one years old. Many can remember that in the winter of 1812 a bullock was roasted on the frozen Thames, which certainly was something to wonder at. Another monster effort was attempted at Hammersmith some years ago, but the animal, clumsily suspended from the summit of an apparatus formed of three beams, was burnt, emitted a rank smell, and did not roast. All those who have had to attend such an operation agree that it is rather an awkward affair, and not performed without great difficulties, on account of the immense fire, which requires constant attention to keep up and regulate the necessary heat,—and, after all, it is seldom entirely successful.