336 WINE. querors taught them also the art of cutting it, and how to make wine. But, as Strutt observes, the vine could never be of any great utility in this country. It was more ornamental than useful, with the exception that it afforded the means of procuring a cool retreat and shade.161 However, some provinces of England became celebrated for their wines. " The county of Gloucester is renowned for its vines," says William of Malmesbury; " and the wines it produces are scarcely inferior to those of France."162 Saint-Louis was the first who established statutes for the dealers in wine.163 New ones were framed in 1585,164 and the dealers were then di- vided into four classes, each of which was designated by a particular name, viz., the inn-keepers, the publicans, the tavern-keepers, and the wine- dealers by measure. The inn-keepers had accommodation for man and horse ; the publicans served drink with table-cloth and plates—that is to say, they might serve food and drink at the same time; the tavern- keepers served drink alone; and the retail dealers could only sell it in considerable quantities at one time.165 In 1680 these four classes were reduced to two—wine-merchants and retail wine-dealers. Under the reign of Louis XIV., a great dispute arose concerning the relative merits of Burgundy and Champagne wines, and the preference due to the one or the other. This quarrel originated in a thesis, main- tained at the commencement of the 17th century at the Medical School of Paris, in which it was asserted, that the wine of Beaune, in Burgundy, was not only the most agreeable but the most wholesome. This thesis excited no murmur at the time: from the 13th century the wine of Beaune had always enjoyed the highest reputation, and no one dreamed of disputing it. But forty years later they risked a proposition much more rash than the preceding one: it was maintained, in the same school, that the wines of Burgundy were not only preferable to those of Champagne, but that the latter attack the nerves, cause a fermentation of the humours, and infallibly bring on the gout in persons not naturally subject to it. They fortified this incredible opinion with the authority of the celebrated Fagon, chief physician of Louis XIV., who had just forbidden the king, as they said, the use of Champagne wine. The Champagne people took fire—it was time—the dangerous heresy threatened to spread; so they attacked the Burguudians bravely. The latter defended themselves with equal courage. The battle waxed warm. Each party sought to crush their antagonists with heavy