AGRICULTURE. thirty feet.29 Oxen were never allowed to stop while tracing a furrow, but on arriving at the end they rested a short time ; and when their task was over they were cleaned with the greatest care, and their mouths washed with wine.30 The ground being well prepared and fit to receive the seed, the grain was spread on the even surface of the furrows, and then covered over.31 The primitive plough, already mentioned, was of extreme simplicity. It had no wheels, but was merely furnished with a handle, to enable the ploughman to direct it according to his judgment; neither was there any iron or other metal in its construction. They afterwards made a plough of two pieces, one of a certain length to put the oxen to, and the other was shorter to go in the ground; it was similar, in shape, to an anchor. Such was the style of plough which the Greeks used.32 They also very often employed a sort of fork, with three or four prongs, for the same purpose.33 Pliny gives credit to the Gauls for the invention of the plough mounted on wheels. The Anglo-Norman plough had no wheels ;3i the ploughman guided it with one hand, and carried a stick in the other to break the clods. The Greeks and Eomans had not, perhaps, the celebrated guano of our days, though we would not positively assert it; but they knew of a great variety of manures, all well adapted to the various soils they wished to improve. Sometimes they made use of marl, a sort of fat clay ;35 and' frequently manure from pigeons, blackbirds, and thrushes, which "were fattened in aviaries36 for the benefit of Eoman epicures. Certain plants, they thought, required a light layer of ashes, which they obtained from roots and brushwood ;37 others succeeded best, according to their dictum, on land where sheep, goats, &c, had grazed for a long time.38 When the harvest season arrived, they joyfully prepared to cut the corn, with instruments varying in form according to the locality or the fancy of the master. In one place they adopted the plain sickle,39 in another that with teeth.40 Sometimes they mowed the corn, as they did the meadows, with a scythe;41 or else they plucked off the ears with a kind of fork, armed with five teeth.42 A short time after the harvest, the operation of thrashing generally began. Heavy chariots, armed with DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. II. Nos. 1 & 2. Greek and Roman plough, made of several pieces; the first taken from the " Miscel- an. Erwlit." of Spon, the second from an engraved stone in the gallery of Florence. No. 3. Plough, made of one crooked piece of wood, turned once or twice. No. 4. Plough, as used by the Gauls, furnished with wheels.