21 l SEASONINGS. honey from reeds.80 We clearly perceive that he means honey, manna, and sugar. Virgil thought that a gentle dew falls on the flowers, and became immediately the prey of bees, which deposited it in their cells." Pliny has adopted the same graceful error,88 and even Galen himself partakes of it.59 The ancients caused honey to be served at the beginning of a re- past ;00 it was used in lieu of sugar in the preparation of preserves and some kinds of beverages, which will hereafter claim our attention. They preferred that of Attica,01 and insisted on its being thick, clear, granulated, transparent, fresh, and aromatic, with a somewhat sharp flavour.02 The faculty attributed to it great virtues.63 Honey served as a basis to the wonderful seasoning of Apicius, which we present to the studious investigation of modern gastronomy :— Put fifteen pounds of honey into a brass vessel, containing two pints of wine. Warm at a very gentle fire, stir, and when it rises, pour over more wine. Let the mixture rise three times, then take it from the fire, and skim it the next day. Then add four ounces of ground pepper, three scruples of gum, a drachm of spikenard, a drachm of saffron, five drachms of dried dates, after softening them in wine; pour on the whole eighteen pints of light wine.04 The Oxyporon was another seasoning much in vogue two thousand years ago, and in which honey was the principal ingredient. It was composed by mixing two ounces of cummin seed, one ounce of ginger, one ounce of green rue, and six scruples of nitre, with one ounce of pepper, and twelve scruples of fine dates; nine ounces of honey were then poured over the whole.05 Sometimes they contented themselves with macerating cummin seed in vinegar, which they left to dry, and then pounded it; that done, it was put into honey.00 " The honey most esteemed is the white, granulated, and of an aro- matic flavour. The honey from the French provinces of Narbonne, the Gatinais, or Britanny, is the most esteemed. Honey is next of kin to sugar, having the same properties. It is frequently used in domestic economy, and in medicine as a laxative. It enters into a number of remedies, either as a corrective, or an excipient."—" Dictio. Eticycl."