16 AGRICULTURE. fields, the emperor with all his court paid a visit to his country residence near Pekin, and then marked out several furrows with his plough. In 1793, the National Convention of France instituted also a similar fete; and the president of the local administration of his county was to mark out a furrow. In 1848 a grand republican procession took place through Paris, to the Champ de Mars, wherein agriculture played a prominent part. The first treatise on agriculture was printed in 1538; and its im- portance has been so much felt from that period, that there are now in France more than one hundred and twenty societies of agriculture, who distribute prizes to encourage discoveries for the improvement of this science. We have, in our days, the Eoyal Agricultural Society of England, which also awards prizes ;* and through such institutions all information can be obtained on the successive progresses made in that indispensable art, which may be said to have arrived to such a degree of perfection, that future generations may find some difficulty in improving upon it. One great evidence of which is, the immense number of samples of agricultural produce, machines, and implements of husbandry, which great and the glorious Exhibition of 1851 has ushered to the world. Previous to the arrival of the Eomans, the ancient Britons paid but little attention to agriculture. Their intestine discords left them scarcely any leisure to cultivate their fields, or apply themselves to the improve- ment of an art which flourishes only in peaceful' times. They reared a great number of cattle; but their chief corn was barley, of which they made their favourite drink. They put the grain in the ear into barns, and beat it out as they wanted it. Those inhabitants of the island who were the least civilized subsisted solely on milk and the flesh of animals, * A grand banquet was held by the Koyal Agricultural Society, at Exeter, on July 20th, 1850, for description of which see end of volume. DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. III. No. 1. Is the plain sickle. No. 2. Another, with teeth. No. 3. A scythe, very similur to those now in use. No. 4. A spade; its handle is supplied with a double crossbar, fixed at a little distance off the spade, to support the foot; it is still so used in Italy and the southern parts of France. No. 5. A pickaxe, as it was found engraved on the various sarcophagi; the pick end was sometimes flattened, and then called pick-axe. Nos. 0 and 7. The mattocks; the first was diawn from an engraved stone in the "Monuments Antiq." of Winckelman. No. 2 a. Represents a plough, composed according to the " Georgics" of VirgiL