3G0 THE DINING-ROOM. dining-room, they also had recourse to braziers or bronze furnaces of the dimension of a middling-sized table, resting on lion's claws. Foliage in copper, bronze, and silver, was artistically incrusted round the edge. The bottom was a very thick iron grating. Above and beneath, brick-work prevented the coal from touching the upper part, or escaping through the interstices." They also made use of two kinds of stoves to warm the dining-room— the one was concealed under ground in the massive wall, and little pipes extended from its orifice to the apartment; the other, portative and light, disappeared whenever it was judged expedient.28 Among the pagans, the dining-room was lighted by torches made of a resinous wood,29 or tallow candles.30 The rich had lamps, candelabra,31 or magnificent lustres suspended from the ceiling.32 They even knew the luxury of wax candles.33 In the middle ages, the sovereigns and the great lords had, in the middle of their dining-rooms, fountains playing, which poured fourth wine, hippocrass, and other liquors. Some gave rose-water and divers odoriferous liquids to perfume the banqueting-hall. Eubruquis found in Tartary a Parisian goldsmith, Guillaume Boucher, who had settled under the sway of the Khan, and had made him one of those fountains. DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXVI a. Thb Duke of Beunswick's Vase.—This is one of the finest monuments we have yet seen, which has reference to the mysteries and sacrifices of Ceres and Bacchus. It is a precious vase, made of one single piece of onyx, from the cabinet of the Duke of Brunswick, and of the size represented in the engraving. It was published, and learnedly explained, in 1682, by Jean Henry Eggeling, and printed in the same year. This vase is of a singular form; has one handle, and on the other side a spout, which begins at the. bottom, and finishes by a bend towards the top, to pour out the liquor. Eggeling believes that this vase is of the number of those the ancients called gullus, because the liquor came out drop by drop: he comes to that conclusion from a passage of Varro—" Quo vinum dabant, vt minutalhn funderent, a tjutlis gutlum appcllarunt." The vase is divided in three parts by two bands of gold, by which it is girdled : that of the middle, which forms the largest space, contains also a larger number of figures. The third diminishes towards the foot, and has figures also, all of which represent the mysteries and sacrifices of Ceres and Bacchus. The reader will probably feel interested how this vase came into the possession of the Duke of Brunswick. It was in the cabinet of the Duke of Mantua. When that city was taken and sacked, in 1629, a soldier, who had possession of the vase, offered it to Francis Albert, Duke of Lower Saxony, his commander, who gave him a hundred ducats as a reward. This prince left it by will to the Princess Christina Marguerite of Mecklenburg, his wife, who left it in the same way to her sister, the Princess Sophia, Duchess of Brunswick. She also gave it by will to her son, Ferdinand Albert, Duke of Brunswick. The lapidaries thought so much of it, that they offered, in turn, from sixty to ninety thou- sand imperials. In the inventory of the Princess Sophia it was valued,at one hundred and fifty thousand imperials.* 'Imperial, a gold coin, current in Russia. The imperial of ten roubles (1755) was worth nearly £2 2s. Od.