ANIMALS. honey, vinegar, garnm, mustard, and oil. When the cookery of these various substances shall have made an homogeneous whole, serve.105 Cisalpine Preserve.—Mince some beef in very small pieces; do the same with a little bacon ; acid pine nuts, pounded with dates; pour .on the whole a mixture of vinegar, garum, mustard, and oil; stir well, and throw on this pulp a powder of strong odoriferous herbs. Stir it a long time, let it rest, compress it strongly in a prepared intestine, close the opening, and put a string round to tighten it still more. This preserve cannot turn bad.100 The ox was so precious among the Eomans, that mention is made of a certain citizen accused before the people and condemned, because he had killed one of his oxen to satisfy the fancy of a young libertine, who told him he had never eaten any tripe. He was banished, as if he had killed his farmer.107 The Brahmin women think to obtain abundance of milk and butter by invoking one particular cow,—the darling cow of the king of heaven ; the type, mother, and patroness of all cows. The entire species are treated with the greatest deference; they have lavished upon them every expression of gratitude, and one day of each year is set apart as a solemn festival consecrated to their worship.108 Some centuries ago the large pieces of meat were boiled first, and then roasted. Roasted meat was always served with sauce.- Animals roasted whole were generally filled with an aromatic stuffing. Sage was the common seasoning for geese, and sucking-pigs were stuffed with chesnuts. Some minutes before these were taken from the spit, they were covered with bread crumbs; and appeared on the table enveloped in a crust composed of bread, sugar, orange juice, and rose water.100 Bceuf Gras.—There is a very old custom in the whole of France, and which consists in leading throughout the streets, in the provincial towns, on Shrove Tuesday, a fatted ox, ornamented with flowers and ribbons. This ceremony is considered as a commemorative emblem of the fe- cundity of the earth. In Paris, the ox chosen for the same purpose has generally obtained beforehand the prize awarded by the Agricultural Society. The horns of the animal are gilded ; he is afterwards decorated in a sumptuous manner, and led through the principal thoroughfares of that city, on Shrove Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, to the Palace of the Tuileries, the ministerial residences, the Hotel-de-Ville, and the foreign embassies. Troops of butchers, dressed in appropriate fancy costumes,