FISH. 244 The Roman ladies shared their husbands' taste, and eagerly partook of oysters from the lake of Lucrinus, brought into fashion by Sergius Orata, and when their fatigued stomachs struggled painfully with gluttony, this delicacy soon obtained an easy triumph by disposing the appetite to fresh exertions. The means of defence, however, were not very formidable; sometimes a little warm and limpid water—oftener a dazzling plume from the bird of Juno—hastened the struggle, and, without effort, decided the victory.235 This ingenious method was very much relished by polyphagists, and the Emperor Vitellius particularly honoured it.236 Cape Pelorus furnished the Greeks with highly prized oysters,237 which .were eaten alone, fried, stewed, or nicely dressed with marsh-mallows, dock-leaves, and with some kind of fish.238 The Romans at length became disgusted with those found on the coasts of Italy, or in the Dardanelles; an instinct of greediness caused them to prefer oysters from the Atlantic ocean, and especially from the shores of Armorica, now called Britany.239 Bordeaux supplied imperial tables, and this high distinction is sufficient for its praise.240 It may not be useless to remark here, that no sooner had Ausonius praised this fish in his lines than it was forgotten, and did not re-appear till the 17th century on the tables of distinguished personages. May our descendants be more just than our forefathers. At Rome oysters were served with a seasoning of pepper and ali- sander, mixed with the yolks of eggs, vinegar, garum, oil, wine, and a little honey.211 They were preserved in a vase smeared with pitch, washed with vinegar, and hermetically closed.212 " Oysters of a fine quality are generally of easy digestion, but not very nourishing, particularly when eaten raw. They are sought for to open the appetite, which is the case, owing to the nature of the water, agreeably salted, contained in them. Some mention is made of persons who can eat from fifteen to twenty dozen without being ill. It is not the same when cooked; then they become hard, more tough, and, con- sequently, indigestible. They are also eaten pickled with vinegar and sweet herbs In this state they are sent to countries distant from the sea. piled up one upon the other, without the shell, in small barrels."—De Blainville.