FISH. 212 hundred times in their writings, and various personages are the subjects of biting sarcasms on account of their excessive partiality to the mullet, scar, and turbot. We may name, among others, Philoxenes of Cythera, ■who learning from his doctor that he was going to die of indigestion, for having eaten too much of a most exquisite fish : " Be it so," he calmly exclaimed ; " but, before I go, allow me to finish the remainder." 9 Everyone knows the witty jokes of Lucian, who informs us that he knew a philosopher who examined, with the most serious comicality, the nature of the soul of an oyster.10 Highly favoured by the neighbourhood of the sea, the Greek popu- lation applied themselves, with that peculiar taste which characterized them, to distinguish the best species; and skilful cooks knew how to give to fish the most refined flavour, thanks to the numerous combi- nations of ingredients which we too have learned from the ancient authors who have written on dietetics. They possessed various ways of preparing them with salt or oil, and aromatics.11 Athenasus has trans- mitted to us some very important precepts upon their seasoning. JEschylus and Sophocles were not above lowering their tragic muse by sometimes introducing remarks on fish sauce. The productions of the sea had for Athens such an irresistible interest, that a law of police forbad all fishmongers to sit down until they had parted with the whole of their stock ; so that the uncomfortable position of standing made them more submissive, and induced them to dispose of the fish at a more reasonable price.12 This regulation in the " Billingsgate" of Athens was very rigorously observed, and the pur- chasers were highly delighted with it. They also required that the fish should always be out of the water; and this wise law, consequently, did not allow its being preserved, or the price to be increased.13 And finally, as soon as any kind of fish was brought to market, they were required to call the customers together immediately, by a kind of market-bell, which was a sort of invitation to come and make their purchases.14 Some would-be philosophers, members of the opposition of that period, thought of raising their voices against the common taste. Sym- machus, Polycrates, and Lamprias, tried to prove, in their writings, that those who eat fish were the most cruel and ferocious of men. These tender ichthyophilists were laughed at, and their works had no sale. The Romans inherited the predilection of the Greeks, " For the