221 FISH, gladiators murdering each other; lions or tigers lacerating the hestiarii; all these agonies of the amphitheatre had long since lost the attraction of novelty. It was a much more exciting spectacle to witness a swarm of sea-eels tearing to pieces an awkward or rebellious slave; besides, it greatly improved the fish. The atrocious Vedius Pollio, who under- stood these matters, never failed to have sea-eels served him after their odious repast, that he might have the pleasure of eating some part of the body of his victim.63 Thank Heaven! however, some amateurs of this dreaded fish were not so barbarous; they fattened them very well without having recourse to such criminal food. Veal was cut into thin slices, and steeped in the blood of the animal for ten days, after which the fish greedily regaled themselves with it.64 It was, doubtless, in this manner that the skilful speculator, Hirtius, —the same already mentioned—nourished his sea-eels, which pro- duced him an immense revenue. His fish ponds contained so great a number that he was able to offer six thousand to Julius Caesar on the occasion of the public feast that general gave the day of his triumphal return from the conquest of Gaul.63 The greater part of the Eoman emperors were exceedingly fond of sea-eels. The greedy Vitellius, growing tired of this dish, would at last only eat the soft roes : and numerous vessels ploughed the seas in order to obtain them for him.06 This exquisite rarity again appeared too common to the maniac child, who dismayed and astonished Eome for the space of three years. Heliogabalus brought the soft roe of the sea eel into disrepute by ordering that the peasants of the Mediterranean should be gorged with it.67 This folly amused him, and only cost several millions. That was a trifle when compared with the blood which almost always flowed to satisfy his whims. The Greeks and Latins thought much of sea-eels caught in the straits of Sicily.68 They were sometimes served surrounded with craw- fish ;60 but more frequently they were dressed with a seasoning much in fashion, composed of pepper, alisander, savory, saffron, onion, and stoned Damascus plums. These various substances were mixed together, and to them were added wine, sweet sun-made wine, old wine reduced by boiling, garum, vinegar, and oil.70 At Rome the fish market was abundantly supplied with sea-eels from the Tiber. Connoisseurs thought nothing of them ;71 they were sold at a