THE COOK. 255 Pithyllus invented a sheath that covered the tongue, and protected it, without paralyzing its action, against a caloric dangerous to its deli- cate tissue.18 This ingenious cuirass was not appreciated, and history, in its thoughtlessness, has not even transmitted to us a description of it. It was then the good time of Athens: gluttons had made way for epicureans; hunger, to a less fierce and gross sensation, already subjected to examination and discussion. The magiric art possessed its rules, its various partisans, its professors, and disciples. Great mas- ters studied deeply the appetite—indispensable basis, on which will always rest the culinary exegesis; and they finished by classing it definitively, according to the three degrees of intensity which observation discovers in it. The' bold appetite, said they, is that which is felt when fasting. It reflects but very little; is not squeamish about viands, and loses all reserve at the sight of a very indifferent ragout. The indolent appetite requires to be encouraged. It must be en- ticed, pressed, irritated. At first, nothing moves it—but after having tasted a succulent dish, it rouses, is astonished, its ardour becomes ani- mated, and is capable of performing prodigies. It is this appetite which has consecrated the trivial but true proverb: " L'appelit vient en mangeant." The eclectic appetite owes nothing to nature; it is the child of art. Happy, thrice happy, the skilful cook to whom it says : " Thou art my father!" But how difficult is this creation—how rare ! It is the work of genius —but listen. Some guests, chosen amidst veteran epicureans, seat themselves round a table covered with culinary offerings worthy only of the God of Feasts, and a small number of the faithful. Their indo- lent appetite examines, compares, judges, and, at length, abandons itself to the incomparable dainties from which it unceasingly seems to draw new ardour. But alas! pleasure, like pain, has its limits here below. Strength grows less, and becomes extinguished ; the eye loses its greedy covetousness;15 the palate languishes; the tongue becomes paralysed; the stomach sinks, and that which before pleased, now creates only fatigue and disgust. It is then that a cusinier hors ligne, tries a bold diversion, which must never be risked if the artist does not feel in him- self that force of generous efforts which is no other than genius. By his orders, three or four dishes, prodigies of science and of luxury, ap- pear on the altar, which the sacrificers no longer heed. At this sight,