43 FRUMENTA. sharpened. The miller takes care to hold them a little way off, in order that they may not crush the grain, and that this last may preserve the shape of rice; by this means they remove the whole of the pellicle."— ParmeNtier. The Greeks and Romans" knew how to appreciate oatmeal :17 they used it to make a kind of gruel, such as we have already described, and also a substantial thick milk, which they prepared as we do." Rice was also held in great esteem by them : they considered it as a food very beneficial to the chest; therefore it was recommended in cases of consumption, and to persons subject to spitting of blood.10 Millet, so called from the multiplicity of its seeds,20 abounded more particularly in Gaul, in the time of Strabo.21 Pliny pretends that no grain swells so much in cooking, and he assures us that sixty pounds of bread was obtained from a single bushel of millet, weighing only twenty pounds.22 This naturalist also speaks of another kind of millet, coming originally from India, and which had only been in cultivation ten years in Italy. The stalk resembled that of the reed, and often attained the height of ten feet; its fecundity was such that a single grain produced innumerable ears of corn;23 therefore, if so prolific, and capable of making good and economical food, why should it not be, in 1853, cultivated largely wherever the climate may allow it ? Some writers place Panic Grass among the wheats, because certain nations made bread of it.24 The higher classes of Rome and Athens always resisted this bad taste. They preferred spelt, or red wheat, a super-excellent grain,23 which was much honoured by the Latins, if we can credit the charming letter, written by Pliny the younger, to Septilius Claras, on the occasion of a dinner, where the latter failed to join the guests. Among other delicate dishes with which he desired to treat his friend, he had ordered a spelt cake to be made.20 This same flour was the base of the Carthaginian pudding; which the reader may taste if he will, here is the recipe:— Carthaginian Pudding.—Put a pound of red wheat flour into water; when it has soaked some time, place it in a wooden bowl, add three pounds of cream cheese, half a pound of honey, and one egg; beat this mixture well together, and cook it on a slow fire in a stew- pan." Should this dish not be sufficiently delicate, try the following:— When you have sifted some spelt flour, put it in a wooden vessel, with some water, which you must renew twice a day for ten days. At d 2