GRAINS: SEEDS. 17 condiment, say they, was formerly called suave or seneve. It was only towards the close of the 14th century that this name was changed. Philip the Bold, Duke of Burgundy, marching against the inhabitants of Ghent, who had revolted from him, and the city of Dijon having supplied him for this expedition with a thousand men-at-arms, the prmce, in gratitude, granted to that city, amongst other privileges, that of bearing his arms, with his motto, "Moult me tarde." The whole of this was carved on the principal gate of Dijon, but an accident having destroyed the middle word, the two others moult tarde caused many a smile at the expense of the Dijonnais; and as they traded in seneve (mustard), this grain was called in derision moularde, when it came from Dijon, a name it has preserved ever since.6 If this etymology is not true, at least it is ingenious. Coriander, amongst the Komans, appears to have possessed the same property as mustard, that is to say, they considered it was strengthening and digestive.7 They employed it also in a very useful manner during the great heat of summer : they mixed it with vinegar, after it had been •well bruised or pounded, and laid it over any kind of meat, which this coating preserved in a perfect state of freshness.8 Pliny classifies the bitter seed of the Lupin as a grain pertaining to that of wheat;9 and if you soak it, he says, in boiling water, it becomes so mild that it can be eaten.10 Zeno, of Citium, was of the same opinion. This philosopher, with all his wisdom, could not help showing his bad temper, even towards his best friends at times, but was very affable after he had quaffed several cups of delicious wine. One day he was asked for an explanation of this contrast in his temper. " That is very simple," he replied; "I am of the same nature as the lupins: their bitterness is insupportable before they are soaked, but they are of an exquisite mildness when they have been well steeped." 11 We strongly doubt, nevertheless, whether this plant has ever been honoured by the patronage of connoisseurs and people of delicate taste; a very high authority in cookery— Lycophon, of Chalcis—used to say, with a kind of disdain, that this despicable plant was hardly good enough for the common fare of the mob, or to feast the guests at a beggar's table.12 It was principally used as. food for cattle, and not without reason, if it. l)c true that twenty pounds of lupins are sufficient to fatten an ox." The lovers of etymology, who may be classified in the family of