DRINKING CUPS. 321 engraving represented the mysteries of Ceres and Bacchus; but it had no primitive handle, and the diameter was only two inches and a-balf." By the side of these inestimable Murrhines were standing very graceful chalices of amber, the prodigious workmanship of which absolutely gave to them a most arbitrary value/3 but which Roman prodigality never found too high. Silver cups engraved were also nearly as much esteemed, when they came from the hands of some well-known workman—such as Myos, Mentor, or Myron.43 They were even preferred to gold cups/4 unless these latter were enriched with precious stones.45 All these vases presented still greater varieties in their forms than in the materials employed. There were very large ones, some narrow, some oblong; many ornamented with two handles, others had only one.46 Some were much like a tympanon—or zoph, a musical instru- ment of the ancient Hebrews—a small boat or ewer.47 In one word, the Greek or Roman artist never listened to anything but his own fancy, and was then far from supposing that he was preparing very long and wakeful hours of study to many antiquarians, zealous to explain seriously the strange wanderings of a fantastical imagination. DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XXI. MuRmiiNK Vase.—This vase is the most precious of all those which have come down to us, Tt is drawn here half the original size, and belongs to Prince de Biscari, in Sicily, which has been described hy him in the dissertation entitled, " De Vasi Murrini Ragionamenti:' Three pieces of opal in the first place form the cup; the second, the stem ; and the last, the base' of the foot. If this vase is an antique, as it is said by the Prince de Biscari ; if true that several pieces of opal have often been found as large and as fine (which appears doubtful, in the actual state of mineialogic knowledge), the question upon the Murrhine vases would be decided. They would have been of opal, and not porcelain ; neither of sardonyx—Pierre de lard—as many have believed, nor of cacholvng (a species of chalcedony, opaque, and of a yellowish white), as I have described it.