THE KITCHEN. 203 No. 2. Silver cup, beautifully chased, to drink hot water. neats' feet. The heads, raised on the breasts, form graceful handles." These chafing-dishes, arranged systematically on the sigma, produce a delightful effect. Dishes of massive silver occupy another compartment of the vast cupboard. An' opulent family could not possibly do without this luxury. Sylla had some which weighed 200 marks, and Rome would produce more than five hundred of the same weight.74 It was in fact a perfect furore, which afterwards greatly augmented. In the time of the Emperor Claudius, one of his slaves, named Drusillanus Eotundus, possessed a silver dish weighing 1,000.marks, which was served in the midst of eight smaller ones weighing 100 marks each. These nine dishes were arranged at table on a machine which supported and placed them prominently in view. The patince, such was the name of these magnificent pieces of plate, served for rat/outs and fish; the catinus, an immense vase of earthen- ware among the poor,75 and of silver with the rich, is more especially reserved for liquid dishes, with much gravy, and what we call pottage.76 Those silver cups and saucers, of the same shape and size as those we employ for tea, have a destination very strange to our ideas. They are used to drink hot water. They are worked in relief, with a taste and delicacy which we cannot too much admire.77 The Roman spoons, rather different from our own, end on one side by a point, to pick shell fish from their shell, and at the other by the bowl of a spoon, with which eggs were eaten.78 Doubtless, forks were unknown to the Greeks, since Athenseus relates, " that Pithyllus "—surnamed the Dainty—" did not content himself with covering his tongue with a species of net, to appreciate the taste of the various dishes, but cleaned and rubbed it with a fish. He also enveloped his hands in a kind of glove, to eat everything burning hot79 a useless precaution if he had used a fork. This indispensable addition to a modern table was, perhaps, not common at Rome, but nevertheless, it was to be seen at the residence of some wealthy families. The slave before-mentioned holds several in his hand. These forks are remarkable for the beauty of their workmanship. DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XIV. No. L. Chafing-dish to keep everything hot.