A ROMAN SUPPER. 390 raised no blush on the brow of rigid magistrates, who forgot, m the abode of the vile slave, the respect due to their age and dignity. After the voluptuous scenes of the lewd Celtibe'rians, blood was re- quired : for they seem to have been formed by nature to take a strange delight in sudden contrasts. Ten couples of gladiators, armed with swords and bucklers, occupied a space assigned to them, and ten horrible duels recreated the attentive assembly. For a long time nothing was heard but the clash of arms; but the thirst for conquest animated those ferocious combatants, and they rushed with loud cries on one another. Blood flowed on all sides; the couches were dyed with it, and the white robes of the guests were soon spotted. Some of the combatants fell, and the rattles announced approaching death; others preserved, in their last struggle, a funereal silence, or endeavoured to fix their teeth in the flesh of their enemies standing erect beside them.98 The spectators, stupified with wine and good cheer, contemplated this carnage with cold impassi- bility ; they only roused from their torpor when one of those men, hap- pening to trip against a table, struck his head on the ivory, and his antagonist, prompt as lightning, plunged his sword into the throat of his foe, whence torrents of black, reeking blood inundated the polished ivory, and flowed in long streams amorjg the fruits, cups, and flowers. The deed was applauded; servants washed the tables and the floor with perfumed water, and these stirring scenes were soon forgotten. A last cup was drunk to the good genius," whose protection they invoked before returning home. Meantime a stifling atmosphere pervades every part of the hall, and a hollow noise, rumbling in the distance, excites at intervals in the minds of the guests a sort of undefinable apprehension—the ordiuary presage of an unknown but imminent catastrophe. The consuls raise themselves on their couches and listen; their host endeavours to calm their fears; but at this moment a slave, panting for breath, rusbes towards Seba, and pronounces a few inarticulate words. "Fire!" cries the anguished freed man. "Where is the fire?" inquire all the terrified guests, who have heard but this one sinistrous word. "Everywhere!" replies the slave; "it has burst forth simultaneously in every part of the city!" No one waits to hear more. Consuls, senators, knights, mu- sicians, and servants, jostle one another; and, abandoning those who fall, arrive pell-mell at the atrium. The porter still chained, trembles at his