391 A ROMAN SUPPER. The first course was removed to the sound of music.50 Now came chased silver cups, much larger than those of crystal51—no doubt be- cause thirst is excited by drinking. Ampboree of a secular wine were ranged by the major-domo on the mosaic flooring of the hall, at some distance from the triclinium, and they proceeded, by the invitation of the consuls, to the choice of the symposiarch (or master of the banquet), upon whom devolved the duty of regulating how often any person was to drink, and of preventing the guests, in the best manner he could, from yielding too easily to bacchic provocations, which com- monly led to unseemly gaiety and the loss of reason.52 This sort of magiric magistracy was obtained by lot, or the unani- mous call for a personage worthy of such a distinction.53 That memo- rable evening every voice named the senator Drusillus, one of the most determined drinkers of the Roman aristocracy. Drusillus smiled, snapped his fingers,54 and, by the order of his master, thus intimated, a slave, who was standing behind him, filled a golden crater* with wine, and presented it to the symposiarch. Thereupon, the latter, slightly raising his head from the downy cushions on which it rested, and supporting it from the left elbow,55 makes a graceful bow to the amphitryon, the consuls, and the rest of the assembly. Then, with a stentorian voice : " Slaves," he cried, " bring wreaths of flowers.56 Fugitive images of the spring and of pleasure, they shall bind our brows.57 At the same time let garlands adorn our craters, in which the cherished liquor of the son of Semele sparkles ;58 and let us bestow no thought, during the fleet joys of the banquet, on the uncertain and fatal hour when Atropos shall pronounce our doom." This speech, slightly impregnated with the epicurean philosophy so much in fashion during the reign of Nero, had at least the merit of a praiseworthy conciseness. Nor did it fail to attract applause from the audi- tors, whose brows and cups were speedily adorned with wreaths of roses, which young boys, clothed in white tunics, arranged with marvellous art. The slight rustling of the flowers was soon drowned by the shrill noise of the trumpets which announced the second course. A flatter- ing buzz welcomed this profusion of viands, which encumbered the tables, and well-nigh crushed them with their weight. There were the peacock,58 the duck, whose breast and head are so much coveted;59 * Cup, or crater, used by the Greeks and Romans at their repasts, made either of gold, silver, or earth- enware (terra cotta).—Hamilton, '*Ilerculaneum."