282 SEASONINGS. the depth of five or six inches in the high sandy soils of the south-west of France, of Piedmont, &c, &c. Their mode of vegetation and repro- duction is not known. Dogs are trained to find them, as well as pigs, and boars also, who are very fond of them. They are eaten cooked under the ashes, or in wine and water. They are preserved, when prepared in oil, which is soon impregnated with their odour. Poultry is stuffed with them, also geese's livers, pies, and cooked pork, besides numerous ragouts. They possess, it is said, exciting virtues. MUSHROOMS. Agrippina, desirous of securing the crown to her worthy son, Nero, went to a celebrated female poisoner, and procured a venomous prepa- ration which defied the most powerful antidotes.110 The Princess slipped this terrible poison in a very fine morel (a species of mushroom), which Claudius eat at his supper. The unfortunate Emperor died according to the desire of bis amiable consort, who was, of course, inconsolable for a long time, and placed among the gods the husband she had mur- dered.111 Nero ascended the throne, and every time that mushrooms were served at his table, true to the memory of his father-in-law, he facetiously called this preparation the " dish of the gods."112 To the poisonous effects of this vegetable have been attributed, also, the death of the Emperor Tiberius, that of Pope Clement VII., King Charles VI. of France, and many other important personages, who either knew very little of good cooks, or of morels. Notwithstanding these tragical events, mushrooms always retained a proud position, among the ancients, above the most inoffensive culinary plants; and their rather doubtful reputation has not prevented them from maintaining their ground down to our time, for we find that they now claim the same rank which they formerly occupied in the gastronomic reunions of Athens and Eome: a sad image of those fortunate criminals, whom society dreads, and yet often loads with its favours. This "voluptuous poison," as Seneca, the philosopher,"3 calls it, which compels us to eat of it again, even when not hungry,114 was much relished by the wealthy inhabitants of Rome and Italy. These free-livers,