BEVERAGES. 310 COFFEE. In the trade five principal kinds of coffee are enumerated—or rather, five sorts—according to the different countries from whence they come, although all derived from the same kind of coifee tree, Coffea Arabica. These five kinds are as follows :— 1st. Mocha coffee, thus called from the country whence this kind of coffee originates, a plant now so commonly spread over every American colony. The grain of this coffee is generally round and small. From Mocha coffee is derived the most sweet and agreeable beverage; it is also the most esteemed, the dearest, and holds the first rank in the trade. 2nd. The Bourbon coffee, cultivated in the Island of Bourbon; for some time it occupied the second place in quality, but the gourmets prefer to it coffee from Martinique or Guadaloupe. 3rd. There are several kinds of Martinique or Guadaloupe, dis- tinguished by the various preparations. 4th. The Cayenne coffee. This kind is less known on account of the small quantity cultivated there, and introduced in trade. This kind is superior to the Martinique coffee. 5th. The St. Domingo coffee, in which is comprised that from Porto Bico, and other leeward islands, is considered inferior to the four other kinds. Let us mention a few of the methods by which coffee in infusion is obtained. It is not exactly known who introduced the custom of taking coffee. Some attribute its use to the prior of a convent, who becoming ac- quainted with the properties of this plant by the effect it produced on the goats which fed upon it, tried its influence on his monks, in order to keep them awake during the performance of divine service. Ac- cording to others, the discovery is due to a mufti, who, wishing to surpass in devotion the most religious dervishes, made use of coffee so as to banish sleep, and thus be enabled to pray longer without inter- ruption. Whatever may be the origin of the use of coffee, it has become so general up to the present day that it may almost be classed among the articles of the greatest necessity. This extensive use has stimu-