78 KITCHEN GARDEN. thrown aside. We think it good in salad, with vinegar, oil, pepper, and salt, and that is all It is, we imagine, the only good quality onr farmers ascribe to it at the present day. Formerly, in Greece, the same class of persons, being clearer-sighted, or more credulous, were convinced that this vegetable protected all kinds of seeds against the voracity of insects. To obtain this result it was only necessary to steep the seed in the juice obtained from the root of the cucumber, before it was sown.116 We freely offer this preservative to those who may wish to give it a trial, and sincerely hope they may profit by this revival of the Greek process. The Romans conceived that this cold and somewhat insipid vegetable (we beg pardon of its admirers) required a seasoning to heighten its flavour. No sooner had they transplanted it from Asia into Rome,117 than they busied themselves in rendering it worthy of their tables by various preparations, which may, perhaps, interest the curious* 1st. Scrape the cucumbers, and eat them with oenogai um.118 * 2nd. Scrape the cucumbers, and boil them with parsley, seed, gravy, and oil; thicken, and sprinkle pepper over the dish before serving.121 3rd. Again, they may be seasoned with pepper, pennyroyal, honey, or sun-made wine, gravy, vinegar, and a little sylphium.122 4th. You will obtain a most delicate dish by boiling the cucumbers with brains, already cooked; adding afterwards some cummin, and a little honey.123 The cucumber, although but little nutritious, does not agree with cold stomachs. In the north an astonishing quantity are consumed. The Poles ate them at every repast with boiled meat. "Cucumbers are preserved in a very simple manner. The essential point is to obtain good wine-vinegar. After having well washed and wiped them, put them into either white or red vinegar (the colour is better preserved by using the white); add salt; cover simply the vessel containing them with a board. The vinegar must always be an inch higher than the cucumbers, and must be entirely renewed at the end of a month."—Parmentier. • Apicius composed the ccnogarum (or rather cleogarum, for wine is not mentioned in his recipe) in the following manner : bruise, in a mortar, pepper, alisander, coriander, and rue ; then add some garum, honey, and a little oil.1" Or, prepare the condiment with thyme, wild mint, pepper, and alisander; to which add, as before, garum, oil, and honey.120