FEATHERED GAME. doubt easily consoled themselves for the happy ostracism which delivered them from a too expensive glory. At all events, it is probable that Eome had wickedly calumniated quails; two skilful men, devoted to the cause, undertook to defend them : they were called Hippolochus and Antiphanus.38 Their eloquent pleadings caused a sensation; the epicureans were moved, and some of these birds were recalled, fattened, and roasted. Quails, like cocks and jDartridges, seem born to fight to excess.3U The Grecians encouraged their warlike ardour, and threw them into the arena, where they contemplated their furious attacks with as much pleasure as they experienced at the sight of gladiators murdering each other in order to amuse them.40 Solon—the wise Solon—required that young men should be trained to courage at the school of these bold champions, and learn from them to despise danger, pain, and death.41 We know that sensibility was little thought of in the plan of education formed by the great legislator. Long after him, however, the Areopagus gave a dreadful proof of this, by condemning to death a little boy who had amused himself by pulling out the eyes of all the quails unfortunate enough to fall into his hands. This precocious monster was too pro- mising.42 THE THRUSH. The immortal author of the Iliad did not disdain, it is said, to compose a poem in praise of thrushes. These verses were so beautiful that the Greeks learned them all by heart in their infancy.43 The singular love of the ancients for this bird renders these poetical honours tolerably probable. More than once Comus has borrowed the lfre of Apollo. In Greece, children were not allowed to eat thrushes, because it was feared that their delicious flesh might cause them to contract too early habits of gluttony and effeminacy. Young girls received them as presents from their bethrothed on the day of their marriage.44 They were served at the most sumptuous feasts,'15 and Attica enriched with its gold the bird-catchers of that Daphne,40 so celebrated for her luxury and scandalous voluptuousness.