HUNTING. 18(5 most profound.07 The tables of the second service were placed round the guests, who raised themselves on the couches with greedy curiosity. The blacks deposited the precious burden before another domestic, a skilful carver, who opened the wild boar with incredible dexterity and precision, and presented to the astonished eyes of Rullus and his friends a second entire animal, and in this a third; then came fresh delicacies, all gradually diminishing in size, until, at length, a delicious little fig- pecker terminated this series of strange viands, of which Rome, won- dering and astonished, long preserved the gastronomic remembrance.68 Man seldom prescribes to himself reasonable limits in the vast field of vanity and ostentation. At first it was thought an enviable boldness to have dared to serve an entire boar of a large size. Every one did the same thing, and at length it became quite common. It was necessary then to do better. One thought of having three at the same time ; another had four ; and soon the extravagant—and they were not few— caused eight wild boars a la Troye?ine to appear at a single repast.69 The Macedonian, Caranus, a man of spirit and of merit, placed himself at once on an eminence which baffled rivalry. He invited twenty guests to his wedding, and he had twenty wild boars served.70 It must be confessed that such magnificence rather resembles folly ; but, alas ! has not every nation its failings ? Besides, the flesh of the wild boar enjoyed an astonishing reputation in Rome and Greece,71 and no one could, with credit to himself, receive his friends at his table without presenting them with the fashionable dish,—the animal appointed by nature to appear at banquets.72 At length, however, they began to tire of this enormous dish; they divided it into three portions, and the middle piece obtained the pre- ference.73 Ultimately they served only the fillet and head; the latter of which was more particularly esteemed by the Romans.74 The Greeks tried their appetites by tasting the liver, which was served at the first course.75 The Romans sought to deprive the wild boar of its terrible ferocity ; they raised them on their farms,76 and sometimes they acquired enormous proportions. These immense beasts weighed no less than a thousand pounds.77 But delicate connoisseurs had always the wisdom to prefer the dangerous inhabitant of the forest to these bloated victims of enervating domesticity,78 whose insipid and degenerate flavour hardly betrayed their origin.