343 REPASTS. However, Cicero relates that the philosopher Plato appeared to be very much astonished, when travelling in Italy, to see the inhabitants eat twice every day." It will only be necessary to repeat that the supper alone formed the rule, and that the breakfast and dinner were excep- tions ; they depended entirely upon the casualties of will. About mid-day43 the sober Romans had a slight collation.40 Seneca, who never loses sight of himself in his fastidious treatises on wisdom, informs us that a little bread and a few figs were all that his virtue required.17 The senators, the knights, and the luxurious freed-men, spared no expense either for dinner or supper. The priests of Mars, of whom we have already spoken, set them an example too seductive for them not to follow it.48 It is to be remarked, by the way, that those worthy ministers of the god of war took this repast in the most secret part of their temple, where they hardly allowed any one to come and interrupt them. This gastronomic quietude was also very much the taste of a celebrated modern sailor, the Bailiff de Suffrein. He was at dinner in Achem, India, when a deputation from the town was announced. Being a witty glutton, he conceived the happy thought of sending word to the importunate troop that an article of the Christian religion expressly prohibited every Christian from occupying himself with anything besides eating, that function being of the most serious importance. This reply singularly edified the deputation, who retired with respect, admiring the extreme devotion of the French general.49 The collation—merenda—was little in use. It took place about the end of the day, before supper, particularly in summer, among the work- men and farm labourers.50 We now come to the principal repast, to that which threw such brilliancy over the latter centuries of Borne, when a culinary mono- mania, a sort of gastronomic furor, seemed to have seized the sovereign people, who, no longer great by their conquests, betrayed a desire to become so by the number and audacity of their follies. The Hebrews supped at the ninth hour, that is to say, about three o'clock in the afternoon.31 Their custom of two repasts would bo sufficiently proved by the fact that, on fast days, they took food only in the evening.32 Hence, when they did not fast, they also eat at another hour. Their ordinary aliment was very simple ; Ave shall have to speak of it hereafter.