107 POULTRY. Bomans praised its beauty; when dead, it appeared on the tables of its enthusiastic admirers. Quintus Hortensius, the orator, was the first who had them served in a banquet given by him on the occasion of being created an augur.12* This gastronomic novelty made an extraordinary sensation at Home—as might be expected—and the peacock became so much in fashion, that no banquet could possibly be given unless it was embellished by its presence.125 Marcus Aufidius Livio was the first to contrive a sure way to fatten them ;126 and he succeeded so well that he made prodigious sums every year by the sale of those birds.* Horace preferred them to the finest poultry,127 and distinguished amateurs thought that it was not paying much for a young peacock if they could get it for two pounds and three shillings.128 The ridiculous consumption which was made of these birds did not allow of their becoming very common. Tiberius reared some in his gardens; and he condemned to capital punishment a soldier of his guards who had the misfortune to kill one.129 Ultimately, more savoury or more rare dishes took the place of peacocks' flesh, which then began to be thought hard, unwholesome, and of difficult digestion.130 However, it re-appeared in the middle ages at the nuptial festivities of the rich, where one of these birds was served, as if alive, with the beak and claws gilded. To do that well, it was necessary to skin the bird very carefully, and then cook it with aromatics, such as cinnamon, cloves, &c. It was then covered with its skin and feathers, and served without any appearance of having been stripped. This luxury was to gratify the sight: nobody touched it. The peacock was thus preserved for several years without being damaged—a property believed to be peculiar to its flesh,131 but which was owing, no doubt, to the aromatics just mentioned. Peacock of Samos. — Mix some pepper, alisander, parsley, dill flowers, dried mint, and filberts, or fried almonds; bruise them with green smallagef and pennyroyal, and mix the whole with wine, honey, vinegar, and garum. Make incisions in the bird, and cover it with this seasoning.132 * No less than £52,000, if Pliny really means the grand sesterce, which everything leads us to believe. + Smallage, a species of parsley, known by the name of celery, is diuretic and aperitive. The celery, as cultivated now, is derived from the smallage.