THE KITCHEN. 2G2 the light delicacies destined for the dessert, and the fire is under- neath.05 The diploma, or double-vase, which has sometimes been confounded "with the authepsa, does not in the least resemble the latter. It is thus they named the vessel called by us a " bain-marie "M the ancients made great use of this mild and gentle process of cooking, which is often men- tioned in the treatise of Apicius.67 These brass boilers, which boil on the hearth, supported by three feet, ai-e precisely like those used by the French at the present day.08 Boilers also of a rather different kind are sometimes used, in which the operation of ebullition takes place sooner than in the first mentioned; they are closed with a cover in the form of a dome, and a large hollow cylinder, fixed beneath, hastens and keeps up the action of the caloric.09 The saucepans, around which a host of cooks are busily engaged, are for the greater part made of brass or earthenware,70 tolerably wide and deep, which they place on the stoves, and in which are concocted the delicate and scientific preparations. Some are of silver.71 The caprices of luxury have led them to suppose that certain expensive viands acquire greater perfection when cooked in this precious metal. A confidential slave, charged with the care of the plate, is cleaning and polishing near a dresser a large number of bronze chafing-dishes, which are to be used at table to prevent the plates from becoming cold. It is in speaking of this useful invention that Seneca, the philosopher, says, " Daintiness gave birth to this invention, in order that no viand should be chilled, and that everything should be hot enough to please the most pampered palate. The kitchen follows the supper." 72 Each of these elegant utensils is supported by three geese. It measures about seven inches from the extremity of one of the bird's heads to the op- posite edge of the circumference. This kind of tray is fifteen lines, or an inch and a-quarter deep, and the feet raise it about two inches above the plane. The three geese have their wings spread, and terminate by DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XIII. No. 1. This boiler is made of bronze; the lower part was filled with water, and made to boil by means of the cylinder, covered with a lid, in which lighted charcoal was introduced; the ashes escaped through holes perforated at the bottom, and the basin has a tap to let the water out. No. 2. A flat saucepan, or sauti pan, with a fluted handle, and a ram's head at the end. No. 3. A kettle similar to our teapots. No. 4. A gridiron, and a dripping-pan. No. 6. A trivet, a cleaver, and a butcher's knife,—St. Non, " Cabinet of Herculancum."