PANTROPHEON. 5 we have interrogated those old memoirs of an extinct civilisation which connect the present with the past; poets, orators, historians, philoso- phers, epistolographers, writers on husbandry, and even those who are the most frivolous or the most obscure—we have consulted all, examined all, neglected nothing. Our respectful curiosity has often emboldened us to peep into the sacred treasure of the annals of the people of God; and sometimes the doctors of the Primitive Church have furnished us with interesting traits of manners and customs, together with chance indi- cations of domestic usages, disseminated, and, as it were, lost in the midst of grave moral instruction. The fatigue of these unwonted researches appeared to us to be fully compensated by the joy we experienced on finding our hopes satisfied by some new discovery. Like the botanist, who forgets his lassitude at the unexpected sight of a desired plant, we no longer remembered the dust of fatidical volumes, nor the numberless leaves we had turned over, when by a happy chance our gastronomic enthusiasm espied a curious and rare dish. Thus it is that this work—essay, we ought to call it—has been slowly and gradually augmented with the spoils of numerous writers of anti- quity, both religious and profane. We have avoided, as much as possible, giving to this book a didactic and magisterial character, which would have ill-accorded with the apparent lightness of the subject, and might have rendered it tedious to most readers. We know not whether these researches will be con- sidered instructive, but we hope they will amuse. When we compare the cookery of the ancients with our own—and the parallel naturally presents itself to the mind—it often betrays strange anomalies, monstrous differences, singular perversions of taste, and in- comprehensible amalgamations, which baffle every attempt at justification. Apicius himself, or perhaps the Ccelius of the 3rd century, to whom we owe the celebrated treatise " Be Opsomis" would run great risk—if he were now to rise from his tomb, and attempted to give vogue to his' ten books of recipes—either of passing for a poisoner or of being put under restraint as a subject decidedly insane. It follows, then, that although we have borrowed his curious lucubrations, we leave to the Roman epi- curean and to his times the entire responsibility of his work. The reader will also remark, in the course of this volume, asserted facts of a striking oddity, certain valuations which appear to be exag-