MANIPULATION OF FLOUR. 36 historians, and among the dangerous frivolities of certain poets), if we wish to have a correct idea of the excessive refinement which the opu- lent classes evinced, even in the most ordinary things. Modern nations are satisfied with the bread more or less white, and even hear, without'much complaint, certain illicit mixtures, in which va- riousi heterogeneous substances are sometimes strangely amalgamated; but this was not the case in Eome. The prefect of provisions (j)rafectm annonm) was scrupulously careful to see that the supply of bread was abundant; that it was of exact weight; that the manipulation of it was excellent; and that it was made of the best flour the public grana- ries contained. As we have already observed, that was one of the most serious cares of the government on behalf of a people who only required two things—bread and the circus,56 and whose ferocity, when pressed by hunger, knew no bounds.57 They studied carefully every modification that the art of baking might seem to require: they examined the leaven in use, and experi- mented with new kinds. The following are the compositions Pliny has transmitted to us:— The Romans-thought much of millet for their leaven; they mixed it with sweet wine, in which they let it ferment a year. They employed, also, wheat bran, soaked for three days in sweet white wine, and. dried in the sun. Of this they diluted a certain quantity at the time of making bread, which was left to ferment in tbe best wheat flour, and afterwards mixed with the entire mass. The leavens just mentioned were made during the vintage; the rest of the year they were replaced by the following:—A dish containing two pounds of barley paste was placed on red-hot coals, and heated until ebulition commenced. It was put into vessels till it became sour. Very often leaven was procured from dough just made. A piece was taken from the mass previous to salt being added; it was then left to turn sour, and might be used the next day. The celebrated naturalist who supplies these details, tells us that, in his time, the Gauls and Spaniards, after having made a drink from wheat, saved the scum to raise the dough, and that their bread was the lightest of all.58 It would be difficult to form an idea of the prodigious luxury winch Rome introduced into an aliment so common, and of such universal