KITCHEN GARDEN. 71 be made to overcome, or lessen, the defects it undoubtedly has, and which we can but deplore :— Artichokes will become mild by taking care to steep the seed in a mixture of honey and milk.100 They will then exhale the most agree- able perfume, particularly when this seed has passed three days in the juice of bay leaves, lilies, or roses.101 Having quoted the authority, we give the recipe for what it is Avorth. Until the result of this experiment is known, artichokes may be eaten raw, with a seasoning of hard eggs chopped in very small pieces, garum, and oil.102 If you prefer a sharper sauce, mix well some green mint with rue, Greek fennel,103 and coriander; add, afterwards, some pepper, alisander, honey, garum, and oil.104 They are also eaten boiled, with cummin, pepper, gravy, and oil.105 "It is well known under what form artichokes, either raw or cooked, appear on our tables. The best way to preserve them is to half cook them, separate the leaves from the fur, and preserve the fleshy part, called the bottom, and throw them, still warm, in cold water, to make them firm. That operation is called blanchir. They are laid afterwards on hurdles, and put four different times in the oven, as soon as the bread is taken out. They become then very thin, hard, and transparent, like horn, and return to their original form in hot water. They must be kept free from damp."—Parmentier. POMPION. Like the gourd, the good and creeping pompion has served more than once as a termof comparison, and that in a style most humiliating. Should any one happen to be thick-headed, or not very intelligent,100 he was immediately compared to a pompion (popularly, pumpkin—whence bumpkin). The insult went still further: it was said of a pusillanimous man, "That he had a pompion where his heart ought to have been."107 The obesity of this vegetable, and its inelegant shape, have doubt- less given rise to these injurious remarks. It was, however, acknowledged that it possessed many estimable