BIOGRAPHICAL NOTES. NERO. Lucius Domitius "Nero's father was Caius Domitius yEnobarbus ; Agrippina was his mother. He took the reins of the empire at the age of eighteen (a.d. 54), and governed at first with clemency and equity. The Roman people, transported with love for their young prince, indulged the fond hope of long and unalloyed felicity; hut they were soon aroused from this delusion to a sense of the dire reality. Nero had forgotten himself in the path of virtue; he rallied by trying his hand at crime, and found at last his true vocation. Others have recounted his detestable infamies: we will merely remind our readers that he poisoned Britannicus,—that he caused his mother to be slain,— that he lulled his wife Octavia by kicking her,—and that Seneca, his preceptor, only escaped his cruelty by having his veins opened. In the year 64 he took it into his head to set fire to the city of Rome, and then accused the Christians of that prodigious atrocity. Language cannot desciibe the unbridled luxury of this ignominious emperor. His gilded house, his ivory ceilings, his murrhine vases, the nets of gold and scarlet with which he fished, the in- calculable profusion of his repasts—everything connected with Nero betrayed a species of pompous monomania, leading to excesses so immeasurable and abominable that in these days they excite doubt or incredulity. The entire world detested the monster. Galba and the Roman army re- volted against him, and the pusillanimous Caesar fled bare-footed, and wrapped in a sordid robe. But, alarmed at the idea of the tortures he would have to undergo if he fell alive into the hands of the cohorts and the people, and finding no executioner more infamous than himself, he plunged a sword timidly into his breast, while a freed-man, Epaphroditus, guided his trembling hand. This happy event happened in the year 68. Nero had reigned thirteen years! This prince sat down to table at mid-day, and did not quit it till midnight (Sueton. in Neron. 27),—he had reservoirs stocked with the most rare and ex- quisite fish,—and he gave to his boon companions suppers which vied in delicacy with their astonishing magnificence. Let this, then, plead our excuse for having classed the cruel but epicurean Caesar among the high culinary notabilities whose names, glory, or excesses we record in this work.