78 KITCHEN GARDKN. East aud of Europe. It came originally from the most temperate regions of Asia; the chivalric Baber made it known to his Hindoo subjects;155 and the Romans introduced it into the west, at the time of their first expedition against the Persians. Melons had a prodigious success at Eome, and soon became a necessity with which the wealthy could not dispense. The Emperor Tiberius, that cruel and covetous prince,150 liked them so much that they were served to him every day throughout the year. The Greeks, whose ingenious and lively imagination mingled with everything the sweet perfume of flowers, contrived to place the seeds of melons in vessels full of rose leaves, with which they were afterwards sown. They maintained that, when at maturity, this cool and refreshing vegetable was impregnated with sweet emanations, and that its flavour called to mind its sweet and delicious abode with the queen of flowers.157 Sometimes also they macerated the seeds in milk and honey. Not only melons, but all the cucurbitacece were treated in this manner, when it was wished to communicate to them a milder flavour.158 In pointing out these processes in use among the ancient horticul- turists, we do not at all pledge ourselves for their efficacy. However, it must be acknowledged that they exhibit a singularly praiseworthy emu- lation, which has perhaps prepared the way for the wonders with which our modern gardeners have made us familiar. Independently of its exquisite flavour, the melon passed, among the Greeks and Romans, as being very beneficial to the stomach and head.159 It is possible that they may have gone a little too far; but then man is so ready to give imaginary qualities to what he loves, that we cannot wonder at their praises of this delicious plant, which we generally eat in the most simple manner, without any other seasoning than a little sugar, sometimes with salt and pepper. Not so with the Romans; their practised palates required a more exquisite combination; they, therefore, added to it a sharp savoury sauce—a compound of pepper, pennyroyal, honey, or sun-made wine, garum, vinegar, and sylphium.160 Melons were not known in central or northern Europe until the reign of Charles VIIL, King of France, who brought them from Italy.161