WATER. 297 The physician, Musa, prescribed to Augustus the same regimen, and the Emperor found himself much benefited by it." Under the reign of Nero, Charmis acquired a great vogue by ex- tolling cold baths,42 even in the depth of winter. This dexterous native of Marseilles knew so well how to persuade people, that he could hardly attend to his immense connection ; and as he sometimes required as much as ^800 from his patients," he soon became as celebrated for his riches as for his pretended medical genius. Who will say, after this, that the water-cure system is good for nothing ? "In Egypt, rich people have the water brought to them from the Nile in leather pouches. Large and porous earthen pots of an oval shape, kept up by supporters, are filled with it. The water at the end of a few hours has deposited the slime it contained. It is afterwards distributed in small vases of terra cotta, called hardalcs, of the size of our water-jugs. These vases are taken in the most showy part of the habitation. In a short time the clay of the hardalcs is impregnated; then- surface is covered with water, which, after borrowing from the liquid within the caloric it requires for evaporation, reduces this to a temperature of six or seven degrees under that which it had before."— Parmentier. More than five centuries ago the Sieur de Joinville described the same process. " The water of the Nile," he said, "is of such a nature, that when we hung it in white earthen pots, made in the country, to the rigging of our ships, the water became in the heat of the day as cold as spring-water."44 Sea-water is not potable, but it has long since been remarked that the vapours which rise from the sea are soft, and it was thence con- cluded that, by collecting and condensing them, it would be possible to obtain a potable liquid fit for domestic purposes. This phenomenon was known in the time of Pliny, who informs us that, "fleece spread about the ship, after having received the exhalations from the sea, be- comes damp, and that fresh water may be extracted from it."45 About the middle of the last century means were found to remove DESCRIPTION OF PLATE No. XVII. No. 1. Pail, of bronze, with movable handle, covered with hieroglyphics, to carry water from the Nile for the Feast of Isis. No. 2. Pail, with two handles, same metal, placed on a small tripod to stand upon, owing to-the convexity of the bottom.—St. Non, "EefSvAtmeum" T