200 PASTRY. laurels with which the muses are crowned. Charles XII. was fond of tartlets; Frederic II. gave himself fits of indigestion by eating Savoy cakes ; and the Marechal de Saxe rested from the fatigues of glory before a plate of macaroons. We have renounced the kind of pastry with which our ancestors used to regale tbemselves in the 14th century. Their stag pies31 are no longer in vogue; neither have we any taste for their great pies which contained a lamb or a stuffed kid, surrounded with goslings by dozens and scores.32 Their tarts have fallen into the same oblivion. Who thinks now of their J anus, or double-faced, tarts, herb tarts, rose-leaf tarts, oat tarts, or chesnut tarts?83 The first statutes given to the pastry cooks by St. Louis (May, 1270), sanctioned their custom of working on all festival days without excep- tion. Now, the motive for such a toleration was probably this: the pagans had their festivals, which they passed in banqueting; the Romans called them dies epulatw.31 The early Christians, although they gave up the worship of false gods, preserved certain customs in which they had been brought up, among which was that of public and private banquets on festival days.35 We still see some remains of these customs in the village rejoicings on the Continent, on the day of their patron saint. The Fathers of the Church and the Councils raised their voices against this abuse ;35 but they were obliged to tolerate it, and the pastry-cooks, who were very busy on those occasions, profited by the indulgence. It is as well to remark that they were, at one and the same time, publicans, roasters (that is they would roast anything for anybody), and cooks. Under the ministry of the Chancelier de l'Hopital, little pies, or patties, were hawked through all the streets of Paris, and there was an enormous consumption of them. The severe minister considered them a luxury, which it was incumbent upon him to suppress ; so he pro- hibited, not their sale, but the crying of them, as a temptation to gluttony. There is a kind of cake much in vogue in England, on Good Friday, designated hot-cross-bun, because it is always marked with a cross. The reader will, perhaps, take some interest in the observations of Bryant on the subject of this pastry :— " The offerings," says he, " which people in ancient times used to