10 AGRICULTURE. more than three thousand years. Not one of them has any record of connected facts which bears the stamp of probability anterior to that time, nor even for two or three centuries after. The Greeks acknowledge that they learned the art of writing from the Phoenicians thirty or thirty- four centuries ago; and for a long time after that period their history is filled with fables, in which they only go back three hundred years to establish the cradle of their existence as to nation. Of the history of western Asia we have only a few contradictory extracts, which embrace, in an unconnected form, about twenty centuries. The first profane historian with whom we are acquainted by works extant is Herodotus, and his antiquity does not reach two thousand three hundred years. The historians consulted by him had written less than a century pre- vious; and we are enabled to judge what kind of historians they were by the extravagances handed down to us as extracts from Aristaeus, Proco- nesus, and some others. Before them they had only poets; and Homer, the master and eternal model of the west, lived only two thousand seven hundred, or two thousand eight hundred, years ago. One single nation has transmitted to us annals, written in prose, before the time of Cyrus: it is the Jewish nation. That part of the Old Testament called the Pentateuch has existed in its present form at least ever since the schism of Jeroboam, as the Samaritans receive it equally with the Jews, that is to say, that it has assuredly existed more than two thousand eight hundred years. There is no reason for not attributing the Book of Genesis to Moses, which woidd carry us back Jive hundred years more, or thirty-three centuries; and it is only necessary to read it in order to perceive that it is, in part, a compilation-of fragments from antecedent works : wherefore, no one can have the least doubt of its being the oldest book now possessed by the western nations."4 The descendants of our first parents—and, first of all, the Hebrew people, who, as a nation historically considered, must occupy our fore- most attention—devoted all their energy to agricultural labour. The chief of the tribe of Judah as well as the youngest son of the tribe of Benjamin followed the plough, and gathered corn in the fields. Gideon was thrashing and winnowing his corn, when an angel revealed to him that he should be the deliverer of Israel ;5 Euth was gleaning when Boaz saw her for the first time;0 King Saul was driving his team of oxen in the ploughed field, when some of his court came and ap- prized him that the city of Jabesh was in danger;? and Elisha was called