POULTRY. 155 the consul repented, but too late, that he had only named hens in his sumptuary law. Capon a la Deliaque.—Draw completely a fat capon; then bruise pepper, alisander, and ginger, which you must mix with sausage-meat and fine flour, and a pig's brains cooked ; add some eggs, then some garum, a little oil, whole pepper, and several pine nuts. Make a stuffing of this mixture, and pat it into the capon, which afterwards roast before a slow fire.17 THE HEN The cackling of hens infallibly announced, among the ancients, some dreadful calamity to the person who had the misfortune to hear it.18 This fatal omen must have rendered a great number of people unfortunate ; for whether she lays eggs, or conducts her young family, a hen generally cackles. They therefore sought to diminish the number of these birds of ill- omen ; they fattened them for eating, and they did right, since, according to learned physicians, the flesh of these birds is good for weakly persons, as well as those who are convalescent.19 Healthy individuals also find this food suit them perfectly. In Greece there would have been some- thing wanting at a feast, if fat hens had not been served. They em- bellished the celebrated wedding repast of Caranus; and Athenseus often speaks of them when describing a grand banquet.20 At Eome, the art of fattening them became a serious occupation, which was long studied, and had its precepts and rules. Marcus Loelius Strabo, belonging to the order of knights, invented aviaries in which hens were confined ;21 others sought and discovered the means of giving to their flesh that particular flavour unperceivecl by uncultivated palates, but which the experienced gastrophilist always appreciates. They patiently gave themselves up to laborious experiments : a warm, narrow, dark spot received these interesting volatiles ; the feathers of their wings and tails were plucked, and they were gorged twice a day during three weeks with balls of barley flour mixed with soft water. Great clean- liness was combined with this diet: their heads were well cleansed, and care taken that no insect should enter the aviary." k 2