303 BEVERAGES. Holinslied says26 that every kind of wine could be procured in England. " Nevertheless," he adds, " ale and beere beare the greatest brunt in drinoking, which are of so many sortes and ages as it pleaseth the brewer to make them. The beere that is used at noblemen's tables is commonly of a yeare olde (or, peradventure, of twoo yeares' tunning, or more, but this is not general) ; it is also brued in Marche, and is therefore called Marche beere ; but for the household it is usually not under a monthe's age, eache one coveting to have the same stale as he might, so that was not soure, and the breade new as possible, bo that be not bote." Formerly, they drank beer in some parts of France—in others, wine. Perhaps it is the same now. This difference of taste gave rise to a rather jocose dispute between a grey friar and a white friar. One, who was a Fleming, was for beer ; the other, who was from Bordeaux, was for wine. The Fleming cited passages without number from antiquity in proof of the excellence of beer, known by the ancients under the name of zithmn, or curmi. The one from Bordeaux was not so learned, but he was a native of Bordeaux, and with one word he terminated the dispute. " Brother," said he to his adversary, " I maintain that there is as much difference between wine and beer as there is between St. Francis and St. Dominick." The whole community were for the Bordeaux monk, and the Fleming was reduced to silence.27 Braket was formerly the cherished drink of the lower classes in England. Arnold describes the preparation of it, in his " Chronicles of London:" " Take a pot of good ale and put thereto a porcyon of honey and pepper, in this manner:—When thou hast good ale, lete it stonde (stand) in a pott two dayes, and then drawe out a quart, or a pottell, of that ale, and putt to the honey, and set it over the fyre and let it sethe well, and take it of the fyre and scunie it clene; and then sat it over the fyre and scume it agayne, and then let it keele a whyle, and put thereto the pepper, and then set hym on the fyre and let him boyle well togyder, with esy fyre, but clere. Take four gallons of good ale, a pynte of fyn tryed hony, and about a sancerful of powder of peper." Beer was not unknown in Italy, but the Romans never granted it their serious attention.28 We will give a brief sketch of those beverages which, among them and the Greeks, replaced wine with greater or less advantage. Convalescents, sober persons who resisted the sweet seductions of