256 THE COOK. their looks brighten; desire revives; the smile reappears; the magiric fades shines forth with all its splendour; the chest dilates, and you no longer distinguish your former guests. A man has transformed them. Each one chooses, tries, tastes—is silent, and lost in wonder. The appe- tite is perhaps tired, but not satiated; and the skilful cook at length enjoys a deserved triumph. In this solemn moment he received, among the ancients, a crown of flowers20—sweet and noble recompense of his arduous toil. Nay, a more substantial proof of gratitude often greeted his new dishes. In Greece, the inventor alone had a right to prepare them during a whole year, and drew from it all the honour and profit. It was necessary, in order that these culinary preparations should fall into the public domain, that some one of his colleagues should succeed in surpassing him.21 At this epoch, the best cooks came from Sicily. Trimalcio was one of the most celebrated. Athenseus tells us that, when he could not pro- cure rare and highly esteemed fish, he understood so well how to imitate their form and flavour with common fish, that the most cunning epi- cures were always entrapped. This reminds us of a certain cook of Louis XIV., who, on Good Friday, served the king with a dinner, appa- rently composed of poultry and butcher's meat, which, in reality, offered nothing but vegetables, and prepared, too, au maigre. The Eomans, inheritors of the luxury of Asia and Greece, did not erect a temple to the greedy Addephagia, goddess of good cheer, who pos- sessed altars in Sicily ;22 but they thought it impossible to repay too highly those who knew how to extend the limits of the pleasures of the table,23 and a generous senator offered his chef at least four talents, or more than ,£800 a year. This is yet but little compared with the magnificence of Antony. He gave a supper to Cleopatra; that princess praised the delicacy of the feast, and immediately her lover called for the cook, and presented him with a city, in recompense. How times are changed! We, at the present day, treat all this as pompous and ridiculous prodigality. It is because our somewhat mean epoch judges the olden times by the narrow ideas of order, foresight, and economy. The ancients enriched their Archimagiri, wasted their revenue in feasts, and then killed themselves. We have adopted a very different style of living. But, at the same time, how far are our most sumptuous banquets behind the most modest collations of Greece and