FISH. 220 at supper with that prince, a guest ridiculously praised a dish of tunny- fish intestines, just placed on the table. " They are certainly excellent," said Dorio, "when eaten as I eat them." "How, then, do you eat them ?" rejoined the gastronomic courtier. "With the firm determi- nation," replied the poet, " of thinking of nothing better."110 This fish abounds in certain seas, and Pliny avers that it obstructed the navigation of the Indian Sea to such an extent, that the fleet of Alexander the Great was obliged to change its course, in order to avoid this impassable barrier.111 Tunny fish sometimes attain an immense size. Father Oetti tells us, that some were caught in Sardinia weighing no less than 1,000 lbs., and sometimes even 1,800 lbs.112 CONGER-EEL. Near Sicyona, a city of the Peloponnesus,113 they formerly caught conger-eels of such immense size, that it required a waggon drawn by oxen to carry a single one.114 The body, the whole of the head, and even the intestines115 were eaten. This dish, worthy of being offered by Neptune to his divine colleagues, was capable, like ambrosia, of bestowing immortality on those who had the good fortune of tasting it, and the dead would return to life, had it been possible to serve them with a piece of this exquisite fish.118 These childish exaggerations have not prevented Galen from treating the conger-eel with very little respect: he affirms, that nothing is more hard or indigestible.117 And, indeed, epicureans of some repute allowed only the head to appear on their tables;118 and then only at rare inter- vals, and imder the auspices of a relishing sauce which assured its reception. The Komans had still less esteem for this too highly praised fish. However, sometimes a fried conger-eel occupied on the sigma an obscure place, in the midst of a seasoning flavoured highly with pepper, ali- sander, cummin, wild marjoram, dried onion, and hard yolks of eggs; with which a skilful hand carefully mixed to the whole, vinegar, sweet wine, garum, and cooked wine.113