KITCHEN GARDEN. 74 LETTUCE. From time immemorial the lettuce has occupied a most distinguished place in the kitchen garden. The Hebrews ate it, without preparation, with the Paschal lamb.124 The opulent Greeks were very fond of the lettuces of Smyrna,125 which appeared on their tables at the end of a repast;120 the Eomans, who at first imitated them, decided, under Domitian, that this favourite dish should be served in the first course with eggs,127 purposely to excite their indomitable appetites, which three courses (and such courses, ye gods! when compared with ours of the present day) would hardly satisfy. The bitter lettuce was sufficient for the frugal Hebrews,128 but the delicate epicureans of Athens and Rome were much more particular; they valued them only when a milcl and sweet savour invited the most rebellious palate, and awakened the slumbering desires of a fatigued stomach. And what care, what attention, did they not bestow on the growth and maturity of this cherished plant! Aristoxenus, a philosopher by profession, an epicurean by taste, had in his garden a species of lettuce which was the envy of his surrounding neighbours. The worthy man, rendered happy by their jealous admi- ration, went every evening, without fail, to contemplate the small square of ground which contained his treasure, and sprinkled it carefully with water, doubtless from a limpid stream. Tush ! Water, to moisten the lettuces of Aristoxenus! No : the philosopher kept in reserve a sweet and excellent wine to quench the thirst of his plants, and to com- municate to them that delicate perfume and exquisite taste, the myste- rious cause of which baffled the neighbouring gastronomists. The day after, the arch old man would say, with a roguish smile, that he was going to gather some relishing green cakes, which the earth prepared expressly for him,129 and the simple countrymen were wonder- struck without understanding the cause. The lettuce—favourite plant of the beautiful Adonis130—possesses a narcotic virtue, of which ancient physicians have taken notice. Galen mentions that, in his old age, he had not found a better remedy against the wakefulness he was troubled with.131 The biographer of