331 WINE. The Mtilsum, or honeyed wine, was an exquisite mixture of old Palernian wine and new honey, from the Mount Hymettus."4 The physician, Ccelius Aurelianus, recommends the holding of warm mulsum in the mouth as a palliative in cases of violent head-ache.1" The name of Anisites wine was given to that in which some grains of aniseed had been infused.1'0 The Granatum was prepared by throwing thirty broken pome- granates into a pipe of wine, and pouring over them ten pints and a- half of a different wine, hard and sour. This drink was fit for use at the end of thirty clays.127 Apicius gives us the recipe for the Rosatum:—"Put," syas he, " some rose leaves into a clean linen cloth; sew it up, and leave it seven days in the wine; take out the roses, and put in fresh ones; repeat the operation three times, and then strain the wine. Add some honey at the time of drinking. The roses must be fresh, and free from dew."128 The Violatum is made in the same manner, only violets are used instead of roses.129 Eosatum may also be obtained without roses, by putting a small basket filled with green lemon leaves into a barrel of new wine before the fermentation has taken place, and leaving them there for forty days. This wine is to be mixed with honey before it is drunk.130 Myrrh wine—Myrrhinum, among the. ancients—was wine mixed with a little myrrh, to render it better and make it keep longer. They thought much of it.131 All these wines, like those previously mentioned, were strained through the colum vinarium before they were served to the guests. This strainer was composed of two round, deep dishes, of four inches in diameter. The upper part was pierced, and received the wine, which ran into the lower recipient, whence the cups were filled.132 In Rome the price of common wine—sometimes adulterated 133—was 300 sesterces for 40 urns, or 15 sesterces for an amphora ; that is to say, about sixpence per gallon.13' At Athens it was thought dear when it cost fourpence per gallon. This measure was commonly sold for not more than twopence.136 In the early days of the Roman republic women were forbidden to drink wine;138 but that law fell into disuse, and noble matrons often carried intemperance as far as their toping husbands. v 2