SEASONINGS. 271 already said elsewhere with regard to this fish will enable the reader to appreciate the value of this new preparation. Amateurs who were more economical contented themselves with very little saxatile fishes,31 of which only the intestines were taken, or which were thrown whole into a vase with a great quantity of salt. These were exposed to the sun, and the mixture long and often stirred. When heat had caused fermentation, and the vessel contained only a kind of pulp, Or paste, almost liquid, a kind of willow basket was introduced, into which the garum alone could penetrate. The thick part—the dregs which remained at the bottom of the vase—was termed alec.32 The following method was also frequently adopted :— Mackerel, or small fish, were placed in a small vase with a large quantity of salt; this was well stirred, and the mixture was then left quiet all night. The next day it was transferred into an earthen pot, which remained uncovered in the san. At the end of two or three months, it was hermetically closed, after having added a quantity of old wine equal to one-third of the mixture.33 When it was wished to obtain garum without waiting any length of time, they took brine, carefully filtered, and so saturated with salt that an egg would float on it; this was placed with the fish in a new sauce- pan ; wild marjoram was added, and the whole boiled over a gentle fire, until the fish was entirely dissolved. Then wine, reduced to two-thirds by boiling, was added. It was left to get cold ; the liquid was several times filtered, till it became quite clear, and was then finally placed in an uncovered vase.34 Although fish was generally used, the flesh of several animals was sometimes employed im the formation of garum.35 It was, however, submitted to the same preparations as those already mentioned. Such was this wonderful seasoning, forming the chief delight of the ancients, whose praises poets have sung, and the composition of which formerly exercised the singularly mad intelligence of Maitre Francois Rabelais. The reader will doiibtless remark, that the principal elements of garum are almost invariably the same: fish, salt, and a greater or less fermentation. But perhaps some one may exclaim : " This must be detestable!" No doubt, but then no one ever thought of regaling him- self with this liquid; it was never taken alone; it was but reserved as a seasoning for a host of dishes, in order to heighten their flavour. It must also be observed, that a skilful cook always took care to