MANIPULATION OF FLOUK. 39 respect to the weight and price of bread. The first offence was punished by the confiscation of their bread; the second by a fine ; and the third by the pillory." Saint Louis made statutes for the bakers of Paris. He forbade them to bake on Sunday or any festival day, under pain of a fine of eighteen sous (about eight pence), and a certain quantity of bread. But he gave them permission to open then- shops and sell every day of the year without exception.78 In the 17th century, a new regulation was made concerning bakers; they were to bake " daily, and have always on sale three kinds of bread, viz., that known as pain de chalis, of twelve ounces ; pain de chapitre, of ten ounces; and brownish household bread, of sixteen ounces. The price of each to be dome deniers (a halfpenny), marked by the baker with his own particular mark." They were also permitted to make " rolls and other sorts," but not to expose them for sale " under pain of being fined four hundred Paris livres (a little more than twelve pounds sterling)." 73 Master-bakers were admitted at Paris, in the 14th century, in the following manner:— When a young man had been successively winnower, sifter, kneader, and foreman, he could, by paying a certain amount to the king as legiance money, become an aspirant-baker, and commence business on his own account. Four years after, he was received as master by going through certain formalities. On a given day, he set out from his house, followed by all the bakers of the town, and repaired to the residence of tbe master of the bakers, to whom he presented a new pot filled with nuts, saying : " Master, I have accomplished my four years; here is my pot of nuts." Then the master of the bakers asked the secretary of the trade whether that were true, and having received a reply in the affirm- ative, the master of the bakers returned the pot to the aspirant, who broke it against the wall, and was at once reckoned amongst the masters. Let us reckon up the different kinds of bread that were in use at that epoch : The bread made simply with flour, water, salt, and yeast—the common bread; the best was made at Chailly or Gonesse. The bread cooked in hot water—pain echaude (in England, we should call it baked dumpling).