PIP FRUIT. 112 nectar and ambrosia of the Olympian ages, which you doubtless regret, and we bave again discovered. These wonders of sweetness existed perhaps in China, but you knew it not, for China did not become a Eoman province. But console yourselves, giants of cookery ! we bave not yet attained the high pinnacle of your art; your wild boar a la Troyenne, your peacocks' brains, and your phenicopters' tongues, secure for you a triumph which posterity will dispute in vain ! The orange known under the name of " Portugal orange" comes from China. Not more than two centuries ago the Portuguese brought thence the first scion, which has multiplied so prodigiously that we now see entire forests of orange trees in Portugal.30 It appears to have been the custom formerly, in England, to make new-year's presents of oranges stuck full with cloves. We read in one of Ben Jonson's pieces, the " Christmas Masque," " He has an orange and rosemary, but not a clove to stick in it."40 At the present day we can dispense with this embellishment. The first orange tree cultivated in the centre of France was to be seen a few years ago at Fontainebleau. It was called Le Connetable (the Constable), because it had belonged to the Connetable de Bourbon, and had been confiscated, together with all property belonging to that prince, after his revolt against his sovereign.41 FIG TREE. Antiquity, sacred and profane, has not left us, on any other tree, facts so clear and certain as upon the fig tree; it is the only tree of Eden of which the sacred books have preserved to us any mention.42 In the East there were immense plantations of it; Egypt had some also;43 and the land of Canaan produced figs, which enabled Moses to judge of its fertility.44 The Scriptures, in order to give us an idea of the happiness and tran- quillity the Jews enjoyed under the reign of Solomon, tell us that, " in Judea and in Israel all dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree."45 And the fruit of this tree was no doubt very dear to the Hebrews,