KITCHEN GARDEN. 80 HORSE-RADISH. " By Apollo!" cried, mournfully, a philanthropic and gastronomic Greek, " one must be completely mad to buy horse-radish, when fish can be found in the market."172 So thought the philosopher Amphis. And at Rome, as in Greece, this reviled and despised root hardly found a place on the table of the poor, when anything else could be had. There were several serious causes for this fatal proscription: this plant was found to be bitter, stringy, and of difficult digestion ;m it was looked upon as a very common food ;m the lowest class alone dared to feed upon it; the opulent were therefore compelled to exclude it from the number of their dishes. And again, certain strange customs, au- thorised by the Roman law, contributed greatly to make the horse-radish an object of horror and detestation; so true it is, that the manner in which objects are associated with our ideas determines almost invariably our love or hatred for them. Nevertheless, all the species of this vegetable (and there were five in number, distinctly mentioned by Theophrastus175) ought not to have been condemned so severely. The Corinthian, the Leiothasian, the Cleonian, the Amorean, and the Boeotian, were so many distinct and separate species, each of which possessed its own peculiar property and quality.176 The last-named, with its large and silky leaves, was tender, and had a sweet, agreeable taste.177 The others, not so good, perhaps, were wholesome and nourishing, and their natural bitterness never failed to disappear, when the seeds were allowed to soak for some time in sweet or raisin wine before they were sown.178 Shall we now mention the properties the horse-radish possessed, and which ought to have been sufficient to establish its reputation, if preju- dice were not both deaf and blind ? Take, fasting, some pieces of this beneficent and despised root, and the most inveterate poisons will be changed for you into inoffensive drinks.179 Would you have the power to handle and play with those dangerous reptiles whose active venom causes a speedy and sure death? Wash your hands in the juice of horse-radish.180