HUNTING. 182 King Harold never appeared anywhere without his favourite hawk on his hand ; neither was the approach of the British Nimrod announced otherwise than by the joyous barking of the royal pack.44 Indeed, at that epoch, every person of distinction took the prince as his model, and gave himself up, heart and soul, to what people are pleased to call " the noble exercise of hunting." This aristocratic taste became so extremely prevalent under the domination of the Norman kings, that a writer of the twelfth century has judged it with great severity. "In our time," he says, "hunting is considered as the most honourable occupation, the most excellent virtue. Our nobility show more solicitude, sacrifice more money, and make a greater parade in favour of it, than they would if the question were war. They are more furious in the pursuit of wild beasts, than they would be if they had to conquer the enemies of Great Britain. As a necessary consequence, they no longer retain any sentiment of humanity; they have descended almost to the level of the savage animals they are in the daily habit of tracking and unkenneling." 45 These uncomplimentary observations of John of Salisbury did not prevent James I. from pursuing the cherished diversion of his prede- cessors. That prince being one day at the hunt in the environs of Bury St. Edmunds, remarked, among the persons composing his suite, an opulent citizen magnificently dressed, whose rich costume eclipsed that of the lords the most renowned at court for the elegance of their attire. The king asked who the hunter was. Some one replied that it wras Lamb. " Lamb, say you ? " rejoined the king, laughing; " I don't know what sort of a lamb that may be ; but what I know well is, that he has got a superb fleece on his back."46 THE STAG. Roman ladies of the highest distinction, arrived at that age when, in making an estimate of life, it is found that the largest portion belongs to the past—these ladies, we say, failed not to have the flesh of this animal served on their tables, and to eat as much of it as possible. Perchance it had but a slight attraction for the worthy matrons, and yet they pre- ferred it to every other, for this reason, that the stag being free from