LECTURES ON SURG E R Y BY JAMES SPENCE, RR.S.K, SCTHQEON TO THE QUEKU IN SCOTLAND ; i'BOFESSOR OJj' SOEaEBV IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH ; LATE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OP SURGEONS, EDINBURGH ; SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY AND LOCK HOSPITAL ; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR SICJI CHILDREN, EDINBURGH, ETC. ETC. PART IV. ,EDINBUEaH ADAM AND CHAELES BLACK 1871 Price Ten Shillings. /NOTE. In binding Spence's Surgery, Parts 1 and 2 form Volume I. Parts 3 an,d 4 form Volume II. The Title and Preface to Vol. I., and the Title and Contents to Vol. II., will be found at the end of this Part. Cloth cases for binding the Volumes may he had, i price One Shilling each.s * Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 hltps://archive.org/details/b21923565_0004s LECTURES U R G E R ON BY JAMES SPENCE, F.R.S.E. SURGEON TO THE QUEEN IN SCOTLAND ; PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH ; LATE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, EDINBURGH ; SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY AND LOCK HOSPITAL ; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN, EDINBURGH, ETC. ETC. 1 PART IV. EDINBURGH ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK 1871Printed by R. Clark, Edinburgh.LECTURE CI. Fracture of the Upper Jaw—Fractures of the Lower Jaw at different points : Causes of Displacement ; Treatment—Dislocations of Lower Jaw : Method of Reduction—Lijuries of Ear—Foreign Bodies in the Ear, and Modes of re- moving them—Obstruction of External Passage by Inspissated Cerumen— Eczematous Affection of Auricle and Passage—Otitis—Otorrhoea—Polypi and Polypoid Growths in the External Passage—Affections of the Eustachian Tube—Eustachian Catheterism—Use of Toynbee's Artificial Membrana Tympani. Practuke of the Upper Jaw is Bot common, except as the result of direct force, such as a blow, or a kick from a horse. In general the injury is easily diagnosed on account of the swelling and the mobility of tlie alveolar process. In a case lately under my care in hospital, there was a displacement which might have given rise to a difficulty in the diagnosis. The case simu- lated one of dislocation of the lower jaw—the molar teeth of the upper jaw were pushed downwards, and did not correspond to those of the lower, the mouth could not be closed, and the lower jaw seemed to project. But it was merely the back part of the lower jaw which was pushed down, and, on examining the parts fully, the injury was easily diagnosed and remedied. The treatment of fracture of the upper jaw is to model the parts into position as far as possible, and then to apply a bandage or handkerchief, to retain the jaws in apposition. Fkactures of the Lower Jaw are very common, and may occur at almost any point of the bone—through the angle of the jaw, for example. Not uncommonly we have a double fracture, the jaw giving way at the angle, and at a point a little to one side of the symphysis on the opposite side of the jaw, or on both sides of the symphysis. lu these cases we find that tlie gum-texture is 3 T988 REGIONAL SURGERY. generally torn, so that the fracture may almost be called a compound one; but it is not a compound fracture attended with any danger, for there is merely a slight laceration of the gum. True compound fracture of the jaw, with an external wound, is usually a very severe injury. In fractures of the jaw, the teeth are generally displaced; the last molar tooth is sometimes split up, and the fragments remain in position, and we must examine for this at the time, as the sooner the split portions of the tooth are extracted the better. This should be done at first, and we should see that the fangs of the tooth are taken out, for if left in they may cause necrosis after the fracture has united. In these, as in other fractures, the displacement is due partly to the direction of the force inflicting the injury, and partly to muscular action. When the fracture is at or near the angle of the jaw, very little displacement occurs, because the portion of the masseter muscle attached to the outer surface of the bone, and the internal pterygoid attached to its inner surface, mutually counteract each other, and maintain the fracture in position. When the fracture is nearer the chin, the angle is kept pretty much in position, but the action of the mylo-hyoid tends to draw inwards the body of the jaw, and so gives rise to slight displacement. When there is a fracture near to and on both sides of the symphysis, that part, deprived of its lateral support, is acted on by the mylo-hyoid and depressor muscles of the lower jaw, and displaced downwards and backwards, and there is generally considerable deformity. In fracture of the neck of the condyle, the external pterygoid being unopposed, we might expect considerable displacement, but in several cases which I hav^e seen scarcely any deformity existed. The Treatment of fractures of the lower jaw is very simple. We model the fractured portions into position, and fix the jaw by bandaging. When the teeth are tolerably complete, or even when only one or two teeth'remain in the lower jaw, if we can oppose these to corresponding teeth in the upper jaw, they serve as fixed points for applying- pressure. But if the teeth are very irregular.DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. 989 SO that we cannot do this, then we are recommended to insert some substance—say a wedge-shaped piece of cork or of gutta- percha, or Nasmyth's apparatus—on each side between the jaws, to keep the lower jaw from twisting. This, however, is not often necessary. Tlie only case in which such an apparatus should be inserted, is when the patient has a perfect set of teeth, without any having been displaced. If we do not use it under these circumstances, the patient cannot be easily fed. In most cases, however, all that is required in the way of treat- ment, is to keep the teeth of the upper and lower jaws fixed against each other; and this is done by applying the four-tailed split cloth or bandage round the jaw and head, as represented in Plate xvi. Fig. 9. Formerly pasteboard splints were put on the jaw, but these are really of very little nse. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw are of two kinds—the com- plete or bilateral, and the incomplete or unilateral. The uni- lateral dislocation is attended with greater deformity than the other, owing to the open and distorted appearance of the mouth, and the twisting of the features occasioned by it. In bilateral dislocation there is less distortion, and the opening of the mouth might even be overlooked. The dislocation is generally occa- sioned by some sudden exertion of the patient, as in yawning or laughing immoderately. Under these circumstances the coronoid process slips forward and gets fixed, whilst the condyles glide from the glenoid cavity in front of the root of the zygomatic process. There is a hollow felt at the articulation, and the line of the teeth does not correspond with that of those in the upper jaw. These conditions, together with the inability of the patient to speak, show the nature of the injury. The method of reducing the dislocation, whether unilateral or bilateral, is very much the same. Our object is to bring down the coronoid process and condyles from where they are fixed, to allow the temporal muscle to act on the displaced bone, and this is done by raising the chin while we depress the angle of the jaw. The thumbs are placed on the last molarREGIONAL SURGERY. 990 teeth, and the fingers under the chin. By means of the thumbs we then depress the angle of the jaw, and push it backwards, whilst the chin is tilted forwards, and in this way the dis- location is in general easily reduced. Some recommend that the thumbs should be wrapped in a handkerchief or towel, to protect them from being bitten, when the condyle becomes replaced suddenly by the powerful action of the temporal muscles. I have never seen any great necessity for this pre- caution, and if the operator does not take care of his thumbs, he may be none the worse of being taught by experience. The bilateral dislocation is in most cases somewhat more difficult to reduce, but still it is easy enough generally. After the reduc- tion has been effected, we must apply a bandage, and keep the jaw fixed for some time, as this dislocation is very apt to recur when it has once happened, especially in females of a hysterical temperament, in whom dislocation of the jaw is not uncommon. In regard to Injuries and Diseases of the Ear, the limits of the course force me to confine myself to a general view of the more ordinary accidents and diseased conditions which you will have to deal with ill general practice ; and even with these I must deal briefly. Woimds of the external ear, or auricle, are not uncommon, but require no special treatment. In some instances the whole auricle, or large portions of it, are detached, and the result is very great impairment of hearing on the injured side. In cases where the whole auricle has been carried away, the patient must have had a very narrow escape for his life. In one, which occurred in my hospital practice some years ago, a railway porter was thrown down by the tender of an engine, and his ear detached except at one point, where it was held by a thin slip of skin. This was cut through, and the patient did well; but his hearing on that side was nearly lost. I got an ear modellel in vulcanised india-rubber, to serve as a substitute ; and this did assist his hearing a little. A late highly respected physician of this city, who in his youth had been an oflicer of991 INyURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. light infantry, liad the greater part of his ear carried away by a round shot at tlie battle of Waterloo ; so that, in both these in- stances, the head must have had a very narrow escape. We are frequently called on to remove foreign bodies which have been pushed into the external meatus. These accidents generally occur in young children, and the substances inserted are very various—small stones, peas, glass beads, and the ^ke. Here, as in similar accidents in the x;ase of tlie nostrjls, abortive attempts are too often made before the little patient is brought to the surgeon, and the dif^culty ,of removing the foreign body very much increased thejreby. In proceeding to extract foreign substances from the ear, we must bear in mind the delicacy of the organ, and risk of exciting diseased action in the middle and internal ear, and the danger conse(lu.ent on the .close proximity to the brain, more especially in young children; for death has sometimes followed violent or ill-directed attempts at extrac- tion. In cases where the child is brought to us before any inter- ference has been attempted, if the substance can be readily seen, there will be no great difficulty ha removing it. The pa,tient's head being firmly held, a small lever-scoop should be passed fairly over and beyond the foreign body, and then the handle of the ciirette raised, and the instrument used as a lever, to tilt out the substance if impacted ; or^ if it be loose, the curette is merely used to draw it out. In cases whexe attempts have been made to extract the substance, and in which it is dqeply im- pacted, we must proceed very cautiously, as the membrane of the tympanum may have been ruptured, and the foreign body impacted deeper in the middle ear ; and I have kno;\vn instances in which the promontory of the tynipanmn has been mistaken for the offending substance. In all such cases of impaction it is essential that the surgeon should see the foreign body ; and, as the membrane of the meatus is swollen, and the passage blocked up or encrusted with blood, this must be cleared away. The first thing, therefore, that we should do, is to syringe out the passage with tepid water; this will allay the irritation and re- move the coagulated blood, and then, by means of the tubular992 REGIONAL SURGERY. speculum, we can ascertain the presence and position of the foreign body, which the lever, or ear-forceps, may be used to re- move. I have already said that no violent or hap-hazard efforts should be made with instruments. In some cases I have found a stream of tepid water, forcibly injected from a syringe, succeed, when violent efforts with instruments had failed. I would advise this last-mentioned method to be used in the first in- stance in cases where glass beads are impacted, as these are liable to break in using the lever, and the fragments may lacerate the passage. After the foreign body is removed, if there be much irritation, the child should be kept very quiet, soft warm poultices applied over the ear, and other means used to allay the irritation, and obviate inflammatory action. In both children and adults insects sometimes enter and lodge in the passage, or deposit their larvae in it, and give rise to great irritation, and the cause is not suspected. When their presence is ascertained by means of the speculum, they are easily enough destroyed and removed. A few drops of tincture of iodine diffused in warm water, or a very weak solution of carbolic acid injected into the ear, speedily destroys and dislodges them. The passage of the ear is often blocked up by masses of har- dened cerumen, and the patient rendered deaf in consequence of the obstruction. In such cases the ear should be syringed with a tepid solution of bicarbonate of soda, or soap and water ; and if the masses of cerumen be very hard, the curette may be used advantageously to assist their removal. Thereafter a little warm oil should be dropped into the passage, and the patient taught to use a small syringe occasionally to prevent re-accumulation. In other instances an opposite condition is met with—a want of the ceruminous secretion, and dryness of the passage. After con- siderable experience in diseases of the ear, I believe this condi- tion to be very rare as a cause of deafness ; but it is so occasion- ally, and when present, the use of glycerine ointment—one part to eight of lard—will be found useful. It should be heated and applied with a hair pencil, and the passage should beINFLAMMA TION OF THE EAR. 993 gently washed out with some weak alkaline lotion from time to time. The auricle, and the lining membrane of the external passage of the ear, are frequently the seat of a troublesome eczematous affection, attended with considerable local irritation, and which, if not checked, might lead to chronic disease of the membrane of the tympanum. The auricle and lining membrane are red and glazed, and covered with a sort of scurf or scaly coating, beneath which a thin exudation is poured out. There is intolerable itching, and occasional exacerbations of an inflammatory character. The best treatment is to apply to the parts a weak alkaline lotion, such as bicarbonate of soda, or borax dissolved in water, to which a little glycerine is added. After each application, a lini- ment composed of olive-oil, lime-water, and glycerine, is painted on the surface. When the disease is very obstinate, a s^nall pro- portion of tar-ointment may be added to the simple liniment. Internally, the use of sulphuretted waters is .often of great ser- vice in promoting the cure. Inflammation of the Ear.—Otitis is fortuinately in most instances limited to the external ear. Owing to the nature of the structure affected, it is an extremely painful affection. The pain extends over the side of the face and head, .and ^s aggravated by movements of the jaw, as in mastication. There is often fulness or swelling in the parotid region—redness and turges- cence at the external meatus, and considerable constitutional disturbance and febrile action. In cases where the inflammation attacks the tympanum, the pain is intense, and accompanied by redness, pain, and swelling in the throat, with severe head- ache and sleeplessness. Occasionally the mastoid cells and the internal ear become affected, and then all the symptoms are aggravated, and the condition is a very dangerous one. Besides the symptoms already enumerated, v/e have pain, redness, and tension over the mastoid process and temporal bone in its vici- nity, and the pain is intensified on pressure over the squamous portion of the temporal bone or the mastoid process. The consti-REGIONAL SURGERY. 994 tiitional disturbance is very great, and in tlie character of tlie headache, watchfuhiess, anxious expression of countenance, and febrile excitement, resembles symptomatic meningitis. In the cases in which the inflammation is limited to the external ear, the Treatment consists in applying leeches in front of the ear, or behind the auricle over the front of the mastoid process, fomenting, or applying poultices over the ear, and dropping a little warm oil and morphia into the passage, whilst the constitutional disturbance is treated by clearing out the bowels and giving anodyne diaphoretics. Not unfrequently this condition is caused or kept up by the presence of carious teeth or stumps, and the removal of these should be insisted on. When the inflammation attacks the deeper parts of the ear, the danger is very great, and our treatment requires to be energetic. If there be pain, tension, or boggy feeling over the mastoid pro- cess and temporal bone, an incision should be made -over the mastoid process. This will both deplete freely and directly the parts affected, and relieve tension. Poultices should be applied to the ear, and a blister to the nape of the neck. At the same time, a moderate dose of calomel should be given, and followed by a saline pivrgative to act freely on the bowels ; and subse- quently, antimony with opium, in small doses, to diminish the force of the circulation and to act as a diaphoretic. Should rigors occur, with feeling of increased tension, or feeling of ful- ness in the ear, we should examine with the speculum ; and if the membrane of the tympanum be convex and bulging, it should be incised, as purulent matter sometimes points in that direction, and an early opening may save the patient from con- siderable risk. Chronic Purulent Discharge from the Ear.—Otorrhcea is a condition very frequently met with. It may arise either as a result of acute otitis, or injury, as from the irritation originally produced by foreign bodies in the ear. Most generally, however, it arises in early life, as one of the sequela? of children's diseases— measles, scarlatina, or hooping-cough. The subjects in whom weOTORRHCEA. 995 most freqiiently meet with otorrhoea are of a strumous habit; and it is always to be regarded with some anxiety, and to be carefully treated. In many cases, the diseased state on which the discharge depends is limited to the external passage, and consists in chronic ulceration of its lining membrane, and a state of mere chronic irritation of that structure. This condition may continue for years, or nearly throughout a lifetime, without producing anything more serious than dulness of hearing on that side, and the annoyance cairsed by the discharge. In other cases, however, the middle ear and mastoid cells are the seat of disease, and the discharge is an indication of deeply-seated mis- chief. It has the peculiarly foetid odour of pus generated in the neighbourhood of diseased bone, and is of variable consistence. The discharge which occurs in the otorrhcea of the external passage is generally free from fretor, and contains a considerable amount of cuticular debris from the lining membrane. In disease of the middle ear and mastoid cells, the dis- charge may continue for a long period without serious symptoms. There are, however, generally, exacerbations of deep-seated pain, tenderness, and doughy swelling over the mastoid processes, occurring from time to time ; till at last, from some slight exciting cause, such as cold, one of these exacerbations assumes a more severe and persistent form, and cerebral symptoms supervene, and terminate fatally in such circumstances. The pathological conditions found after death, such as caries of the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bones, disease or destruction of the dura mater, and abscess in the middle lobe of the brain, show that the disease has been long making progress towards the fatal issue. The Treatment of the more siiperficial form of otorrhoea consists in removing all local sources of irritation, such as stumps of teeth ; correcting the state of the digestive organs, and applying locally at first weak alkaline lotions, and subsequently astringent lotions of tannin, alum, or sulphate of zinc or nitrate of silver, whilst, at the same time, blisters are applied to the nape of the neck. In the deep-seated form of disease, the discharge is but aREGIONAL SURGERY. 996 symptom of more serious miscliief. Our attention must be directed to improve the general health, and by inserting a seton in the neck or the application of the actual cautery, to try and arrest the progress of the deep caries. In cases where the textures over the mastoid process are swollen, red, and puffy, an incision should be made down upon the bone. When this is done, it not unfrequently happens that unhealthy pus escapes by the wound at the time : at other times, a thin exfolia- tion of bone takes place, with relief of the urgent symptoms ; and, at all events, the relief of tension is followed by allevia- tion of the pain. Polypi in the External Passage of the Ear are easily re- cognised, and removed by the use of small forceps, in a similar manner that we remove polypi from the nostrils. It is well to keep in mind, however, that in this situation there is peculiar soft red polypoid protrusion, which is usually connected with diseased bone, and wdiich is rapidly reproduced after removal. It is, in fact, rather a form of polypoid granulation than a true polypus, although often assuming a regular pyriform shape. After remov- ing such excrescences, it is well to touch the surface from whence we have removed them with red oxide of mercury, nitrate of silver, or solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent, if possible, their reproduction. Amongst the various diseases giving rise to deafness, Obstruc- tion OF THE Eustachian Tube was at one time very much insisted on by sj^ecialists as a frequent cause of that infirmity, and catheterism of the tube, the eustachian air-douche, and similar operations, were very fashionable. Now, whilst obstruction of the eustachian tube undoubtedly causes imperfection in hearing, the requisite reverberation being thereby prevented, j^et the causes of the obstruction are of a kind which can either be remedied by simpler measures, or in which catheterism of tlie tube is inapplicable. In the former class we have obstruction from swelling of the surrounding mucous membrane, or from inspis-OBSTRUCTION OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 997 sated tnucus. In these conditions, catheterisni of the tube would be more likely to excite irritation, and lead to organic change in structure, and so do harm rather than good. These causes of obstruction are more benefited by the inhalation of vapour, either of simple warm water, or medicated with iodine, and sub- sequently the free use of astringent gargles. Organic stricture of the tube is the only condition where catheterisni is of benefit, and that must be a very rare condition indeed in a short mucous canal so situated as is the eustachian tube. In cases of obstruc- tion from ulcerations of the neighbouring parts, causing contrac- tion or obliteration of the orifice of the tube, it is needless to say that catheterisni would neither be applicable nor possible. As regards the introduction of the eustachian probe, or catheter, for purposes of diagnosis, that is easily enough managed after a little practice. The instrument is made with the requisite curve, and with a flat fixed handle. The point should be very slightly bent, and the handle marked so as to indicate the direction of the point, and the distance from the orifice of the nostril to its ex- tremity should also be calculated and marked. The instrument is passed flat along the floor of the nostril to the requisite extent; the point should be directed upwards and outwards, whilst the handle is carried towards the septum of the nostrils. These movements must be performed without any force. If effected gently, and used only for the purpose of diagnosis, no harm can result from catheterisni; but if used on the pretext of dilating the tube, or to enable the aurist to use the air-douche or to inject medicated lotions, I hold such treatment to be not only useless but dangerous. The membrane of the tympanum is often destroyed by ulceration, or ill-directed attempts to remove foreign bodies from the ear, and in consequence the hearing is lost, or at least much impaired. In such cases, when the acute action has ceased, and the ulceration is arrested, great benefit will be derived from the ■use of the artificial membrana tympani, originally devised by the late Mr. Toynbee. It consists of a small circle of membrane composed of very thin sheet caoutchouc, attached in the centre998 REGIONAL SURGERY. to a delicate handle composed of silver wire. In xasing it the surgeon should first cut the membrane to adapt it to the orifice in each case, then dip it in warm water, and pass it down through the tubular ear-speculum till it reaches the orifice of the tympanum. In many cases the improvement is immediate, but of course we cannot expect benefit in those cases where the cavity of the tympanum and internal ear have suffered in their organisation from previous disease. The artificial membrane requires to be removed almost daily to be kept clean, but the patients soon learn to do this for themselves.SURGERY OF THE CERVICAL REGION. LECTURE CTL Surgery of the Neck—Cervical Tumours : Simple and Malignant—Cervical Hy- pertropliies, as those of the Thyroid Body : Importance of careful Diagnosis in dealing with them—Adenoid and Fibro-Cystic Parotid Tumours—Fatty Tumoms of the Submaxillary Region—Diagnosis and Treatment of the different Forms of Bronchocele—M. Porta's Views. Accidental and Suicidal Wounds in the Cervical Region : their Treatment. There is no region of tlie body of greater interest to the surgeon than that of the neclc Besides the diseases of the various natural stntctures which are situated in or pass through this region, it is frequently the seat of new formations, the results of either the inflammatory process or tumotir growth. The great blood-vessels and important nerves which pass through the space, their branches which traverse it in all directions, and the relations of these vital structures to abscesses or tumours forming in the neck, or their displacement or impeded function by such new formations, are subjects of the greatest importance in refer- ence to diagnosis and operative procedure in treatment. The nature and treatment of the wounds and other injuries in the cervical region, and especially those involving the air- passages, or the pharynx and gullet, will also demand your most serious attention, and require you to bear in mind, not merely the relative anatomy of the parts, but the functions they per- form. I have already, when lecturing on aneurism and ligature of arteries, brought under your notice the diagnosis of diseases of the arteries of the neck, and their treatment ; and, when speak- ing of the local dangers of suppuration, I specially drew your attention to the dangers of deep-seated abscesses in the cervical region. We have still, however, to consider the important subjects of tumours of the neck, suicidal and other woundsREGIONAL SURGERY. 1000 occurring in tliis region, the injuries and affections of the air- passages requiring surgical treatment, and injuries and diseases of the pharynx and gullet. The Tumours which occur in the Cervical Eegion, whether we regard them in reference to operative surgery or diagnosis, and the question of the treatment to be adopted, are undoubtedly amongst the gravest subjects which the practical surgeon has to deal with. It is, however, impossible to do more, in a course of lectures, than to lay down some general principles, and throw out some suggestions, illustrating them by reference to special cases. The circumstances and position of tumours vary in almost every case, and consequently the surgeon in considering their character, symptoms, and treatment, must depend, in each case, on his knowledge of the anatomy and functions of the dif- ferent structures in relation to, or likely to be affected by, the tumour. The tumours we meet with in the neck, besides the important division into simple and malignant, may be sub- divided into those which are new developments,—true tumours, and the enlargements or hypertropliies of natural structures, such as those of the thyroid body. / Of true simple tumours those most frequently met with are the fatty, situated most generally in the submaxillary and lateral regions of the neck, and placed superficially; the fibrous and adenoid growths, occupying, usually, the parotid and deep cervical regions, and having close relations to important parts. The malignant tumours are the different forms of medullary and hard cancer. Perhaps the most important point which the surgeon has to decide, in reference to a cervical tumour, is its nature—whether simple or malignant. If the growth be, from its history and appearance, of simple character, then, however deeply situated, or however near important structures, it is not likely to involve them ; and consequently, although operations for the removal of such deep-seated tumours are perhaps the most difficult in sur- gery, still they may be undertaken with perfect safety andCERVICAL TUMOURS. 1001 certainty of removal of the defined growth. In deep-seated malignant tumours, on the contrary, however defined or loose they may feel, there is no real definition. They are often attached by a deep pedicle to the cervical vertebrae, and involve the deep ligamentous texture between the vertebral processes, so that complete removal is impossible, and the tumour is repro- duced rapidly, and, if possible, in a worse form than at first. In other cases of cancerous tumours, there is no definition— the mass involves all the structures in its vicinity. I have already, in lecturing on tumour-growths, specially dwelt on the characteristics of malignant, as distinguished from simple growths, and I contrasted the general appearance and expression of patients by sketches of two large cervical growths (Lecture xvii. Plate V.) Having formed your conclusions as to the nature of the growth, and decided that it is one suited for removal, you have next to consider its relation to neighbouring important structures, —^how far their functions have already been interfered with, or may be interfered with during or after the operation—then to plan your incisions so as to avoid deformity or risk to important structures, and take means to obviate haemorrhage or the entrance of air into the enlarged veins which may require to be divided. This last is a risk that might not be thought of, and therefore I direct your attention to it, for the superficial veins over large tumours, near the lower part of the neck, become enormously enlarged, owing either to the venous circulation being interrupted by the position of the tumour, or in consequence of their having to return the blood which circulates in the growth. The fascial structures over the tumour, and connected with these veins, keep their orifices from collapsing when divided, and air might enter them and prove fatal, unless the operator take care to tie them with two ligatures before division, or to compress them with needles. In regard to details, these must vary in almost every case ; but, in regard to the method of examining and dealing with large deep cervical growths, I think I will be able to illustrate that best by referring you to two cases, accounts ofREGIONAL SURGERY. 1002 which I published some years ago; and, as both were examples of the largest deep-seated and complicated forms of tumour, they may serve to indicate the chief points to be considered by the surgeon in such cases.- -(See Clinical Cases.) Some surgical authorities have laid it down as a practical rule, that it is not warrantable to attempt removal of such growths Avhen they are placed under the sterno-mastoid, as we cannot be sure of removing them entire ; and that, besides the great risks of the operation, there is the risk of rapid reproduction. I think the results of the cases I have alluded to are the best warrant for operative interference in proper cases. The danger lies in attempting removal in unsuitable cases. Eemoval of simple tumours from the parotid region has been so frequently performed, that I need hardly say more in reference to them than to remind you of the close relations of the portio dura nerve and the external carotid artery to such growths. In some instances the tumour is so placed as to be super- ficial to the parotid gland, and then we can, by careful dissection, turn it out of its nest of condensed cellular tissue, without injuring the nerves. But in many cases the growth is developed from below, and compresses and partly adheres to the parotid, so that it is impossible to spare all the branches of the nerve. Indeed, in sonie instances, partial paralysis of the face is present, owing to compression of the portio dura by the growth. In a case of this kind which I operated upon last winter, the paralysis disappeared after removal of the tumour. Parotid tumours are usually fibro-cystic or adenoid, with cysts ; and when the cystic element predominates,- or the cysts are large, great care must be taken to avoid them in dissecting out the growth. Fatty tumours sometimes attain an enormous size in the submaxillary region. They are quite superficial, loosely con- nected, and can be removed with great ease and safety, even when of the size represented in the accompanying sketch (Fig. 29). The tumours of natural structures met with in the neck are chiefly those of the Thyi'oid Body, constituting the different forms of Bronchocele. This disease may exist as a simpleI-1003 CERVICAL TUMOURS. hypertrophy of the gland, due to increased nutrition of its structure, the whole organ being enlarged, but its form and Fig. 29. structure unaltered ; or it may be highly vascular, so as to have a character almost erectile, and communicating a strong pulsa- tory feeling to the touch. The conditions just mentioned may be confined to a part of the gland, which enlarges, whUst the rest of the organ remains of its natural size, or is but little altered. In such partial enlargements, when the isthmus is developed as a growth, it often interferes with respiration ; and when the erectile form of enlargement is confined to one lateral lobe, it has occasionally been mistaken for carotid aneurism. Cystic tumour of the thyroid is another form, and the cystic tumour may either be multilocular or a large single cyst. In the latter case the contents consist of either a clear serous-looking fluid, constituting hydrocele of the thyroid ; or fluid of a dark brown colour, mixed with clots of blood, constituting haematocele of the thyroid. In these cystic tumours the swelling is almost 3 u1004 REGIONAL SURGERY. invariably confined to one lateral lobe, or to a cystic projection of the isthmus. In either the solid or cystic bronchocele, the position and general form of the swelling, together with its connection with the trachea, are in general sufficient to decide our diagnosis. If the patient be made to swallow repeatedly a little fluid slowly, the Avay in which the tumour ascends and descends synchronously with the movements of the larynx and tracliea, can leave us in little doubt as to its nature and relations. There are, however, tumours developed from or connected with the thyroid body, which occupy a position apparently quite away from it, and which are not very distinctly affected by the movements of the trachea during deglutition. These tumours, apparently superficial at their most prominent part, might lead to some confusion to the operator in removing them, unless he were prepared to find that they are always deep-seated over the sheath of the vessels, and that instead of being defined and rounded, as their external appearance would indicate, they are rather pyriform, the narrow part being attached below to the lateral lobe of the thyroid. Hence they ai'e not much affected by the movements of the rest of the gland,—yet by attentive examination they will be felt to move in such a way as to make us suspect the true connections. I have removed two large growths of this kind, and the external appearances of one of them are represented in Plate xlvii. Fig. 1. The more solid forms of bronchocele, or goitre, are compara- tively common, and in some mountainous countries and in certain districts of England the disease seems to be endemic. In many instances the thyroid enlargement attains a great size without materially affecting the functions of respiration and deglutition, although, I think, invariably affecting the general health, for such patients are usually ansemic, with prominent eye- balls and weak circulation. In other cases the embarrassment of the breathing is very great, and in some cases necessitates the performance of tracheotomy. In the cystic form, which often attains an enormous size, the air-passages are displaced laterally,1005 CERVICAL TUMOURS. and a sudden increase may threaten suffocation, as happened to a patient under my care, a notice of which will be found in the Clinical Cases. The Treatment of the solid or vascular forms of bronchocele must consist chiefly in the use of discutient remedies, exhibited both externally and internally, such as blisters applied over the swelling, followed by painting the surface with tincture of iodine, and the internal use of the iodide of potassium, continued for a length of time. Under this treatment the swelling gradually, in some cases rapidly, diminishes, and a cure is effected. Various plans for excision of the thyroid body, or ligature of all the thyroid arteries, have been proposed, but attempts to put them in practice have hitherto failed. Partial excisions, as in the case of the projecting tumours of the isthmus, have been successfully performed. In performing this operation, a free incision is made in the central line of the neck, the cellular tissue connecting the steruo-hyoid and thyroid muscle is divided, and these muscles separated with the point of the finger, and held aside, so as to display the tumour. After insulating it so far, its pedicle should be transfixed with a needle armed with a double lira- O ture, so as to embrace each half of it in a ligature. When the ligatures are firmly tied, the projecting mass of the tumour is cut off. In one case, in dissecting out a tumour in this position, after detaching it with very little bleeding, I i;nwarily divided the small remaining portion, when profuse hsemorrhage took place from a vessel in the position of the middle thyroid ; and, as it retracted toward the substernal region, it was very difficult to secure. A single ligature applied before division would have saved all the trouble. In excising the growths less directly connected with the lateral lobes of the thyroid, to whicli I have alluded, the principles of the operative procedure are the same as for removal of deep-seated tumours of the neck, keep- ing in mind our close proximity to the great vessels of the region and their branches, and also to the superior laryngeal nerve. But when the operator reaches the point of attachment to the thyroid, the best plan is to transfix and tie the immediately adjacent part1^ 1006 REGIONAL SURGERY. of the gland before removing tlie tumonr. In the case of the young girl, from wliom the sketch in Plate xlvii. is taken, I found the tumour so apparently defined, that I dissected it out; but, in reality, the texture of the thyroid, although somewhat con- densed, had been cut, and I had to twist and tie a number of bleeding points out of all proportion to the size of the cut sur- face. In operating on a similar case in an adult female, I trans- fixed and deligated the substance of the thyroid before removing the tumour, and there was no trouble in securing vessels. The Treatment of cystic bronchocele will depend on whether it be a single or multilocular cystic tumour: in the former case we merely require to tap the cyst, and inject tincture of iodine, to cause its obliteration and cure. In some very large cysts we require to make an opening and counter-opening to evacuate the cyst fully, and then with a large camel-hair pencil paint the interior with tincture of iodine. In making counter-openings in such cases we require to use due caution, as the cyst underlies the sterno-mastoid, and its pressure may have displaced important parts towards the surface; but if we make a cautious examination before puncturing the cyst there is no danger. If the cyst contain dark-brown fluid, showing it to be a hsematocele, and if the contents be homogeneous, the same treatment as for simple hydrocele will be sufficient; but if there be clots, or, if after the fluid has been removed, the bulk of the cyst is not much diminished, the aperture made by the ti'ocar should be enlarged, so as to admit the finger, and if it be filled with coagula, the incision should be still further enlarged, the clots turned out, and the interior painted with iodine, or with tincture of matico if there is any oozing of blood. In operating on a case of this kind on one occasion, after turning out the coagula, there was no oozing of blood at the time, but shortly afterwards smart oozing occurred, and I re- quired to stuff the cavity vs^ith lint, dipped in a weak solution of perchloride of iron, to arrest it. Bleeding recurred about ten days afterwards, but was easily arrested by cold, and the girl made a good recovery ; but I have known a case in which im-WOUNDS IN THE CERVICAL REGION. 1007 controllable bleeding following an operation on a hsematocele of the thyroid proved fatal. I do not, however, think perchloride of iron a very safe styptic in such a vascular organ, lest embolism or thrombosis take place, in consequence of small clots being carried into the circulation. M. Porta has proposed that in multilocular cysts, and even some more solid forms of thyroid tumoiirs, we should enucleate cysts or portions of the structure by making incisions into the gland. He founds his plan on the ground that the great vessels of the thyroid body ramify on its surface, not in the interior, and that if we avoid these large vessels the enucleations can be effected without risk of haemorrhage. I cannot, however, with the recollection of what I have seen in operations for haematocele of the thyroid, recommend this method as free from the danger of bleeding. It is quite true that the main vascular trunks principally ramify on the surface of the gland, but their minute ramifications are in the interior, and constitute an almost erectile tissue in the interstices of the cell portion of the gland, and it is from this texture that the risk of haemorrhage occurs. In ordi- nary solid tumours the discutient plan is safer. Wounds in the Cervical Eegion, implicating the Throat, CEsophagus, and Air-passages, are of great importance. They may be either accidental or suicidal. The latter are generally transverse, as the suicide endeavours to cut into the air-passages. In this he generally fails, by stretching his neck, and so cutting above the larynx, while he seldom or never divides the great blood-vessels. I have seen, however, a wound of the jugiilar, whilst the carotid was intact; and, on the other hand, I have tied the carotid for a small wound in its walls. The branches of the lingual, facial, and thyroid arteries are generally cut, while, as I said before, the main tri;nks are rarely injured. The lingual artery itself is seldom divided. The wound has a frightful look, large and gaping, it stretches from side to side, and there is a gurgling of air and venous blood. Bleeding must be arrested at once. The sides of the wound being compressed by the fingers, itREGIONAL SURGERY. 1008 should be cleaned of clots and mucus, so as to obtain a view of the parts. The arteries, however small, if wounded, should be liga- tured, and the bleeding veins secured either by ligature or com- pression. The common custom of sewing the wound is most reprehensible. The deep-seated textures cannot be expected to heal by the first intention, from the necessary movements of the parts. Mucus and blood and air get into the deeper-seated parts of the wound when it is sewn up, and lead to emphysema and unhealthy action. Purulent matter infiltrates and distends the tissues, so that the patient speedily dies from suffocation. Even when the wound does not pass so deeply, it should not be stitched, as blood or pxis is certain to accumulate and complicate recovery. In all cases, therefore, while we may sew the angles, the centre of the wound should be left open. We must, however, take means to prevent the edges of the skin becoming inverted during the healing process. The patient's mental and physical condition materially influences the progress of cure, and often complicates the treatment of the case, and the patient often dies, even when the wound is all but healed. Should the pharynx or oesophagus be wounded, it is necessary to nourish the patient by a tube passed through the nostrils. The instrument, however, should be passed as seldom as possible, because in the wounded state of the pharynx its introduction is difficult, while there is a danger, during the struggles of the patient, of its passing into the posterior mediastinum. When it is impossible to pass the instrument by the nostril, the patient must be fed by passing the tube by the mouth or by the wound itself. The latter, if possible, must be avoided, as it keeps the wound open and causes great irritation. Suicidal wounds, leading to inflammation and oedema glot- tidis, often require, tracheotomy. The operation is peculiarly difficult, as the larynx is dragged downwards to the sternum, while, by stretching the head and neck backwards we gain no advantage, we only make the wound gape more widely. The upper part of the larynx should therefore be fixed with a sharp hook, and drawn upwards and forwards, as nearly asSUICIDAL WOUMDS. 1009 possible into its natural position, before proceeding with the operation. The general after-treatment must be determined by the parti- cular symptoms and conditions of the patient in each case. The general indications are to allay irritability and procure sleep by the exhibition of opiates, and large doses of bromide of potas- sium, whilst, at the same time, the nutrition of the patient is maintained.LECTUEE cm. Injuries of txie Larynx—Circumstances which regulate their Severity—Primary and Secondary Dangers—Foreign Bodies in Larynx—Variety and Intensity of accompanying Sjonptoms, as regulated by character of Impacted Body— Sensibility of different parts of the Mucous Surface—Illustrative Cases— Tracheotomy—Special Hints regarding the Administration of Chloroform in the Operation—After-Treatment of Wound—Other Methods of causing the Ejection of Foreign Bodies—Accidents arising from the swallowing of Boil- ing or Acrid Fluids. We now pass on to the consideration of Injukies and Diseases OF THE AiE-PASSAGES. As these are of great importance, re- quiring prompt and decided surgical interference, the student should make himself familiar with all their details, and espe- cially with those circumstances which indicate the necessity of having recourse to the operations of tracheotomy or laryngotomy. We shall first treat of Injuries of the air-passages. Injuries of the larynx are of different kinds, and may arise from blows, or from falls upon the box of the larynx, or from compression, as in manual strangulation. In young subjects the cartilages of the larynx are very soft and pliable ; and whilst they may, by direct violence, be pressed against each other, for a time, so as to prevent breathing, still their natural elasticity causes the parts to regain their normal form immediately after the pres- sure has been removed. In persons beyond middle life, however, the cartilages are strong and resistent, possessing both elasticity and absolute strength, so that they are not easily compressed by direct force. The cases where there is most risk of injury to the larynx are either those of young subjects, for the reason stated, or those of persons, rather advanced in life, where the cartilages are beginning to undergo ossification. When the cartilages are completely ossified they acquire a certain amoimt of resistance, and are not likely to yield to an ordinary degree of force; but1011 INJURIES OF THE LARYNX. when they are beginning to undergo that change they are of an irregular consistence, and therefore yield uneqiially. In the latter condition a blow, or pressure with the hand, as in manual strangulation, may give rise to fracture—by causing separation of the fibro-cartilaginous from the ossified portion—and so lead to obstruction of the passage from altered form, or from bruising and inflammation on the internal lining membrane. This interferes with respiration, and frequently causes such alteration in the part as to requia-e an opening to be made below the injured point. The dangers arising from injuries of the larynx are therefore either primary or secondary. The primary danger is that of immediate suffocation, which may arise from the absolute crush- ing of the cartilages, this being most easily accomplished in young subjects where they are soft and pliable. The secondary danger may arise from bruising of the larynx. This may occur at almost any period of life ; and though there may be no positive alteration in external form, the parts may be much bruised and in- jured internally; in such cases effusion of blood takes place into the submucous tissue, between the mucous membrane of the larynx and the cartilages ; or inflammatory exudation may come on in a few hours after the receipt of the injury ; and, in either case, the respiration becomes so seriously impeded as to render it necessary for the surgeon to perform the operation of tracheotomy. If we delay, oedema glottidis may rapidly supervene and suffocate the patient, or he may be carried off by a spasmodic closure of the glottis, produced by irritation of the laryngeal nerves. In all cases of injury or disease of the larynx, the presence of irritation of any kind, and the liability to spasm which attends it, are circumstances to be taken into account, for the glottis is an ac- curately adapted valvular arrangement, and, under such cir- cumstances, spasm of the laryngeal muscles superadded, very readily produces suffocation. If we should see the case in time, we may do something to avert the dangers of spasm and in- flammation, by the administration of ipecacuan, opium, and the inhalation of steam, or the external application of fomenta- tions to the larynx.1012 REGIONAL SURGERY. The Entrance of Foreign Bodies into the larynx is a very dangerous form of accident, and one of frequent occurrence. The danger is not always in direct proportion to the bulk of the body introduced. The symptoms are very marked in the earlier stages. They are, in fact, an exaggeration of those produced by what in popular language is spoken of as a piece of food "going down the wrong way"—namely, a violent convulsive cough, immediately followed by a sense of suffo- cation, and a strong effort of the patient to bring all the mus- cles of the larynx and chest into play, so as to expel the offending substance. If the patient succeeds in doing this, the symptoms, of course, cease, but they may also pass off' for a time without the danger being removed. A foreign body, such as a cherry-stone, may enter the laryjix and give rise to a great deal of irritation and violent symptoms of suffocation ; but if it pass down into the trachea, and thence into the bronchus, these symptoms will cease, and a period of quiescence come on, during which the patient breathes quite easily, and yet the danger has not passed away. The foreign body is still present, and when the patient begins to cough or move about, it may again be thrown up into the larynx. All the symptoms immediately return, and during one of the paroxysms the patient may be suffocated. The foreign body may even remain in the larynx itself, and yet no symptoms show themselves for a time. In one case, when examining a body, I found an orange-pip, which lay in the ventricle of Morgagni, and remained there for years, but it ultimately caused the death of the patient, for, though it produced no irritation at first, and though its pre- sence was not suspected, it was the means of setting up disease in the larynx, which terminated in a form of Phthisis Laryngea. When we look at the physiological conditions which give rise to the symptoms, we see how important they are as re- gards the diagnosis. The upper parts of the air-passages are endowed with a peculiar form of innervation, their mucous membrane being supplied entirely by the superior laryngeal nerve, the filaments of which pass down for some distance.FOREIGN BODIES IN LARYNX. 1013 The mucous membrane of the trachea and bronchi, on the other hand, is supplied by other branches from the vagus, which are given off lower down, and is not by any means so sensitive. The sensitive part of the mucous membrane begins at the lower surface of the epiglottis. This valve is so constructed that during deglutition its upper surface must come in contact with the food, often more or less stimulating in character, yet no irritation is produced by this in general. But let a single drop of water touch the lower surface of the epiglottis or mucous membrane of the glottis, and we have all the violent symptoms described above. This contrast in the sensibility of the two surfaces is explained by the difference in the nervous supply; for, whilst the upper part is supplied by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, a nerve of the tongue, the lower surface derives its supply from the superior laryngeal, which, as already stated, is the proper sentient nerve of the larynx. The laryngeal nerve is endowed with extreme sensibility, and acts as a sentinel to protect the air-passages from the entrance of any foreign body. Lower down the mucous membrane be- comes much less irritable. If we pass a probe into the bronchi, it gives rise to some irritation, but not to the suffocating convul- sive cough which is produced by touching the larynx. This is due to the difference in the innervation of the two parts, and hence we see how a foreign body, getting into the air-passage, may at first irritate the peculiar mucous membrane of the larynx, producing spasm and suffocating paroxysms; and yet, presently, we may have a period of quiescence, owing to its having dropped from the larynx into the trachea or bronchus. The following cases will illustrate these principles :—■ I was called many years ago to see a girl who had, at the same time, swallowed a cherry-stone and a plum-stone. "Violent symptoms had occurred after swallowing them. A young medical man saw her at the time, and from his description I had no doubt that the stones had passed into the air-passages. When I arrived the girl was perfectly quiet, though breathing in a peculiar way, but the mother said she had always breathed1014 REGIONAL SURGERY. so. This statement rendered the case rather doubtful; but the difficulty was stiR further increased by another circumstance, namely, that during one of the violent paroxysms the girl had coughed up the plum-stone, which might apparently have pro- duced all the symptoms. Fearing, however, that the cherry-stone might also have found its way into the air-passage and be still un- expelled, I suspended her with the head downwards, and shook her, so as to make it drop out if possible, but this produced no effect. There remained no difficulty of breathing, but, taking all the circumstances into account, I thought it prudent to have her removed to the hospital, where she might be carefrdly watched. I saw her two or three times during the evening, but she was still quite quiet, and remained so all night. Next day, however, at visit she was seized with a violent paroxysm. I immediately performed tracheotomy, and the cherry-stone was ejected through the wound. The following case may form a contrast:—A little child about a year old was brought into the hospital. She had been playing with some peas, and was supposed to have swallowed some of them. On admission, the child was quite quiet, and there was nothing apparently the matter witli her, and it is worthy of remark that, neither in this nor in the preceding case, could we hear the peculiar valvular sound somtimes pro- duced by a loose body lying in the air-passages. Tracheotomy was therefore not performed at the time, but she was care- fully Avatched in the hospital for some days, and while there passed a few peas by stool. The mother then insisted on taking her home, thinking she was quite sure that all the peas had been evacuated; but on the very night of her removal the child died from sudden suffocation. A pea had become lodged in the air-pass- age, and had produced no irritation, until, in the process of swell- ing by the moisture, it had split into two halves, when a cough or expulsive effort had forced one of the halves into the larynx, and so induced fatal spasm. Now, in this case, had the child been left in hospital, tracheotomy could have been performed at once, and her life would in all probability have been saved.FOREIGN BODIES IN LARYNX. 1015 I have seen many more cases in point, and from what I have seen, I consider that when there is any doubt, the safest plan—if there be a good history of the case and reliable symptoms— is to perform tracheotomy as soon as possible. Opening the trachea in these circumstances is not in itself a dangerous opera- tion, and it may be the means of saving life. The foreign body may be either loose or impacted. When it is a portion of food that causes the symptoms of suffocation, it generally stops at the top of the air-passages, and does not pass downwards.* We should therefore always examine the back part of the mouth with the finger, so as to detect the presence of the mass, and remove it at once. It is generally stated that foreign bodies, passing downwards from the larynx, naturally find their way into the right bronchus. Now the right bronchus is cer- tainly larger than the left, but its communication with the trachea is not more direct; and, in my experience of cases, where the exact position of the foreign body could be ascer- tained, I have found it has always been in the left bronchus. In one case—that of a little girl—while I was performing tracheo- tomy, the foreign body was loose, but the expulsive effort ceased just as the plum-stone appeared at the opening, and it slipped down the left bronchus, impacting itself so far down that it could not be extracted. A tube was inserted as usual into the throat, but the child was suffering from pneumonia, especially in the right lung, and died shortly afterwards. In another case, a child was said to have swallowed a plum- stone ; but no symptoms came on till the next morning, when the patient was seized with a violent paroxysmal cough. When I saw the child it was cold and moribund. I opened the trachea at once, and introduced a tube, and then the respiration became normal, and the patient began to recover ; but the foreign body was evidently not expelled, though we could not discover it, for on closing the tracheal opening for a moment the difficult breathing at once returned. Bronchitis in this case soon came on, and the child died. At the post-mortem we found, in one of * There may be exceptions to this—(see Clinical Cases).1016 REGIONAL SURGERY. the subdivisions of the left bronchus, a very small plum-stone firmly impacted. The symptoms here must have been due to the reflex action of the nerves causing spasm of the glottis, for, even to the last, whenever the opening was closed, the difficult respiration was re-established. In another case, that of a man, tracheotomy had been performed, and for some reason the tube was kept permanently in. One day, when he was riding out, the shield of the tube had fallen off, and, according to the man's own account, the tube had passed into the larynx. On examining his throat I detected it in the left bronchus. He was therefore put under chloroform, by holding a handkerchief to the opening in the trachea, and the tube was extracted by means of a pair of pharynx forceps, the closed blades of which were introduced into the bronchus, and inserted into the oj^en mouth of the tube ; the blades were then opened so as to hold the tube firmly during its withdrawal. In performing tracheotomy for loose foreign bodies, some special points are to be attended to, not only as to the mode of operating, but as to the use of chloroform. If a foreign body be lying loose in the trachea, and if we expect it to be ejected by the natural expulsive efforts when the tracheal opening is made, we should give no chloroform. In the case of the girl mentioned in the preceding page, for example, I believe the expulsive efforts of nature would have forced out the foreign body had chloroform not been previously administered. In cases of impacted foreign bodies, on the other hand, where we require to use instruments for their extraction, and where the introduction of the instruments neces- sarily causes a great deal of irritation and convulsive cough, chloro- form is of very great service, for it quiets the patient, and greatly increases the chances of success. In cases of a doubtful kind, as where a small coin or a large plum-stone has been swallowed, and may be impacted, though we hope it is not, I think we should per- form the early part of the operation of tracheotomy without chloro- form. If we find afterwards that tlie foreign body is not ex- pelled by the natural efforts of the patient, but is impacted in the air-passages, then we may give the patient chloroform, andFOREIGN BODIES IN LARYNX. 1017 enlarge the opening so as to enable us to use instruments for its extraction. Instead of using forceps, as was formerly done, for the purpose of holding aside the edges of the wound in performing tracheo- tomy, I use the flat ivory handle of the scalpel to separate the edges, and so afford a smooth surface to allow the foreign body to escape. Another point, and one about which little or nothing is said in surgical works, is the after-treatment of the wound in such cases of tracheotomy. We should not treat the wound with the view of closing it immediately, for if we bring the edges toge- ther by plaster or by sutures, the patient might be suffocated in a very few hours. The air, in such circumstances, would escape from the opening in the trachea into the loose cellular tissue of the neck, and as it would be unable to make its exit by the superficial wound, emphysema of the neck would come on, and might cause the patient's death by suffocation. In all cases, there- fore, after the extraction of a foreign body, we should introduce a tracheotomy-tube into the trachea, and keep it there for from four to six hours, tiH tymph be effused and the wound become glazed. Not till then should the tube be withdrawn, and even then it is safer not to close the wound by sutures, but merely by slips of plaster, or it should be left to heal by secondary union. There are other methods which have been proposed for causing the ejection of loose foreign bodies. When an individual, for example, in pretending to swallow a coin and bring it up again, allows it to get into the air-passages, it may sometimes be made to fall out if the patient be inverted and shaken ; but in doing this we must always be ready to perform tracheotomy at the time. If the coin be a pretty large one, such as a shil- ling, it may be made to fall out by inverting and shaking the patient, because such a coin could scarcely go down into the larynx; but with a smaller coin, or such a body as a cherry-stone, the danger is greater, for smaller bodies are likely to pass lower down. When the patient is first seen, a body of this kind may be lying in the trachea or bronchus, where, as already explained, it may be producing little or no irritation;REGIONAL SURGERY. 1018 but should he be inverted and shaken, it may roll downwards, so as to impinge iipon the sensitive mucous membrane of the larynx, and it is then very likely to give rise to dangerous suffo- cative spasm of the glottis. The surgeon should, therefore, never have recourse to inversion without having previously pre- pared himself for the immediate performance of tracheotomy in the event of dangerous spasm. Some of the most formidable injuries of the air-passages are caused by Accidents apjsing from the Swallowing of Boiling OR Acrid Fluids.—The immediate effect of swallowing boiling water is to produce great swelling and inflammation about the upper part of the glottis—in fact, a form of acute oedema glot- tidis. Under such circumstances the upper part of the larynx is rapidly closed, and suffocation will ensue unless tracheotomy be speedily performed. So far as the breathing is concerned, this will afford complete relief Subsequently, however, the inflammatory action may extend to the bronchial tubes and give rise to bronchitis, or the injury may so seriously affect the pharynx and oesophagus, as to interfere greatly with deglutition. The case may then terminate fatally some days after the opera- tion, but many cases are saved ; and the surgeon's duty is there- fore to perform tracheotomy early, whenever the symptoms of approaching suffocation begin to appear. I do not recollect any instance, in my own practice, in which tracheotomy was required in consequence of oedema glottidis supervening upon acrid fluids, such as acids, being swallowed by adults or children, either intentionally or accidentally ; but such a result has occurred, and we must therefore be prepared for it. The effect of sulphuric acid on the mucous membrane of the fauces and pharynx is to whiten and corrugate it, lead- ing to its ultimate desquamation. It has not apparently the same tendency to produce swelling as when steam or boil- ing water is inhaled or swallowed, but if in any exceptional case symptoms of suffocation should come on, tracheotomy must be performed without delay.LECTURE CIV. (Edema Glottidis : its Nature and Treatment—Croup and Acute LarjTigitis : Similarity of their Symptoms—Pathological Changes in the different Stages of Croup — The Physical Manifestations which accompany them — Treat- ment, Medical and Surgical—Indications and Arguments for and against Tracheotomy—The Proper Time for performing it. The Diseases of the Air-passages may be classified under the two heads of Acute and Chronic. The acute forms include (Edema Glottidis, Acute Laryngitis, and Croup or Cynanche Trachealis. CEdema. Glottidis, as its name implies, consists of an enlargement or swelling of the textures around the glottis, arising from infiltra- tion of serum or sero-purulent matter into its submucous tissue. It is rather the result of various kinds of diseased action than a special disease. It may arise, in cases of Bright's disease, from sudden dropsical effusion into the soft textures about the glottis, or it may occur after cynanche laryngea, from effusion of serum into the loose cellular tissue about the larynx. CEdema glot- tidis may also come on after tonsillitis or scarlatina ; it not unfrequently fol- lows erysipelas ; and is not by any means rare as a result of local irritation arising from mechanical or potential irritants. Thus, the accidental swallowing of foreign bodies, or of the mineral acids, or of boiling water, may give rise to it. In fact, any inflammatory affection of the larynx, tongue, or other parts in the neighbour- hood, may be followed by oedema glottidis. The obstruction to 3 X Fiff. 30.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1020 the entrance of air into the lungs which it gives rise to is entirely of a mechanical nature, being the consequence of swell- ing at the entrance of the air-passages. Therefore, if milder treatment fails, there can be no doubt as to the propriety of at once performing an operation such as laryngotomy or traclieo- tomy, which will afford complete relief to the breathing. As regards the diagnostic symptoms of cedema glottidis, there is great dyspnoea, affecting the act of expiration, after a time, as well as that of inspiration, and this apart from any disease of the chest. There are hoarseness, difficulty of articulation, and sometimes complete aphonia. On examination, by means oi the finger, we feel the epiglottis standing erect, and when we depress the tongue with a spatula we can even see it. The uvula and fauces are often cedematous. The diagnosis can be confirmed, if necessary, by means of the laryngoscope. The Treatment, in order to be of any avail, must be prompt. In the earlier stages of the attack it has been proposed to make shallow scarifications in the uvula, epiglottis, tonsils, and sur- rounding textures. There is seldom, however, any time to be lost in performing these minor operations, though sometimes, at the first approach of the attack, we may snip off the uvula, and so prevent the occurrence of serious symptoms ; but when the disease has fairly set in, we should open the trachea without delay. The Inflammatory Affections of the larynx and trachea arise, in many cases, from exposure to cold and wet, and they are accordingly most prevalent in very cold, or in damp and foggy weather. These diseases, both in their acute and chronic forms, are most common in those liable to sudden changes of temperature, such, for example, as gardeners, who are employed in hot-houses. In children we meet with a peculiar form of laryngitis— namely. Croup—which, in this manner, often arises from expo- sure to cold and damp. The general symptoms of acute laryn- gitis and croup are very much alike, and we may therefore withCROUP. 1021 advantage consider tliem together. There is pain in the larynx and trachea, aggravated by pressure, or by attempts at swallow- ing, wliich may lead to a sense of suffocation at the time. In general there is a good deal of cough ; and in croup we have a peculiar kind of cough, with a hard ringing metallic or " brassy" sound. There is always a considerable degree of fever, and the child is restless and tosses about. The tone of voice in all cases becomes hoarse, whether in tlie adult or child, and sometimes there is complete aphonia. Eespiration is accompanied with a peculiar stridulous sound, which becomes more marked as the disease progresses. After a time there is a suffocating cough, which comes on in paroxysms. In cases where the disease is in its advanced stage, the respiration is very peculiar, and consists of a pi-olonged slow inspiration, with great depression of the supra- sternal fossa, followed by a short, rapid, and forcible expiration —the inspiration being accompanied witli a peculiar stridu- lous sound. This is accounted for by the textures at the upper part of the glottis being swollen and inflamed. The movements of the glottis consec[uently induce spasm of the muscles, so that the passage is still further narrowed, and the air enters with diflfl- culty. In addition to this, the mucous surfaces are roughened by the inflammatory exudation, and hence the peculiaa' inspira- tion. The expiration is short, because the expiratory muscles act violently, and the qiiantity of air in the lungs not being equal generally to the normal standard, its expulsion takes place with the greater rapidity. In cedema glottidis we have, after a time, a mechanical obstruction to the expiration as well as to the inspiration ; but, in the earlier stages of this disease, we have the peculiar prolonged inspiration, with a stridulous noise, and the short and rapid expiration, as in croup or laryngitis. In croup an exudation of lympli, either in a granular form or as a false membrane, is formed upon the mucous surface of the trachea as well as that of the larynx, and this distinguishes the disease from simple laryngitis. The false membrane has a great tendency to extend along the air-passages, so as sometimes to produce a complete tubular cast of the trachea and bronchi. InREGIONAL SURGERY. 1022 other cases it confines itself almost exclusively to the larynx. It may be loosely attached, or it may tend to become loose at certain points. The formation of this layer marks the occurrence of the second stage in croup. In the second stage of croup, therefore, when the 'false membrane has begun to form, we have frequently another physical symptom present—namely, a valvular sound heard immediately after expiration. This is caused by a loosened edge of the false membrane being raised by the air in expiration, and flapping down again upon the lining membrane after the air has passed out. When the tube of false membrane forms a complete cast, or when it is adherent throughout its extent, this symptom is of course wanting. From the circumstance that in croup the false membrane extends more or less into the trachea, the term Cynanclie tracliealis has been applied to the disease, but, as I will explain presently, I think this an unfortunate name, as it is apt to mislead in certain respects. In both croup and laryngitis there is a tendency to cerebral congestion and coma, owing to the imperfect aeration of the blood. In the Laryngitis of adults the diseased action is generally limited to the larynx; and, though it is sometimes attended with double bronchitis, it does not tend to produce a false membi'ane. In some cases, however, small abscesses form in the submucous cellular tissue, or small patches of lymph are effused. The in- flammatory action rarely passes into the trachea. In the early stages, both of croup and laryngitis, the stridu- lous breathing, and the suffocating paroxysms of cough, are chiefly dependent on irritation of the mucous membrane, exciting the muscles to spasmodic action, so that, combined with the swelling of the mucoiis membrane—even before that swelling gives rise to any obstruction to the respiration—there may be obstructed respiration from spasm of the glottis, and this of itself may necessitate an operation, for the paroxysms are often so violent as to threaten suffocation. Tliis may arise long before1023 LARYNGITIS. the mere meclianical obstruction lias progressed so far as to warrant the performance of an operation. In most cases, then, we have, superadded to the inflammatory swelling, the irritation and danger produced by such spasms. During the earlier stages of laryngitis in adults, and of croup in children, a good deal can be done, by active Medical Treatment, to avert or postpone these misfortunes. General depletion will often mitigate the severity of the symptoms to a very great extent, relieving not only the local congestion, but rendering the respiration much more free by its power- ful antispasmodic effects. In cases of croup, blood-letting is best accomplished by opening the external jugular vein. The use of the vapour, hot-air, or warm-water bath, is also very beneficial. A good plan, both for adults and children, is to manufacture a sort of vapour bath, by rolling \ip heated bricks, in blankets which have been wrung out of hot water, for the steam and heat so produced will make vapour form in the room or bed, and cause the patient to perspire very freely. The breathing will thus in many cases be greatly relieved. The use of other remedies also, such as mercurials, to prevent deposi- tion or cause absorption of the lymph, acts beneficially. To allay the irritation which causes the spasms, we may give opiates cautiously, along witli antimony. Sinapisms also may be applied on the chest or between the shoulders, or a blister well down upon the chest; but never apply a blister in front of the neck in such cases, as it will do no good; and if tracheo- tomy is required afterwards, it will have to be done under much less favourable circumstances. An excellent plan of treatment, in most cases, is to steam the room or bed by some such means as those already described, and to keep sponges, wrung out of hot water, constantly applied over the larynx, administering internally at the same time full doses of ipecacuanha wine, so as to keep up a degree of constant nausea. If all these means fail, we must then adopt Surgical Treat- ment, properly so called. In acute laryngitis, where the suf- focating paroxysms are becoming more constant ; when the1024 REGIONAL SURGERY. cough is becoming, perhaps, suppressed, but the tendency is still present; where there is congestion of the face, and of the veins of the neck ; Avhere the chest does not distend fully and freely during inspiration ; or where, instead of congestion of the face and neck, we have a pale condition of the face, with blue lips, and a slow, irregular pulse ;—then the sooner tracheotomy is'per- formed the better. The blood is not being aerated properly, and we should, therefore, immediately make an opening in the trachea lower down than the obstruction, whatever that obstruc- tion be caused by, provided the medical remedies before men- tioned have been tried and have failed. In laryngitis we have no hesitation in operating, because the disease is limited and has no tendency to spread downwards. "Whatever may be said about the propriety of performing tracheotomy in crouj), no difference of opinion exists as to the necessity for the operation in the laryngitis of adults. In croup, on the contrary, there are conditions which have given rise to a difference of opinion. There is here, as already remarked, a tendency in the diseased condition to spread downwards, and we are therefore told that it is not disease of the larynx, but cynanche trachealis. Now this is just a case where the name of the disease influences its treatment. Cynanche Trachealis is a name chosen as a sort of distinction between croup and the laryngitis of adults, from the tendency to the formation of a false membrane in croup as opposed to laryn- gitis ; but it does not follow from this that the disease is not originally a disease of the larynx. I am quite convinced, from what I have seen of this disease, that it really commences in all cases in the larynx ; and I have no hesitation in saying this, whatever tendency there may be for the disease to spread down- wards from the larynx. The symptoms of laryngitis and of croup are exactly the same ; there is the same suffocating cough, the same difficult respiration, the same tenderness over the larynx ; and all the symptoms point to the larynx being affected from the very first. I feel convinced that in many cases of croup the disease is more confined to the larynx than is gene-1025 LARYNGITIS. rally supposed, and that, when it spreads, it does so from the larynx downwards, and does not attack the mucous mem- brane of the trachea simultaneously with that of the larynx, or—as some would have us believe—attack the trachea and bronchial mucous surface before affecting the larynx. Post- mortem examinations reveal to us the completed disease, not its progress : our knowledge of that must be derived from observa- tion of phenomena during life. Now, to say nothing of the ordinary progress of the symptoms, the immediate relief afforded by the operation in all my cases, even in those which subse- quently terminated fatally, shows conclusively that even in the fatal cases no disease of the lower part of the trachea could have existed at the time, otherwise the operation could not have afforded the relief it did. As to the presence of bronchitis being a contra-indication to the performance of the operation, a point which I was inclined to insist on formerly—though I would not go so far as some continental surgeons, who consider it absolutely favourable—I must modify my former opinion, inasmuch as in most of the successful cases it was present, and when the tube was properly managed the mucus was easily expectorated. Per- haps it may be considered favourable in one sense, as indicating a condition of the mucous membrane less predisposed to the formation of plastic exudations. As regards the propriety of performing tracheotomy in ex- treme cases of croup, I have operated now ninety-one times in simple and diphtheritic croup, and my present average is one life saved out of three cases, which is a large average in such a disease ; and I therefore feel that the operation is perfectly warrantable, and ought to be performed, as it gives the patient his only chance of life. Another point, which has been discussed principally on the Continent, has reference to the propriety of operating at an early stage of croup. It has been stated that the operation would be much more favourable if performed before the symptoms became urgent. M. Trousseau and those who hold this view say that the operation should be performed before or early in the second stage,REGIONAL SURGERY. 1026 before the false membrane has formed. ISTow, recoveries by the use of other remedies at this stage, though rare, are not so rare as to entitle us to urge an operation not free from danger in itself, unless we are prepared to show some good grounds for believing that by early operation we could greatly increase the chances of success:—1st, By early relief of the dyspncea preventing the bad effects of the gradually increasing imperfect aeration of the blood, local pulmonary congestion, oedema, or emphysema; or 2d, By preventing the extension of the membranous or plastic exudation downwards. The former of these indications, I believe, would be met by early operation ; the second and more formidable, I fear, would not; for the cases I have operated on show that in certain cases the tendency of tracheal and bronchial exudation to spread downwards continues after the operation has afforded a period of relief, if it be not even increased by the presence of the tube. The presence of the tube—it has been supposed by some—is a means of keeping up the irritation and inducing the false mem- brane to form; but this danger, I believe, is overrated. We are not to perform tracheotomy on every child with a bad cough in croup, for many of them have this paroxysmal cough without being suffocated, and under ordinary treatment the child will get better; but in the second stage of the disease, when the false membrane is forming or has formed, we have a mechanical obstruction, and, besides this, the irritation and the small size of the air-passage justify us in operating. The late Mr. Liston used to object to tracheotomy in croup, on the ground that, if we operated early, there was no physical ob- struction of the breathing to warrant it, and that if we delayed till the symptoms were urgent, the tracheal exudation rendered the operation useless. To neither of these propositions can I assent; but I think we are hardly warranted in operating till all remedies have been actively tried without effect; then there should be no delay. Here, as in many cases, the period of the disease, as regards time, is no criterion. If, in a case of croup, depletion, the warm bath, emetics, counter-irritation, calomel, and other remedies, have been actively used without1027 DIPHTHERITIC CROUP, relief; if the hard, ringing cough has become suppressed, and tlie respiration is evidently imperfect, as shown by the con- tracted and depressed appearance of the cartilages of the ribs and by occasional severe paroxysms of dyspnoea;—T, for my own part, would say that the operation is fully warranted. When the paroxysms become more and more frequent, or when the dyspnoea is rather persistent than paroxysmal, with turgid or pale lividity, the operation is the little sufferer's only chance for life. Another reason for performing tracheotomy is that, even in the fatal cases, the relief afforded to the patient before death is very great. I consider that the mere temporary relief to the fearful death from suffocation is sufficient to warrant us in operating; death is, at least, rendered more easy.LECTURE CV. Diphtheritic Crouj) : its nature as compared with Simple Croup—Duration of Disease and modes of Death, illustrated by Examples — Complications arising from previous Disease and present Contingencies—Indications for performing the Operation of Tracheotomy, and Cases best suited for it— Contra-indications—The stage of the Disease when it is most likely to be successful—Local and Constitutional After-treatment. Another form of laryngeal disease whicli we must notice is Diphtheritic Croup. Though experience has shown such an amount of success after the performance of tracheotomy in ordinary croup as to warrant the operation, it does not follow that in diphtheritic affections of the air-passages it would be equally warrantable. A priori reasoning, indeed, would almost lead to the conclusion that it is scarcely warrantable at all. All the circumstances seem unfavourable. Not only have we an equal, or even greater, tendency in the diphtheritic exudation to spread down- wards, than we have in the case of the false membrane of croup, but the disease may even affect the wound caused by the opera- tion. Moreover, it is a blood-disease of a very subtle nature, and of a most debilitating character, affecting the nervous system peculiarly, and destroying its victims by exhaustion, even when there is no laryngeal or tracheal obstruction. Yet, so far as my own experience goes, the actual results of tracheotomy in diph- theritic croup show such an amount of success, as in the other- wise desperate state of the patient fully warrants its performance. I have now performed tracheotomy about forty times in diph- theritic croup, and the results are rather more than one in three saved, which is slightly, more favourable than in simple croup. Still I do not think that these are such favourable cases for the operation as those of simple croup.1029 DIPHTHERITIC CROUP. As regards the causes and mode of death in diphtheritic, as contrasted with ordinary croup, I shall—to save repetition—divide the fatal cases into two groups, according to the mode of death. Under the first head I shall arrange tliose who died of asphyxia, from the exudation developing itself beyond the opening in the trachea, or into the minute bronchial tubes. Of these cases one was a child about two and a half years old, who had been xmder treatment for diphtheria, when urgent croupous symptoms super- vened. The operation was resorted, to, and was followed by great temporary relief. But next day dyspnoea returned, and the child died. In another case, that of a fine boy about eight years old, who had suffered, but was recovering, from slight sore throat, symptoms of croup supervened, and became so urgent that I was called to operate. This was attended with great relief, and all promised well, when diphtheritic exudation appeared, at first on one tonsil, and then gradually spread. The pulse rose, and the patient became more restless. Though the tube was kept clear, and changed several times, the breathing became embarrassed. Air passed easily out and in, and the walls of the chest seemed to expand; but it was clear, from the lividity, restlessness, and dyspnoea, that the exudation must have ex- tended to the minute ramifications of the bronchi, thus prevent- ing aeration of the blood. In the case of a little girl about five years of age, the symptoms appeared after the disease had lasted for eight or ten days, and were so urgent that I operated im- mediately. The relief was complete at the time, and for twenty- four hours all promised well; when suddenly difficult breathing recurred. This was relieved by changing and cleaning the tube ; but that gradually failed to relieve, and she ultimately died in a si;ffocative paroxysm, apparently from the exudation having ex- tended downv/ards. Now this form of death—the extension of the mechanical obstruction downwards below the opening in the trachea—is very like what takes place in ordinary croup. The second and larger group of fatal cases is formed of those patients who died from the sixth to the twenty-first day after the operation, in consequence of asthenia, the effect of the1030 REGIONAL SURGERY. blood-poison. In some of these there was occasionally the com- plication of recurring dyspncea ; though more in appearance than reality, the jactitation and restlessness being rather due to febrile excitement. Without detailing every case, I will select two or three typical of the conditions alluded to. The first example I select is that of a previously healthy girl of five years, a patient of Dr. Menzies. The history of the case at first was that of ordinary croup, progressing, in spite of active treatment, to threatened suffocation, for which tracheotomy was performed, with immediate relief; and for the first four days everything seemed favourable. Then the pulse became quick, but weaker, accompanied with febrile excitement. The white diphtheritic pellicle was first noticed on the pharynx on the fifth day. In the course of that day it spread over the tonsils, uvula, palate, and mucous lining of the cheeks and lips. Kext, she was noticed to swallow with difficulty, part of the fluids regurgitating by the nares, and part passing out through the tube. The tube was one with a small perforation on its convex side. The pulse became more rapid, and the patient sank exhausted on the eighth day after the operation. In another case of a girl, about three and a half years old, also a patient of Dr. Menzies, I was called to operate on the third day of the croupous attack; but the child had been ailing for some days before Dr. Menzies had been called, and the diphtheritic exudation was seen over the tonsils, uvula, and palate. At the time tracheotomy at once relieved the intense suffocative symptoms. The tube was finally removed on the tenth day. There was no recurrence of difficult breath- ing, and I was only seeing the patient occasionally, as, judging from past experience in croup cases, I thought her quite safe, and trusted that the quick pulse and febrile state would gradually pass off I happened to call on the eighteenth day after the operation, and found her sinking ; the eyes hollow and sunk, the wound showing total want of action, and looking larger than when the tube was removed. I was told that Dr. Menzies had ordered wine and suitable nourishment; and, on asking if she had taken it, the mother said, Yes; but a great part of it always1031 DIPHTHERITIC CROUP. came out by the wound in the neck, and by the nostrils ; but she had never mentioned this to Dr. Menzies or myself. I hastened to have the child fed by the stomach-tube, but she was moribund, and died before wine or food could be ad- ministered. As an instance of the deadly character of the blood-poison of diphtheria, independently of the mechanical obstruction to breathing, I may mention the following case :—I was sent for by Dr. Thin of Penicuik, to operate on a child residing near Eddleston. Dr. Thin told me that the symptoms preceding the laryngeal affection had been of a very low malignant character, but that the suffocative condition seemed now so bad as to demand tracheotomy to give a chance of relief We found the child semi-comatose, with weak, intermitting pulse, clammy skin, and livid countenance. I operated as speedily as possible, and thought the child would have succumbed. At first, no great relief seemed to be given to the breathing, but after waiting a little, and stimulating the trachea by passing a probe through the tube, coughing was induced, and some blood, mucus, and a shred of membrane, were ejected. The breathing then became easier. After having replaced the child in bed, applied warmth, and given necessary directions, we were about to leave, when we were sta,rtled by hearing the little patient, hitherto apparently unconscious, say, with wonderful distinctness, " Gude mornin'!" I now recollected that the tube I had used was one with an open- ing on the convex side, so that air would pass through the larynx. I thought the strength of voice a good omen of returning power, and that possibly the former almost moribund condition of the child had depended on non-aeration of the blood ; but on laying my finger on the pulse it was scarcely to be felt, the skin was as cold and clammy as before, and although the breathing had been relieved, the child died in about three hours after the operation. These may suffice as examples of the modes of death in diph- theria after tracheotomy. As a general rule, death in cases of simple croup occurs early in the second or third day after the operation. In diphtheria life may be prolonged for two or three1032 REGIONAL SURGERY. weeks, and death may occur by gradual exhaustion from the dis- ease—a result either of the blood-poisoning alone, or of that com- bined with paralysis of the pharynx, preventing deglutition, and so interfering with nutrition ; by a similar affection of the glottis —allowing fluids to enter the trachea or wound; or lastly, by the diseased action attacking the wound, and leading to phagedjena. I have also known death occur, in the case of an adult, on the second day after the operation, from paralysis of the heart, though the dyspnoea had been completely relieved. The most formidable complications are those dependent upon the peculiar affection of the nervous system, causing paralysis of the pharynx, giving rise to the inability to swal- low, or of the palate, leading to regurgitation of food through the nostrils. These two conditions have long attracted atten- tion ; but I am not aware that the similar affection of the glottis has been advei'ted to, though 1 have repeatedly noticed and remarked it to my medical friends. In the first case in which I saw the fluid food come through the tube, I was afraid that ulceration had occurred between the pharynx and larynx. "When satisfied that such a state did not exist, I thought the phenomenon might be due to the kind of tube used, with an aperture on its convex side ; but I have found it occur equally in cases in which the ordinary tube was rised. The fluid must then have passed the glottis without causing any cough, and only have been ejected when it stimulated the bronchi, or trachea below the tube. In other words, the fine sensitive nerves, which act as sentinels at the outwork of the air-passages, become paralysed, and no effort to close the glottis is made during the attempt at deglutition ; and so part of the fluid passes down the larynx and trachea, till, by stimulating the bronchial membrane, it gives rise to its own ejection through the tube or wound. This condition seems peculiar to diphtheria, for although I have now had a very large experience of tracheotomy, performed for different kinds of disease or accident, I have never seen the fluid food ejected by the tube except in that disease. I think it more important on this account, that, whilst our attention is attracted1033 DIPHTHERITIC CROUP. to it after tracheotomy wlien we see the fluid ejected, the question comes,—Is it not probable that the same paralysed state of the glottis may allow portions of fluid nutriment to pass into the air- passages in other cases of diphtheria in which tracheotomy has not been performed ? I would now, in conclusion, state my inrpressious as to tlie propriety of performing tracheotomy in certain cases of dipli- theria, or of refraining from its performance in others, derived from what I have observed in cases in my own practice. First, then, the great and positive indication for operation is the immediate urgency of the suffocative laryngeal symptoms. "When these are intense, and the contracted state of the thoracic parietes shows that little air is entering the chest, the operation is warranted, as affording the only chance of obviating impend- ing death from asphyxia; and this, the only chance, may be given, however unfavourable the prognosis as to ultimate success. The results of the successful cases point to the fact that the more favourable cases for operation are those in which the laryngeal symptoms have commenced early and progressed rapidly, with, perhaps, decided local diphtheritic symptoms, but the febrile or constitutional symptoms less promine-nt;—where, in fact, there is least intensity of the constitutional poison, and where the very acuteness of the local symptoms indicates a certain amount of power. The cases less suited for operation are those in which the con- stitutional morbid conditions have existed in a marked form, together with fever, quick and weak pulse, for some time before the exudation affected the air-passagee, and in which the croupous dyspnoea is not very intense. Occasional paroxysms of convulsive cough occurring in such cases, and relieved by the ejection of mucus and false membrane, unless increasing in frequency, do not warrant the operation. Nor is it warranted in cases where, to speak generally, the colour of the face and lips, and the state of the chest, show no continued obstacle to respira- tion. Cases in which the diphtheritic affection has supervened on scarlatina, measles, or gastric fever, or in which there is markedREGIONAL SURGERY. 1034 submaxillary swelling, are very unfavourable. I have, however, seen cases recover, where tracheotomy was performed in diph- theritic croup supervening on these circumstances; so that I think we may perform the operation, though we should not urge it too much. I would not like to exclude even such cases from the benefit of the temporary relief and the chance of life which tracheotomy affords ; still it is evident that the chance is very much less than in cases of uncomplicated croup, and that the results must tend unduly to reduce the average success of the operation. In cases in which the disease has crept slowly on before the croupous symptoms began, and in which difficulty of swallowing exists, that complication seems to me a contra-indication of operation, as we can then scarcely hope to keep up the nutrition of the patient. But we must look to the exact significance of this symptom in diphtheria. In cases of acute and chronic laryngitis, as well as in croup, difficult deglutition is often a very marked symptom ; but, so far from being a contra-indication to tracheotomy, it is an indication for its performance, because in such cases the difficulty arises from the action of the parts in swallowing, exciting the laryngeal spasm. In these cases it excites cough and other symptoms of laryngeal irritation ; but the dysphagia of diphtheria results from paralysis of the palate, pharynx, and neighbouring parts. There are no convulsive efforts excited to expel the food—it simply runs back, partly from the mouth, partly by regurgitation through the posterior nares ; and, as we see in cases in which it comes on subsequently to the operation, part of it may pass through the larynx into the trachea. Hence I consider the presence of this condition in diphtheria most unfavourable, both as an indication of the intensity of the poison, and also and specially as presenting a difficulty to our afterwards nourishing the patient. When it comes on after the operation, we must do our best to meet it by the use of the stomach-tube ; but I can only say that such treat- ment has rarely proved successful in my own cases. Lastly, in regard to early operation as promising greaterDIPHTHERITIC CROUP. 1035 cliance of success.—Whatever the greater chances may be in ordinary croup, I can see no grounds on which we can hope for its being useful in diphtheria. Indeed, I do not think the operation warrantable until the laryngeal obstruction or spasm is well marked ; because it superadds new sources of irritation and risks of its own, such as that of the disease attacking the wound; and thus the operation might deprive the patients of chances of recovery which they would otherwise have. I trust, however, I need hardly say that I do not mean to advocate delay when the laryngeal symptoms are marked and progressing; for then unnecessary delay entails the risk of the supervention of congestion or cedema of the lungs, and so diminishes the chances of success of the operation. In the After-treatment of Simple or Diphtheritic Croup, where tracheotomy has been performed, one thing ought to be attended to—namely, the form of tube—as this is important. It ought to be of such a size as will admit air freely, without over-distending the trachea, and should always be double, the inner tube fitting pretty closely, but not secured to the outer, either by spring or other fastening, so that it may be easily removed for cleaning, or expelled by the efforts of coughing, if obstructed by mucus. The inner tube should also be long enough to pass beyond the outer one, so that we may be sure that there is no obstruction to the passage of air through it; for if the inner tube be clear, and longer than the outer one, all is right. The tube should not be tied in too tightly, for fear of interfering with the venous circulation, and there should be no knot near it. We must of course see that the tube is introduced fairly into the trachea, though it must not be inserted too deeply. When there is much bronchial effusion, the use of emetics in the after-treatment is very beneficial; but under no circumstances would I now resort to antimony, for its effects are most dangerous in diminishing the expulsive power, depressing the patient, and inducing sinking. I am glad that my opinion on this head is strengthened by the high authority and great experience of M. Trousseau. In all respects I find ipecacuan answer better, either 3 Y1036 REGIONAL SURGERY. as an emetic or expectorant, without depressing or leading to dysenteric purging, whilst it induces moderate diaphoresis and allays the febrile condition. The rest of the after-treatment con- sists in keeping the air of the room moist by letting steam pass into it near the bed : this so far moistens the mucus in the throat, and it is therefore more easily ejected through the tube. The bronchitic affections are also relieved, and simple poultices on the chest, and sinapisms on the back, are useful to allay irritation and congestion. In regard to diet, it is in many cases necessary to give beef-tea and wine from the first; but in general I prefer for the first day or two a nutrient, non-stimulating diet, such as milk and farinaceous food, and afterwards gradually give animal food ; but in respect to this we must be guided by the condition of each individual patient.LECTUEE CVI. Chronic Laryngitis : Causes ; Symptoms ; Diagnosis ; Treatment—"Warty Disease of the Larynx—Secondary and Anomalous Affections causing Laryngeal Symptoms, as Tumours of the Thyroid, and Thoracic Aneurism—Symptoms common to both conditions—Value of the Laryngoscope as an aid to Dia- gnosis : Directions for using it—Operations of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy in the Child and Adult: After-treatment. The Chronic Diseases of the Larynx include chronic thick- ening of its mncous lining arising from repeated attacks of acute or sub-acute laryngitis ; ulceration from the effects of tertiary syphilis ; necrosis of the cartilages, from syphilis or other causes ; also swelling of, and sometimes a tubercular deposit in, the mucous membrane, in scrofulous patients, leading to irrita- tion and spasm, and not unfrequently to oedema glottidis. The patient, when suffering from chronic laryngitis, may get a little fresh cold ; a sort of subacute attack supervenes—effusion from the vessels occurs into the loose cellular tissue, which, superadded to the previously existing swelling, nearly blocks up the larynx, and if irritation and spasm come on, death may result. Whilst these chronic conditions vary to a certain extent, the immediate cause of death is generally a sudden attack of oedema glottidis. A patient so afflicted has generally, in addition to a troublesome and harassing cough, very marked symptoms of general debility. He presents a pale and sickly aspect. His lips are blanched or livid. There is often venous engorgement of tlie neck and arms, owing to imperfect aeration of the blood. He has a feeble and irregular pulse, often suffers from distressing breathlessness, and is frequently found to be much emaciated, especially when there is the co-existence of any tubercular disease. He complains that the paroxysms of coughing become worse at night, and that they sometimes bringREGIONAL SURGERY. 1038 on suffocating attacks of dyspncea. In such a case we may employ the ordinary treatment—such as the application of sulphate of copper or nitrate of silver to the throat, blisters on the neck, and cod-liver oil and iodide of potassium internally ; but we cannot trust to these entirely. There is the danger that the patient may die during one of the attacks ; and if their recurrence be frequent, I would strongly urge the operation of tracheotomy. In these cases we sometimes require to keep in the tube permanently. In one hospital case I have performed tracheotomy three times successively. The tube had been taken out when it should not, and the opening in the trachea gradually closed up, requiring the operation to be again performed. The boy's health, each time, improved very much after the operation. The improvement of the general health is often very marked. I recollect a case which occurred in Professor Gairdner's practice. I was called to see in his ward a girl who was suffering from phthisis. She was in the very last stage of exhaustion, and very much emaciated. Owing to the condition of her larynx, the suffocative paroxysms had increased in frequency and severity, and hence the demand for surgical aid. I saw her during one of these paroxysms, and at once per- formed tracheotomy. The girl was so weak that she fainted during the operation, but from that day she began to regain strength ; and within two or three months was perfectly well, and lived for several years afterwards. The marked improve- ment in the general health, after the operation, is itself a warrant for performing tracheotomy in these chronic affections of the larynx, to say nothing of the danger that, if it be not performed, the patient may at any moment be seized suddenly with oedema glottidis, or with suffocative spasm during a par- oxysm of coughing, and die before assistance can be obtained. Hence we should perform tracheotomy in these cases, as it is the only means of completely averting the danger. We can afterwards apply our local treatment to the larynx through the wound, just as we can to any other ulcer in the body. I have had a very large experience in operating in such cases, andCHRONIC LARYNGITIS. 1039 the results liave been almost luiiformly successful. I therefore strongly advise that the operation be performed when the con- dition is going on from bad to worse, and when the paroxysms are becoming frequent, even though they be not present when we see the patient; for when spasm is absent, we can give the patient chloroform, and perform the operation easily. We may remove the tube after a little, and if necessary insert it again. The tube, when retained permanently, should have a hole on its convex side, so as to allow the patient to speak. There are some cases of chronic disease of the larynx which are comparatively rare. For example, the Warty Disease,, in which the diagnosis is rather difficult. The patient suspects the diseased condition sooner than the surgeon. He feels something like a small pea or seed hanging in his larynx, and there is irritation and cough. For- merly, when the diseased condition was made out, we performed tracheotomy without hesitation, and removed the ex- crescence ; but now there may not be any necessity for the operation, as a skilful operator with the laryngoscope may some- times succeed in removing them by the mouth with a pair of forceps made for the purpose. There are other conditions of an ano- malous nature requiring tracheotomy. A large tumour of the thyroid body, for instance, may produce spasm of the glottis by irritating the recurrent laryngeal nerve. In one case of this kind the disease disappeared under treatment by blisters locally and iodide of potassium internally; but after two years the patient returned with the tumour as prominent as ever. I then proposed to tap the cyst of the tumour, but before I could do this my house-surgeon was obliged to perform laryngotomy. * Warty disease of the Larynx.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1040 Another and much more frequent class of cases are those of laryngeal spasm, produced by the presence of Thoracic Aneurism. This is an important subject, for surgeons are constantly being called upon to perform tracheotomy for aneurism of the aorta or of the innominate artery. There are two classes of cases of aneurism in which we may interfere, but only in one of them with advantage. The first and favourable class of cases are those where we have an aneurism pressing upon and irritating the recurrent laryngeal nerve, causing frequent spasm of the muscles supplied by this nerve, and therefore leading to threatened dyspnoea and asphyxia. Here there is no direct pressure by the aneurism on the trachea ; it is a reflex action, and in such cases the per- formance of tracheotomy will relieve the breathing and prolong the patient's life, and it may subsequently improve the condition of the aneurism itself But if we have an aneurism situated on the arch of the aorta, or on the innominate artery, pressing on the lower part of the trachea, just at its bifurcation, the case is different. There we have difficulty of breathing, and we may also have laryngeal spasm, but the aneurism presses directly on the trachea below the point at which we could perform tracheotomy. We cannot safely pass down a tube to relieve the breathing, so that we cannot afford even temporary relief by the operation, therefore w^e are not warranted in its. performance. We must keep in mind that there is a very great risk of opening the sac either with the knife or the extremity of the tube. I was asked one morning to go and see a case of aneurism, in which the patient had been suffering from double bronchitis for some time. From the stridulous laryngeal character of the breathing, her medical attendant thought that tracheotomy might be required. I was very tired at the time, and asked him to consult a physician, and stated that if the operation was neces- sary I would perform it. I was not sent for, and on asking for the patient I heard that she was dead. The physician was depressing the tongue with the handle of a spoon, to examine the throat, when a sudden gush of florid blood destroyed theCHRONIC LARYNGITIS. 1041 patient. This was a case in wldcli an aneurism had pressed on the trachea, and had tracheotomy been performed, the patient would almost certainly have died under the operation from loss of blood, owing to the part of the sac projecting into the trachea being injured with the knife or tube. In these cases there is also great venous congestion in the neck, which makes the operation much more difficult. Huskiness of voice and a stridulous laryngeal cough are symptoms common both to such cases of aneurism and to chronic laryngitis. When there is difficulty in distinguishing between the two affections, the laryngoscope again proves most valuable, as with its aid there is observed in the one case swelling or ulceration in the interior of the larynx, and in the other nothing but paralysis or spasm of one of the vocal cords-. A few observations regarding the use of the laryngoscope may not be out of place in concluding this account of the injuries and diseases of the larynx. In principle the instrument is very simple. It consists essentially of a small mirror fixed upon a stalk, so as to be capable of introduction into the back of the throat. Holding it there in such a manner as to deflect the light at the proper angle, the surgeon is enabled to obtain a good image of all the parts within the larynx. The mirrors now employed are flat, and usually circular, varying from the size of a sixpence to that of a florin, and they have the ordinary glass and quicksilver face with a metallic back. Each is fixed by its edge, at an angle of about forty-five degrees, to a stalk of soft metal, which is furnished at the other end with a wooden handle. When the operator can employ the direct rays of the sun, nothing more than this single mirror is necessary to obtain a good image of the larynx. But as we cannot always have the sun's direct rays at our disposal, it is necessary that we should possess some additional means by which we may concentrate the light of a lamp or of a window, so as always to have a powerful illumination at our command. The instrument, as practically used, therefore, now consists of two parts : first, of a series of the small tliroat mirrors, varyingREGIONAL SURGERY. 1042 in size as just described; and, secondly, of a circular reflector, slightly concave, and perforated in the centre like that of the ophthalmoscope. The latter is the concentrator of the light. It is adjusted in front of the operator's right eye, being fixed in position by its attachment to a pair of spectacles made for the purpose, or better, perhaps, by a belt which encircles his head. The joint by which it is thus attached ought to allow consider- able latitude of movement in every direction, and at the same time bo stiff enough to retain the mirror in position at any angle. It is now usually made upon the ball-and-socket prin- ciple, as this is the most simple and most easily tightened when it becomes loose. In using the instrument, the operator places his lamp, which may be a good oil one or a strong gas jet, above and slightly behind the patient's right shoulder, so that his face will be in the shade. He is then requested to put out his tongue, and to retain it so by holding the point with a handkerchief between the right forefinger and thumb. The chin, at the same time, is slightly raised, the neck stretched forwards, and the mouth well opened. In this position the operator, throwing a strong light into the throat from the large reflector, may first, at a glance, examine into the state of the mouth and fauces. He then, to prevent tarnishing with the breath, gently heats the small throat- mirror, either by placing it for an instant over the lamp, with its glass face downwards, or by dipping it in hot water. Hold- ing it now by the stalk, like a pen, he carefully but promptly introduces it into the throat, avoiding contact with all the parts except the soft palate and uvula, against which he applies the metallic back of the mirror, pushing it gently backwards and iipwards. The handle, which is held at the angle of the mouth, is at the same time slightly depressed, until the proper angle of reflection is obtained. It is well for the operator to ensure the steadiness of his hand by resting the tips of the ring and little fingers against the cheek of the patient. The extent of the parts thus displayed varies greatly in dif- ferent individuals. The epiglottis can almost always be dis-THE LARYNGOSCOPE. 1043 played ; but in the majority of instances this valve overlaps the vocal cords so much as at first to hide all but their posterior extremities from view. If, however, the patient be desired to sing a prolonged note, rather high in the scale, it will be drawn upwards so as to expose them posteriorly to a considerable extent. The anterior extremities are rarely or never brought into view. If the patient be now desired to take a long breath, the glottis will at once be thrown open to its widest extent, and in many cases a good view may be obtained of the upper, and sometimes even of the lower rings of the trachea. The beginner will find the use of the instrument by no means easy, on account of the delicacy required in its manipula- tion ; but with patience he will easily overcome most of his difficulties. It is of great importance to make the examination deliberately, and in such a manner as not to alarm the patient. The most common difficulty arises from excessive irritability of the fauces ; and this is greatly increased if the patient be excited or alarmed. It is well in all cases to pass some little time in conversation after arranging the light, so as to allow all nervous- ness of your patient to subside, especially as the first trial at a sitting is usually the most successful, the majority of throats becoming irritable -khen repeatedly touched by the mirror. There are some patients whom, owing to exceptional formation of the parts, it is impoissible to examine successfully with the laryngoscope; but these are very few in number. Where irri- tability is so excessive a.s to render your first attempts futile, it is well to repeat the trial from day to day, until the throat be- comes accustomed to the touch of the mirror ; and in such cases it is recommended that the bromide of potassium be adminis- tered internally, in full doses, so as to allay any existing hyper- fEsthesia ; but of course this plan of treatment can only be adopted when the circumstances of the case will admit of delay. In the case of foreign bodies in the air-passages, the laryngo- scope is likely to prove exceedingly valuable. With its aid the surgeon is enabled to make oiit the exact nature and situation ofREGIONAL SURGERY. 1044 the body, if it be witliin the larynx ; and, if he be skilful in the use of the instrument, he may even succeed in extracting it with the laryngeal forceps now employed in removing polypi and other growths from the glottis. Should any circumstance in the case, however, render the trial of this method of extraction inexpedient—as, for example, great irritability of the fauces, or firm impaction of the foreign body below the level of the vocal cords—the surgeon will at least proceed with the greater confi- dence to operative interference when he has ascertained the exact situation in which he may expect to find it. In these circum- stances, when the body is evidently in the larynx, the best treatment would be to perform the operation of laryngotomy, as by this means the surgeon cuts directly down upon the offending substance, making it visible through the incision, and, of course, rendering its removal extremely easy. The operation of Laryngotomy, except in its situation, is very much the same as that of tracheotomy. The superficial incision should be commenced about the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and prolonged downwards in the mesial line to the lower border of the cricoid, and the deep incision is made in the same direction through the crico-thyroid membrane into the larynx ; but in order to get sufficient room, it is frequently prolonged downwards through the body of the cricoid cartilage, or the crico-thyroid membrane may be divided transversely. In the course of the operation the edges of the two sterno-hyoid muscles are separated from each other, and a few veins which lie over the larynx are to be avoided, as they may be sources of bleeding. Some little hsemorrhage may also take place from the small crico-thyroid arteries, which cross the crico-thyroid mem- brane in a horizontal direction, but these seldom give any trouble. I would now, in conclusion, offer a few remarks upon the more impoi'tant operation of Teacheotomy. The operation of tracheotomy is one often spoken of as per- fectly simple and easy, and so it is in many cases ; but even inTRACHEOTOMY. 1045 the adult, the state of a patient struggling in the agonies of sul- focation, often renders its performance by no means so simple as generally described ; and in children from three to five years of age, in whom croup is most common, it is attended with much greater difficulty, or at least requires greater caution, than in the adult. I believe success depends a good deal on the manner in which it is performed, and attention to some minutiae in its per- formance. There ought to be no attempt at rapidity or brilliancy in this operation ; every step should be methodically gone about. First, as regards the position of the infant, the shoulders should be well raised, the head bent moderately backwards and supported by an assistant, who should pass one arm under the pillow behind the neck, so as to project or support it forwards, whilst with the otiier hand he keeps the head fixed with the chin in the middle line as a guide to the surgeon. The arms and legs may be con- trolled by a small sheet or large towel pinned round the body, the arms placed by the side ; and when thus secured, one person can control the movements. Care should be taken to see that the teeth be not firmly closed, but that the mouth be partially open and the nostrils free. The external incision should begin over the cricoid cartilage, and extend downwards exactly in the middle line for about two inches. If the incision be not exactly in the middle line, the trachea may be cut into laterally, and in that case it would be difficult to retain the tube afterwards, or the carotid arteries might be Avounded. In general, two large veins, one on either side of the mesial line and close to it, are seen when the skin is divided ; the fascial texture between these, corresponding to the intermuscular line, is readily divided by the point of the knife, and then these veins can be easily drawn aside.* Some- times one vein crosses the line to join the other, and may even require to be divided after being secured by ligatures : this is embarrassing; but the point most to be attended to is caution after separating the tracheal muscles. These muscles are sepa- * See Plate xlix.REGIONAL SURGERY. 10-16 rated by dividing the fibro-cellular tissue connecting the margins of the sterno-hyoid muscles, in the line and to the extent of cutaneous incision. If the finger be placed deeply in the wound at this stage, the trachea is felt pretty distinctly, and may seem so distinct as to warrant the surgeon in inserting his bistoury to divide the rings ; but I hold that this ought not to be done, because not only may there be the substance of tlie thymus gland flattened under the finger, but deeper, and passing from that gland to the thyroid, there exist numerous vessels which would bleed profusely. I have more than once pointed out this to the gentlemen assisting me at my operations. After separating the lobes of the thymus gland, even after these vessels and the thymus are pushed aside, I clear the rings of tlie trachea with the knife from loose cellular tissue, so that there may be no obstruction to the entrance of the silver tube when the opening is made in the trachea. In cases of croup the tube should not be introduced too quickly, as in that case it might prove an obstruction to the ejection of the false membrane. I generally keep the opening in the trachea patent by means of a double blunt hook, which I have devised for the purpose, until such time as the detached shreds are coughed up. Should there be venous bleeding, however, the tube must be inserted at once. On the tube being introduced, the head should be bent slightly forwards. The description just given of the steps of the operation in children, is that which I gave in a paper read before the Medico- Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, ten years ago, after a very considerable experience in performing tracheotomy on children; and after a still larger experience (now, I believe, the largest of any surgeon in this country, having performed it ninety-seven times on children), I have nothing to alter in or add to my directions. By attending to the rules laid down, whilst all hurry should be avoided, the operation will be executed at once safely and expeditiously. In some very extreme cases I have found it necessary to proceed very rapidly, as the infants were apparently asphyxiated,1047 TRACHEOTOMY. and by passing a featlier down the tracliea, sprinkling cold water on the face, and performing artificial respiration, I have succeeded in restoring animation; but, except in such cases, there should be no great haste. In performing tracheotomy in the adult, whilst the general steps of the operation are the same, and whilst it is easier of execution in most cases, yet in some respects it presents diffi- culties peculiar to adult life. In children, the space in which we have to make our incisions is absolutely smaller than in the adult, but, relatively, the space is greater between the isthmus of the thyroid gland and the top of the sternum. The space occupied by the larynx and hyoid bone is small, and the cervical portion of the trachea is longer than in the adult. The development of the larynx in the adult alters the relation of parts ;—the space between the chin and the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage is increased, whilst the space between the cricoid cartilage and sternum has diminished. The trachea is thus shorter, and not only so, but in proportion to the projec- tion of the larynx and development of the thyroid gland, the trachea descends obliquely backwards from the surface, and its depth a little above the sternum is very considerably increased. In the male, when the neck is short and muscular, the muscles tense, and the trachea working violently up and down as in threatened asphyxia, the difficulties of the operation are very great. In some cases on which I have operated, I have found the trachea situated at a great depth from the surface, and so short a space between the thyroid isthmus and sternum, as not only rendered the operation difficult, but when completed, the orifice of the tracheotomy tube was almost draAvn under the sternum, and I have occasionally been obliged to fix and draw the trachea upwards by means of a sharp hook, till the convulsive movements diminished. As the diseases which require the operation in adults, have little or no tendency to spread downwards, I think that in them the opening in the trachea may often be made with advantageREGIONAL SURGERY. 1048 above the isthmus of the thyroid, by pushing that structure down, so as to expose the upper rings of the trachea. Hitherto I have not done so ; but from what I have seen of the diffi- culties in short muscular necks, I would especially advise that to be done when operating for laryngeal spasm depend- ing on aneurism, particularly if there be any reason to suspect that dyspnoea depends on direct pressure, as by doing so we will diminish the risk of injuring the aneurismal sac on introduc- ing the tube. Both in the adult and child it is sometimes advisable to fix the trachea with a sharp hook before opening it. The position of the patient, and general steps of the opera- tion, are the same as in tracheotomy in the child. The incision through the skin should be commenced a little above the cricoid cartilage, and continued downwards in the mesial line, for two or two and a half inches, through the skin, fat, and fascia, so as to expose the intermuscular texture connecting the sterno-hyoid muscles. The superficial veins are seen and guarded. Next the intermuscular texture is freely divided, and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles separated with the handle of the scalpel. Then the large inferior thyroid veins and the isthmus of the thyroid body are pushed out of the way with the point of the finger, and the trachea opened, above or below the isthmus, as the nature of the case may determine. In operating on persons in whom the rings of the trachea are ossified, the surgeon should- provide him- self with a pair of very strong scissors or small bone-pliers, to divide the ossified rings. The trachea-tube should always have a broad shield or metal band to maintain it in position. The after-treatment is somewhat similar to that for the operation for croup. Any venous hfemorrhage generally ceases when the difficult breathing is relieved. If, however, it should continue, a little bit of lint pressed under the shield of the tube will suffice to arrest it.LECTURE CVIL Injuries of the Pharynx arising from the Lodgment and Impaction of foreign Bodies : Modes of detecting and extracting them by Manual and Instru- mental means—After-treatment when they have entered the Stomach—-Dis- eases of the Pharynx—Lateral and Posterior Pharyngeal Abscess—Stricture of the Oisophagus : Spasmodic and Organic ; Simple and Malignant. The Injuries and Diseases of the Pharynx form a depart- ment of practical surgery wliich is well worthy of your earnest attention. I will therefore treat the subject in the manner which I think most likely to commend it to your understandings, and impress it on your memories—namely, by drawing largely from my personal experience for the illustration of the principles of treatment I advise. Injuries of the Pharynx are generally caused by the en- trance and impaction of foreign bodies which have been arrested in the act of being swallowed. These consist of pieces of food, fish-bones, pins, coins, false teeth, and like substances. Such accidents necessarily require immediate attention and great care, both in immediate treatment and after-treatment. When small bodies, such as pins or fish-bones, get entangled in the pharynx, they generally lodge behind the tonsil or beside the hyoid bone, where they are, as a rule, within reach of the finger. In searching for them, we should pass our finger back- wards along one side of the mouth, upwards and downwards between the pillars of the fauces, around the region of the hyoid bone, in front of the epiglottis and base of the tongue; then withdraw the finger, and, in doing so, make a similar search on the opposite side. A sharp body is most frequently impacted between the pillars of the fauces, where it can be easily recog- nised and dislodged by the point or nail of the finger ; but it may be in a position lower down, and still within reach of the finger, although it cannot be extracted by it. In such cases the1050 REGIONAL SURGERY. finger can be used for detecting the position of the foreign body, and afterwards for guiding the point of the forceps to its site. These forceps must be used in this situation with very great caution and gentleness, for there is much danger in searching for foreign bodies with anything like carelessness ; and even with the utmost care there is considerable risk in fishing for such bodies with any instrument yet invented, for the condition of things may be aggravated instead of improved by their use. Thus, a sharp point may be driven further home, and a slight abrasion of the mucous membrane increased to a laceration. If the impacted substance be tolerably blunt, and beyond the reach of recognition by the finger, or removal by the forceps, the ordi- nary whalebone and sponge probang may be used with safety, to help it onwards towards its destination in the stomach or ejec- tion through the mouth. In some cases, where small sharp-pointed bodies are lodged far down, we may succeed in extracting them with the tubular expanding probang. This instrument consists of a fine whale- bone probang, tipped with sponge, ensheathed in a gum elastic tube, except for about two inches above the sponge. From the point where the sheath terminates, a series of strong bristles are arranged longitudinally around the whalebone, and attached above to the gum elastic sheath and below to the sponge. The instru- ment, when closed, presents much the appearance of the common sponge probang ; but when the whalebone stalk is pushed, and then drawn a little back, the bristles are projected, and expand like a parasol, so that, on withdrawing the instrument thus opened, it sweeps the circumference of the oesophagus, and may catch and extract small foreign bodies sticking in the wall of the passage ; but it is more ingenious than practically useful, and in most cases the common sponge probang answers best. It is often very difficult to detect the presence of a small body in the pharynx, and still more difficult to remove it. The difficulty and danger are increased if the impacted substance be sharp in its outlines, or have pointed or hooked extremities. Both these conditions are sometimes met with when a falseFOREIGN BODIES. 1051 tooth is swallowed. I had to deal with a case of this kind some years ago, in the case of a lady who was subject to epileptic fits, and in one of these she swallowed a false tooth, the gold setting of which was much worn. Her ordinary medical attendant w^as sent for, but the tooth had passed beyond his reach. Later in the day he sent for me : and, after a patient search, I discovered the presence of the foreign body by means of an ivory-headed probang. It was situated much beyond reach of the extracting forceps ; but, by means of the tiibular probang, I succeeded in snaring it. The hook of the gold plate, however, had become fastened in the tissues, and for some time I could neither pull it upwards nor push it downwards. At length, however, I suc- ceeded in unfastening it and in pushing it down. Several years ago a young man, a dentist's assistant, pre- sented himself at the Eoyal Infirmary here, and stated that he had swallowed a false tooth. He was seen and examined by the late Mr. Syme, who passed a probang, but could detect nothing by it. He therefore concluded that the tooth had passed down to the stomach, and he dismissed the patient. Some days after- wards the young man returned, and complained of pain some- what keener than before. Again he was carefully examined, and nothing being detected, he was again dismissed. About six weeks after this the late Dr. James Duncan was sent for hur- riedly to see the patient in his lodgings ; and, just as he entered the room, the young man vomited a large quantity of blood and died. On a post-mortem examination it was found that the small hook of the tooth had become inserted into the front of the oesophagus, through which it had ulcerated its way into the aorta : hence the fatal haemorrhage. In the case of a child who swallowed a button, I found it imbedded very low down in the oesophagus, and, as I could not extract it, I pushed it downwards into the stomach. It was afterwards passed by the bowel along with the fteces. In another case I felt a coin: the small oesophagus tube with which I was examining the passage luckily twisted when I drew it up, and brought up the coin along with it. 3 z1052 ; REGIONAL SURGERY. In many cases foreign bodies, such as coins, lodge at tlie top of the oesophagus, and are readily extracted by the pharyngeal forceps. Of these, two pairs, the blades of which open in dif- ferent directions, are ^ generally required, so as to adapt them to seize the foreign body according to the posi- tion in which it may be. These forceps should always be used with great care, so that the foreign body may not be pushed downwards, if its ex- traction be at all pos- sible. When a smooth rounded body, such as \\ a coin, has entered in- to the stomach, we, of course, desire to get it evacuated by the bowels as speedily as possible. Our object is to accelerate as much as possible the passage of the foreign body through the in- testine, so as not to afford time for permanent lodgment. This can be best accom- plished by giving, in addition to bulky farinaceous food, gentle laxatives, such as small doses of castor-oil; after two or three of which the foreign body is generally passed along the small intestine very readily. There is a risk that it may lodge in the large intestine about the cajcum or sigmoid flexure, and there- fore large distending enemata are very useful. The stools should Fig. 32.1053 FOREIGN BODIES. be carefully examined, so as to make sure of the foreign body passing away. When sharp-edged or pointed bodies, as false teeth, with sharp or hooked metallic fixings, enter into the stomach, the treatment requires to be somewhat different. Purgatives would be dangerous. It is necessary to blunt or cover over the sharp edges, so that they may pass through the bowels safely. For that purpose I generally order the patient to eat freely of raw prunes or figs, without chewing them much, that a coating may envelop the sharp points or edges of the foreign body, so as to enable it to pass safely through the intestine. Bones, or portions of bone, often require to be forcibly pushed into the stomach, where, from their digestibility, they are not dangerous. Even the horn handle of a penknife has been found in the stomach nearly dissolved. Should portions of soft food stick in the gullet, they ought at once to be pushed into the stomach. In using the probang, or stomach tube, the finger should be passed down on the left side of the mouth, the tongue being neither pulled forwards nor pushed backwards, so that the parts be left as nearly as possible in their natural position. The head should then be thrown back, and the probang or tube passed almost vertically downwards over the finger. Wlien tlie foreign body is touched, it may be fairly pushed into the stomach. Poisonous substances which may have entered into the stomach, if soluble and non-corrosive, should immediately be with- drawn by the stomach-pump. The use of the instrument should, however, be always avoided in cases of corrosive poisoning, because, while there is little or no chance of doing good, the tube may pass through the softened gastric walls into the abdominal cavity. In some cases of poisoning by acid, we ought to pass the tube into the oesophagus, and thereby inject alkalies into the stomach. Earthy or alkaline carbonates are generally objectionable, from the effervescence and distension produced by the liberation of carbonic acid gas. The stomach-tube sometimes terminates in an open mouth ,REGIONAL SURGERY. 1054 with the view that the grosser portions of the contents of the stomach may pass into it easily. This, however, is an objection- able form of the instrument, for the mucous membrane of the stomach is liable to be sucked in, and often seriously injured, while the tube is closed against the ingesta. The extremity of the tube should be closed, and the eye of the instrument ought in all cases to be very large, and beyond and above the point of the tube. To save time and trouble in emergencies, the instrument should never be fitted with screws, but with slip-joints. When poisoning is suspected, tepid water should be pumped into the stomach to hold the poison in solution. The fluid should then be pumped out, and the process repeated until the water is quite clear when withdrawn, and there is good reason to believe that the poison has been wholly, or as far as possible, removed. The surgeon may require to perform (Esophagotomy, when a foreign body is so fixed in the cesophagus that it can neither be drawn up nor pushed downwards. The obstruction is generally in the upper part of the oesophagus. The incision for cesophagotomy should be made a little nearer the middle line, but very much in the direction of that for ligature of the left common carotid artery. The skin and fascia being divided, the sterno-mastoid is drawn aside, and any vessels which may bleed are tied. The finger, or the handle of the knife, being used to separate the parts, the edges of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles are drawn to the mesial line. The thyroid body is drawn inwards and upwards. The recurrent laryngeal nerve lies between the cesophagus and trachea on the left side, so that (and more especially when the oesophagus is distended by a foreign body) it is necessary to draw aside or avoid the nerve, and open into the oesophagus, where there are no nervous filaments upon it. The inferior thyroid artery, which passes up to the lower angle of the thyroid body, should also be carefully avoided, as well as its branches. The sheath of the carotid artery, of course, should never be opened, but merely drawn aside. When the foreign body distends the oesophagus, it is1055 PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. more easily cut down upon ; but, as a precaution, a probang, or metallic sound, should always be held in contact with it. From want of attention to this simple precaution, I have seen a surgeon cut upon the cricoid cartilage, and open the air- passages, which caused a very disagreeable complication. The omo-hyoid muscle, if in the way, should be divided. The oesophageal swelling, caused by the foreign body or probang, is readily recognised, but the operator should dissect carefully, lest the recurrent laryngeal nerve or the inferior thyroid artery should be between him and the oesophagus. The longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus being recognised, the knife is passed through the mucous membrane, and the finger introduced into the oesophagus. The opening need not be large, as the muscular fibres dilate readily. A tube is then passed by the nostril into the stomach, and retained, to enable the patient to be fed, until the wound in the oesophagus has healed. The Diseases of the Pharynx and CEsophagus, to which I would direct your attention as coming within the domain of Surgery, are Pharyngeal Abscess and the different forms of Stricture of the Oesophagus. PharynCtEAL Abscesses are either lateral or posterior. La- teral pharyngeal abscesses are those circumscribed abscesses which occupy one side of the pharynx only, immediately behind the tonsil. They are very difficult to diagnose, and may be mis- taken for a/neurism of the internal carotid artery, and vice versd. They project inwards towards the mucous surface, and there is often a feeling of pulsation from the close proximity of the abscess to the large vessels of the neck. The history of the case may guide us. Such abscesses generally occur in rheumatic patients, and there are pains in the neck and about the back of the ear, which are premonitory of a pharyngeal abscess forming ; and so far these symptoms are diagnostic, but still they are not suffi- cient. In some cases I have been able to make sure of the disease by passing two fingers into the mouth, so as to let them rest upon the surface of the swelling, and in this way we can sometimes feel whether it is the pulsation of an aneurism or1056 REGIONAL SURGERY. merely the communicated pulsation from the carotid vessels : still the diagnosis is very difficult. In opening a lateral pharyngeal abscess there is danger of opening into the blood-vessels. We must be careful to turn the edge of the knife inwards here, and we should open the abscess as near the middle line as possible. The Posterior or Eetro-Pharyngeal Abscess is usually diffuse, and occupies the whole of the back part of the pharynx, and bulges forwards. It is very generally connected with disease of the bodies of the vertebrae. Even when this exists, where the abscess is threatening to cause suffocation by pressing forwards, we must interfere and open it, and in doing so we must be very careful. It is not a difficult thing to do with a bistoury wrapped round with lint, but if we open the abscess suddenly, especially when it is overhanging the larynx, suffocation may occur, and I have known this to happen. The pus gushes out, runs down the larynx, and so chokes the patient. To obviate this, I would use a flat trocar, with a very sharp point, and perforate the abscess with this, so as to allow the fluid to come through the canula into the mouth. We may empty the abscess so far in this way, and then enlarge the incision with a probe-pointed bistoury, when the more fluid part of the pus has been got rid of. It is the sudden gush of matter at first that is apt to cause suffocation when the knife is used instead of the trocar. Stricture oe the (Esophagus is not uncommon, and as in the case of other mucous canals, may be either simple or malignant. Spasmodic stricture also occurs more frequently in the oesophagus than in any other mucous canal. This is easily explained when we consider the powerful muscular structure of its walls. Hysterical women are most subject to spasmodic stricture. The surgeon must also keep in mind that aneurism of the thoracic aorta or of the innominate artery may obstruct the passage by lateral pressure, and he should examine carefully before passing instruments to explore the oesophagus.STRICTURE OF (ESOPHAGUS. 1057 In stricture of the oesophagus, there is clifificulty in swallow- ing, and regurgitation of more or less of the food. Fluids are most readily swallowed, but should the stricture be very tight even these are rejected. There is uneasiness at some part of the oesophagus, and sometimes a pain is felt passing back from the sternum to the spine between the shoulders. The patient often complains of great irritation in the throat, and spits up tenacious mucus as if to clear the passage. If the stricture be low down, a pouch sometimes forms, and the food, after remaining for some hours, may be ejected in a semi-digested state. But I have seldom seen the simple stricture so low down as the cardiac ex- tremity of the stomach. Stricture of the oesophagus may be the result of a chronic affection of the mucous membrane, causing gradual constriction, or it may be due to the swallowing of an irritant or corrosive sub- stance, which, after exciting inflammation, is followed by persistent narrowing of the canal. In either case, there is consolidation of the sub-mucous texture, and afterwards of the muscular tissue— the canal being ultimately constricted by an effusion of lymph and cicatricial contraction. The complete circular constriction is rarely seen. The stricture is more generally due to a puckering at one point in the circumference of the canal. The diagnosis between the different forms of oesophageal con- traction is most important. Sometimes spasmodic simulates organic stricture. The former is generally distinguished by its remissions and exacerbations, and by its frequent occurrence in females about the menstrual periods, and the almost constant presence of the symptom of the globus hystericus. In spasmodic stricture, the passage of a bougie, exciting muscular action, is apt to mislead, and therefore we use means to prevent spasm. If the patient be put under chloroform, and the large tube pass easily, the case is one of spasmodic contraction ; but if the con- striction still remain, it is organic, either simple or malignant. A patient labouring under organic stricture has generally a pinched and emaciated appearance, like a person who is suffering from slow starvation. The symptoms of malignant stricture occur more suddenly and progress more rapidly than in the1058 REGIONAL SURGERY. simple form. It is not so much a stricture, properly speaking, as a cancerous tumour filling up and leading to obstruction of the oesophagus. It is usually placed either opposite the manu- brium of the sternum or close to the cardiac end of the stomach, and is more common in the latter position. Should the history and appearance of the patient point to malignant disease, instrumental interference is useless and hurt- ful. The occasional passage of bougies or the tube, may be re- quired to introduce food, but their continued regular passage, as in simple stricture, for the purpose of dilatation, not only excites the disease to greater activity, but often causes serious hae- morrhage. The treatment is wholly palliative. To perform gas- trotomy in such cases- would be absurd, and would bring little credit to surgery. In one patient attending the hospital just now, with malignant disease at the cardiac extremity of the stomach, it is curious that the passage of an instrument relieves rather than excites the disease. Simple organic stricture is treated by the passage of bougies, and if necessary, a tube to introduce food into the stomach. The bougie should be of gum-elastic, and should be allowed to remain in for a few minutes. The size should be gradually increased every four days, unless this excites too much irrita- tion. The irritation at first caused by the instrument ceases as the stricture dilates. The process of dilatation must be a gradual one, and therefore bougies should not be passed too frequently. After the dilatation has been fully accom- Fig. 33. plished, it is advisable to pass a bougie occasionally to prevent risk of recurrence of the contrac- tion.CLINICAL CASES. FACIAL AND CERVICAL REGIONS. Case of Excision of the Lower Jaw, in which both Lateral Portions of the Bone have been removed, leaving merely A Small Portion at the Symphysis.—Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1843. My principal reason for publishing the following case is, that it is the only one, as far as I am aware, in which both lateral por- tions of the inferior maxilla have been removed, leaving merely the symphysis of the bone remaining, and hence I considered it might be interesting to the profession. The first operation on the patient whose case is the subject of the communication, was performed by Mr. Fergusson (now Sir William Fergusson) in 1836 ; and, through the kindness of that gentleman, I am enabled to commence the history of the case with his report. " Mrs. Fitzpatrick, aged 46, received a blow on the right side of the lower jaw several years ago, and since then various small portions of bone have been discharged from time to time. A tumour has gradually formed on the bone between the angle and the chin, and has since attained the size of a hen's egg, its growth having increased rapidly within the last five months. There is no particular pain in the part, but it now begins to annoy her from its size. On the left side the alveolar processes are some- what thickened, and the teeth on both sides are very deficient, only a few stumps remaining. " With the concurrence of Sir George Ballingall, Mr. Nasmyth, and others, I removed the tumour on the right side on the 12th of March 1836, having divided the bone behind and a little above the angle, and in front a little anterior to the mental foramen. The wound healed kindly, and a firm cicatrix formed in the mouth between the divided ends of the maxilla. I used occasionally to see this patient afterwards, and observed that the swelling on the other side was gradually increasing. Several sections were made of the part which had been removed, and each surface presented a smooth' dense aspect of a homogeneous character throughout. The deposit of new structure had seemingly taken place between the alveoli and the maxillary canal, as the latter part had been pushed downwards until it had reached tlie external plate of bone on the lower margin of the jaw. There was no soft point in the growth, and1060 REGIONAL SURGERY. nothing to indicate malignancy." Sncli is Mr. Fergusson's history of tlie patient whilst under his care. I first examined this patient in August last, at the request of Mr. Lawrie, to whom she had applied for advice. She at that time complained of great pain in the remainiug portion of the jaw, a little in front of the angle of the bone, and on examination, a hard tumour, about the size of a large walnut, flattened, could be felt situated in front of the angle of the jaw. Her own history of the disease was similar to that given by Mr. Fer- gusson, except that she stated that a piece of bone had been discharged from the left as well as from the right side of the jaw, and that the tumour for which she now consulted me had existed for about five years before the former operation was performed. As she stated that the tumour was enlarging, that the pain had of late become more violent, and as her health was sinking from the want of rest and continued suffering ; and as, judging from the firm feel and previous history of the tumour, it did not seem malignant, I recommended her to have it removed. To this, however, she could not then make up her miiid to submit. In the end of September I was again requested to see her, when the pain had become so violent that she said she would submit to anything that would relieve her. I showed the case to Sir George Ballingall, Professor Syme, and Mr. Nasmyth, and these gentlemen coincided with me in recommending an operation. I performed the operation on the 20th of October last (1842), in presence of Sir George Ballingall and several medical friends, and assisted by Drs. Handyside, Duncan, and Mr. Nasmyth. Entering the bistoury in front of the insertion of the masseter muscle, I transfixed the membrane of the mouth, carried the knife forward along the bone and cut outwards, dividing the prolabium and other soft parts a little to the left of the symphysis, and thus at once formed a flap which laid bare the tumour, and enabled me to apply the saw to it. Having ascertained its nature, and finding that its entire removal was necessary, I made an incision down- wards from over the articulation of the jaw, terminating in the external end of the former incision. The semilunar flap so formed was then dis- sected up, the bone cleared from the soft parts on its inner surface, and sawn in front of the canine tooth. I then depressed the bone so as to enable me to divide the insertion of the temporal muscle, and completed the operation by disarticulating the lateral portion of the jaw ; five arteries were tied, some slips of lint placed in the deep part of the wound, and the edges of the incision were then brought together by some points of inter- rupted suture, except at one point midway between the ear and chin, which was left open for the ends of the ligatures to hang out. Everything proceeded favourably ; the external incision healed by the first intention except where the ligatures hung out. The slips of lint were removed from the deep incision on the third, and the patient was sitting up on the ninth day. The last ligature came away on the twelfth day. This ligature had been brought out at the up^jer part of the incision in front of the ear, and on its separation saliva continued to flow from the opening for some days, but it soon healed iinder the use of pressure, by means of a compress of lint applied over the fistulous opening.1061 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. Bemarlcs.—It may seem at first sight of little use to leave the mere symphysis remaining, as, when deprived of the support of the lateral portions, it was as likely to be retracted along with the tongue as to prevent that occurrence. The reasons which induced me to leave that portion of the bone were—1st, That it would afford a better hold for the gentleman who assisted me, to prevent retraction during the operation ; 2dly, That when the wound healed it would afford support to the lower lip, and thus in some measure prevent the constant escape of saliva ; and that as it would contract adhesions to the cicatrix, by preserving the attachments of the muscles of the tongue, the patient would be enabled to speak and swallow better than if it had been removed ; and, lastly. By preserving somewhat the appearance of the chin, the operation would be followed by less deformity, and the patient rendered more comfortable; whereas, if the symphysis had been removed, the retraction of the lower part of the face would have been greater, the tongue would have formed adhesions to the fore-part of the lip, and thus, from its pendulous position, have given rise to a constant and profuse discharge of saliva, as was the case in the patient mentioned by Sir George Ballingall, and speech would necessarily have been very indistinct. The result of the case has fully justified these conclusions : there has been no violent retraction of the tongue; the patient is able to speak as well as before the operation; she swallows easily, can shut and open the mouth, and protrude and retract the tongue readily. The escape of saliva when sitting up is very trifling, and is gradually becoming less. A section of the jaw, made by my friend Mr. Goodsir, shows the tumour to be of a dense solid structure except in its centre, where soft degeneration was apparently just com- mencing. The woman lived for fourteen years after the operation, and had a certain amount of power of chewing with the front teeth, so that she could eat animal food. On examination after her death, I found that the space on each side of the symphysis, from which the jaw had been removed, was occupied by a very denseREGIONAL SURGERY. 10G2 structure into which massetic and interiial pterygoid muscles were attached. Malignant Tumouk of Right Superior Maxilla. Susan "W.,set. 41, unmarried. Admitted to Ward XIX. March 8tli, 1865. Patient caught cokl last Christmas, and first noticed a swelling of the cheek a few days later. She rubbed the cheek with some liniment, but the tumour continued steadily to increase. Accordingly, three weeks ago, she consulted a medical man in Glasgow, who incised the swelling, and removed a portion of it. It then disappeared, but quickly attained its former size. She had been perfectly healthy, but since the appearance of the tumour she has lost both strength and appetite. On examination, a tumour of the size of an orange, of firm consistence, is found to occupy the right superior maxilla. It involves the whole of that bone, and extends across the hard palate. The right nostril is almost completely occluded. The superficial veins are dilated over the tumour ; the skin and soft tissues of the cheek everywhere firmly adherent to the tumour. Patient suff'ers great pain. The neighbouring glands are not affected. The lungs and heart are foimd to be healthy. March lltli.—Had smart hcemorrhage from the right nostril this mornmg. 13</t.—Considerable diarrhoea during the night. P. 100, weak. No recurrence of hsemorrhage. 14^A.—Slept well after an opiate. P. 100, weak. \hth.—To-day Professor Spence removed the tumour. He made a horizontal incision from the angle of the mouth. Then he made an incision from the inner canthiTS, joining the first. A third incision was made from the inner angle of the eye to the corner of the mouth, so as to remove all the soft parts implicated in the disease. The flap was dissected off, and the bone sawn through at the outer and inner angles of the orbit. The soft tissues of the mouth were divided on the hard palate, beyond the seat of disease. Tlie alveolar process was then sawn through, and the other connections of the bone divided with cutting-pliers. Part of the septum nasi and the palatal process of the left upper maxilla were removed. A few vessels in the cheek required ligature. The gap left by the removal of the tumour and textures of the cheek was carried from the angle of the mouth downwards and outwards for about three inches below the lower jaw, and curved backwards in tlie neck, so as to shape a somewhat triangular flap, which was dissected, and brought up to form a new cheek. The soft tissues were brought togetlier with sutures, except a small portion below the lower jaw, which part was left to granulate. P. 140 after the operation. A full opiate was given, and an enema of beef-tea and brandy. To have wine and water at intervals. Vesj).—P. 96, strong. Has slept well. No pain and no oozing. 16<A.—P. 100, good strength. Slept well without an oj)iate. Slight redness about the edges of tlie wound. To have no stimulants. To have beef-tea, arrowroot, etc.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 10G3 Ye&p.—P. 120, fair strength. Ordered a compound colocynth pill.. \lth.—Still some redness about the wound. Some points of suture removed. P. 120. \%th.—P. 90. Flaps yielding at corners of mouth and eye. 20;/t.— Had a severe rigor at 12.30. Given brandy and morphia and hot bottles applied. 22(Z.—Ligatures came away. P. 95. 24th.—Wound kept together by plasters. Afril 5th.—F. 75, strong.—Going on most favourably. 8th.—Sat up to-day. 23c?.—^Wound all but healed. Walks about the ward. 30th.—Sent to Convalescent House. Case of Enormous Deep-Seated TaaiouR of the Face and Neck, successfully removed by Operation. In the beginning of October 1862,1 received a letter from Dr. Phipps, of Manchester, in reference to the patient whose case I am about to narrate. He gave me the general history of her case ; and enclosed three photographic portraits, exhibiting a tumour from different points of view ; and requested me to say whether I thought there was any possibility of removing it, as she was willing to run any risk to have it removed. The his- tory of her case was as follows :— Mrs. Jepson, aged thirty-four, of a healthy appearance, states that, when eighteen years old she noticed what she calls a " waxen kernel," growing under the skin over the mastoid process of the right side, and immediately under the lobule of the ear. For two years it showed no tendency to grow larger, but afterwards it increased slowly ; and she ap- plied for relief to several medical men. In spite of the use of iodine, ex- ternally and internally, it continued to grow. She was married when she was twenty-one years of age ; and states that during her pregnancies the tumour appeared to increase more rapidly than at other times. Four years after her marriage the growth had reached the size of a large hen's egg ; and she was taken by her medical attendant to the Manchester Infir- mary, to obtain the advice of the surgeons of that institution. They told her that the tumour might be removed ; but that she must take the whole risk of the operation on herself. Her own medical attendant seems to have dissuaded her from having anything done. Since then the tumour has continued gradually enlarging ; but of late years has shown a marked tendency to more rapid increase. I was informed that the patient, harassed by the weight and defor- mity of the tumour, had recently applied to a surgeon at Manchester to have it removed ; but he declined interfering, and dissuaded her from sub-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1064 mitting to any operation. I wrote, in reply to Dr. Phipps, that though I could not decide without personally examining the patient, I was inclined, from the history he gave of the growth, and his accovmt of its general re- lations, to think it might be removed, and that I would arrange for her reception under my care if she came to Edinburgh, as contemplated. She was admitted into my wards in the Royal Infirmary, on the 11th Novem- ber 1862. Appearances on Admission.—The patient is a somewhat pale, but not cachectic-looking woman. There is an enormous tumour, as large as her head, projecting from the right side of her neck. Its boundaries are the following :—Beginning about one inch from the second cervical vertebra, it passes downwards to within an inch and a half of the clavicle ; then sweeps obliquely to the middle line of the neck, which it reaches near the cricoid cartilage. It then passes upwards by the side of the chin, close by the angle of the mouth—which is not distorted ; and round by the outer angle of the orbit, and through the lower part of the temporal region, and thence to the spinal column, on a level with the meatus auditorius exter- nus and apex of the mastoid process. The lobule of the ear is very con- siderably stretched. The surface of the tumour is irregular, presenting a lobulated ajjpearance ; the most prominent part is that M^hich projects forwards from tlie face, and where there is a feeling of fluctuation ; the rest of it is solid. The veins over the siirface are not markedly distended. The anterior portion of the tumour is more movable than the posterior. There is no glandular enlargement, either in the subclavian space or on the left side of the neck. Respiration and deglutition are not in the least interfered with, November 18th.—Since the 16th instant she has been very sick, with occasional vomiting ; but to-day she feels much better. The sickness is a^jiiost entirely gone, but the fauces are inflamed. Pulse 92. November 2\st.— The throat is still inflamed ; otherwise she feels better. Operation.—On the 3d of December, Mrs. Jepson having quite re- covered from the feverish attack from which she suffered after her admis- sion into the hospital, I proceeded to remove the tumour. The patient having been placed recumbent, and brought under the influence of chloro- form—her head and shoulders sujiported with pillows, and her face turned towards the left side, I commenced the operation by making two slightly curved incisions, extending from the lobe of the ear to the sternal attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid muscle, so as to mark out an elliptical portion of skin, about three and a half inches broad at its widest part, over the middle and prominent part of the tumour—the anterior incision corresj)onding nearly to the internal edge of the mastoid muscle. I next made an incision backwards and slightly downwards from the middle of the posterior longitiidinal incision, so as to extend beyond the posterior limit of the tumour ; and lastly, an incision from a point external to the angle of the mouth, was carried obliquely downwards and outwards, so as to fall upon the centre of the anterior longitudinal incision. The four large flaps of skin and platysma niyoides thus marked out were then dis- sected and reflected ofl" tlie tumour, commencing with the posterior—the external jugular vein being tied with two ligatures, and divided betweenCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1065 them. When the whole surface of the enormous growth was thus exposed —except where the elliptical portion of skin remained—the sterno- mastoid was seen to be so attached to the tumour about its middle, that I divided it above and below that part. I then relieved the anterior mar- gins of the cervical portion by a careful dissection, keeping the ^edge of the knife towards the tumour until I was fairly beyond the line of the great vessels. My dissection was continued from the lower and posterior part till the phrenic nerve was seen clearly, and the upper and posterior portion, which had been previously so far relieved, was then rapidly de- tached from its deep connections, and the whole of the cervical mass of the tumour was free. The detachment of the facial and parotid por- tion still remained to be accomplished ; and this required great care, both because that part of the tumour seemed more cystic, and also because, as I expected, it was deeply connected behind the ramus of the jaw. On dissecting it from before, downwards and backwards, I found it attached to the facial covering of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, so that I had to dissect the muscular fibres. Above, it dipped deeply be- tween the mastoid process and the jaw ; but, partly with the finger and careful dissection with the knife, it was detached pretty easily, till I arrived at the attachment under the ear over the mastoid process. Here it was iirmly adherent, and the weight of the tumour caused a slight tear of its substance ; but by having the timiour supported, I dissected this attachment carefully, so as to remove the whole tumour entire. A large vessel entered it at this point, which was readily secured. During the operation some arteries which bled were tied as cut ; and also some large veins, previous to their division. The chief bleeding during the operation was venous, from the divided veins passing from the tumour ; but the whole amount of blood lost certainly did not amount to eight ounces. The wound resulting from this dissection when the tumour was removed, extended from the zygoma to the clavicle and sterno-clavi- cular articulation. In the facial portion, the parotid gland seemed either atrophied, or so displaced that nothing was to be seen of it in the deep space between the jaw and the mastoid process. The portio dura—the cervico-facial portion of which had been unavoidably cut—was seen cross- ing to the face ; and the external carotid could be felt pulsating ; and the digastric was seen dissected here. In the cervical portion of the wound, the great internal jugular, and its tributary veins, and the carotid artery, were exposed for nearly their whole length, and posteriorly, the phrenic nerve was seen lying on the anterior scalenus. The flaps were brought together by a few points of suture, and seemed to be rather redundant, notwithstanding the elliptical portion of skin removed. A flat fold of lint was placed lightly over the wound. During the operation the chloroform caused vomiting. The patient was carried to bed ; hot-water bottles were applied to the feet, and a brandy enema given. Dec. Ath.—Slept tolerably well during the night ; sickness pretty severe ; ordered brandy and ice ; pulse 128. Bee. bth.—Pulse 130 ; slept pretty well ; has taken a little food ; the facial nerve seems slightly afi'ected ; she feels very little pain in the wound.10C6 REGIONAL SURGERY. Dec. Qth.—Pulse 96 ; several stitches removed. Dec. 8th.—Pulse 98 ; slept better than she has done since the opera- tion ; the lower angle of one of the flaps showing a tendency to inversion, a piece of lint was introduced below it, and the wound dressed with a solu- tion of chloride of soda. Dec. 9th.—Wound discharging freely ; continue dressing ; affection of the facial nerve not so marked ; pulse 96. Dec. 1 Oih.—Still improving ; had a very refreshing sleep last niglit ; taking her food well ; pulse 92. Dec. 15^/i.—Wound lookiaig well ; dressed with a solution of chloride of soda ; taking food well ; sleeping well, and not com2)laining of pain ; has been sitting uj^ a little occasionally since last report ; piilse 84. Dec. nth.—Still imjjroving in every respect ; pulse 84. Dec. '2,0th.—Wound still discharging freely ; appetite good ; pulse normal ; ligatures came away to-day at dressing. Dec. 2,3d.—Yesterday she became sick, and vomited several times after dinner ; sickness continued occasionally during the night ; this morn- ing she is not nearly so sick as the day before ; the wound presents the appearance of grey phagedsena, with erysipelatous blush on the skin ; touched it lightly with nitric acid ; tongue whitisli ; pulse 112. Dec. 24:th.—Sickness entirely gone ; the wound rather dusky-looking ; the surface touched slightly with nitric acid. Dec. 25th.—The wound has much the same appearance as it had yesterday ; continue treatment ; pulse 96. Jmi. 6th.—Since last report she has been improving very satisfactorily ; this morning she walked from Ward XX., where she has been lying tem- porarily, to her old quarters in the private ward ; the wound is looking well, and the tongue clean ; and the pulse is 88. Jan. I2th.—Is much improved ; sat up for an hour yesterday ; the wound is healing rapidly. Feb. 3d.—Since last report the patient has gone on improving daily ; the wound is now almost entirely healed ; and she left the hospital to-day for the Convalescent House. After remaining for some weeks in the Convalescent House till the cure was comjjleted, Mrs. Jepson returned to her home at Over-Darwen, Lancashire ; and since her return 1 have heard frequentlj', both from her- self and also from Dr. Phipps, who states that her health is good and her appearance gradually improving ; the marks of the cicatrix becoming less evident. E.vamination of the Tumour after its Removal.—The growth was of a very irregular form, but may be described as an irregular ovoid mass, 9^- inches in length, 8f inches at broadest jjart ; its thickness or projection 7-| inches, and weighing rather more than 7 pounds. It was nodulated on its surface, some of the larger projections looking like cysts, and feeling soft to the touch. The whole growth, however, was composed of solid matter, and presented, on section, the characters of the fibro-cartilaginous form of fibrous tumours. A careful examination of its structure was made by my friend Dr. Haldane, who has favoured me with the following description of it :— L «...CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1067 " On section, the mass was found to consist of two kinds of material ; the most abundant, and that which formed the basis and the greater part of the tumour, was of a glistening appearance, a pale bluish-white colour, and was of firm almost cartilaginous consistence. Mixed with this and oc- curring generally in bands, bat sometimes in small patches, was a softer and more friable matter, of a pale opaque yellow colour. A few small masses of a glistening yellow appearance, evidently consisting of fat, were scattered through the mass. " On microscopic examination the firm glistening portion of the tumour was found to consist of a finely fibrillated structure, in which were em- bedded oval, rounded, or elongated nucleated cells, having all the charac- ters of cartilage-cells : these varied in abundance in different parts, being, in some places, as numerous as the cells in true cartilage, in others but sparsely disseminated. The yellowish opaqixe matter consisted of granular material and small cells, apparently in process of disintegration ; they re- sembled tubercle corpuscles or shrivelled pus-cells, but were somewhat larger ; they contained no nucleus, but, in many, one or more granules were seen. The matter, which to the naked eye seemed fatty, was proved to be so on microscopic examination." Bemarks.—The case just detailed seemed to me worthy of notice on account of the great size of the tumour, its important anatomical relations, and the formidable character of the opera- tion required for its removal; but especially as giving encou- ragement for surgical interference in similar cases of deep-seated cervical tumours, and as indicating certain principles, both in regard to the kind of growths suitable for operation, and the points to be attended to in effecting their removal. Operations for the removal of large tumours from the neck are always attended with great danger from the proximity of the numerous important structures in that region, and the impossi- bility of thoroughly commanding the circulation through the great vessels during the operation. Large tumours, arising in the parotid and passing into the cervical region, have been fre- quently removed when placed superficially to the sterno-mastoid muscle. But some surgical authorities regard cases of tumours developed beneath that muscle as unsuitable for removal by operation; and, in point of fact, few if any cases of complete and successful removal of such tumours are recorded ; at least, after some research, I can only find four cases mentioned :—One by Mr. John Bell in his work on Surgery, vol. iii.; two by Pro- fessor "Warren of Boston, in his work on Tumours ; and one in- 4 a1068 REGIONAL SURGERY. cidentally mentioned by Mr. Liston in his Practical Surgery. Of the three first-mentioned only, are the details given, and in none of them was the whole tumour removed. Mr. Bell, who describes the operation in his usual graphic style, confesses that he left some small roots of the tumour attached to the transverse processes of the vertebrae for fear of injuring the phrenic nerve. The tumour rapidly recurred, and destroyed the patient. In one of Mr. Warren's cases, only portions of the growth could be re- moved, as it involved all the textures intimately ; and, after ligature of both the carotid artery and internal jugular vein, a large mass was left, being connected with and projecting into the pharynx. In his second case. Professor Warren, after clear- ing the surface of the tumour, rather than divide the sterno- mastoid for fear of injuring the spinal accessory, "the conse- quences of which last I was unacquainted with," adopted the alternative of cleaving the mass perpendicularly in its long axis, so as to remove the two halves from under the muscle ; and here, again, he tied and divided both the carotid and internal jugular ; but some parts of the tumour in front of the vertebrae were left, the actual cautery being applied to them. The details of the case subsequent to the operation are meagre; very grave symptoms appear to have followed immediately, but the patient seems to have rallied; and, though we are led to infer that he did recover, nothing is said of the ultimate result, or whether the tumour was reproduced or not. The only notice of Mr. Liston's case I can find, is contained in Practical Surgery, chap, v., "On the Injuries and Diseases of Muscles and Tendons." He says :—" I had occasion to remove the sterno-mastoid muscle of one side, involved in a sarcomatous tumour, from its origin to its insertion—a growth to whicli the most fastidious critic will not refuse the term sarcoma ; though, in all probability, the muscular fibres may have been involved secondarily. The tumour was, so far, limited by a cellular sheath, yet the dissection was difficult and extensive. The patient made a good recovery, and no mal- position of the head followed." * * Since writing the above, I liave found in one of the Journals of the R03 alCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 10G9 So far as I could judge from this brief account of Mr. Liston's case, it seemed a growth developed in the substance of the mas- toid, surrounded by the fascial sheath of the muscle ; and, if so, differing very much from the enormous and irregular tumour I had to deal with. The cases recorded by Bell and Warren, though not successful in complete removal of the tumours, pos- sessed this element of encouragement, that, whilst the failure depended on the character of the growth being unsuitable for any operation, they showed how much coidd be effected even under unfavourable circumstances, and so led me to infer that if the character of the growth were suitable, the difficulty of the operation need not be an obstacle to its performance. In determining the propriety of operative interference in Mrs Jepson's case, it seemed to me that the points principally to be considered were :—1st. The character of the tumour ; whether simple or malignant ? 2d. The probable result, if the growth were left to itself ? 3d. How far its enormous size, anatomical relations, and possible connections with vitally important parts, might endanger life, or prevent its complete removal ? Correct diagnosis as to the character of the growth is most important in deciding on the question of operation in all cases of tumour, as involvmg the probability of future immunity from the recurrence of the disease. But in the case of large tumours in the vicinity of important organs, it is also important as to the question of immediate danger to life in the operation. In my surgical lectures I have always dwelt upon the limitation of simple, as compared with malignant tumours, as a principle of great practical value. In simple growths, important organs— such as great vessels and nerves—may be pressed upon, pushed aside, or even surrounded by the tumour or its lobules ; but the Infirmary for 1834, the report of a case of large cervical tumour, operated on by Mr. Listen. The tumour, which occupied nearly the same position as the cervical portion of my patient's tumour, had grown rapidly in ahout two years. In this case Mr. Liston found it impossible to remove the whole growth by the knife, and the part near the vertebrae was strangulated by ligatures passed through its base. The patient recovered at the time.—J. S.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1070 cellular slieatlis are not destroyed ; and even if the growth has formed adhesions to the sheath, the vessels themselves are free ; whereas in malignant growths we find no such limitation. On the contrary, the disease often invades all the textures, destroy- ing the cellular sheaths, and involving the vessels and nerves themselves ; and even when the mass of such a tumour is en- closed in a dense cyst, and apparently movable, it is not truly limited ; but the narrow prolongations of the diseased structure dip deeply amongst the textures, and form such connections as to defy any certainty of complete removal, as happened in the cases recorded by J. Bell and Warren, already referred to. In the case of Mrs. Jepson, the originally slow progress of the growth, the comparatively unimpaired state of her general health, together with the appearance of the tumour and the absence of that anxious expression of countenance which marks most cases of malignant cachexy, were all conditions indicative of the simple character of the growth ; whilst the more rapid increase latterly noticed, though a reason for interference, was only what we find in most tumours, however benign, and depends on the enlargement of their vessels, and consequent increase of nutritive supply. So far, then, as the character of the growth was concerned, there was everything in favour of operation, as the tumour was neither likely to involve the neighbouring tex- tures nor liable to recur after removal. The second consideration was, the probable progress of the tumour if left to itself. As yet, neither respiration, deglutition, nor any vital function, had been affected by the growth ; but then it had, of late, begun to increase more rapidly in bulk, and over the most prominent part the skin had a dusky red appearance, which showed a tendency to ulceration ; and when that once commences, even in simple tumours, we know how rapidly they fungatc, slough, and bleed—degenerating locally, and exhausting the patient by discharge and pain—and that their removal then becomes much more difficult and dangerous. Besides, the nutrition of the growth was evidently carried on at the expense of the patient's general health ; for, though notCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1071 cachectic, she had become pale, and felt more feeble than for- merly ; whilst the enormous bulk and weight, together with the increasing deformity, rendered her almost unfit for any duty, and gave rise to great mental depression, so that she was most anxious to have the tumour removed at all hazards. The con- sideration of these first two questions resulted in a decision favourable to operative interference. It now remained to con- sider how far the size and connections of the-tumour admitted of removal by operation without immediate risk to the patient's life ; and to plan the procedure by which this could be most readily and safely effected. The great bulk of a tumour, though always a source of risk, from the extensive incisions requisite for its removal, the amount of surface exposed, and the propor- tional hfemorrhage, venous and arterial, does not necessarily render the operation more difficult; on the contrary, the very size gives a power of leverage which often facilitates the dis- section. But when the mass is so situated as to present a large surface, it may be adherent to, or in close connection with vitally important parts, then the operation required for its re- moval becomes most formidable. These elements of difficulty and danger were present to their fullest extent in my patient's case ; for, besides the enormous bulk of the tumour, it was developed beneath the sterno-mastoid, and its deep surface was necessarily in the closest relation with the great vessels and important nerves in the cervical region, from the lower jaw to within an inch of the sternum, and stretching backwards to the margin of the trapezius muscle ; whilst the facial portion felt fixed in the parotid region, as if deeply niched behind the ramus of the jaw ; and it could be felt projecting towards the fauces within the mouth. The bulk, form, and position of the tumour rendered it impossible to ascertain positively whether or not it adhered at any point to the sheath of the vessels ; and the appa- rent mobility of a large cervical growth can never altogether be depended on ; for, even if it involve or be adherent to the vessels or their sheath, these, being loosely connected, move with the tumour on the more fixed parts. But in the face of these risksREGIONAL SURGERY. 1072 I felt warranted to operate, on the following grounds :—First, as I have already said, the simple character of the tumour made me feel secure that, though it might displace, press upon, or even adhere to the sheath of the great vessels and nerves, it would not absolutely involve them. Secondly, the absence of any en- gorgement of the great veins of the neck on either side, or of any marked alteration in the arterial supply of the right side of the face, made me pretty sure that neither the internal jugular nor the carotid could be very closely or extensively involved; whilst the functions of respiration and deglutition being unim- paired, and no symptom of laryngeal irritation existing, rendered it equally clear that neither the vagus nerve, its branches, nor the phrenic, were as yet implicated. Having thus satisfied myself that the tumour might be re- moved by an operation properly planned, and carefully and deliberately executed, I proceeded to determine the method by which it could be most readily and safely accomplished. The dangers to be apprehended were—Hsemorrhage from the arteries supplying the tumour, or, more likely, from the great veins re- turning the blood from it ; the risk of air entering any of these large veins when divided ; the risk of injury to the vagus or phrenic nerves ; and the probability of meeting difficulty from adhesion of parts in the parotid region, where tlae tumour felt fixed ; lastly, exhaustion of the patient from the necessarily tedious dissection and large exposed surface. To obviate these dangers as far as possible, I determined to expose freely the whole surface of the tumour ; to clear its edges ; and, in doing this, to expose the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, at the lower part of neck, so as to be able, if necessary, to com- press the carotid ; next, to divide the sterno-mastoid above and below, so as to leave the part adherent to the growth ; to tie the external jugular with two ligatures, and divide it between them ; and to pursue the same course in regard to all the larger veins passing towards the jugular or root of the neck, and to secure the larger arterial branches as divided. Ligature of the lower part of the common carotid, as a preliminary, with a view ofCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1073 diminishing loss of blood—which has been advised and adopted in the removal of tumours from the neck and face—I rejected as worse than useless, as not only incurring unnecessary risk to the patient, but as likely to lead to danger by inducing a false security in the operator, as its ligature could not control the retrograde haemorrhage from the free anastomosis superiorly ; whilst the free incision along the sterno-mastoid enables the assistant to control the carotid trunk quite as effec- tually, should it be necessary. Besides, in such a dissection, wound of the great internal jugular vein is much more likely to occur than injury of the carotid ; and the best means of avoiding either is to disturb the natural relations of the vessels as little as possible, and to dissect with the edge of the knife directed towards the deep surface of the tumour, whilst the assistant insinuates his fingers in the track of the dissection, so as to protect the vessels. I decided, after clearing the tumour from the great vessels, to dissect the rest of the cervical portion from below upwards, so as to avoid injury to the plirenic nerve : and then to proceed with the dissection of the facial portion from above downwards and backwards, so as to leave the part which felt most fixed in the deep parotid region, and where I expected the largest vessels to enter the tumour, to the last. This plan I carried out, as detailed in the description of the operation, with the able assistance of my colleagues, Drs. Gillespie and Watson ; and I had the satisfaction of removing entirely this enormous tumour, and so relieving my patient from what she and her friends had long regarded as a hopeless dis- ease. In a letter I have received from Mrs. Jepson, dated October 8th, 1863, she says :—" I am happy to inform you that I am in good health; the scars do not look bad ; they are perfectly healed up, and gradually appear less." When I last heard of her, about a year ago, she was quite well, had had two children, and remained free from any appearance of the tumour returning.1074 REGIONAL SURGERY. Large Cervical Tumour successfully removed. The following is an example of tlie excision of a growth similar in character, though presenting some local peculiari- ties :— George Manson, set. 16, recommended to me by Dr. Grant Smith of Thurso, on account of a large cervical tumour, was admitted into the Eoyal Infirmary under my care ou the 9th of June 1867. On examination, tlie tumour, which was somewhat irregular in form, nodulated on the surface, and of a firm consistence, was found to occupy the whole of the left side of tlie neck. Commencing at a point close under the angle of the jaw, it passed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then projected towards the surface, extending back to and elevating tlie interior margin of the trapezius, and occupying the whole of the supra-scapular and subclavian regions of the neck, where it lay below the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. On the mesial side of the sterno-mastoid, the tumour projected inwards, pressing the larynx and trachea to the riglit side ; it bulged upwards to a level with the os hyoides, and below it dipped beneath the muscles in front of the trachea, and descended into the supra-sternal fossa. The growth seemed movable, and its margins were pretty well defined, except at the sternal region, where it appeared to pass deeply, and where the superimposed textures bound down its surface so as to prevent its connections from being so clearly ascertained as in other directions. It was not moved by the efforts of deglutition, but the position of the belly of the omo-hyoid was very distinctly seen over the posterior portion of the tumour during such efforts. Tlie superficial veins of the left side of the neclt were somewhat larger and more numerous than those of the opposite side. The history of the case showed that tlie tumour had been originally, and for many years, of slow growth. It was first noticed when the boy was three years of age, and increased little for the first eight or nine years ; but of late it had progressed more rapidly, especially during the last two years. There was no pain in the tumour, nor interference with deglutition, but for some months the breathing at night had become oppressed, and at times spasmodic. The lad's health was good ; there was no appearance of emaciation, and all the functions were natural. The tumour was fii-m, and apparently solid throughout, and, as I liave said, tolerably well defined. The youth and his friends were anxious that something should be attempted to relieve the increasing difficulty of breathing ; and on my stating that I thought the removal of the tumour advisable, they readily consented to the operation. On the 12th of June I performed tlie operation for the removal of the tumour in the following manner :—I first made an incision along the course of the stemo-niastoid, from the angle of the jaw to beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation. Then at its lower termination I made a small transverse incision, about an inch and a half in length, so as to enable me to expose more fully the jiart where tlie tmnour passed intoJI1075 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. the sternal fossa. Lastly, T carried a third incision, four inches long, from the middle of the first incision backwards to the anterior margin of tlie trapezius. I then dissected the skin and platysma, so as to expose the anterior portion of the tumour as far inwards as the tracheal margin, which I cleared from the fascial covering, and elevated. Next, passing my finger beneath the fascia and the fibres of the omo-hyoid muscle, whicli were stretched over the growth at the lower part of the neck, I divided them, and had the satisfaction to find that the substernal portion was defined and unattached, and could be readily turned out. I now proceeded to clear the remainder of the tumour by dividing the sterno- mastoid transversely, and dissecting it and the other coverings of[ from the surface in two tiaps, as marked out by the incisions. In doing this, some small superficial vessels were tied. On fully exposing the tumour, a large vein was seen on its surface at the upper part. This vein, though distended above, was obliterated where it lay over the lower part of the growth. The distended part of the vein I included in two ligatures, and divided it between them. The whole mass being now fully exposed, I proceeded to dissect it out from before backwards, feeling with my left forefinger for the vessels, so as to protect them from risk of injury. On clearing and raising outwards the anterior portion of the growth from its deep connections, the carotid artery and pneumogastric nerve were seen bare, as if dissected from their sheath, but the internal jugular vein could not be seen, and the pneumogastric lay somewhat in front of the carotid at its lower part. As I could neither see nor feel anything of the internal jugular, I next dissected the tumour from its posterior aspect, and then from the subclavian space, cutting with the edge of the knife close towards the deep surface of the tumour, so as to avoid the phrenic and sympathetic nerves and the thoracic duct in the deep dissection at the inferior region of the neck. At one part the tumour was closely adherent to the fascia over the upper part of tlie scalenus anticus, but by dissecting the fascia from the muscle the whole growth was removed entire. The parts now represented a deep dissection of the whole side of the neck, but no trace of the internal jugular vein in its natural relation could be seen, and it was concluded that the vein tied on the surface of the tumour was the jugular. There was very little bleeding, only a few small arteries requiring to be tied ; but the last touch of the knife, separating the tumour, divided a small vein, which retracted between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and as it could not be seized, the troublesome oozing from it required to be arrested by pressure. The surface of the wound was painted over with tincture of iodine, and the integuments were replaced and united by sutures, except at the posterior angle of the transverse incision, which was left open to permit any discharge to escape, a compress of sponge supported by a bandage being placed over the wound to prevent venous oozing. The patient was then removed to the ward and placed in bed, his head properly supported. In the evening, some recurrence of bleeding necessitated opening the posterior part of wound. The bleeding was found to proceed from a small artery, which was tied. No further bleeding from the vein had taken place, and the wound was finally closed with sutures.1076 REGIONAL SURGERY. On the I3th the patient was pretty well. Pulse 100. Some nausea from chloroform. Ordered a saline aperient mixture. 14^/t.—Free from sickness ; bowels have acted freely ; tongue clean ; skin cool. Pulse 90. 15th.—Continues doing well. Pulse 84. 16th.—Pulse 76. Most of the stitches removed. 17^A.—Incision along sterno-mastoid entirely united, as also the small incision at sternum. A good deal of healthy discharge from the trans- verse incision. Pulse 80. 20th.—Pulse 64. All ligatures except two have come away. Slight pressure with strapping to be applied over the corner of wound, near the ear, where pus has a tendency to lodge. Wound dressed with weak solution of tincture of iodine in water. From this time the patient's progress to recovery was uninterrupted. On 31st July the wound was healed tlirougliout, except the surface of the cicatrix ; he was able to be out of bed and walking through the ward with the head unsupported ; and he was dismissed from hospital on the 24th of August. The photograph showing the recently cicatrised wound left after removal of the tumour was taken on the 2d of August. (See Plate 48.) Examination of the Tumour. — The tumour, which presented an irregular nodulated surface, was of somewhat ovoid shape, broader below than above, and of a uniformly firm consistence. On making a longi- tudinal section, it presented much the appearance of the section of a gland mixed with fibrous texture ; and, on more minute examination, it had all the usual characters of the adenoid growth. About the centre of the section, two small portions had a dark bloody colour, and felt softer than the rest of the growth ; but, on careful examination, they were found to be essentially of the same structure as the rest of the tumour. Commentanj.—In my memoir of Mrs. Jepson's case, I adverted to the want of success whicli has hitherto attended operations for the removal of such deep-seated cervical tumours, as I could find no record at that time of any case in which a large tumour situated under the sterno-mastoid had been completely removed, with ultimate success; none, indeed, where complete removal had been effected. As it seemed to me that this want of success had led some surgeons to express strong opinions against operations for the removal of deep-seated cervical growths, I stated my opinion that the certainty of complete and safe removal of such tumours depended on the selection of proper cases for operation, by careful attention to the history of the case, and to the diagnosis of the character of the growth; for if the tumour was of slow growth and simple character, we could calculate on its comparative definition and circum-CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1077 scription. I mentioned tliat these were the conditions which decided me in operating in Mrs. Jepson's case, although other surgeons had declined. Contrasting the history and vital manifestations of the tumour in her case with those of the cases operated on by John Bell, Warren, and Liston, in which complete removal had been found impossible, and in which the groAvth had returned, I pointed oiit that the histories of the latter cases showed evidences of malignant character, which, in my opinion, rendered operation improper in the present state of our knowledge; but that, so far from deterring from operative interference in favourable cases, they rather gave encourage- ment, by showing how much could be done even under unfavour- able conditions. Unfortunately, the proportion of malignant cervical growths is much greater than of those suitable for interference. Out of a very large number of such tumours which I have seen, especially since the successfiil operation on Mrs. Jepson—with the single exception of the present case—I have met with none in which operation would have been warrantable (I do not include ordinary parotid tumour), as they were all marked by the characteristics of malignancy. When the tumour has been of rapid growth from the first, is of irregular consistence, and presents the general features of malig- nant disease, I believe that the propriety of operative interference is very doubtful, as the chances of complete removal and ultimate successful issue are very small. Even though there be con- siderable mobility and apparent definition, such growths very generally arise from or involve at an early period the transverse processes of the vertebrae, whilst their superficial margins feel loose and defined. Mobility of the tumour, though an important consideration in deciding on the question of operation, is only of real value when taken in conjunction with the nature of the growth. A malignant tumour may not only adhere to, but involve, the great vessels and nerves, and yet be very movable, for these structures, being loosely connected in front of the vertebrae, move readily along with the morbid mass. In my1078 REGIONAL SURGERY. remarks on Mrs. Jepson's case, I entered so fully on the special circumstances to be considered in deciding on the propriety of operating, that I would merely refer to it for information on these points, and limit my further observations on the present case to peculiarities in regard to its anatomical relations. In the lad Manson, though the tumour was a very large one, it was entirely confined to the region of the neck, and hence did not give rise to the same amount of deformity as in Mrs. Jepson, in whom the growth occupied the parotid as well as the cervical region. In Manson, however, the tumour passed lower down into the subclavian and sternal regions, and, from being placed on the left side, lay in a position to press upon the thoracic duct and left recurrent nerve ; whilst the textures covering it in the sternal fossa rendered it impossible to ascertain positively its definition or attachments there. The perfect nutrition of the patient, however, showed that, though in close relation with the thoracic duct, it could not have involved that structure ; and though the spasmodic difficulty of breathing at night, which he occasionally felt, might be due to pressure on the left recurrent laryngeal, the symptom was only of recent occurrence and not constant, and hence was more likely to arise from pressure owing to the proximity of the tumour, than from the nerve being involved in or adherent to it. These considerations, taken in connection with the simple nature of the growth, and its origin high up in the neck, seemed to warrant the conclusion that its substernal portion was free, and merely bound down by the fascia and muscles. During the operation some peculiarities showed themselves, which I think worthy of notice as exemplifying the difficulties we must be prepared for, and the care required in such opera- tions, or rather dissections, of the neck. When the anterior margins of the tumour had been freed, and its deep surface dis- sected and raised off from the position of the carotid sheath, the whole length of the cervical portion of the carotid artery and vagus nerve was seen bare as if dissected, but there was no appearance of the internal jugular vein. This made me proceedCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1079 very cautiously, for two reasons : first, the great vein might b.e partly involved or displaced by the tumour, and thus liable to be wounded at some unexpected part; and secondly, by the absence of the vein the sympathetic nerve and thoracic duct were left uncovered, and these important stnictures, undistin- guishable amongst the tissues discoloured by blood, were exposed to great risk of injury. The phrenic nerve, from its white colour and comparatively superficial position, was easily enough seen and guarded. Indeed, the absence of the vein from its natural posi- tion, and the uncertainty as to whether it might be displaced, I consider the most embarrassing condition in the operation. In describing the operation, I have stated that on dissecting the flaps from the surface of the iipper part of the tumour I tied a large vein, which I was inclined to think was the displaced internal jugular vein ; and my reason for supposing this, was, that the vessel could be traced from the angle of the jaw passing downwards over and partly in a groove on the surface of the tumour in relation with the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid, and very much in the line of the jugular ; but as it was obliter- ated about the middle of the neck its continuity could not be traced lower down. The pervious portion was about the bulk of the forefinger, and full of blood for about two inches, when it became a flattened cord. I should presume, from the relations of the tumour, that it had probably originated at an earlier age even than that stated, viz. the third year, -when it was first noticed by the patient's friends, and that it had developed itself from above downwards, and thus insinuated itself between the parts which usually occupy the common sheath, raising the vein on its surface and pressing the artery and vagus inwards, before its bulk overlapped them. I draw attention to this point, because it is well to be prepared for similar difficulties ; and I believe that the history of the case may guide us, as these ana- tomical relations seem to me to depend specially on the original position and development of the growth in early life, before the cellular texture of the common sheath has become condensed, and are not likely to be met with in cases where the tumour1080 REGIONAL SURGERY. commences at a later period of life; for, as a rale, a simple tumour, whilst it may adhere to, or compress, or push aside structures, has no tendency to destroy texture or separate parts contained in a common fibro-cellular sheath. In conclusion, I may state that neither in Mansou nor Mrs. Jepson was the division of the sterno-mastoid attended by any malposition, or even by any interference with the movements of the head ; nor was the section of the cervical portion of the spinal accessory nerve followed by any appreciable bad effect. Both these patients remain perfectly free from any return of the tumour. Thyroid Tumours. Hydrocele of the Thyroid Gland. Laryngo-Tracheotomy, F. 0.—This patient first came under Mr. Spence's care in January last, on account of a tumour of tlie thyroid gland, which sj)eedily yielded to blistering and the internal use of iodide of potassium. On July the 3d, lie again presented himself, and was then suffering from considerable em- barrassment of respiration, with occasional paroxysms of dyspnoea. Speaking, even for a short time, brought on violent fits of coughing, unac- companied by expectoration. On examination, a tumour was found occupying tlie position of the isthmus and left lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, pushing the trachea backwards and to the right side, and extending downwards apparently behind the sternum and left clavicle, as was indi- cated b}' dulness on percussion and absence of respiratory murmur over the upper sternal and inner part of the clavicular and subclavicular regions. The cliest was otlierwise normal ; the supei'ficial veins of the neck were much enlarged ; the left pupil was distinctly contracted. The treatment again pursued was blistering and the administration of tlie iodide of potassium, but on this occasion without any good effect, as the fits of dyspncEa became more frequent and more severe. On tlie morning of the 11th, a violent paroxysm suddenly coming on, I was hastily sum- moned, and, finding the patient's countenance turgid and livid, his respira- tion stopped, and his pulse scarcely perceptible, and believing that the immediate cause of his impending death was spasm of the glottis, at once determined to perform laryngo-tracheotomy. From the position of the larynx and trachea, the necessary incision, having to be made considerably to the right of the mesial line, laid bare the anterior margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle, and involved several enlarged veins. After the operation was finished, it was found necessary to inflate the lungs through tlie- tube and keep up artificial respiration. Tlie patient now rallied in some degree, but it was evident tliere was some obstruction below the opening made into the trachea. Accordingly the tube was withdrawn and the trachea1081 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. explored by the finger, when a convexity of the left side was discovered, so considerable as materially to diminish its calibre. A piece of gum-elastic tubing of large bore was now passed down beyond the obstruction, and its introduction was followed by instant relief to the patient. Next daj^, Mr. Spence examined the tumour by passing his finger through the wound, and, detecting fluctuation, made an opening at that point, when a large quantity of clear fluid was evacuated. He next made a counter-opening by cutting down on the point of his finger, passed downwards and to the right side, through the opening made from the tracheotomy wound. The finger was now passed through tlie second opening downwards, behind the left sterno-clavicular articulation, but failed to reach the bottom of the cyst. After the evacuation of the fluid, the patient could breathe quite freely through an ordinary tracheotomy tube, which had been substituted for the gum-elastic one. On the following day, symptoms of acute pyaemia set in, and the patient died on the evening of the 15th. On post- mortem examination, numerous metastatic abscesses were found in the lungs and liver. E. F., set. 27.—Hematocele of the Thyroid Gland, of five years' standing. This tumour, which was tense and elastic as if containing fluid, although of very considerable size, caused no inconvenience to the patient, who applied for surgical interference merely to be rid of the deformity. On puncture by a trocar and canula, a quantity of bloody serum was eva- cuated ; but as little subsidence of the swelling followed, a free incision was made into the cyst, which was found filled with clots of blood. These were turned out by the finger, and the cavity stuff'ed with lint. Suppuration and granulation of the cavity followed, and some thickening which remained yielded to blistering and painting with iodine. A. J., ffit. 11 years, came to the hospital on the 10th of June, with a tense elastic tumour occupying the supra-sternal hollow at the root of the neck, and extending upwards to the isthmus of the thyroid gland. This, first noticed about two months befjre, when it was of small size and caused little uneasiness, had increased considerably of late, and was now materially interfering with respiration, from its pressure on tlie tracliea. Tlie voice was considerably affected, the respiration was stridu- lous, and at intervals there occurred paroxysms of dyspnoea, threatening suffocation. After two days' observation, as the patient's symptoms became more severe, Mr. Spence made a longitudinal incision through tlie integuments in the middle line of the neck, and carefully dissected down to the tumour, which proved to be an abscess in the midst of the thyroid gland tissue, extending downwards and backwards behind the manubrium. Evacuation of the matter gave immediate relief to the patient, who left the hospital well a few days after. Tracheotomy for Eemoval of Foreign Bodies. Case I.—On the morning of Thursday the 23d of Sejjtember 1841, I was sent for in great haste to see a child, who, according to the statement of the messenger, " was suffocating from something sticking in the throat."REGIONAL SURGERY. 1082 On reaching the house, which was situated in the immediate vicinity, I. found the patient, a boy about the age of four years at most, asphyxiating ; his face was much swollen and livid, the eyes were protruding, and the veins of the neck turgid, with the nostrils dilated. The respirations were prolonged, and accompanied with a peculiar stridulous noise. The mother of the child told me, that, on the previous evening, having to go from home, she left the child in care of another woman, and that she had, before going away, given the child some small plums, while eating which he was observed to cough violently, and roll himself on the ground ; and on recovering from this state, he mentioned that he had swallowed one of the plum-stones ; but as no further symptoms occurred at that time, no notice was taken of it. He continued quite well, and slept as usual during the night, and took his breakfast the following morning ; but shortly before I saw him, and whilst playing about the room with the other children, he, on a sudden, cried out that he felt the stone in his throat, and almost instantly fell down in the state of suffocation which I have already described. Although I had no doubt whatever as to the foreign body being in the windpipe, yet, to make assurance doubly sure, I passed a probang down the oesophagus. This met with no obstacle in its passage, and, as I expected, afforded no relief. As the symptoms, therefore, were most urgent, the extremities becoming cold, and the pulse intermitting, I stated to Mr. Lawrie, surgeon, who was present, that I considered the operation of tra- cheotomy as the only chance of saving the child. Mr. Lawrie concurring in this opinion, I performed the operation, which was accomplished with- out greater difficulty or delay than what might be expected from the want of assistants and the struggling of the child. On the trachea being opened, a quantity of frothy mucus was forcibly ejected, but no foreign body. Through the opening, however, the child breathed freely, and the face soon resumed its natural appearance. After waiting a few moments, I passed a slightly bent probe upwards into the larynx, and downwards into the bronchi, but could not detect any foreign body. I therefore introduced a small trachea tube, and left the child in charge of my friend. Dr. Smith, until I could procure instruments for extraction. At 11 a.m. I again saw the child, along with Professor Syme, who kindly attended at my request, The child then breathed easily through the tube ; but when it was removed, and the opening closed, there was great difficulty in respiration. The edges of the opening being held aside by small hooks, I again carefully examined both the larynx and bronchi with a probe, but most particularly the larynx, for all the symptoms tended to impress us with the belief that the foreign body was there. Mr. Syme also examined the parts, but could not detect it. It was agreed in consultation that it was best to enlarge the opening. I therefore divided the cricoid cartilage so as to allow a more ready examination of the larynx, and a more easy escape of the foreign body ; but we were still unsuccessful. Under these circumstances, we deemed it best to replace the tube until the following day. Nothing particular occurred during the remainder of the day ; the child was care- fully attended to, he continued to breathe freely through the tube, and both sides of the chest seemed to expand equally, and at the same moment. He was ordered a little milk with warm water and sugar, for food, which he partook of readily, and slept at intervals. On Friday, Professor SymeCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1083 again saw liim with me ; tlie tiibe was withdrawn, hut the difficult respi- ration again returned when the oi^ening was closed ; whilst, on the con- trary, the breathing was free, and perfectly easy when it was left open. We again carefully examined the larynx and bronchi, but in vain. We could not detect any foreign body ; and we concluded that it had jjrobably been pushed up by the probe, passed into the pharynx, and swallowed, and that the difficulty in breathing might be owing to swelling of the mucous mem- brane lining the larynx. The tube was once more replaced, and the same treatment adopted as before ; a gentle laxative was prescribed, and I desired the stools to be carefully examined. I again saw him at 3 p.m., when I found his breathing was hurried, together with a cousiderable degree of general fever ; the face was flushed, and the pi;lse rather quick and hard ; I therefore ordered some leeches to be applied over the region of the chest, the laxative medicine to be repeated, and an injectipn to be given in case it did not soon operate. I again saw him at 8 P.ii.; he now seemed considerably easier, there ■was less fever and restlessness, and the breathing was less hurried ; the bowels had been freely opened, and the leeches had bled well. At 10 o'clock I was informed he was rather worse ; and, on visiting .hini, I found him very restless, his breathing had become huiTied, and he was thirsty and hot. Having cleaned the tube, it relieved his breathing ; and I left him, and sent a person to remain with him during the night, with strict instructions to call me if he became worse. At half-past 11 o'clock I was again sent for, as the child had become suddenly much worse. I now found him fast sinking. I introduced a clean tube, and ordered him some wine and water, under which he rallied in a measure ; but it was only for a short period, as about midnight he expired. Having obtained permission from the friends to examine the body, I did so on the morning of the 26th September, and the following were the appearances found on dissection :— Post-mortem Examination of the Body.—I carefully examined the larynx and trachea, but could find no foreign body. There was a slight degree of vascularity of the mucous membrane of the larynx, together with some thick mucus in its cavity, but there was very little swelling of the parts. I laid open the right bronchial tube, which presented nearly its natural appearance, with but slight degree of vascularity of its mucous coating, but there was no foreign body in it. The right lung, with the exception of a little congestion at its posterior part, was of a healthy appearance, and cre- pitated naturally on being pressed between the fingers. The left bronchus was next examined ; and as I saw no foreign body, I was aboiit to give up all further investigation of the thoracic viscera, concluding that it had been pushed upwards during our examination of the larynx, as I previously con- jectured, and that it passed into the stomach, when my attention was arrested by the peculiarly dark appearance of the lower portion of the upper lobe of the left lung ; and on cutting into this portion, I found the foreign body, a small damson-stone, impacted into one of the large sub- divisions of the left bronchus, the larger end of the stone projecting up- wards. No other parts were therefore examined. 4 BREGIONAL SURGERY. 1084 Remarhs.—-In reflecting on the case wliicli I have just detailed, some phenomena of a very unusual kind present them- selves. In the first place, when we regard the history of the case given by the child's mother, the sudden manner of the attack, together with the urgent symptoms of asphyxia when first seen, and the almost immediate relief afforded by opening tlie trachea, although no foreign body was expelled ; and if we add to this, that while the child breathed freely through the tube, both sides of the chest seemed to expand equally, and at the same moment; but that, on the other hand, whenever the tube was removed, and the opening in the trachea closed, difficult respiration ensued—I think few medical men would hesitate to pronounce as their opinion, that the foreign body was entangled in the larynx ; and yet the case just narrated affords an example of all these symptoms being present, whilst the foreign body was impacted in one of the ramifications of the bronchus. It may indeed be urged, and I confess I cannot quite divest myself of the idea, thafe the foreign body was in the larynx when the child was first seen, and liad thus given rise to tlie very urgent symp- toms which led me to operate ; and that, owing to the struggles of the cliild during the operation, it had been dislodged from the larynx, and j)assed into the bronchus. Still, allowing this sup- position to be true, it leaves unexplained the cause of difficult respiration which constantly ensued on withdrawing the tube, and closing the opening in the trachea. This is perhaps the most pecu.liar feature of the case ; and I can only attribute it to the irritation caused by tlie presence of the foreign body being conveyed along the nerves distributed on the mucous lining of the bronchus and trachea, towards the larynx, and so exciting spasmodic action of the muscles which close the glottis. Last, but not least in point of practical interest, is the imusual situation of the foreign body in this case ; for, so far as I am aware, there is no case recorded in which a large-sized foreign body has found its way into the left bronchus. Indeed, most writers on the subject speak of the foreign body passing down into the right bronclms, as if it were a constant rule.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1085 As regards the extraction of a foreign body, if discovered' under similar circumstances, I should think it, to say the least, exceedingly difficult; for in a child at that age, the trachea and bronchi are so small, as to afford but little room for the use of forceps or other extracting instruments. I believe that the only chance in this case of extracting the foreign body would have been (had its situation been discovered) to have loosened the foreign body from its position in the orifice of the bronchial ramification, by means of the flat end of a long probe, so as to allow the air to pass into the portion of lung beyond it, when it w-ould probably have been expelled during expiration. For, of course, whilst it remained impacted in the bronchial ramification, it must have caused complete occlusion of that portion of lung to which that division of the left bronchus was distributed. Case II.—A fine little girl, four years of age, the daughter of a medical man in the country, was eating damson-jam, when one of the stones, which she had been sucking, suddenly slipped into the larynx. A violent par- oxysm of cough and dyspnoea, tlireatening suffocation, immediately ensued ; but the foreign body passing downwards, temporary relief was obtained. As similar paroxysms recurred, the father telegraphed to town for Professor Goodsir and myself to come out immediately. When we arrived, we found that she had had some severe paroxysms, and that the means used by her father, and Dr. Baird of Linlithgow, who had also seen her, had failed to cause ejection of the foreign body. Under these circumstances, and as the movement of the body in the trachea during respiration could be distinctly heard, we at once proposed tracheotomy, which indeed was the object of our being sent for, and there- fore there was no delay. The use of chloroform was tried at the request of the friends ; but it excited such a tendency to suffocation that it was given up, and I pro- ceeded to operate at once. Owing to the bulk of the thymus gland, the numerous dilated veins, and the presence of the middle thyroid artery, the operation required some care, but the parts were so distinctly seen that it was not prolonged. I made a long incision in the trachea, and inserted the points of my dissecting forceps at the upper part, expanding their blades to keep the orifice patent ; on doing this, and raising the head, a quantity of mucus was ejected ; then the plum-stone was seen to be forced towards the open- ing. But, unfortunately, at this moment inspiration took place, and the rush of entering air carried it back. We attempted to cause its expulsion by inducing coughing, and by shaking, and altering the position of the little patient, but in vain. On examining the chest, it at once became evident that the stone had become108G REGIONAL SURGERY. impacted ; for while the right side expanded on inspiration, the left was flattened and immovable, the lower ribs being drawn forcibly inwards, and the respiratory murmur entirely absent. By means of flattened probes passed along the left bronchus, we attempted to reach the stone for the purpose of dislodging it ; and we tried to procure its expulsion by moving the thoracic parietes, and by every means we could think of, but without success. In consultation it was determined to take the child to town with us next morning, and try if any plan could be devised to loosen it by instru- ments or by suction. Having brought the patient to Edinburgh, a great variety of means were tried, but with no better result ; and, after a few days' illness, the child died. On examination after death, the damson-stone was found impacted in the left bronchus, fairly filling it up like a cork, and preventing all entrance of air into the left lung, which was flaccid and collapsed ; the thoracic parietes of the left side, as seen during life, were contracted and flattened. The child, at the time of the accident, was just convalescing from a severe attack of pneumonia of the right lung, the lower part of which had suflfered so as to be hepatised, while the ujiper part was engorged with bloody serum, and the bronchi loaded with mucus ; so that the child died more rapidly than would have been the case had the right lung been healthy. Remarks.—The foregoing case presents several points of inte- rest. 1st, The direction in which the foreign body was carried ; 2cl, Its impaction at the termination of the left bronchus, and the complete occlusion of the tube and collapse of the lung thereby occasioned; and Zcl, The question as to what means can be suggested for the treatment of similar cases. In regard to the first of these points, it is very generally stated that foreign bodies entering the air-passages pass into the right bronchus ; this and the preceding case, however, show that there is nothing to prevent a foreign body passing down the left bronchus. As to the second, in the case just narrated the plum-stone was much larger than in the former case, and was so placed as completely to prevent any air from entering the left lung, and hence to preclude any chance of its being forced out by an effort at expiration ; the marked flattening aud other symptoms leaving no doubt as to its position, or as to the collapse of the corre- spanding lung.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1037 Third, as to the treatment. I have always regretted that chloroform should have been given in this case, for I think that the condition it induced rendered the expulsive efibrts less for- cible than they usually are in such cases. The appearance of the foreign body was so momentary that there was no time to seize it, even if we had not expected that it would be forcibly expelled. The manner in which it was carried back into the bronchus, and the evidently complete occlusion of air from the left lung, rendered all chance of its expulsion hopeless ; and therefore no time was lost in trying, by the means already men- tioned, to loosen it from its position, so much at least as to admit air along its side into the lung beyond, and so favour its expulsion. This was principally attempted by the use of flat- tened probes ; but we felt, at the same time, the risk of impact- ing the stone more firmly, and therefore great care was taken to keep the flattened probe close to the sides of the tube in passing it. As I have said, neither this nor inverting and shaking the patient, prodiiced any effect. In the subsequent attemj)ts, the application of some suction power, applied through a tube passed down the bronchus, was suggested; but, in consultation, it was agreed that the irritation to the passages by these manipulations would be productive of more harm and risk than its chance of success could compensate for, and that by leaving the child quiet for a time, the body might become loosened by the changes induced by its own presence. Unfortunately, however, the state of the right lung precluded the chance of the success of this plan, which, under ordinary circumstances, I believe, would be the wisest to adopt. As to other methods, in my remarks on Case I., I have stated my opinion that, even if we were sure of the position of the foreign body, the small size of the passages renders the introduc- tion of extracting instruments impossible, and that, unaided by the natural expulsive efforts, artificial means would be very inefficient ; and I regret that my experience in this second case does not enable me to alter my opinion.1088 REGIONAL SURGERY. Case III.—Madeleine H. was admitted into the Royal Infirmary on the 29th of June 1857. About three hours hefore admission, while she was playing with a plum-stone and a cherry-stone in her mouth, they both suddenly slipped down her throat ; this was followed by a convulsive fit of coughing, and she was found by her mother lying on tlie ground in a paroxysm of dyspnoea ; the plum-stone was lying beside her, but the cherry-stone could not be found. I saw her at her house ; but, as the urgent symptoms had disappeared, and there seemed some doubt as to the history of the case, I sent her to the Infirmary to be carefully watched. On admission she had an occasional slight laryngeal cough, pain on pressure over the larynx, and an apparently altered tone of voice, but no difficulty or noise in breathing, atid no sign of tlae presence of a foreign body could be detected by the stethoscope. During tire night she was constantly watched, in case of asphyxia occurring suddenly. She slept quietly during most of the night, but towards morning had several very alarming attacks of dyspnoea, so much so, that tracheotomy was twice about to be performed. Next day she was much in the same condition ; and, after consulta- tion, tracheotomy was decided upon, and forthwitlr performed. After the first incision a severe fit of coughing came on, and the dyspnoea was so great that the operation was rapidly concluded on account of threatened asphyxia. As soon as the windpipe was opened, and the edges of the inci- sion separated, the foreign body was forcibly ejected by a violent expira- tion, and the breathing immediately became perfectly calm. A tube was introduced, but removed after three hours, the breathing being c[uite easy and chiefly by the natural air-passages after its removal. On the following day the edges of the wound were approximated by a strip of plaster ; the breathing was calm, and almost entirely through the larynx. The wound gradually closed, the patient's convalescence was uninter- rupted, and she was dismissed cured a weeli after admission. Remarks.—Tliis case is instructive as exemplifying the uncertainty which sometimes exists as to the presence of the foreign body. The accident frequently occurs when the child is playing; the child is suddenly attacked by a convulsive cough and threatened suffocation. On recovery from this paroxysm it says it has swallowed a plum or cherry stone ; but, as the symptoms pass off, and the breathing and speech become natural, the friends think that the foreign body has either been swallowed or coughed up, and that the danger is past; and medical aid is deemed imnecessary till another paroxysm of threatened asphyxia suddenly occurs. Such was the history in the case last narrated ;CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1089 but this case was even more complicated, because tlie convulsive cough had expelled the plum-stone, and there was therefore a probability of the smaller body having also been expelled. When I saw the patient, her breathing was easy, both sides of the chest expanded naturally, her voice was quite natural, and she spoke freely. The only positive symptom was a somewhat croupy sound when she coughed ; but her mother stated that any cold or irritation always produced that symptom in her ever since she had had hooping-cough, two years before. On examination with the stethoscope over the trachea and chest, neither my friend Dr. Dunsmure nor myself could detect any sound indicative of a foreign body moving in the air-passages. I thought, indeed, that there was a peculiar sound a little below the right sterno-clavicular articulation ; but nothing decided, or at all like what I have heard in other cases of foreign bodies in the trachea. But, in opposition to the view that the stone had been expelled, the girl stated that she felt the cherry-stone go down when the plum-stone was expelled, and that she still felt it at times in her throat (pointing to the trachea). The cherry-stone could not be found anywhere near where she had been playing ; and Mr. Adams, a yoiing medical man, who first saw her, dis- tinctly stated that the symptoms were those of a foreign body having passed into the trachea. Under these circumstances, having everything prepared for tracheotomy, we determined to ascertain the presence of the foreign body by inverting the patient and shaking her, so as to throw the stone (if in the air-passages at all) towards the larynx, and render the vsymptoms of its presence unequivocal. This was a somewhat hazardous experiment, but safer than leaving the question in doubt. As even this manoeuvre produced no cough or paroxysm, our doubts as to the presence of the stone in the trachea or bronchi became greater. I therefore recommended that she should be taken to my wards in the Infirmary, where she would be care- fully watched, and where surgical aid could be had at once, if necessary.1090 REGIONAL SURGER\ I saw her twice during tlie evening while she was asleep, and her breathing was then quite calm and natural. Tlie occurrence of the paroxysms of suffocative cough during the night left little doubt as to the propriety of tracheotomy, and the operation was at once decided upon in the consultation, although at that time she was again quite free from any lu'geut symptom. In cases like this, where there is considerable doubt as to the presence of the foreiga body, it may be deemed advisable to wait, if the patient be placed in such circumstances that tracheotomy could be immediately performed should symptoms of suffocation supervene ; but I confess that my experience in this case would lead me, notwithstanding the negative evidence afforded by auscultation, to urge the performance of the operation, so as to place the patient beyond the risk of a sudden fatal paroxysm, such as happened in the case alluded to in the Society by Dr. W. T. Gairdner, where a child, in very similar circumstances, died in the hospital before the house-surgeon could reach the ward. Doubtless there are cases on record where foreign bodies have passed into the bronchi, and have after a time been ejected by coughing ; and sometimes this has occurred even after tracheo- tomy had been performed without success. But such rare exceptional cases can never form a rule for practice ; and, to say nothing of the immediate risk of asphyxia, the continued irrita- tion induced by the presence of even a small foreign body is almost certain to induce disease in the lungs, and ultimately to destroy life. In a fewiale, said to have died from phthisis, with constant cough, I found thickening of the tracheal mucous mem- brane, and, on opening the larynx, discovered in one of the ventricles the pip of an orange, partly confined in its position by bands of lymph. The history of the case, so far as it could be traced, left but little doubt that the irritation of the foreign body had been the origin of the pulmonary disease. But the propriety of operating early in such cases is now so generally admitted, that I need not insist on it. In performing the operation in such cases, it is of greatCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. m\ importance to hold the incision in the trachea widely expanded, as the elasticity of the rings tends to close it, and so to impede the expulsion of the foreign body. In former cases, I have inserted the points of my dissecting forceps, and then expanded the blades ; but in this case I adopted the simpler plan of inserting the thin ivory handle of the scalpel I was nsing, and then turning it flat at the upper part of the incision ; it thus widely expanded the tracheal opening, occupied the least pos- sible space, and effectually prevented any risk of a foreign body passing from the larynx into the bronchi; whilst it also gave distinct evidence that the cherry-stone must have been in the trachea, and not in the larynx, as the peculiar cough had led us to suspect. Portion of Tracheotomy Tube in Bronchus—Extraction. " G. F., aged 33, came to tlie hospital on June 4th, 1863, stating that, about half-an-hour before, the shiekl of a tracheotomy tube, which he had worn for the last twelve months, had suddenly become detached, and that the cylindrical portion had slipped down into his windpipe. He pointed to a spot corresponding to the bifurcation of the trachea, and said he felt the tube there. He spoke and breathed without difEculty ; and the only signs of irritation were severe fits of conghing recurring at frequent inter- vals. Mr. Spence, having introduced a gun-shot probe into the trachea, guided it into the right bronchus, but failed to discover any foreign body. Tlie left bronchus was next explored, and then the probe was distinctly felt and heard striking the metallic tube. Chloroform was now adminis- tered, and the opening into tlie trachea having been enlarged, a forceps, with blades bent almost at a right angle, was guided downwards into the bronchus, and passed within the tube with the blades closed. The blades of the forceps were i\q-sX forcibly cj~]}andi'd, and the tube thus caught was readily extracted, with immediate relief to the patient, who left the hospital quite well four days after. liemarks.—"All that need be remarked concerning the case of Gr. r. is, that the tube was readily extracted, owing to the happy way in which it was caught, and that in this, as in the majority of such cases occurring in the practice of Mr. Spence, the foreign body was found impacted in the left hronclms, and not in the right, in which, according to the statenjents in books, foreign bodies more frequently lodge." In June 1862 1 received from a former pupil, the late Dr.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1092 Temple, a preparation of the larynx and trachea of a boy, who had died suffocated. A quantity of half-masticated food is im- pacted in the larynx and upper part of the trachea. No portion of the mass is above the level of the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, and therefore, as the accompanying history of the case shows, could not have been felt from the mouth.* The prepara- tion is in my private museum. The patient was a boy about 12 years of age. When first seen he seemed to be dying asphyxiated, and supposing it might be from spasm of the glottis, I had the patient immediately placed in a warm bath which was standing ready, and a jug of cold water poured upon his head. The shock partly restored consciousness, and on being asked if he were suffering jjain, ref)lied "Here " (in a very husky voice), pointing to his throat, then died in- stantly. The finger had been passed down the throat, but nothing could be found obstn;cting the gullet. The parents stated that he had had somewhat similar attacks before, and always spoke in a husky tone of voice. Whilst sitting at dinner, he was seized with what they considered one of the attacks to which he had been subject. Only a few seconds could have elapsed be- tween his being seized and being seen, and nothing had been done to the boy before my arrival. On dissection, the carotid artery of the right side was found crossing the trachea immediately at the situation where the incision would have been made in performing tracheotomy, and could scarcely have escaped being woimded or cut across, whilst the trachea itself was surrounded by an immense aggregation of enlarged glands, thus perhaps accounting for the husky speech by the pressure they had exerted on the recurrent laryngeal nerves. Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup. Case I.—John Blakeley, aged 4j years, was seized with hoarseness and pain in the throat on the 5th of April 1856. As he did not seem very serioiisly ill, he was allowed to play out of doors as usual ; but on the 7th the symptoms increased so much in severity, and were so evidently those of croup, that his mother applied for medical aid at the dispensary. He was accordingly seen, on the evening of the 7th, by Dr. Glen, then one of my dispensary pupils, and was ordered a warm bath and some medicine. Next morning, when Dr. Glen saw him, he desired the mother to ask me to visit the child. On going to the house I found the patient in great agony from dyspnoea. As there was no great amount of bronchitis present, and evidently no time to be lost, I caused the child to be brought to the hospital, which was in the immediate neighbourhood, and at once performed tracheotomy. Some mucus and shreds of lymph were expelled on introducing the tube ; the breathing then became easy, the lividity of the face passed away, and the little patient seemed quite relieved. * This is the exceptional case referred to at p. 1015.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1093 He continued to progress favourably, and on the evening of the third day the tube was removed, but had soon to be replaced on account. of threatened asphyxia. It was finally removed on the sixth day, after which the wound gradually healed, and the child was dismissed cured on the 28th of May. He has continued to enjoy excellent health ever since, with the exception of showing a susceptibility to hoarseness during damp weather. For tlie notes of the following case I am indebted to my friend Dr. Wilson, and I give tlie report in his own words :—■ Case II.—" 0. W., aged 2>\, was first seen by me on the 19th of September, on the second or third day of an attack of scarlatina. From my first seeing him the case presented a very bad aspect ; the throat was considerably affected, and then a troublesome diarrhoea set in, accompanied by typhoid symptoms, for which he had very large quantities of wine, gradually increasing to 10 or 12 ounces a-day, chlorate of potash, astrin- gents, etc., which were evidently beneficial; and I was in hopes he was going to struggle through, when, at the end of the third week of the dis- ease, he was seized with symptoms of laryngitis. " These increased, and the case seemed hopeless if left to itseK ; but the disease being apparently confined to the upper part of the larynx, the propriety of operative interference suggested itself to me, and I determined to ask you to see him. This you most kindly did, accompanied by Dr Watson, on the 10th of October. " The child was much emaciated, and the pulse feeble ; still, as the disease appeared to be confined to the upper part of the larynx, you resolved to give him the chance, though small, of the operation. Imme- diately after the operation the breathing became quite easy, and continued so till death, except on two occasions, when attempts were made to dis- pense with the tube, and the nurse was unable to introduce it on a par- oxysm of dyspnoea ensuing, although the patient had been breathing easily during the time your assistant remained. He continued to take both wine and beef-tea in large quantities, and by injection ; but the stomach began to fail, the pulse became feeble, emaciation progressed, and he died on October 15th, five daj^s after the operation. " On reviewing the operation at this distance of time, I have no hesi- tation in saying that the operation, though unsuccessful, was most benefi- cial, even allowing that it did not prolong life, which, however, I am inclined to think it did ; still the relief afi'orded was so great, that I would be inclined (however reluctant we must be to advise operations not likely to be successful), were a precisely similar case occurring to me, to recom- mend the performance of tracheotomy." Case III.—William Lindsay, aged four years, was seized with hoarse cough, sore throat, and occasional difiiculty of breathing, on the 15 th of October 1856. No treatment was resorted to till the 16th, when the symptoms became more severe, and Dr. Menzies was called to see him. He was then labouring under symptoms of croup ; the stridulous breathing and paroxysms of dyspnoea occurring, however, at lengthened intervals. His1094 REGIONAL SURGERY. pulse was very rapid and small. Leeches were applied over the neeli, fol- lowed by a blister, and antimonial solution was ordered to be given at stated intervals. On Sunday the 17tli Dr. M. found the little patient so much worse that he requested me to see him, in case I might think it advisable to per- form tracheotomy. I found him suffering from very urgent dyspncea, with prolonged stridulous inspiration and very short expiration. The expansion of the thorax was deficient, the ribs being drawn inwards during respiration. The pulse was small, and the face livid. There was some slight bronchitis, but not to such an extent as to forbid the operation, which was accord- ingly performed, and a double tube introduced. A quantity of mucus was expelled on oj)ening the trachea, and then the breathing became easy. A piece of muslin was placed over the orifice of the tube, and the attendants were shown how to clear it from time to time. In the afternoon, when I saw him, I found him much relieved. The colour of the face was natural; the pulse, though still quick, was softer, fuller, and less rapid than in the morning ; the lireathing was quite easy. I removed the inner tube, cleaned it, oiled it slightly, showed the attendant how to remove and clean it, and made her take it out and re- place it, to make sure that she understood me. Next morning I found him still improving, and breathing so easily, that, after cleaning the tube, I did not think it necessary to visit him again that day. On Tuesday the 19th, when I called on Dr. Menzies to accompany me to see the patient, I learned, to my great surprise, that he had died at 3 A.M. Dr. M. informed me that he had seen him after my visit, and found him still doing well, and breathing quite easily. About 1 p.m., however, owing to some mucus obstructing the tube, a fit of dys2Jnoea came on. The nurse, instead of withdrawing the inner tube, although she had been taught how to do it, became alarmed, and it was only when the child was nearly suffocated that his father, in desperation, took it out. This at once relieved the breathing ; but the effects of long-obstructed respiration soon showed themselves in pain in the head, dilated pupils, and other symj'toms of cerebral effusion. The poor child soon became comatose, and died thirty- nine hours after the operation. Case IV.—George Stark, aged 5 years, admitted to the Infirmary on the 19th of March 1857. The patient has been subject to cough for the last two years, and is liable to occasional acute aggravations of it. He was seized with one of these attacks about a fortniglit ago, and was considerably worse than usual. His symptoms became gradually more urgent, and he was brought to the hospital on the 18th of March, suffering from a severe attack of true croup. The usual treatment, including repeated counter-irritation, was used in vain, and on the 19th he was so ill that traclieotomy seemed to aflbrd the only chance for life. The breathing was noisy and laborious, tlie I'espiva- tions being 30 per minute ; the expansion of the chest in inspmition was very imjierfect, and there was marked depression of the lower ribs in expiration. The operation was accordingly 2)erformed, in the usual way,CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1095 and a double tube introduced. Great relief to tlie breatliing immediately followed the operation. 20?/j.—Pulse 140 ; skin hot ; but patient breathing much more easily. The tube is carefully kept clear. Since the operation, considerable pain and tenderness have been felt below the left jaw. 22(/.—Pulse 120, and skin cooler. The tenderness below the jaw has disapj)eared. Breathing very easy. The tube was taken out to-day, and did not require to be replaced. Ibth.—Pulse 120, rather small ; ordered 5ij wine. The tube required to be replaced, as the breathing was becoming impeded from the closing of the wound. 26^/i.—Tube finally removed to-day ; doing well. 30i;A.—Pulse 100 ; breathing easy ; general health very much im- proved. April 6th.—Pulse 100, full and soft; general appearance much im- proved ; and the tracheotomy wound is closing rapidly. The raw surface left after the repeated blistering is still sloughy and irritable. lOth.—Going on very well ; wound nearly closed, and blistered sur- face healing. 20^/i.—Continues to improve. 29^/i.—Dismissed cured. Case V.—Margaret Kerr, 2i years of age ; was admitted into the Eoyal Infirmary on the 5th September 1857. The patient was seized with symptoms of croup on the evening of September 2d, but was not alarmingly ill until the afternoon of the 4th, when medical advice was obtained. In spite of the treatment adopted—warm bath, leeching, and blistering— the little patient got rapidly worse, and was brought to the Infirmary by Dr. Gordon in an extremely exhausted and almost moribund condition, at mid-day of the 5th instant. Tracheotomy was performed by Mr. Spence without delay. There was no trouble from haemorrhage ; some shreds of lymph and a small quantity of mucus tinged with blood escaped at the moment of opening the trachea. A double tube was introduced, and secured behind the neck in the usual way. The operation was followed by immediate relief to the breathing ; but the extreme prostration, the lividity of the countenance, and the smallness of the pulse, passed off but slowly. She was immediately put to bed in a warm room, hot bottles i^laced around her, and wine freely given. Under the use of these means, she gradually revived ; the face regained its natural colour, and the pulse became stronger.. For the first few hours after the operation she was constantly watched by a dresser, the tube kept clear with a feather, and the inner tube fre- quently removed to be more efl:'ectually cleaned. The nurse, and the mother of the child were also taught how to do this. Sept. Qth.—The tube has been constantly kept clear, and the breathing has been quiet and easy during the night, except from slight occasional attacks of dyspnoea from the imperfect expectoration through the tube.109G REGIONAL SURGERY. where of course no bronchitis existed prior to the operation, I To-day the pulse is good, sldii moist, and colour natural. The wine, which has been given in small quantities during the night, is to be discontinued. 1th.—Progressing very favourably ; pulse full and rapid ; skin dry. Bowels opened to-day spontaneously. Ordered small doses of ipecacuan wine to be frequently repeated ; also a sinapism between the shoulders. 9>th.—Going on very well. The tube was removed to-day ; but it was necessary soon to replace it, as great dyspnoea followed any obstruction of the tracheal wound. 9^A.—Tube removed to-day, and not replaced. She is breathing almost entirely by the natural air-passages. \1tli.—Progressing very favourably ; wound closing. 1 Qtli.—Report as at last entry. 26?/i.—Just recovering from a smart attack of dysenteric diarrhoea ; wound almost healed ; breathing calm and natural. Remarhs.—All these cases of croup present some symptoms in common—viz. dyspncea, lividity of the countenance, deficient expansion and drawing in of the thoracic parietes during respi- ration, and marked stridulous breathing ; together with par- oxysmal exacerbations of the dyspnoea, gradually increasing in frequency and intensity. In none of them was there any great amount of bronchial affection ; and, with the exception of the boy Blakeley and the girl Kerr, where some small shreds of lymph were expelled after opening the trachea, in none of them did the crupous exudation seem to have taken place to any great extent on the tracheal mucous surface, although the ten- derness over the trachea prior to the operation, and the appear- ance of the lining membrane, as seen on opening the tube, proved that it was to some extent implicated. In these cases, there- fore, the diseased condition may, for all practical purposes, be considered as confined to the larynx at the time when the urgent symptoms arose ; and hence they all were in that respect favour- able for giving the patients the benefit of the operation. In all, however, there was unmistakeable evidence of broncliitis and bronchial effusion occurring subsequently from extension of the inflammation, most probably increased by the operation and necessary presence of the tube. Indeed, from what I have seen of cases of tracheotomy, even for the removal of foreign bodies,1097 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. have little hesitation in saying that bronchitis or broncho- pneumonia almost invariably occurs after it. I draw attention to this because bronchial effusion forms a most serious complica- tion in very young children after tracheotomy, and is indeed one of the great objections to the operation in cases of croup. When present to any extent it has generally been held, in this country at least, to contra-indicate tracheotomy, and, I think, witli good reason. In children under three or four years of age, from the small size of the tube we can introduce, it is apt to become choked with the tenacious mucus, as happened in one of the cases nar- rated ; and as, of course, we cannot make the infant understand how to cause forcible expulsion of the mucus from time to time, by placing the fingers so as to diminisli the orifice of the tube, or of the wound, as we can in older children or adults, such a case is entirely dependent on the care and experience of the attendant or nurse in the after-treatment; and the danger of extensive bronchitis in a child of that age, even apart from other complications, is too well known to need to be insisted on. In no operation, perhaps, do the chances of success depend more on the care and watching of the patient by experienced attendants than in tracheotomy. In looking back on the cases detailed, I cannot but think that, had the patient Lindsay been in the hospital, the residt would probably have been as successful as the cases of Blakeley and Stark ; certainly his state at the time of the operation was fully as favourable, and, when I last saw him alive, he was progressing well. Indeed, the history of his case shows pretty clearly, that the paroxysm of dyspnoea, owing to the obstructed tube, led to fatal cerebral congestion and effu- sion. In all cases, it is obviously desirable to remove the tube early; but the foregoing 'Cases, as well as other cases of tracheo- tomy, have shown me that you can never venture to do so with- out being prepared to replace it at any moment on account of some paroxysm of obstructed respiration; and this implies the necessity of having proper assistance at hand, a condition not easily attained in private practice. The presence of any extensive exudation of false membraneREGIONAL SURGERY. 1098 must always Le a formidable objection to traclieotomy. If par- tially loose, it may be so placed as to act as a valvular obstruc- tion at the lower aperture of the tracheotomy-tube; and if the membrane exist in the complete tubular form, as in that state it is often but loosely attached, it may collapse, on the trachea being opened, and cause immediate suffocation. If I am correct in holding the opinion that bronchitis or crupous exudation, when present to any extent, form objections to tracheotomy, it must be evident that very few of the cases which we see in young children admit of its performance with reasonable chance of success, except at a much earlier period of the disease than is generally thought proper to consider of its propriety in this country. In estimating the success of the operation for croup in France by M. Trousseau and other surgeons, we must keep in mind, not merely the comparatively great success of what has proved by no means so successful an operation in this country : but, taking into account the early stage in which it has often been performed there, we must ask ourselves whether many of the cases might not have recovered under active treatment with- out such a hazardous operation. In very young children, under three years of age, besides other dangers incident to the opera- tion at that period, the bronchitis, which follows the operation, must render the chance of success very small indeed, and-the unfortunate results of such cases often prevent the surgeon being permitted to perform tracheotomy in cases proper for it. As to the question of the propriety of the operation in cases such as that of the child Walker, where the laryngitis sujoervenes during scarlatina, even though the operation, as in his case, may effect all the benefit we could expect in relieving the dyspnoea, the state of the patient in other respects hardly affords much liope of recovery, and we can only regard the operation as a palliative. Viewed merely in that light, however, I think few who have seen a patient struggling in agony for breath would not feel satis- fied even with the temporary relief afforded by the operation in that case ; besides this further consideration, that Avithout it there was no chance for life being prolonged even a few hours.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1099 The case of the child Margaret Kerr, it will be noticed, stands as it were in opposition to some of the opinions I have expressed as to the performance of tracheotomy for croup in very young children, and in the advanced stage of the disease; for this infant, only 1\ years of age, was almost moribund when I operated. But whilst such a case, to a certain extent, may modify the remarks formerly made, and affords encouragement to attempt relief even in very unfavourable circumstances, and with the further warrant of its being the only chance for life, yet we must not be carried away, by the result of an exceptional case, to expect anything like general success in similar cases ; and when we operate under such circumstances, the grounds on which we proceed should be clearly stated to the friends ; and, from what I have said formerly, the surgeon must expect to meet with cases in which the qhild may die during the operation, or imme- diately on the trachea being opened* Cases of Croup—Second Series. 1. The patient, D. \i , 7^ years of age, came home from school on the afternoon of the 21st January 1858, on account of a constant irritating cough, but he complained of no difficulty of breathing, nor any other iirgent symptom, till about 8 p.m. on the 22d, when the dyspnoja rather suddenly supervened, and increased so rapidly, that a medical man was summoned, and found him so ill that he recommended me to be sent for to perform tracheotomy. When I saw him, about half-past 10, he appeared moribund, breathing only at long intervals, the chest not expanding, the pulse scarcely to be felt. Having explained the probability of the child dying during the operation in such circumstances, the parents still expressed theii- desire that the chance might be afforded him. I accordingly performed the operation, and on inserting the tube some mucus was ejected. By keeping up artificial respiration, administering enemata of port wine, and applying sinapisms to the abdomen, the respi- ration and circulation gradually became restored and regular, but the pupils remained dilated, insensible to light, and the child was quite unconscious. In about two hours after the operation, he became sensible, expressed relief, breathed easily, and had some sleep, and in the morning I was equally surprised and gratified to find him in a state which pro- * These remarks on the foregoing cases of tracheotomy in croup were pub- lished in 1858, and I have reprinted them here to show what my original views were, and that my present opinions, and my advocacy of this operation, are the residts of my previous views having been gradually modified by experience. 4 c1100 REGIONAL SURGERY. mised every hope of success. At noon I changed the tube, and replaced it by a double one, so as to ensure it being kept thoroughly clean. He had a dose of grey powder, and small doses of antimonial wine were ordered to be given at intervals. In the afternoon, however, the breathing again became difficult, although the tube was quite clean ; and at 10 at night I found him tossing about, with great dyspnoea and rapid pulse. The tube was again withdrawn and examined, and found free from obstruction, and replaced by another, but without any relief. I bled him to the amount of 3 oz., with temporary relief to the urgent dyspnoea and violent action of the heart, but he soon relapsed into the same state, became insensible, and died about midnight. On examining the body, the larynx and a considerable extent of the trachea were found to be lined by a tubular effusion of false membrane, the lower portion of which had passed farther down than the incision in the trachea, but had been pushed aside by the tube when introduced. Patches of lymph were found at the commencement of both bronchi, whilst the smaller subdivisions of the bronchial tubes were at many points quite blocked up by little masses of exudation. There was no great amount of mucous effusion in the bronchi, but the substance of both lungs was much congested. (See Plate 50, Fig. 2.) 2. Margaret B., set. 1\, after playing on Leith Links on a cold wet day, was seized on the 26th of March with a severe, rough, and hard cough. On the 1st of April Dr. Williamson found her labouring under acute croup. Although the symptoms were very urgent, yet, on consultation, it was determined to delay opei-ating till other remedies were tried. Next morning the symptoms were so intensely aggravated that I was sent for to operate. On my arrival the dyspnoea was great, pulse weak and intermittent, and the surface cold. Stethoscojjic examina- tion showed the presence of mucous rales in both lungs, and this, with the exhausted state of the child, induced me to consider it an unfavourable case for tracheotomy. The operation was performed, however, partly to relieve impending suffocation, and j^artly at the earnest desire of the parents. On opening the trachea, some mucus was ejected, and the relief to the dyspnoea was immediate. From this time the child progressed most favourably, the mucus being readily expectorated through the tube, which was retained for upwards of six days. 3. Louisa Paton, set. 5, was attacked with croup on the evening of the 15th April 1858. The medical attendant, who saw her on the 16tli, administered the usual remedies without effect ; and as the disease was progressing rapidly, she was removed to the Infirmary on the 18th, and the same evening tracheotomy was performed by Mr. Spence. The imme- diate relief was great. She continued better all next day, but again became worse, and died on the morning of the 21st, about fifty-one hours after the operation, and the sixth day of the disease. 4. Marion Henderson, set. 4, had a regular attack of measles in the last week of July 1858. On the 29th there was considerable cough and dyspnoea, the latter of which was much more urgent on the 31st, and next day was so great as to necessitate tracheotomy. There was much relief at the time, but she soon relapsed, and died on the morning of the 2d August. 5. George Nash, ast. 2, caught cold on July 4th, 1858. Next day1101 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. symptoms of croup supervened, and on the 7tli a suffocative spasm necessitated his removal to the Infirmary. Emetics and sinapisms proving useless, and the paroxysms having recurred several times, Mr. Spence that same evening opened the trachea. The child continued restless till 4 A.M., after which he slept for nearly two hours. Next day the breathing was somewhat more laboured, but after the application of a sinapism between the shoulders it became easy and the pulse natural. On the 11th the tube was removed for a short time, but required to be replaced owing to the large amount of tough mucus clogging up the trachea, and which could only be expelled through the tube. Two days after, the tube was finally removed ; and on the 4th of August he was dismissed, the wound in the trachea having been healed for some time previously. 6. r. S., set. 6, was first visited by Dr. James A. Sidey on the 5th of November. He had been suffering for five days from feverishness and sore throat, and on the previous evening had shown symptoms of croup. When seen his tongue was foul, tonsils ulcerated, breathing difficult and croupy, and pulse 140. Leeches and emetics failed to give relief ; and next day, his breathing having become more gaspy, I was sent for, and performed tracheotomy. I extracted some false membrane during the operation, and after it the child coughed up some moulds of the bronchi. He continued well during the whole of the next day, but on the 8th began to get worse, and died November 9th, 1858. About a week or ten days after, his two sisters were affected with undeniable scarlet fever, and his mother with ulcerated sore throat. 7. W. R., set. 4^ years, after sitting out in the garden, towards evening, on the damp grass, began to suffer from a severe cold. Five days after, on the 29th of March 1859, Dr. Wm. Ziegler was sent for. There were signs of slight bronchitis in both lungs ; the cough was hard, ringing, and croupy ; the inspirations were free from stridor ; he was dull and listless, and had lost considerably in flesh, but there was no febrile excitement, nor pain on pressure over the larynx. He was ordered an ipecacuan emetic, to inhale steam, fomentations over the larynx, and a sinapism to the chest. On the 30th the cough was not so hard, but the bronchitic rales were more general over the posterior lobes of the lungs ; there was slight mucous expectoration ; the skin was hotter and the pulse quickened. A blister was applied to his back, and he was ordered a mixture containing antimonial wine ; the ipecacuan emetic to be repeated if the breathing became oppressed. On the 31st he was rather worse, his breathing having been much oppressed during the night. He was restless, his pulse rapid and weak, skin hot, face flushed, cough more frequent and decidedly croupy, inspira- tion husky and laryngeal. There was, however, no lividity. The ipecacuan having failed to induce vomiting, sulphate of copper was given instead. Small quantities of white wine whey were administered, and the inhalations and fomentations continued. During the day the sulphate of copper was given several times, and each time induced severe vomiting, but without producing any favourable change. Mr. Spence was therefore called in consultation ; and on April 1st, at 4 a.m., it was found necessary to perform tracheotomy. Considerable relief followed the operation, andREGIONAL SURGERY. 1102 the child's progress to recovery was rapid. The tube was removed on the fifth day, and it was not again found necessary to return it. 8. 0 , set. 4^ years. After the child had suffered from croup for twenty-four hours, during which time all the ordinary remedies had been unsuccessfully employed, Mr. Spence performed tracheotomy. This was followed by immediate relief, even although the chest did not expand very fully. The child went on improving for the next twenty- four hours, when, on the return of the dyspnoea, the tube was removed and a larger one introduced. This was again followed by great improve- ment, continuing for the next five hours. He then became restless ; a considerable difficulty of inspiration commenced ; expiration remaining so free that he blew out a lighted taper placed before the mouth of the tube. This attack lasted about half-an-hour, when he died. Examination, thirty-six hours after death, showed great emphysema of both lungs, some congestion, but no pneumonia. The croupous membrane was confined to the larynx, but the trachea and bronchi were lined and partially blocked up with very tenacious mucus. The right side of the heart distended with dark blood. Tracheotomy in Diphtheritic Croup. 1. Ann A., cot. 2|, admitted December 4, sufi^ering from diphtheria with severe laryngeal symptoms. She had been ailing about a week, but the dyspnoea only became urgent the day previous to admission. As the paroxysms were frequent, and the breathing greatly impeded, the trachea was opened. Immediately after the operation, the patient fell into a quiet sleep. She went on most favourably ; the tube was removed on the fifth day, and she breathed freely through the wound. On the eighth day the wound became dry and grey ; on the tenth a slough separated. The constitutional symptoms accompanying this attack of sloughing phagedcena were of a very low type. She died on the eleventh day. The local treat- ment consisted of the application of strong nitric acid, with chloride of soda, and very weak Condy's solution. Stimulants and nourishing food were given, both by the mouth and rectum. 2. John C, £Et. 3 ; admitted 5th January, labouring under dijihtheritic croup, accompanied with extreme dyspnoea. Tracheotomy. Dismissed 30th January. Cured. 3. Alex. F., set. 3 ; admitted June 1st, suffering from extreme dyspnoea. Diphtheria. Tracheotomy. After the oi)eration, he had repeated attacks of convulsions, with squinting. Dismissed 30th June. Cured. 4. J. B., sot. 4J ; admitted 12th June, with great dyspnoea. The whole of the fauces covered with false membrane bled when touched. Tracheotomy. This patient went on most favourably until the 20th. Symptoms of paralysis of the pharynx and glottis occurred. She was fed by the stomach-pump twice daily, and by enemata. The prostration, however, increased, and she died on the 2Cth June. Remarks.—In A. F., the false membrane formed below theCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1103 tracheal opening, and led to such serions dyspnoea, that the tube had to be withdrawn, and the trachea cleared of the deposit as thoroughly as possible. The patient was a very stout, healthy child, and was able after the second day to cough up the mem- brane through the tube. He was repeatedly placed in a hot bath, on account of several attacks of spasmodic dyspnoea ; great relief was experienced, and he slept quietly for hours after- wards. As a certain amount of thickening continued in the air- passages beyond the usual period, the tube could not be com- pletely dispensed with until the beginning of the third week. John C. was, likewise, a stout healthy chUd ; he had not a single unfavourable symptom after the operation. The condition of the wound in Ann A., which is termed in the report " sloughing phagedsena," larger experience has shown me to be really diph- theritic.LECTUEE CVIII. Injuries and Diseases of the Thorax: superficial and deep-seated — Diseases of the Clavicle—Excision of Clavicle—Excision of Scapula—Diseases of the Mammse : Abscess ; Hypertrophy ; Tumour—Excision of Mamma. Fracture of the Ribs : Diagnosis ; Treatment—Emphysema—Wounds of Thorax : method of examining them ; Dangers and Complications attending them— Pneumothorax, Heematothorax, Hydrothorax, and Emphysema : their Symp- toms ; Treatment. Passing from the cervical region, I now proceed to consider the Injuries and Surgical Diseases of the ThoraX; and the operations required for their relief. This region, for the purpose of distinction, may be divided into the superficial pectoral, and deep or proper thoracic regions. In the former, I must also include the axillary space situated between the thorax and upper extremity. In the superficial region we meet with a great variety of morbid growths requiring surgical operations for their removal. In the case of axillary tumours, their relation to the important vascular and nervous structures contained in that space renders it necessary that the surgeon be exceedingly careful in his diagnosis and in his operative proceedings, almost as much so as in the case of deep cervical growths. I have had occasion to remove the whole of the great pectoral muscle from its thoracic and clavicular attachments to its insertion into the humerus, on account of a medullary sarcomatous tumour developed in its structure. The coraco-clavicular aponeurosis was almost destroyed by pressure of the growth, and the axillary vessels and nerves were fully exposed during the dissection. In another case, I removed an enormous malignant cystic tumour occupying the axillary cavity, and pushing aside the scapula behind and the pectoral muscles in front. I need hardly say the dissections in suchEXCISION OF CLA VICLE. 1105 cases are attended with great danger, and must be carefully and quietly proceeded with ; and in the axilla, the loose connec- tions of the cellular tissue should be separated with the finger, and the knife used sparingly after the first incision, which should be very free, so as to divide the axillary fascia, and expose fully the surface of the growth. Smaller firm tumours under the pectoral muscles can be readily removed. Here, as in the case of deep cervical growths, no special rules can be given ; each case must be studied, and the anatomical knowledge and skill of the surgeon must guide him in planning and executing the operation. Excision of the Clavicle may be required for tumour or other diseased condition of the bone. If the tumour be malignant, or of doubtful character, the whole bone should be removed. In other cases, the external or internal half of the clavicle may be excised. Eemoval of the entire bone is perhaps the easier operation, for, by disarticulating it at its junction with the acromion, we obtain a longer lever to draw it away from the vessels, and by keeping the edge of the bistoury towards the bone, the vessels run less risk of injury. In a case in which I required to excise the internal half of the clavicle, the bone had given way about an inch and a half from its acromial extremity ; and from condensation of surrounding structures, I found it very difficult to get the bone drawn forwards, even with a pair of strong tooth forceps. In that case, the bone was very irregular on its deep surface ; and, on its removal, the motion of the subclavian artery could be seen, the vessels being only covered by a thin layer of cellular tissue. The disarticulation of the sterno-clavicular joint has been generally regarded as the greatest danger in the operation ; and no doubt the close proximity of the innominate vein and great arteries at the root of the neck, requires that the surgeon should proceed very warily at the moment of disarticulating. At the same time I scarcely think the risk is so great at this part of the operation as in cfearing the deep aspect of the clavicle, where it lies inREGIONAL SURGERY. 1106 relation to the subclavian artery and vein At the sternal articulation, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and their fascial covering, intervene between the joint and the vessels ; and if the rhomboid ligament, connecting the clavicle with the rib, be thoroughly divided, and the articulation opened in front, we can twist round the articular end of the bone, so that, by keeping the edge of the knife cutting upon it, the remaining texture can be divided without much risk. We may complete the disarticulation with a probe-pointed knife, if that be thought necessary. Keeping in mind these details, the general method of performing the Operation is as foUows :—An incision is made upon the clavicle along its whole length, if the entire bone is to be removed; or, in cases of partial removal, to beyond the point where the section of the bone is proposed. At each end of this incision two short perpendicular incisions are made, and the attachments of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, superiorly, and those of the pectoral and deltoid inferiorly, together with the other soft parts, are dissected from the clavicle. In the case of excision of tlie entire bone, its acromial articulation is opened, and the clavicular attachments of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments divided. Then, by means of a pair of strong tooth-forceps, or the lion-forceps, the acromial end of the bone is elevated, so as to allow the sub- clavian muscles and other deeper attachments of the bone to be safely divided. In this stage of the operation the operator should keep the edge of his knife directed towards the lower surface of the clavicle, so as to cut the textures upon the bone, and avoid risk to the subclavian and supra-scapular vessels, which are in close proximity; and as the textures are divided, the clavicle is gradually drawn more forwards, away from the chest as it were, still further to secure the safety of the vessels. The costo-clavicular ligament, at the sternal end of the bone, must be thoroughly divided, and the sterno-clavicular articula- tion freely opened in front; then, by using the now loosened clavicle as a lever, its sternal articular extremity can beEXCISION OF THE SCAPULA. 1107 twisted round so as to divide the remaining ligamentous attachments, and complete its disarticulation without risk to the great vessels at the root of the neck. The difficulty and danger of the operation cannot be estimated by operating on the dead body ; the irregular form of the diseased bone, or the bulk and shape of the tumour, or condensation of surrounding textures in the diseased state, being the chief sources of diffi- culty in performing the operation on the living. (See Clinical Cases.) Excision of the Scapula may be required on account of fibro- cartilaginous, or medullary sarcomatous tumours of the bone. I have already spoken of removal of the scapula along with the arm, but excision of the bone, leaving the upper extremity, is a more difficult, and in some respects, a more serious operation. The incisions of the integuments may require to be varied in different cases. In one case, when I had removed a large medullary cystic tumour from the axilla, I found the subscapular fossa affected by a similar growth, although the posterior aspect of the bone presented no appearance of disease. In that case, having already made a free incision in the axillary space, I made an incision from over the acromial end of the clavicle backwards along the spine of the scapula to beyond its base, and dissected back the large flap so marked out. I then divided the attach- ments of the trapezius, deltoid, rhomboid, and levator angulae scapulse muscles, and cut through the clavicle near its acro- mial end. The scapula was then drawn backwards and out- wards, disarticulated at the shoulder-joint, and the operation completed by dividing the serratus magnus. Under ordinary circumstances, I would, after making the incisions through the skin, begin by dividing the clavicle a little internal to the attach- ment of the coraco-claviciilar ligament, so as to enable an assistant to command the circulation, and so prevent the gush of blood which follows division of the subscapular artery. As to the lines of incision, I have said they must be varied in different cases ; but, in general, the best method is to make one long incisionREGIONAL SURGERY. 1108 from over the external third of the clavicle, backwards along the spine of the scapula, to beyond its base or posterior margin. From over the acromio-clavicular articulation another incision should be carried downwards to beyond the inferior angle of the scapula, or beyond the lowest part of the tumour. Then the flaps so marked out are dissected back, the clavicle divided internal to the coraco-clavicular ligament, the scapular attachments of the deltoid and trapezius divided, and the humerus disarticulated. The great vessels being now commanded, the remaining muscular attachments of the scapula to the trunk are divided, and the operation completed. After all bleeding is arrested, the in- cisions are united by silver sutures, and the elbow supported by a handkerchief, a flat pad placed in the axilla, and the arm bandaged to the side. There is, perhaps, no organ more frequently the subject of surgical treatment than the female breast. As the result of lacta- tion, or other causes of irritation, Acute and Chronic Mammary Abscesses arise in or beneath the breast, and require to be opened early and freely to prevent the formation of troublesome sinuses. The incisions made to evacuate the pus in such cases, should be free ; nothing can be more cruel than to make a small puncture or inadequate opening, squeezing out the pus, and then requiring to enlarge the opening, or make other incisions to give free vent to the matter. When the abscess is near the nipple, the incision should be made obliquely and parallel to the nipple ducts, so as to avoid cutting any of them across. In some instances the purulent collection is situated under the gland, in such cases the collection should be compressed so as to make it project towards the lower border of the breast, if possible, and an incision made into it along the lower margin of the gland ; by this means the matter gets easier exit, and the mamma is not interfered with. The mammary gland is also liable to Hypertrophy, and when discutient remedies fail, this may require an operationEXCISION OF MAMMA. 1109 for its removal; but, unless the distress caused by the bulk be very great, an operation should not be urged. Irritable Mamma is another condition in which the surgeon is not unfrequently urged by patients to excise the gland ; but it is purely a neuralgic affection, and the pain is almost certain to return in the cicatrix if the operation be performed, and hence our treatment should be constitutional rather than local. When lecturing on tumours, I have indicated the principles on which we should proceed in dealing with the different forms of tumour in this and other organs, and I pointed out that in doubtful cases, where there is a want of distinct definition, or when the patient is of such an age that the function of the gland has ceased, complete removal of the whole breast is the proper method of procedure. In the male we also occasionally meet with tumours of the breast requiring removal by operation. The usual method of performing Excision of the Mamma is by means of an elliptical incision, placed nearly parallel to the fibres of the great pectoral muscle. The patient being placed re- cumbent, the arm is separated from the side to render the pectoral muscle tense. The operator, holding the breast upwards so as to stretch the skin, first makes the lower incision at some little dis- tance below the nipple, then draws down the breast and makes the upper incision above the nipple so as to complete the ellipse. Care should be taken to preserve sufficient healthy skin to cover in the wound. The integuments are next dissected off the tumour. The dissection is then carried deeply through the fascia, covering the pectoral muscle and that fascia together, with the tumour dissected off from the muscular fibres. Should the tumour implicate the muscular fibres, they must also be re- moved. If any axillary glands are affected, the lower incision is carried outwards and upwards, the axillary fascia opened, and the gland seized with a vulsellum, carefully dissected or twisted out with the finger. The bleeding vessels are tied or twisted, and when this has been effected, the surfaces both of the tumour1110 REGIONAL SURGERY. and wound sliould be carefully examined before closing the wound, to make sure that no portion of diseased texture is left. The surface of the wound is cleansed by pouring tepid water freely over it, and then the margins of the incision are approxi- mated and retained by silver sutures. I generally insert three or four sutures very deeply and at some distance from the free margins and other intermediate points of suture between these, to unite the margins very exactly. A narrow piece of gutta- percha tissue is fixed over the line of incision by means of chloroform, and a soft towel folded flatly, and supported by a broad bandage, is applied for the first twenty-four hours. After- wards no dressing should be applied to the wound, which generally heals throughout its superficial extent at least. In my own practice I usually leave the axillary end of the incision open, to allow the serous or bloody discharges to escape, and so pre- vent the formation of abscesses subsequenty. In many cases, owing to the form of the tumour to be removed, we may require to make our incisions in a different direction. Incisions directed from above downwards and out- wards answer very well. Sometimes crucial or T incisions may be required, but as a general rule, a straight incision from above downwards, should be avoided. After excision of the breast, the arm should be kept close to the side, and all motion prevented. I shall now direct your attention to the subject of Injuries OF THE Chest and their results, and first to Fractures of the EiBS.—The ribs may be broken at any point, but generally they give way about the angle, or a little in front of it. In old people, where the cartilages are ossified, we sometimes find the ribs broken at the junction between the bone and the cartilage; and in very young children, where the union is not quite com- plete, separation occurs at the same place. These injuries gener- ally arise from direct violence. The patient complains of pain in breathing and on attempting to cough. There is seldom any projection at the fractured point, unless the fracture be a very severe one, and hence we require to take some care inFRACTURES OF THE RIBS. 1111 diagnosis. The best method is to ascertain exactly where the pain is referred to, and this will guide us generally to a point at or near the fracture. Then, by moving the corresponding rib, we feel for crepitus, which can usually be detected easily, or we may place the hand over the suspected part and make the patient take a deep inspiration, so as to expand the chest, and thereby produce crepitus. A fracture near the angle of the rib is said to be more difficult of detection, but I think it is not so, for if we move the affected portion of the rib by pressure anteriorly, we can elicit crepitus very easily. Sometimes the fracture may be indicated by another symptom. There may be scarcely any displacement, but we may find some emphysema present. This could only occur from a portion of the rib injuring the pleura and the lung, and causing the air to escape from it into the loose cellular tissue around the fracture. If emphysema be present after an injury of the chest, even though we cannot detect cre- pitus, we may be pretty sure that there is a fracture of one or more ribs. The presence of emphysema cannot be accounted for in any other way, unless there be an external wound. When several ribs are broken, the diagnosis is very easy, but the injury is a serious one, and the prognosis bad. I, however, recollect one case in which the sternum was broken across, the cartilages thrown forwards, and several ribs fractured, in conse- quence of a railway accident. This injury was accompanied with effusion of blood internally, and some emphysema. The patient's pulse was very weak, and at first his case seemed hope- less, but ultimately he made a good recovery, and retained no trace of the injury save some slight deformity of the chest. In cases where we have any doubt as to the diagnosis, we judge from the history. If a person receives a blow on the side, and complains of great pain on breathing, the safest plan is to assume that a fracture is present, though we may not be able to feel crepitus. The best Treatment either for a bruise on the chest or for a fractured rib, is to put a broad bandage round the chest to control the movements of the ribs. Sometimes a broad cottonREGIONAL SURGERY. 1112 roller is put round the chest several times ; but it is better to use a veiy broad flannel bandage, and pin it firmly, for we do not want to interfere with the breathing, but merely to confine the respiratory movements within certain limits, and to support the broken bone. If we use an ordinary roller, we are apt to press too firmly on one portion of the rib, and so do more harm than good. When several ribs are fractured, the same treatment is required, but the bandage must be applied more firmly. Along with this local treatment we should give opiates and ipecacu- anha to aUay the cough and irritation, but not antimony, as it is apt to caiise vomiting. If there be much pain in the chest, venesection should be had recourse to ; for if there be much congestion, especially in healthy patients, a moderate amount of depletion will relieve it, and really with less loss of vital power to the patient than would accrue from a long course of depressing remedies internally. Fracture of the ribs, as well as some other injuries of the chest, may give rise to the condition known as Emphysema. Two or three ribs are broken, for example, and comminuted, without any external wound being present. A portion of a rib is projected inwards, tears the pleura, and wounds the surface of the lung : the air-vessels are opened into, and the air escapes. If the wound in the lung be considerable, the air escapes pretty rapidly. It passes into the pleura very readily, then into the intercostal spaces, and thence is diffused into the subcutaneous cellular tissue over the chest. There is air over the surface of the fracture—it extends into the axilla, and passes up around the pectoral muscle into the neck. The neck, face, and axilla, become distended, also the front of the abdomen, the sides, the back, the scrotum, and the lower extremity; in fact, the external surface of the subcutaneous cellular tissue is blown up by the air which escapes. This does not happen often to the full extent I have stated, but the following sketch is not alto- gether a fanciful case. I recollect the case of a child, about five or six years old, who got several ribs broken: the whole body became much swollen—the face was enormously dis-1113 EMPHYSEMA. tended, and also the neck, chest, scrotum, and extremities. Per- cussion gave a tympanitic resonance, as if a drum had been struck. Such a case is an extreme one, but the same condition may occur more slowly, and to a less extent, giving rise to serious danger. The same principles of treatment are required in either case. It is sometimes recom- mended, in incipient stages of emphysema, to bandage the patient so as to prevent the air from spreading all over the body; but if the air does not get to the cellular tissue, it accu- mulates in the pleura, and the more dangerous condition of pneumothorax will occur. It is therefore better to allow the cellular tissu.e to get distended, than to run the risk of letting the air collect in the pleura. The Treatment of emphysema, when there is no external wound, is to refrain from bandaging at first. We always have more or less pneumothorax present, and the lung is partially collapsed. But such collapse is rather beneficial, for it allows the injured lung to rest; the circulation through it is diminished; the woiind, if small, is glazed over by plastic exudation, and the further escape of air is prevented. In cases of slight em- physema, little or no treatment is necessary beyond that required for the fractured rib. In other cases, when the emphysema is extending, and where respiration is affected, we make small incisions through the skin wherever the air is collected in the cellular tissue. Several of these are made over the whole body, and through them the air escapes very readily. The tension, pressure, and difficulty of breathing, become less, and the air in the pleura also becomes1114 REGIONAL SURGERY. diminished, for it escapes less directly and gradually as the air in the cellular tissue passes through the incisions. Hence, in all cases, I recommend making small incisions or punctures in different parts of the body, wherever the air is infiltrated, so as to let the air in the cellular tissue escape. If a person receives a Wound op the Thorax implicating the lung, when that organ is expanded in the act of inspiration, the lung does not collapse. Indeed, it being inflated, often pro- jects, so as to form a hernia of the lung. In such cases, the air entering by the air-passages into the distended lung counteracts the force of the air entering by the wound, which is doubtless gi'eater in amount, but still not sufficient to cause the lung to collapse. If, however, we have an external wound, and at the same time a wound of the lung-substance, such as might be in- flicted by the stab of a knife, then we can easily understand how collapse will take place ; because the air entering by the mouth escapes by the wound of the lung into the pleura while the air entering by the external opening rushes into the pleura at the same time, thus causing almost complete collapse of the lung. A certain amount of bleeding takes place in these injuries, and if we close the wound, as is sometimes recommended to be done, the lower part of the cavity of the chest becomes distended. This causes difficulty of breathing. The upper part of the chest has a resonant tympanitic sound on percussion, and the lower part a dull sound, for the blood from the wound falls towards the lower and back part of the chest, where it collects, and presses down the diaphragm to some extent. In the upper part of the chest the air which has escaped from the air-vessels is collected. If we see a case of wound of the chest imme- diately after the injury is received, then, if there be no wound of the lung-substance, it will be advantageous to close the wound at once, but when the lung itself is also injured, the proper plan of treatment is to leave the wound open, so as to allow the escape of the blood, as it is impossible entirely to con-1115 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. trol hsemorrhage, and also to allow the air to escape, and so let the lung collapse. The circulation in the lung is thus diminished or interrupted, and the hsemorrhage from the wound in its substance is thereby arrested; we give time for the parts to glaze over, and for the air-vessels to close up by the effusion of lymph. The blood-vessels become closed, while the lung is collapsed, and then after thirty hours or so, if there be no contra- indication, we may close the external wound. The lung will in all probability gradually distend again ; but even if it does not, there will be no interruption to the action of the opposite lung, and no displacement of the heart and blood-vessels. This, I think, is the proper treatment, the principle of it being, to give time for the parts to be glazed over, before closing up the wound. I generally lay the patient on the woimded side ; this allows the discharges to escape, and then the parts are so placed that the air can pass out, though more air cannot readily get in. I also place a thin slip of oiled muslin over the opening, arranged as a valve, to allow the escape but prevent the entrance of air. At the same time some support should be given to the chest by a bandage. The general treatment must also be attended to, as there is a risk of pleuritis coming on, and opiates should be given to allay the pain and irritation. When much blood has been lost, support the patient's strength, but do not give diffu- sible stimulants, which are apt to excite irritation and inflam- mation in the parts. The method of examining wounds of the chest and abdomen is important; for there is sometimes much mischief caused by not attending properly to this point. As the great danger lies in the fact of the wound being a penetrating one, the risks are very much increased, if, as often happens, the surgeon is too anxious to make out clearly at the very first, whether the wound is penetrating or not. In many cases there can be very little doubt, from the markedly sunk and depressed appearance of the patient, the irregularity of the pulse, and the state of the respiration. If the lung be wounded, there will be more or less bloody sputum, though this may not appear at first, if only 4 DREGIONAL SURGERY. 1116 the extreme ramifications of the bronchi be wounded; but as the cough becomes more frequent, instead of the rusty sputum of pneumonia, there is bloody sputum. The wovmd, however, may not be a penetrating one ; but if the surgeon be over- anxious to make a correct diagnosis, and use the probe freely in a wound of this kind, where the parts closing the cavity are naturally thin, and where the wound may have penetrated all but through the pleura costalis, he will probably convert it into a penetrating wound. Hence I think that in such cases it is better to wait a little and take the indications of the symp- toms as to the character of the injury. If the wound be a penetrating one, with any lesion of the vis- cera, the symptoms will soon be very marked, and will leave us in no doubt as to its nature and the danger attending it. If it beavery slightly penetrating wound, and if the bad symptoms do not come on, the patient is all the better for not having it probed and inter- fered with. In most cases we find that in penetrating wounds of any importance, unmistakable evidence soon appears as to their character, and therefore we may rest satisfied without being too anxious to examine and ascertain their depth at first. We may examine the weapon which inflicted the wound, to gain some idea of the depth, but not the wound itself, for that involves risk to the patient. So also in fracture of the ribs, we examine them as already described, but do not manipulate and poke about the chest, for by pressing in on the fractured rib we may thrust the broken ends through the pleura, and do much more harm than good. If we are in any doubt, it is better to treat the if it were one of simple fracture of the rib. I think that when an accurate diagnosis is necessary in reference to the treatment, or when our examination is attended with no risk, we ought to be most exact in our diagnosis; but where the knowledge, whether it is a penetrating wound or not, makes no difference in the treatment of the case, we should not incur risk to make out the nature of the injury. The treatment in every case ought to be the same as if the wound were a penetrating one : use all precautions to keep the patient at rest, give opiates and de-1117 INyURIES OF THE CHEST. plete if necessary, to allay the irritation and pain wliich are present. As a result of injuries of the chest, dangerous conditions may arise from embarrassment of the functions of respiration and cir- culation. Besides the acute inflammatory affections of the pleura and lung substance, the conditions which the surgeon is most frequently called on to treat are—Pneumothorax, Hsematothorax, Hydrothorax, and Empyema. As these conditions, though very different from each other pathologically, all act mechanically by compressing or displacing the thoracic viscera, they have certain symptoms in common which we shall first consider before speak- ing of these different conditions and their treatment. In all of them we have great oppression of the breathing, congestion of the face and neck at first, especially on the affected side, difficulty of lying on the sound side, weak and irregular pulse, and restlessness from threatened suffocation. These symptoms depend upon the pressure of the air or fluid within the pleura compressing the lung, and, as it accumulates, displacing to some extent the heart and great blood-vessels, interfering with the action of the dia- phragm, and gradually affecting the action of the opposite lung when the patient tries to lie on the sound side. The correct diag- nosis between the different pathological conditions is partly arrived at by physical examination, and partly by the history of the case and symptoms which may have preceded the formation of the col- lection. The distinction between pneumothorax and collections of denser fluids is easily enough made out by percussing the chest, the clear tympanitic sound leaves us in no doubt. But in regard to the other states mentioned, the effused fluid, of what- ever kind it is, leads to dulness on percussion and the absence of respiratory sounds on that side of the chest, so that we must take into account the period after the injury at which the symptoms arise, and the presence or absence of premonitory fever and rigors. When the symptoms arise immediately or shortly after the injury, they are due either to pneumothorax or haematothorax, and percussion will determine which of these is present. Hydrothorax or empyema again, are the secondaryREGIONAL SURGERY. 1118 results of inflammatory action, and the general symptoms, especially the rigors and hectic, usually present in cases of empyema, will distinguish that from simple hydrothorax. By the term Pneumothorax is meant the distension of the cavity of the pleura with air, and this may arise either from injury or from disease of the lung; but it is with the condition as it occurs from injury that we have at present to do. The escape of air, from a wound of the lung, into the pleura, or the entrance of air from without, occasionally follows penetrating wounds of the chest. But the cases in which the pent-up air distends the cavity of the pleura, causing collapse of the lung, and oppressed respiration and circulation, are those of simple fracture of a rib, where a sharp point of the broken bone has punctured the pleura and lung-substance, and wounded some air-vessels. In such cases the small and possibly oblique wound of the pleura-costalis and intercostal textures does not permit the air to escape from the chest into the superficial cellular tis- sue, as in the case of extensive fracture, where we have emphy- sema with some pneumothorax. The air therefore escapes from the injured lung, untU it collapses, and accumulates in the shut sac of the pleura ; and thus we have the interference with the circulation and respiration. The symptom which distinguishes it from haematothorax is the clear tympanitic sound on percussion. The respiratory murmur is lost, but the sound of the air enter- ing the large bronchi at the root of the lung is preternaturally loud. The circulation is less speedily affected than in hsemato- thorax, because here there is no loss of blood from the system, and also because the displacement of the heart and great blood- vessels is seldom so great as in the case of distension by effused blood or other fluids, such as serum or pus. As regards Treatment, unless the general symptoms be very urgent, it is well to wait a little before drawing off the con- fined air, so that the wound of the lung-substance may be closed by lymph or coagulated blood, which will serve to prevent the1119 PNE UMO THORAX. escape of air when the lung again distends on inspiration. The operation of extracting the confined air is effected by puncturing the thorax at the usual point of election, using for this purpose either Bowditch's apparatus or a trocar and canula, with a stop- cock connected with an india-rubber bag, so as to obviate any air entering from without. As the air is drawn off, the patient is desired gradually to distend the lungs, and when all the air has been extracted, the assistant is ready with a piece of oiled lint to place over the aperture as the surgeon withdraws the canula, then a fold of lint is placed over the part, and supported by a broad flannel bandage. I have already, when speaking of em- physema resulting from fractured ribs, stated what I consider the safest method of procedure for both relieving the emphysema and any pneumothorax which may be present in such cases. Oppression of the lung, arising from effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura, is termed H^matothorax ; it generally arises as a primary condition, either from a wound of the inter- costal vessels or from a wound of the lung-substance. If we suspect that the bleeding is entirely due to a wound of some of the intercostal vessels, then the best treatment is to dilate the wound with a probe-pointed bistoury, feel for the bleeding point, and try to arrest it by tying the vessel. This is not easily done, even when the bleeding point can be felt. Where we cannot get the thread round the vessel, it has been proposed we should intro- duce a dossil of lint within the cavity of the chest; and, by means of a thread fastened to it, draw it outwards towards the ribs, so as to fix the lint against the wounded point and keep up the pressure, but this just acts as a foreign body and is apt to lead to serious irritation, and may even cause pleuritis and suppuration in the cavity of the chest. In most cases, by pass- ing an aneurism-needle so as to include the vessel on either side of the bleeding point, we can secure it by small silk ligatures. The Treatment of heematothorax, arising from wound of the lung, has been already mentioned; any blood which has escaped should be removed by an exhausting syringe from the cavity of1120 REGIONAL SURGERY. the cliest, for if left it is apt to become decomposed and give rise to bad symptoms. As a result of inflammation from wounds, or after pleuritis, the surgeon may be called on to operate for removal of the serous or purulent fluid from the chest. This operation is termed Paracentesis tlioracis, and is a very simple one when done for the removal of serous fluid, and it may be repeated without any danger. In most cases we find the pleura somewhat thickened, and it requires some little force to push the trocar through it, but there is no danger in the operation. The point of election is generally between the sixth and seventh ribs, about midway between the sternum and the angles of the ribs ; when the chest is very much distended with fluid there is no great risk, for the fluid lies between us and the contained viscera. Guthrie, in his book On Wounds of the Chest, says that he has often punctured for fluid below the tenth rib, and to avoid the curve of the diaphragm, he punctured far back ; but the objec- tion to this is that the fluid sometimes does not penetrate so far down, besides in every case the diaphragm rises up again and forms a sort of convexity towards the thorax, and we might puncture the diaphragm with the trocar in carrying it forwards, hence I think it is safer to puncture higher up—about the seventh rib. The trocar used is a very small one ; it is pushed into one of the intercostal spaces, somewhat nearer the upper edge of the rib than the lower, for fear of wounding the inter- costal artery—the trocar and canula are pushed inwards, and then the fluid is withdrawn. A small exploring needle may be used; this allows the fluid to escape slowly. Air is occasionally apt to enter the wound. A method which I used to employ was to put a piece of damp muslin over the orifice of the canula ; the fluid of course presses it outwards; but when the air attempts to enter, the muslin is pressed inwards, so that no air can get in. A good trocar and canula, fitted vrith a stop-cock and india- rubber tube, however, answer better. The exhausting syringe also may be used, but great care is required in using it, for if tlie stop-cock be turned the wrong way, the air enters very rapidly :OPERATION OF PARACENTESIS THORACIS. 1121 it does very well for liydrothorax, but not for thick purulent collec- tions in the chest. Percussion does not indicate the nature of the contained fluid, the sound being dull in all cases, whether serum, pus, or sero-purulent fluid be present; and we must, there- fore, judge from the history of the case. If rigors and fever have preceded the formation of the fluid, or if it has followed a wound, we may be tolerably sure that we have to deal with empyema and not serous fluid. We may have the pus, as in all other chronic abscesses, more or less irregular, and varying in its consistence. Empyema is, in fact, just an abscess withiu the pleura. When the fluid is equable and tolerably thin, we can draw it off by a trocar and canula, as in hydrothorax, but sometimes we find that, after taking away some of the fluid, the instrument becomes choked ; a piece of lymph or curdy pus has entered the canula and plugged it up. Whenever we find that the pus is of an irregular consist- ence, with flakes of lymph in it, we should cut down upon the intercostal spaces and penetrate the chest by the old operation for empyema. This is not necessary in hydrothorax, or where the pus is thin, but only where the pus is thick and irregular. The incision through the intercostal spaces is made midway between the ribs, or rather nearer the upper margin of the lower rib than the lower margin of the upper rib. The skin is first drawn up and rendered tense, so that when it relaxes afterwards, it forms a sort of valve over the wound. In other words, the wound of the surface is made so that it may not correspond to the deep wound. The surgeon then cuts down upon the intercostal muscles, and divides them till he sees the pleura, which generally bulges out; the point of the knife is then entered into it, and some pus is ejected; then with a probe-pointed bistoury the opening is en- larged, so as to allow the contained pus to escape freely. The lung is in most cases adherent, and cannot distend, though it tends to do so ; the air entering has still further a tendency to cau.se the lung to collapse. All the thick part of the pus can be drawn off in this way, much better than by the trocar and canula. When the surgeon uses the trocar and canula to draw off the fluid, and finds that he cannot draw it all off, he should leave in1122 REGIONAL SURGERY. the canula, and use it as a sort of director, and enlarge the aper- ture by an incision on either side of the canula, and so give vent to the fluid. When the operation is completed, the skin which has been drawn up falls down and closes over the wound, forming a sort of valvular covering. Then a compress of oiled lint is placed over the wound, and supported by a broad flannel bandage.CLINICAL CASES. THORACIC REGION. Disarticulation of the Sternal Half of the Clavicle. G. L., labourer, forty-eight years of age, and of strumous habit, had sviffered for a length of time from epileptic fits, consequent upon an injury of the head, received eleven years ago, by a fall from a height, and the whole of the sternal haK of the bone was much enlarged and of irregular form. In the beginning of December 1847, he was seen by Mr. Falconer, Loanhead, on account of an abscess which had formed towards the outer part of the clavicle. This abscess was opened, and although the matter discharged was thin and unhealthy, no diseased bone could be detected by the probe. The wound healed in about a fortnight or three weeks. Shortly after it had cicatrised, the patient fell down in one of his epileptic fits, and on recovering he found a thick but sharp-pointed portion of the clavicle projecting through the thin recent cicatrix. Mr. Falconer states, that the projecting portion of bone was of diseased appearance when it first protruded ; and when I saw it, about a week afterwards, in the beginning of January 1848, the exposed portion was rough and apparently carious. After this, although the parts were kept in perfect rest, abscesses formed at various points near the clavicle, about the root of the neck, and in the supra-clavicular space in the vicinity of the subclavian vessels ; also above the sternum. Near the sternum there was a small opening, through which the bone could be felt rough and bare ; and the other abscesses, although the probe could not detect any direct communication with the diseased bone, evidently depended upon the irritation excited by its presence. I saw the patient two or three times after this, but the exposed portion of bone did not become loose ; and it resisted every efibrt to detach and re- move it. After waiting for nearly three months in expectation of some necrosed portions becoming loosened by the natural process, but finding it still im- possible to detach and extract it from the rest of the bone, whilst the man's health was rapidly sinking under the constant discharge and hectic, I proposed the removal of the whole internal half of the clavicle from its sternal articulation, so as to include all the diseased bone, to which pro- posal the patient at once assented. On the 11th April 1848, I proceeded to excise the diseased portion of the clavicle, assisted by Messrs. Goodsir and Falconer, and in the presence of Dr. Smith, Messrs. Harvey and Edwards. Chloroform having been given, I made an incision about three and a half inches along the inner half of the clavicle, commencing about four lines internal to the sterno- clavicular articulation, and then made a perpendicular incision about an inch and a half in length across the former, at the point corresponding to1124 REGIONAL SURGERY. the sterno-clavicular articulation. The clavicular attachments of the stemo-mastoid and pectoralis muscles were next divided. In doing this there was pretty smart hemorrhage from numerous small vessels. I now divided the clavicle a little external to the exposed diseased portion, and tried to raise the divided extremity so as to pull it forwards from the great vessels. I found, however, that I could not effect this, owing apparently to some muscular attachments which had not been completely divided ; these I divided fully, when I could see the bone thickened and irregular, owing to the deposition of new bone. I then dissected around this carefully ; and Mr. Goodsir attempted to draw the bone forwards, by means of a pair of strong tooth-forceps, which I had brought on purpose, in case of difficulty. The dense and firm strixctures, however, prevented it being raised, so that I had to dissect the extremity of the bone cautiously, as the condensation extended as far inwards as the position of the great vessels. Whenever the mass of condensed tissues was wholly divided, the bone was raised and drawn outwards and forwards from the chest ; then, by keeping the edge of the bistoury directed obliqi;ely towards the clavicle, I divided the rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament, and the other remaining attachments, and by using the free portion of the clavicle as a lever, I was enabled to disarticulate it readily from the sternum. Although there had been smart bleeding during the performance of the operation, only three small vessels required ligature. The consolidation of the parts, and the diseased state of the skin, prevented the greater part of the edges of the woimd being united by suture, and in the site of the removed bone there remained a very ugly-looking fossa, in which the pulsation of the great arteries could be seen and felt. This cavity was filled slightly with charpie, and supported by a bandage. After the patient was placed in bed, and had recovered from the effects of the chlo- roform, an opiate draught was exhibited. I saw him again on the 15th of April, when he was suffering from an attack of bronchitis, to which he had been long subject. He had a constant harassing cough, but was expectorating freely. The impulse of the cough- ing was communicated strongly to the wound, which was suppurating freely, and healthy granulations were beginning to spring up. With the exception of the cough, he was going on favourably. Warm-water dressing was aj)plied to the wound, and he was allowed nourishing diet. As the accounts I received from Mr. Falconer continued favourable, I did not visit him again till the 24th of April. The cough had then almost entirely left him, and he was sitting up with the arm in a sling ; the wound was covered with granulations, and contracting rapidly. For a few days previous to my visit, the red lotion had been applied to the wound. From this time I did not see him again till the 7th of May, when the wound had comjjletely cicatrised. Little treatment beyond the occasional applica- tion of escharotics to the exuberant granulations had been requii-ed : his general health and appearance had much improved, and he now slept well at night, and was free from pain. I saw him again in September ; there was very little falling in of the shoulder of the side from which the clavicle had been removed. His general health continued good, and he had for some months been at his usual emjiloyment of a labourer.CLINICAL CASES. 1125 Remarks.—The removal of the sternal half of the clavicle in this case was, I consider, sufficiently warranted by the state of the patient, the constitutional irritation he was suffering, and the repeated formation of ill-conditioned abscesses at the root of the neck, and in dangerous proximity to the large vessels. Under these circumstances there was distinct indication for operative interference, either by removing the diseased portions of the clavicle, or by removing the whole sternal haK of the bone at the articulation. I preferred the latter operation for the fol- lowing reasons :—The diseased portion which presented itself was not loose or detached, and the probe introduced through the sinuses detected other altered portions nearer the sternum ; so that the full extent of the disease could not be accurately ascertained ; and as the character of the disease and state of the patient's general health forbade waiting for nature to throw off' the dead portions, it appeared to me that the operation necessary for the removal of such diseased portions would be equally severe, and the effect less certain, whilst removal of the internal half of the clavicle would remove the whole disease; and as the con- tinuity between it and the acromial end was already broken, union being maintained only by ligamentous tissue, the inner half was really of no use to the patient. The difficulties which in this case rendered the operation more protracted than I expected from numerous trials on the dead body, were owing principally to the previous disease having caused great alteration in the parts around the bone ; these were condensed, and their appearance, relations, and attachments altered close to the position of the subclavian vessels. The firm- ness of the new attachments prevented the clavicle being drawn forwards from these vessels, and rendered a cautious dissection necessary to free that portion of the bone, the altered and ir- regular form of which, from the deposition of new osseous matter, was also a cause of difficulty, as it prevented me keeping the edge of the bistoury close to its posterior surface. I conceive that stage of the operation the most dangerous; but when the posterior surface of the bone is smooth, or when, after separatingREGIONAL SURGERY. 1126 the muscular attachments and dividing the clavicle "with the saw, that bone can readily be drawn forwards, and the edge of the knife kept close to the part to be removed, I should think the operation would be both more readily accomplished, and with much less risk. As to the disarticulation at the sternum, that is effected with- out much difficulty, for when the incision of the integuments over the joint is free, and the rhomboid ligament attaching the clavicle to the rib wholly divided, the articulation is easily opened from above and anteriorly, and then, by using the bone as a lever, it can be twisted so as to divide the posterior part of the capsule, with scarcely any risk to the pleura or great veins ; besides, the strong layer of the deep fascia, the origin of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and generally a layer of fat, lie between the knife and these important parts; so that, if ordinary care be taken, they can scarcely be injured; and, if further security were required, the use of a probe-pointed bis- toury, to divide the posterior part of the capsule, would, I conceive, preclude any chance of accident in this part of the operation. Case of Emphysema and Pneumothorax following Fractured Eibs. Thomas T—, setat. 5 years, admitted into tlie Eoyal Infirmary Jime 13, 1857, about 6 p.m., having been run over by a cab a few minutes before admission. One wheel had passed over his neck and the other over his chest, the latter having rested on his body a few seconds, according to the report of the police. On admission his condition was as follows :—There was great emphy- sema of face, neck, and upper part of chest, rather greater on right side. There was extreme difficulty of breathing, very great lividity of lips and countenance, and the expectoration was tinged with blood. The larynx and trachea were apparently uninjured. The fracture of the ribs could not be distinguished on account of the great amount of puffy swelling, and the pain caused by any attempt at examination. On percussion of chest both sides were found resonant, but the right side gave a clearer and more ringing note than the opposite side. On auscultation, which was diffi- cult, from the great amount of superficial crepitation and restlessness of patient, the ordinary respiratory sounds were audible over the left side, but considerably exaggerated. On the right side they were absent, inspir-CLINICAL CASES. 1127 ation being inaudible, and expiration an abrupt blowing sound, perhaps transmitted from the opposite side. After lying in bed for some time, the breathing became much calmer and easier, and the Hvidity of the countenance passed away ; the emphy- sema, however, increased, and gradually extended over the abdomen and scrotum to the upper part of thigh. In the evening free incisions were made through the skin and cellular tissue, in each axilla, and over the sternum. A large quantity of air then escaped, much to the relief of the patient. June 14;A.—This morning he seems and feels better. He slept somewhat during the night. The incisions have become glazed over with lymph, and the emphysema has apparently increased since they closed. To-day he was ordered to have several small punctures made to evacuate more air from the cellular tissue ; and the pulse being rapid and the skin hot, he was ordered to get repeated small doses of antimony, 1-10th of a grain every three hours. A considerable amount of air escaped by the punctures. Percussion on right side is rather duller than it was yesterday, and the inspiration is faintly audible. The left lung seems to act freely, the breathing is easy, and the lividity quite gone. June I5tk.—Slept pretty well last night; emphysema considerably less than it was yesterday, although still considerable over chest, abdomen, face, and arms ; the eyelids are less swollen, and he can open his eyes. The breathing is quite easy, and general appearance much improved. Percussion on right slightly duller than on left side ; right lung seems to have begun to act again, and the respiratory signs are returning. On the left side respiration seems to be going on freely, and the sounds are still slightly exaggerated. Antimonials continued. June 20th.—The emphysema still continues a little ; slight bronchitis has commenced on left side. The pneumothorax has decreased, and the right lung seems to be acting more freely. The antimonials continued. June 22c?.—Emphysema much better ; the incisions are healing fast ; pneumothorax is disappearing, and the right lung acting distinctly ; bronchitis is much relieved, and the breathing is tranquil and easy. June 30th.—Has progressed very favourably since last report. Slight emphysema still exists in scrotum. Juli/ 6th.—Is nearly well, except that there is considerable flattening of chest on the right side. The incisions are nearly healed. Dismissed cured on the 18th of July. This case illustrates the plan of treatment recommended in Lecture cviii. pp. 1113 and 1114.LECTUEE CIX. Abdominal Wounds: their Nature, Variety, Risks, Complications, and Treat- ment, General and Special — Traumatic Peritonitis : its Symptoms, Pathology, Prognosis, and Treatment—The Operation of Paracentesis Ab- dominis : when and how to perform it — Chronic Abdominal Abscess, diffuse and circumscribed—Perityphlitis—Iliac, Lumbar, and Psoas Abscess : Diagnosis and Treatment. In Wounds of the Abdomen, as in those of the chest, the danger is great in proportion as the wound is penetrating or superficial; but even in a wound of the abdominal parietes, at certain points there are special risks. Along a certain line we have the branches of the internal mammary artery, and, lower down, the great internal epigastric artery, which may be injured in a non-penetrating wound of the abdomen. The blood may become effused between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, or into the sheath of the muscles, and thus a very large amount of blood may be lost, sufficient to de- bilitate or even to cause the death of the patient. In such cases, of course, the state of the wound, its direction, the general symptoms of haemorrhage, and the peculiar, low state of the pulse, would indicate what had happened, and then we should enlarge the opening, so as to get at the bleeding point, and secure the vessel by ligatures. Where the wound is non-penetrating, and no great blood- vessel is wounded, there is still another risk, not immediate, but secondary — the risk that, from the weakening of the abdominal parietes, a traumatic hernia may occur afterwards. The abdomen may be wounded, the wound dividing the fibres of the external and internal oblique and transversalis muscles.1129 WOUNDS OF ABDOMEN. but not injuring very materially the fascia transversalis, and not penetrating tlie peritoneum. This is strictly a non-penetrating wound. If the fibres be divided more or less transversely, they yield; the action of the diaphragm, and other muscles of the abdomen compress the viscera, they are forced towards the weakest point, and a traumatic hernia occurs. The peritoneum, with a portion of the bowel, is projected through the opening ; and lience, although the wound be non-penetrating, there are special dangers attending it connected with the locality in which it occurs. In all such cases, when the wound divides a considerable thickness of the abdominal parietes, we should take means to support that point by a pad and bandage until union has occurred, not only superficially, but at the deep part. After operations, as for ligature of the external and common iliac arteries, the parietes must be weakened ; but this cannot be avoided, and we therefore take means to support the weak point, and prevent the risk of a hernia occurring, by appropriate dressing. The great risk, however, in abdominal wounds is pene- tration into the cavity of the abdomen, and lesion of some of the contained viscera. Here, as in the chest, we should not be too anxious to make a correct diagnosis at first, by probing, for we may safely trust to the indications which wiH be given if any lesion of the abdominal organs has occurred. We must be very careful, however, in forming an opinion as to what part of the viscera may have been wounded, for the viscera of the abdomen are subject to great changes in their position, according to their degree of distension. I have seen a wound about midway between the lowest rib on the right side and the umbi- licus, where the stomach was injured, which could not happen in ordinary conditions. The wound, however, was received shortly after dinner, when the stomach was fully distended. In a few hours vomiting of blood came on to a considerable extent, and the man died within twelve hours in great agony from acute peritonitis. In this case the distension of the stomach explains the reception of a wound in so unlikely a position. In small punctured wounds we cannot be sure what part is injured.1130 REGIONAL SURGERY. except, perhaps, the stomach, in which case the character of the vomiting which occurs speedily, shows the nature of the injury. The principle of Treatment is the same in all cases : whenever there is a suspicion that the viscera are wounded, we should give opiates internally, and also opiate enemata. As regards food, the less given the better : ice may he given to suck, but the use of nutrient enemata is perhaps the best method of nourishing the patient for the first day or two. The object is to prevent the peristaltic movements of the intestine, to allow the wound in the viscera to become covered over with lymph, and to prevent the possibility of the parts being distended with food. The risk of internal hsemorrhage cannot be guarded against, the only thing we can do is to apply cold both externally and internally ; but, after all, these are very trivial measures when the vessel wounded is of large size. Sometimes we are able to tie the wounded vessel; but in these cases the amount of injury done renders the case a very hopeless one. I have seen a case where a portion of the bowel with the mesentery was injured, and branches of the mesenteric artery torn, and here I was able to tie the wounded vessels; but in such a wound, whilst the surgeon is bound to arrest haemorrhage and use every precaution, it is evident that the chances of a favourable result are very small. In some cases of wounds of the abdomen a direct traumatic hernia may take place ; the bowels are protruded through the wound. When this happens, the intestine must be examined care- fully to see if it is wounded, and also to see that no arteries are injured. Where a penetrating wound of the abdomen, with pro- trusion of the viscera, has occurred, we find that in most cases, from the patient falling on the ground, a quantity of dirt and dust has lodged on the surface of the intestines. The intestine must, therefore, be washed to get rid of this, and this is done by pouring lukewarm water very gently upon it, without handling it much, though we may turn over the convolutions of the gut to see if any part of it has been wounded, whether any perfora- tion of the bowel has taken place, or any blood-vessel at theWOUNDED INTESTINE. 1131 root of the mesentery been injured. When the intestine is wounded, we may introduce a few points of herring-bone or glovers' suture, if the wound be small. When the wound is larger, the same suture may be used, but the chance of recovery is much less if we stitch it up and return the bowel into the cavity, than it is if we make an arti- ficial anus, and so allow the faeces to pass by the external wound. A large wound of the intestine is always a most unfavourable condition. If the upper portion of the jejunum be wounded, the prognosis is unfavourable, for then the food is not properly digested, and the patient is likely to die from inanition, and this independently of the peritonitis and other conditions which may arise. If the bowel is not wounded, it should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen. In returning a considerable portion of the small intestine, there is a very great risk in pushing it inwards, especially if the wound be not very large, that it may be pressed up between the fascia trans- versalis and the muscles, or between that fascia and the peri- toneum. The portion of the intestine is thus pushed back out of sight, apparently within the abdomen, but really external to the deep wound in the peritoneum, which is probably small. The protruded portion of the gut will thus become constricted. Hence we should always follow the intestine with the finger, to make sure that it passes fairly back into the abdomen, for I have seen more than one case in which the above-mentioned accident has happened. If we find, on passing the finger deeply, that the opening in the peritoneum is small in proportion to the mass of intestine protruded, we must enlarge the opening so as to allow the free return of the gut into the peritoneal sac. When the intestine is completely returned, we stitch up the external wound, after having first checked all bleeding from its margins. Then a pad and a spica bandage are applied as after the opera- tion for hernia, so as to support the weak point of the abdomen, and prevent protrusion recurring. Opiates must be given, to procure rest and allay irritation in 4 E1132 REGIONAL SURGERY. the part which was protruded, and also to prevent the action of the bowels for a time, for if they begin to act soon after the accident, the irritation produced may give rise to acute peritonitis. In some cases a small portion of gut may be protruded from the deep wound between the muscles or under the integu- ments, without appearing externally. If not noticed, this may become constricted. In such circumstances the symptoms of acute incarceration, or strangulation of the intestine, will super- vene as in hernia; and when there is much pain felt locally, and some fulness near the woimd, with vomiting, or tendency to vomiting, no time should be lost in enlarging the wound, to examine and return the gut or omentum if protruded. Peeitonitis is one of the most dangerous complications of wounds or operations in the abdominal region. The symptoms which indicate it are, great pain, of an acute, burning, and per- sistent (not spasmodic) character, extending gradually from the vicinity of the wound over the whole abdomen. This pain is greatly increased by pressure over the abdominal surface, or by stretching out the lower limbs. The patient generally lies with the limbs drawn up and the thighs flexed on the pelvis, to relieve tension. The features at first are flushed, and have an anxious expression; the skin is hot and dry, and the urinary secretion diminished. The pulse varies from 98 to 120 beats per minute, and has a hard wiry feel. The tongue is at first of white milky appearance, but soon becomes foul and loaded. As the disease proceeds, the belly becomes tense and tympanitic, and vomiting supervenes, at first of a bUious character, but subsequently of dark greenish watery fluid. When the disease progresses to a fatal termination, the vomiting, or the attempt to vomit, be- comes almost incessant. The features become sharp ; the pulse increases in frequency, but becomes weak and compressible, and the patient gradually sinks. The pathological conditions resulting from peritoneal inflam- mation are, increased serous effusion and exudation of plastic lymph. In the acute sthenic form of the disease, the soft plasticPERITONITIS. 1133 exudation is thrown out rapidly in large quantities, matting the convolutions of the intestines by adhesion of their peritoneal surfaces, and interfering with their functions. In cases where the acute action is overcome, and the patient survives, the soft recent adhesions gradually become elongated, and of fibrous cha- racter. In some forms of peritonitis, and when the action is limited, the surface of the membrane loses its smooth glistening character, and becomes rough and granular from deposit of lymph on its surface, a condition often met with in strangulated hernia in a portion of bowel above the protrusion. In some instances, the very intensity of the action would seem to prevent organic change. Thus, in two cases of rupture of the bladder, where the patients suffered from all the symptoms of intense peritonitis, I found no apparent change in the peritoneum, no increased vascu- larity, no recent adhesions or flakes of lymph, and no effusion, with the exception of about two ounces of turbid fluid of a urinous odour in the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. It seemed as if the very excess of the disease had so impaired the vital powers as to prevent the plastic or serous effusion taking place. The prognosis in surgical peritonitis following a wound, or arising during the progress of a hernia, is much less favourable than in ordinary idiopathic peritonitis. The Treatment will be modified by the nature of the wound and other circumstances in individual cases, but the general indications are, to allay pain by the exhibition of opium either alone or in combination with calomel, and given at intervals of three or four hours—warm fomentations over the abdomen at and near the wound, and the application of a blister over the belly at a part more remote from the wound. In surgical peritonitis it is not very often that the patient can bear depletion. In cases of wounds the previous loss of blood, and in cases of hernia the exhaustion consequent on the diseased condition generally, contra-indicate it. In some cases, however, of young robust patients, or when the pain is very acute and the pulse hard and firm, depletion by leeches over the abdo- men or by venesection may be used advantageously at the early period of the diseased action, but scarcely when effusion orREGIONAL SURGERY. 113i tympanitis has set in. The use of laxatives must depend on the state of the viscera. In most cases of surgical peritonitis we require to keep the intestines at rest, for a time at least, and therefore we refrain from using this class of remedies. In your practice as surgeons you will be frequently called on to perform Pakacentesis Abdominis, for the purpose of drawing off collections of serous fluid in cases of ascites. In the majority of such cases the surgeon is called in by the medical attendant to perform the operation, in consequence of the accumulation of fluid interfering with the respiration and circulation. From the very nature of the originating causes of the effusion in most cases of ascites, tapping the abdomen is had recourse to rather as a palliative than as a curative operation. I have, however, seen some instances where a certain amovmt of organic affec- tion of the kidney was the cause, and where all' diuretic remedies had lost their effect, while the operation of paracentesis not only relieved the patients temporarily, but the medicinal remedial agents seemed to regain their effect, and the action of the kidney was restored; and in some of these cases the patients recovered and lived for years afterwards. These, however, are exceptional cases: in most instances the fluid rapidly reaccumu- lates, and the operation requires to be repeated from time to time to afford relief. The operation, therefore, should not be hastily performed at first until other remedies have failed to diminish the collection, or when it is interfering with the function of respiration. In all cases the surgeon must satisfy himself as to the diagnosis and state of the patient before operating, for sad mistakes have occasionally occurred. In ascites the fluid collects gradually, and is not confined at first to one side, as in ovarian disease. The abdomen is equally distended throughout, the fluid lying in front of the intestines, except in some cases where previous adhesions limit the fluid in certain directions. In aU cases, percussion and palpation of the distended abdomen should be carefully employed, to ascertain whether the swelling is caused by fluid, and also the relation of the hollow viscera in each case,1135 PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. for the colon has been punctured through carelessness in operating. It sometimes happens that in cases of acute or subacute perito- nitis a form of acute ascites takes place; but interference in such cases is generally disastrous. The fluid drawn off forms a gela- tinous mass as it cools, and the temporary relief afforded by its removal is soon followed by fresh exacerbation of peritonitis, accompanied with typhoid symptoms. In such cases the symp- toms must be very urgent and painful to warrant interference ; and from what I have seen I would say it is better not to inter- fere at all. When, however, you have satisfied yourself of the propriety of performing paracentesis, the operation, though a simple one in itself, requires some careful arrangement of the patient. If the fluid be carelessly or too rapidly drawn off, fatal syncope might be induced, or distended veins suddenly deprived of the equal flui(^ support might give way, and internal bleeding prove fatal. The patient should be seated on the front of the bed, supported by pillows. A broad cotton binder, split at each end into three tails, is placed round the patient, the ends crossed behind, and given in charge to two assistants, who, by drawing in opposite directions, tighten the binder as the fluid escapes, and thus keep up equal pressure on the abdomen during the operation. A longitudinal slit is made in the bandage in middle line, so as to enable the surgeon to ascertain the position of the umbilicus. The point of election for puncture is about midway between the umbilicus and pubis, or rather nearer the umbilicus. In all cases the patient should be made to empty the bladder, or the catheter should be used as a precautionary measure, to ensure the bladder being below the level of the pubis. The operator then enters the trocar and canula exactly in the middle line corresponding to the linea alba, at the point of election already indicated. If he uses a large trocar, he should, as he withdraws it from the canula, place his finger slightly over the orifice to moderate the gush at first, and then the binder is gradually tightened as the fluid is drawn off; and when the operation is completed, the split ends are brought round and pinned in frontREGIONAL SURGERY. 1136 to give support. A small piece of adhesive plaster is placed over tlie puncture, and the patient placed in bed. During the opera- tion a little wine may be given if the patient feels faint; and he may require to be placed recumbent if very weak. If the puncture be made at the part of the abdomen I have indicated, bleeding cannot take place, except it be from distended veins, or some peculiar condition of the parietes. I recollect one case in which I was asked to operate, because on a previous occa- sion, when the patient was tapped, very profuse arterial haemor- rhage had taken place. On the occasion I performed it all went prosperously, but about a year afterwards the woman died, and I was present at the examination of the body. There was malignant disease of the uterus, and the lower and forepart of the parietal peritoneum was covered by a growth of a pulpy or spongy and vascular character, about three-fourths of an inch in thickness. This had been punctured in the first tapping, and my puncture had merely escaped touching it by about half-an-inch. That, however, was the only case in which I ever knew of active bleed- ing taking place when the puncture was in the middle Hne. It occasionally happens that towards the latter part of the operation the flow of the liquid through the canula is suddenly interrupted : this is due to some part of the omentum or intestine falling over the orifice. In these circumstances, by a slight change in the position of the patient, or by gently pushing aside the obstruc- tion with a probe introduced through the canula, the flow is re- established. Abscesses in the Abdominal Paeietes require great care to be exercised in their diagnosis, in case they should be mistaken for other diseases, or vice, versa, and wrong treatment adopted. I have occasionally seen a low form of suppuration over and along the course of the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, where the progress of the diseased action was slow, and yet attended with great pain and general irritative fever. In such cases the swell- ing is seen and felt superficially, the pus is deeply seated, andPERITYPHLITIS—ILIAC ABSCESS. 1137 requires to be evacuated by cutting down upon the canal, as in a case of hernia, to avoid risk. In the right iliac region meet with inflammatory infiltra- tion of the loose cellular tissue of the iliac fossa around the caput C3ecum, from irritation of that portion of the intestinal canal—Perityphlitis, as it is termed—and this frequently ter- minates in suppuration, attended with great constitutional dis- turbance. We should be very cautious before making incisions in such cases, on the assumption that suppuration has occurred, for in this form of iliac cellulitis there may be great effusion and hardness, vpith rigors and sympathetic fever, and yet under proper antiphlogistic treatment the general symptoms may abate, and the local effusion disappear, without pus being formed, so that it is well to wait a little for decided symptoms of suppura- tion before cutting through the parietes. When an opening is indicated, the incision should be made in the line of Poupart's ligament, near the anterior superior spine of the ilium, unless the abscess be pointing elsewhere, and then we follow the indication afforded by the natural process. The after-treatment is the same as that of an ordinary abscess, only we require to watch lest ulceration of the bowel should occur, and faecal fistula should form. In cases of circumscribed abscess in the iliac fossa in connection with the intestine, the ulceration is sometimes large, and leads to artificial anus. This form of artificial anus is said to be more difficult to heal than that arising in gangrenous hernia, but my experience of a few cases of this kind, which have come under my own care, is different. They all did well, the opening contracted, and the feeculent matters gradually passed by their natural channel as the wound healed, and no surgical interference was required. When purulent collections in the iliac fossa on the sub- peritoneal surface of the fascia are chronic and diffuse, they may closely simulate femoral hernia. The internal cribriform fascia in the first instance, and next the external cribriform fascia, yield before the gradual pressure of the pus, and a1138 REGIONAL SURGERY. rounded swelling is felt at the femoral ring. The swelling is projected more distinctly when the patient coughs, and it com- municates a feeling of impulse to the finger. There is no acute paui; merely uneasiness. When the patient is placed recum- bent, the swelling returns into the abdomen, and if the finger be placed over or pressed upwards into the femoral ring, and the patient desired to rise up, the swelling is retained ; but when the pressure of the finger is removed, it again reappears. Now, these symptoms are very similar to those of femoral hernia, but there is usually something in the appearance of the patient, or in the history of the case, that leads us, if we be on our guard, to arrive at a right conclusion. Amongst other diagnostics, I would direct your attention to the fact that in such cases, al- though we can reduce the swelling readily enough, and can retain it, as already stated, by pressure for a time, yet gradually it descends ; or if a truss has been used, the swelling makes its way from under the pressure, however accurately the truss may fit. In such cases the ordinary treatment of chronic abscess must be had recourse to. The terms Lumbar and Psoas Abscess are used to denote subacute or chronic purulent collections arising in the sub- stance of the psoas muscle or the cellular texture around it, and are very generally connected with caries of the vertebrse. Some- times the collection of matter is somewhat circumscribed, and projects or points in the lumbar region at the anterior free margin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and then it is termed a lumbar abscess. More frequently, however, the pus burrows down along the psoas muscle into the iliac region, passing below the fascia iliaca, and points at the upper and inner part of the thigh under the iliac portion of the fascia lata, having followed the course of the psoas tendon to its insertion, and in such cir- cumstances it is termed a psoas abscess. In treating this form of abscess, whether we open it in the lumbar or crural region, we must bear in mind that it generally arises in connection withLUMBAR ABSCESS. 1139 an uiiliealthy state of the constitution, and hence that, under any method of treatment, irritative fever may supervene. When the matter is homogeneous, and not curdy, we may draw off the pus with the exhausting syringe, or with tubing under water, as I described when lecturing on chronic abscess ; but if, as is generally the case, the pus is of unequal consistence, it is better to make a free incision, to permit of the pus being fully evacu- ated, and in doing this you may use a piece of folded lint, soaked in carbolised oil, laid over the part. The incision should be made through one fold of the lint, and then the other fold allowed to fall over it; the pus escapes by the sides, or soaks tliroixgh, and when the pus has all escaped, a fresh piece of oiled lint is laid over the other, and covered with gutta percha tissue, and a soft towel folded is placed over all, supported by a bandage. If any irritation follows, this dressing must be removed, and ordi- nary poultices applied. Subsequently the cavity may be washed out with weak carbolic lotion, or the chlorinated soda lotion, or watery solution of iodine. When the abscess projects, and re- quires to be opened in the inguino-femoral region, you must keep in mind the position of the great vessels which are sometimes displaced by the collection; but the more general risks are injury of the saphena vein, or branches of the inguino-pudic artery, or branches of the internal circumflex artery; and hence the inci- sions should be made after careful examination of the prominent part of the swelling, to avoid any large superficial vein, and to ascertain that no artery is felt pulsating at the point you in- tend to make your incision or enter the trocar.LECTURE ex. Hernia : definition of the term—Mechanism of Abdominal Hernia, and Nature of the Protrusion—Formation of the Hernial Sac, and its relations to the Visceral Peritoneum—Structural Changes which the Sac and its contents undergo—the Fascia Propria : whence derived and how distinguished—Con- tents of the Sac—Enterocele—Epiphlocele—Entero-epiphlocele—General Diagnostics and Classification of Hernise : its Symptoms and predisposing and exciting Causes—Mr. Vincent's views on the Action of the Diaphragm —Treatment of Reducible Hernia—Application and Adaptation of Trusses. In entering on the subject of Abdominal Heenia, I cannot help feeling how inadequately I can treat of so important a department of surgery in the space I can devote to it in a course of lectures in which so many other diseases must be considered; and I feel the difiiculty all the more perhaps, because I have had, owing to various circumstances, a larger amount of experience in hernial cases than falls to the lot of most surgeons. This renders the task of condensation more difficult; for with the practical knowledge that there are scarcely any two cases of hernia exactly alike, and that these individual peculiarities have important bearings on the practice in each case, it is not easy to lay down a few general principles when exceptional conditions are so numerous. The value of experience in such circumstances is rather in regard to details and emergencies in complicated cases. I shall, however, attempt to bring before you, as succinctly as I can some general principles of action embodying and founded on results tested by my own experience. By the term hernia we mean a protrusion of a part of the viscera through some weak point in the abdominal parietes, generally through some natural canal or opening, which has become dilated, or through some adventitious aperture, caused by separa- tion of aponeurotic fibres, from distension of the abdominal parietes. Except in cases of direct penetrating wounds, pro-1141 NATURE OF THE PROTRUSION. trusion from forcible laceration of the abdominal walls must be very rare, if it ever occurs. Hence the popular term, Euptu.re, so frequently used to designate this disease, is an improper one, and likely to mislead as to the true state of matters. I have said that the protrusion usually takes place through some natural opening or along some natural canal. It does so by slowly distending the apertures through which it passes. Or it may happen, that the natural structures passing through a canal, may, owing to disease, become increased in bulk, dilate the passage, and subsequently return to their natural size, or undergo atrophy. In consequence of these changes the calibre of the canal is relatively increased, and a hernial protrusion will be likely to occur. Thus I have known a case in which, after subacute orchitis and swelling of the spermatic cord, having existed for some time, these structures have become completely atrophied, and a hernial protrusion has taken place and become strangulated. The same tendency exists after the cure of cir- socele, where the inguinal canal has been dilated by the varicose veins of the cord. Again, in consequence of continued distension of the abdominal parietes, from any cause, the fibres of the aponeurotic portions become stretched and separated, or apertures for the transmission of blood-vessels may become dilated, and thus weak points are created, through which, under certain circum- stances, hemiae may occur. We have examples of these last-men- tioned conditions leading to hernia, after ascites, or in females after repeated pregnancies. In such cases the textures which have been temporarily distended become relaxed, and their fibres stretched; and under these circumstances ventral or umbilical hernia frequently occurs, without any rupture of the parietal structures. Having considered the manner in which hernia usually takes place, I next proceed to point out to you the nature or character of the protrusion. In general terms, a hernial protrusion may be said to consist of some portion of the hollow viscera of the abdomen, or of the floating omentum, or of both, invested by a protrusion of the parietal peritoneum, which is termed the hernial sac. TheREGIONAL SURGERY. 1142 nature of the hernial sac, in relation to its contents and the abdominal walls, and the structural changes which it undergoes, are of great practical importance in reference to diagnosis and treatment. We also require to notice the exceptional cases in which the sac is absent. If we examine the interior of the abdomen in its natural state, we observe that the peritoneum is reflected from off the viscera, on the inner surface of the parietes, to which it is closely connected at some points, but more loosely at others, to admit of the varying distension and movements of the abdominal viscera. When we look at the parietal peritoneum where it covers the deep opening of the inguinal canal, or the deep femoral ring, we notice a slight indentation or depression, corresponding to these apertures ; digital fosScE of the peritoneum, as they are termed anatomically, from the resemblance of the depression to a slight indentation caused by the tip of the finger. ' When a hernia begins in either of the situations indicated, the pressure of the descending protrusion impinges on this shallow pouch, which gradually yields before it so as to form its investing covering or sac, and so in other forms of hernia with slight modifications. If you have followed my description of the for- mation of the sac from the parietal peritoneum, and recollect the relations of the visceral peritoneum, you will easily under- stand that the exceptional cases in which the protruded viscera have no peritoneal sac are rare, and almost Kmited to hernia of the iliac aspect of a portion of the caput coecum coli where that viscus is not invested by the serous membrane. It does not follow, however, that the sac is absent in all cases where the caput coecum coli forms the protrusion. I have operated on cases of both inguinal and femoral hernia containing the caput coecum ; in aU of them the peritoneal sac was present as usual, and opened, though in reducing the intestine its extra-peritoneal surface came into view. I apprehend that the manner in which the ccecum descends makes the difference. If it be pushed down, so turned on itself as to present its iliac or extra-peritoneal aspect, then the sac will be wanting ; but in my own cases I have never met with this condition. Congenital hernia isTHE HERNIAL SAC. 1143 sometimes mentioned as another example, but not correctly, for in it, that continuation of the general peritoneum forming the tunica vaginalis is the sac of the protrusion. The serous sac projected before a hernia is at first loosely connected to the surrounding textures, and its contents are free and unad- herent. In old hernise, however, the sac is generally more or less adherent by its posterior aspect, and very frequently closely ad- herent to the parts more immediately covering it. In small femoral hernije we often find the fascial coverings, the glands, and the sac, all inseparably blended. Perhaps the most important conditions of the sac are those structural changes which take place in it, and the adventitious connections formed between it and its contents. The portion of peritoneum forming the sac is liable to altera- tion in consequence of long-continued irritation; abnormal nutrition and inflammatory action, resulting in plastic deposit, thickening, and adhesions of the visceral contents to the sac. These adhesions may be either short and close, or long and filamentous, and of course interfere more or less with the functions of the viscera and the reducibility of the hernia. The whole sac may be enormously thickened and altered in appearance and structure, so as to lose all semblance of serous membrane as you may observe in the sac of an old scrotal hernia. Generally the body and fundus of the sac retain their natural appearance, or are but little altered; whilst the neck, or those parts which are subjected to constriction and pressure by the resisting structures of the apertures or canals through which the hernia is protruded, become thickened, con- densed, permanently narrowed, and resistant. It is owing to this alteration in structure that the neck of the sac is so frequently the seat of constriction in hernia. In the same changes we find an explanation of constrictions at different parts of the sac—termed by French writers " sacs aux collets." A protrusion has existed of a small size for some time, probably a truss has been worn, and the neck of the sac has become contracted and thickened; a larger protrusion pushes down before it the old sacREGIONAL SURGERY. 1144 •with its constricted neck, and this may give rise to special diffi- culties in operating should the hernia become strangulated. (See case of Peter B. in Clinical Cases.) When the sac is thin, the continuous pressure of its contents seems to efface it at some parts. I have seen two instances of this in old ventral herniae, where the omentum was adherent to the subcutaneous fat, whilst the sac was perfect at all other points. This change, how- ever, must be exceedingly rare, and I have never met with it in any form of hernia but the ventral. The coverings of a hernial protrusion vary according to the part at which the protrusion occurs; but there is one covering which requires to be specially noticed — namely, that layer of condensed fibro-cellular tissue termed the fascia propria of a hernia. This, the immediately investing covering of the sac, is derived from the margins of the deep opening through which the hernia has protruded. The deep ring or aperture is in some fascial or aponeurotic structure, and the margins of the opening are not defined and abrupt, but are gradually prolonged downwards in a funnel form. Thus, for example, in oblique inguinal hernia, the margins of the deep ring in the fascia transversalis are gradually prolonged on the spermatic cord; and when the hernia occurs, the sac and its contents are insinuated beneath this layer in front of the cord, and hence it receives the title of the fascia propria of oblique inguinal hernia. Now, this layer of thin condensed fibro-cellular tissue, from whatever source derived, lies in close contact with the sac, and is moulded to the form of the protrusion which it invests. Like the sac itself, this fascia is subject to pressure, and gradually becomes thickened and condensed; portions of its deep surface, or of the fine extra-peritoneal cellular tissue often adhere to or closely embrace the neck of the sac, so as to form a constriction which may appear to be in the structure of the sac itself; and yet, by carefully dividing this condensed tissue, the constriction may be relieved and the protrusion returned without opening the sac; and it is therefore important to keep this in mind in reference to the extra-peritoneal operation forCONTENTS OF SAC—DIAGNOSIS. 1145 strangulated hernia. Another thing to recollect is, that during an operation, this texture in cases of strangulated hernia, espe- cially in femoral hernia, is fine, smooth, and not unlike the sac itself when closely applied over the swelling. You will, how- ever, generally be able to satisfy yourself of its real nature by observing that it is prolonged indefinitely upwards on the swell- ing, owing to its continuity with the margins of the aperture. Whereas, when the sac is fairly exposed, the sharp defined mar- gins of the aperture can be felt, though tightly constricting the protrusion. The contents of the hernial sac may consist either of intestine alone, constituting what is termed enterocele, or of omentum only—epiplocele, or of both intestine and omentum—entero- epiplocele. The portions of the hollow viscera which may form the contents of the sac are various. Different parts of the colon or of the small intestine, and even the urinary bladder, have been found in hernial tumours. The portions of the intestine, however, most frequently met with are the ileum, occasionally the lower part of the jejunum, of the small intes- tine and the caput coecum, or part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon in the case of the large intestine. The presence of omentum in the sac will modify both the physical and general diagnostics in reducible hernia, and will to some extent protect the intestine in cases of strangulated hernia, by diminishing the direct effects of the constriction on the intestine. The diagnostic symptoms of hernia, in reference to other abdominal swellings, will be better discussed when speaking of the special herniae. At present I shall merely indicate the absolute diagnostics in a case of simple reducible hernia. These may be described in general terms as consisting of a colourless elastic swelling, more or less distinct, at some part of the abdominal parietes, which has either appeared gradually, or been first noticed after some sudden effort. When the hand or finger is applied lightly over the swelling, and the patient is desired to cough, a distinct and direct impulse is communicated to the tumour, and probably an increase in its bulk takes place. OnREGIONAL SURGERY. 1146 laying the patient in the recumbent posture, the protruded parts generally return spontaneously into the abdomen, or the slightest pressure effects their reduction. Itj after reduction of the swell- ing, the finger be passed upwards, the aperture through which the protrusion had descended will be felt; and if the finger be kept there, and the patient desired to resume the erect position, though impulse will be felt against the finger, the protrusion will be retained. On removing the finger, it will again descend. If the protrusion is composed of intestine, the return of the gut is attended with a peculiar gurgKng sound. When the protrusion is omental, the swelling is not elastic, as in the case of intes- tine ; it has a doughy feeling, the impulse or coughing is less distinct, percussion over the swelling is dull, and the reduction of the mass is not so readily accomplished as in the case of protruded intestine—the last portion requiring the same amount of manipulation to return it as the mass, and there is no gurgling sound as in the case of the intestinal protrusion. The clearness or dulness on percussion cannot be altogether trusted to, for in many cases of hernia the intestines are dis- tended with faeces, solid or fluid, with little or no gaseous con- tents, and then percussion gives a dull sound. The general symptoms present in a reducible hernia are not very marked. In some instances, when the protrusion first comes down, the patient feels sick, has griping pains in the abdomen and in the swelling. In cases of large omental pro- trusion there is usually a peculiar dragging sensation at the stomach, accompanied with nausea, and even slight vomiting, although there may be no constriction. In many cases of reducible hernia the patients feel so little uneasiness or pain that they too often overlook or under-estimate the serious cha- racter of the swelling, and satisfy themselves with returning it when uneasy, without even consulting a medical practitioner, or wearing a truss. We now proceed to consider the caixses which lead to the protrusion. These are divided into predisposing and exciting. The predisposition to hernia consists in any defect, either1147 EXCITING CA USES OF HERNIA. congenital or acquired, in the abdominal parietes, which renders them less able to resist impulses which project the viscera against the weakened parts, and are similar, or rather the same, conditions I have already mentioned when describing the descent of a hernia. The exciting causes are chiefly due to the action of the abdominal muscles upon the contained viscera, forcing them .towards the weak points in the parietes. This may occur under different circumstances—as, for example, from some sudden and violent effort; or as the result of frequent though less violent muscular efforts continued during a long period of time, as in certain chronic diseases, such as stricture, or enlarged prostate, when the abdominal muscles are called into action to assist the muscular coats of the bladder to overcome the obstruction ; or in cases of chronic bronchitis, where the diaphragm and other abdominal muscles are caUed into action by the constant efforts in coughing. In either the sudden or more chronic form, if you recollect the elastic and mobile nature of the floating viscera, and consider the effect produced on them when pressed on from above and below, by the opposing forces of the diaphragm and levator ani, and from before and laterally by the recti, oblique, and transversales muscles, you will understand how the elastic mass so com- pressed tends to escape towards the least resisting points of the parietes, and to be protruded, either suddenly or gradually, at one or other of the weak points, according to circumstances. In regard to the part at which the protrusion may take place, that will depend partly on some predisposing weakness in struc- ture, as already explained ; partly on the shape of the abdomen and pelvis ; and partly on the form of the diaphragm, as tending to cause the force to impinge upon certain points rather than others. The late Mr. Vincent, in his work on Surgical Practice, explains this effect produced by the diaphragm by reference to its figure and the curves of its muscular fibres. " The figure of the diaphragm is that of an arched dome; but having a tendinous expansion in the middle, it is divided into two arches of muscular fibres. Now it is clear that if a muscular fibre 4 FREGIONAL SURGERY. 1148 take a curved form, every point in the curve will act in the direction of the versed sine to that point, or what comes to the same thing, to the perpendicular of the tangent of the point. If the curves of the diaphragm were those of a sphere, these perpendiculars would all concentrate in one point; but this not being the case, the perpendiculars will be directed more copiously on some directions than on others—that is, the action of the muscle will be transmitted with greater force to some parts of the boundaries of the abdomen than to others, and thus determine the seat of hernia. If the chest be narrow the direction of the accumulated impulses may fall low, as well as if the distance from the diaphragm to the pelvis be but little, and so an increased impulse may be directed to the femoral ring, accounting for this seat of hernia in females. It is by no means uncommon to see an immense bulging above Poupart's ligament. The aponeurosis of the external oblique appears to be extenuated in these cases, and to yield prodigiously, so as to put on the appearance of a ventral rupture, the part being powerfully forced out on the patient's coughing. This is clearly the effect of the action of the diaphragm, by which the accumulated forces are directed to this spot." We come now to the classification of hernise, under the two heads of Eeducible and Irreducible. These terms scarcely require any explanation. By the former we mean a hernia which can be reduced or returned into the abdominal cavity by gentle manipulation and attention to position, or which even returns spontaneously when the patient is placed in the recumbent posture. The objective and general symptoms of reducible hernia I have already described when speaking of the diagnosis of hernia, and I need not repeat them, but merely advert to its Treatment, which consists in the reduction and retention of the protrusion. Eeduction is accomplished by placing the patient recumbent, with the shoulders slightly raised, and the lower limbs flexed on the pelvis, so as to relax the abdominal muscles; whilst, to prevent the undue action of the diaphragm, or straining, the patient is desired to keep hisRETENTION—REDUCTIVE APPARATUS. 1149 mouth open. Then, whilst with one hand the surgeon presses the swelling from below upwards, he, with the fingers of his other hand, regulates the direction of the pressure at the neck of the swelling; prevents the protrusion from overlapping the margins of the opening and being pressed against them ; and guides it backwards into the cavity. In many cases the protru- sion recedes the moment the patient lies down. Eeduction having been accomplished, we then take measures to retain the viscera within the abdominal cavity. This is effected by means of pressure accurately applied over the aperture through which the hernia had descended. As such pressure requires to be maintained, it can only be done effectually by means of special apparatus termed trusses ; but, in the first instance, until a truss be fitted, we may use a com- press, supported by a broad spica bandage, to prevent the pro- trusion returning. The proper application of a truss, and the form of truss best adapted for each case, are very important considerations, and the surgeon should be thoroughly conversant with the different forms of trusses and the principles on which they should be fitted, and also be able to take the proper measure- ments, and give general directions when the apparatus has to be obtained from a distance. It is impossible to do more than throw out some hints as to these points. The form of truss to be used will depend on the special kind of hernia, and the condi- tions present in different patients. In many cases the ordinary spring truss answers sufficiently well, if properly fitted and ad- justed, and in some instances it is more effective than any other, whilst its price renders it more within the means of the poorer classes, in whom hernia is very common. But it has some dis- advantages. It is liable to shift, owing to the movements of the patient; or, if the spring is sufficiently strong to prevent that, the pressure exerted by it cannot be easily borne. If it is selected for a case of inguinal hernia, care should be taken that the pad, whilst sufficiently large to diffuse the pressure, should not be so long as to rest on the spine of the pubis, as that tends1150 REGIONAL SURGERY. to prevent the truss pressing on the position of the deep ring and canal, where the compression is chiefly wanted. Pressure over the external ring merely prevents the rupture passing into the scrotum. The form of truss I prefer in general is what is termed " the opposite-sided truss," or " Salmon and Ody's truss." In this apparatus the spring passes from the centre of the back of the patient round the side opposite to that on which the hernia is situated, so that the pressure of the head is made ob- liquely from below upwards, so as to counteract directly the line in which the impulse of the descending protrusion is greatest. This form of truss is usually fitted with a ball-and-socket joint at the junction of the spring with the head or compress of the truss. Thus the apparatus is not displaced by the movements of the body, and the spring does not require to be so strong as in the common truss. At the same time, the pressure thus exerted is chiefly at one point, viz. the centre of the compress, and the hernia is apt to tilt up and escape from i;nder the mar- gins of the compress. To prevent this, and to maintain the direction of the force, I very generally use a back lever-spring added to the head. To some extent this interferes with the action of the ball-and-socket joint, but the accuracy with which the pressure is adapted more than compensates for that. In cases of femoral hernia the opposite-sided truss is decidedly pre- ferable to any other, but the head should be formed to fit the triangular hollow of the groin, and its surface so shaped as to project deeply under the falciform edge as it were. The form of the head of Eagland's spiral truss, fitted to the opposite side spring, and secured by the back-lever pressure, answers very well in most cases. In some patients I have found the use of a small piece of soft sponge, applied over the femoral ring, and sup- ported by the truss, of service where great difficulty was ex- perienced in retaining femoral rupture. The following measurements should enable the instrument- maker to furnish the proper size. As an error of an inch may alter the whole proportion of the truss, it is necessary to give the full circumference of the body. Place the end of the1151 EFFECT OF THE TRUSS IN CHILDREN. measuring-tape over the lower aperture, pass it slopingly upwards to about two inclies below the crest of the ilium, across the back to the same point on the opposite side, and from that, sloping down again, to the opening. The measure in inches will give the size of the truss required. State the kind of hernia, and the side on which it is situated. Whilst in adults afflicted with hernia the use of the truss can only be considered as a palliative, in children a carefully- applied truss, worn continuously, very generally effects a radical cure, by retaining the protrusion and compressing the canal through which it had descended; for, as the abdominal cavity enlarges, and its parietes are developed, the obliquity of the canal increases, so that the tendency to hernia is checked by the altered relations of the openings, whilst at the same time the textures are condensed by the continued pressure. In applying trusses in children, the pads or compresses should be of a flattened form, and not conical, for the latter form has the tendency to keep open the aperture and prevent permanent closure. This error is often committed in fitting trusses for umbilical hernia in infants, in which it is not uncommon to find the truss fitted with a conical or button-shaped pad, with the view of pressing into the aperture through which the rupture emerges. This may, no doubt, directly prevent the escape of the protrusion, but it also effectually maintains the aperture patent, and so prevents a radical cure. Operations for effecting the radical cure of hernia, though connected with the treatment of reducible herniee, will be better understood after considering the special hernise, and the opera- tive procedure in strangu.lated herniae.LECTURE CXI. Irreducible Hernia—Causes wMch lead to the Clironic Condition—General Sjonp- toms and Treatment—Acute Incarceration and Strangulation—Explanation of the Mechanical Causes leading to Constriction—Pathological Changes, and the Symptoms which attend them—Taxis : Principles and Methods to he followed in using it—Cautions regarding it—Dangers of Delay when the Taxis fails, or in waiting for urgent Symptoms to warrant the Operation— Causes of Death in twenty-six Fatal Cases. Irreducible Herni^e require to be subdivided according to the causes which oppose their reduction. Thus, a hernia may be irreducible owing to adhesions between the protruded por- tion of bowel or omentum and the hernial sac, which prevent the contents of the sac being returned into the abdomen. In such cases the changes have probably taken place slowly ; and although the protrusion is so far fixed as to prevent its reduc- tion, it is seldom so largely adherent as to prevent the portion of intestine being affected by the peristaltic motion of the bowels ; and so its function, though perhaps somewhat impeded, is not in- terrupted, nor indeed materially affected. The patient may suffer occasionally from irritation in the hernia, flatulent distension and sluggish action of the bowels, but in general there are no marked symptoms connected with this state ; of course the condition of the patient is always extremely hazardous, as he is liable to inflammation, or strangulation of the protrusion being induced by various causes, such as external injuries or disorder of his digestive organs. Secondly, a hernia may be irreducible from some alteration in form and increased deposit of fat in a portion of protruded omentum which has been left unreduced for some time, and has become so altered in form or bulk as to be no longer capable of being returned through the opening by which it had descended. In this case, if the patient applies for surgical aid1153 CAUSES OF IRREDUCIBILITY. before adliesions take place, reduction may be gradually accom- plished by using means for reducing the fatty textures, such as low diet, and perfect rest in the recumbent position, combined with cold and graduated pressure over the hernia. I have in several cases succeeded in returning such omental hernise, some- times after this treatment had been prolonged for three or four weeks, and in some cases after a shorter probation. Thirdly, a hernia may be irreducible owing to its great bulk, and the altered capacity of the abdominal cavity. In other words, the protruded viscera have been so long and gradually dis- placed from their original cavity that they have formed a sort of new abdomen for themselves, whilst the abdominal cavity has accommodated itself to the remaining contents, and its parietes have contracted so as to diminish its capacity, and render it in- capable of receiving its former contents. This condition is some- times seen in large ventral, scrotal, and even, though rarely, in femoral hernise. The general symptoms induced by this state of matters are chiefly those of flatulent distension, and occasional attacks of pain in the hernia from irritation of the bowels; but the condition has occurred so gradually that the patients have almost become habituated to occasional attacks, and seem to suffer little and think less about the hernia, until something leads to the more urgent symptoms of threatened strangulation. It is of great im- portance, however, that the surgeon shordd bear in mind the altered relations and capacity of the protruded viscera and the abdominal cavity, in reference to operations when required in such cases ; for were he to make a very free incision, so as to lay open a large extent of the sac, his position might be very em- barrassing. All he requires to do is to divide the constriction at the neck of the protrusion, and return as much as he can of the contents, so as to relieve strangulation : he cannot expect to be able to return the whole when the abdomen is so altered in capacity in relation to the protrusion. In the general treatment of all irreducible hernige, the patient should be directed to wear a hollow truss to protect the hernia, and prevent further protru- sion occurring, and gradually to repress the existing protrusion.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1154 The patient should also be cautioned to take special care to regulate the action of the bowels, and avoid all sources of irri- tation of the digestive organs. The foregoing examples of irreducible herniae are not neces- sarily attended with any immediate dangers, although all of them render the life of the patient precarious. But when a hernia becomes irreducible, from acute incarceration or strangu- lation, the case is very different. Then the danger is immi- nent, and the symptoms soon denote the urgency of the case. Such acute incarceration and strangulation depend on constric- tion of the protrusion, leading at first to interrupted function in the protruded intestine, followed by peritonitis, and more or less rapidly by mortification of the protruded parts, the result of complete strangulation. The term. Incarceration in hernia, is used by some authors to include herniae imprisoned by adhe- sions or altered bulk from chronic changes ; but I think it better to confine it to denote the early stage of acute constriction, before complete strangulation takes place. There is, perhaps, no disease in which it is more necessary for the surgeon to have clear ideas as to the exact conditions with which he has to deal, than in acutely-incarcerated or strangulated hernia. The very term constriction, though proper when cor- rectly understood, is apt to mislead, by giving the idea that some active contraction of the apertures or structure, through which the protrusion emerges, has taken place. We have seen that the openings through which herniae pass, are formed in fas- cial or aponeurotic structures. It is at these apertures, or at the contracted portion of the sac, or in the resistant condensed fibro- cellular substance, external to and around the neck of the sac, that the cause of constriction exists. The muscular textures crossing over the protrusion may compress it and oppose its re- duction to some degree, and favour congestion in it; but they can never absolutely constrict it; and, besides, by various methods, we can obviate muscular contraction ; but, I repeat, it is in the aponeurotic and condensed fibro-cellular structures that the resistant cause of constriction is to be found. In one instance.now A HERNIA BECOMES STRANGULATED. 1155 indeed, I found the cause of constriction in a vessel circling round the neck of the protruded intestine ; but the case is unique, and not to be included when considering the general causes of constriction. Holding the views I have expressed, we get rid of the idea of contraction of muscles constricting the hernia, and look on such muscles as merely complicating the condition of incarceration or strangulation ; and I now proceed to point out how the protrusion becomes constricted. In the majority of cases of hernia which become strangulated, the protru- sion has existed for some time previously, often for many years, and the openings through which the hernia descends are dilated, not contracted ; and this condition, at first sight, seems difficult to reconcile with the idea of constriction. But the dilatation just amounts to this, that the thinner and less resisting margins of the apertures in the fascial textures have yielded to the gradual eccentric pressure of the hernial protrusion. These thin margins, so forced back, condense and render the denser struc- tures more resistant, so that they oppose further dilatation—the circle of the opening offers passive resistance. If under these circumstances a fresh portion of intestine or omentum descends, and if the protruded gut becomes distended with faeces or flatus, or the omentum becomes congested, there arises an altered pro- portion between the protrusion and the opening or canal through which it descended. The neck of the protrusion is distended and pressed against the resistant margins, and is indented by them. Then irritation of the gut and congestion from interrupted venoiis circulation follow, till increased congestion, swelling, and distension, terminate in complete strangulation. To make my meaning clear to a demonstration, I take this unyielding metallic ring, and I pass through it a loop of intestine. In its partially-distended state it can be easily pushed back through the ring, but I distend the gut by inflation. As I do so, you notice the altered proportion of the protruded part of the in- testine. Still, by a little management, the gut can be reduced, but now I distend it fully. You see how the gut is indented1156 REGIONAL SURGERY. by the resisting ring, and swells out over its margins, and can no longer be pushed back through it. This explains the nature of mechanical constriction in strangulated hernia. It is entirely passive as regards the hernial apertures, and depends on various conditions leading to distension or swelling of the contents of the hernial sac ; and the thickened neck of the sack, as I have stated formerly, is very frequently the cause of this passive con- striction. The pathological changes and symptoms which follow the early stage of acute incarceration, leading to strangulation, are, first, irritation and swelling of the protruded gut, and this is usually attended with some nausea and griping pains in the abdomen, and tenderness in the hernial protrusion. The peri- staltic movements of the gut are interfered with, and the return of venous blood is prevented, so that congestion ensues, gases become evolved in the gut; thus the hernia becomes more and more tense and distended, and more and more pressed out towards the resisting edges, so that these appear to cut into the hernia. It is important to remember these conditions while applying taxis. At this stage of incarceration certain symptoms are produced. The patient complains of pain in the part, from the gut coming in contact with the sharp edge of the fibrous textiire. Some irritation is also produced in the part above the constriction. There is pain from the umbilicus towards the hernial protrusion, a feeling of nausea is set up, and the patient vomits, especially if the hernia has come down suddenly. Some- times the irritation is communicated to the part of the bowel below the hernia, and causes an attack of diarrhoea. The pain and distension become greater, the intestine becomes distended, so that the natural peristaltic movements of the bowel are arrested or inverted. The pain and tension in the tumour increase ; the abdomen is tense, tender, and tympanitic, and the vomit- ing becomes more frequent. The pulse at this time is quick, the skin is hot and feverish, the tongue moist and loaded, and there is generally headache. In old people, or in chronic cases, the symptoms are not always so iirgent. The vomitingSYMPTOMS OF STRANGULATIOlSi. 1157 may undergo marked remissions ; it may be present at first, and then become less violent, so that we might think the patient somewhat better ; but this often depends on the stomach being empty, and vomiting returns if liquid or solid food be taken. Then the symptoms become more serious. The tumour be- comes less painful, perhaps, but the integuments covering it become of a dusky red hue ; the abdomen becomes more tympa- nitic ; the pulse small and irregular ; and the vomiting changes in character. At first the matter vomited may be greenish in colour, but ultimately the contents of the gut are vomited, and —from the arrested peristaltic movements—faeculent vomiting takes place. The upper portion of the bowel is obstructed from the first. Occasionally, when the portion of intestine which has been strangulated is very high up, we may have the appearance of bilious stools even when in reality strangulation is most com- plete ; but this is not common. When the bowels have been emptied at first, we find that nothing more passes, for nothing can pass from above the constric- tion, unless in cases where only a portion of the canal of the gut is constricted. The skin gets cold and clammy, the features become sharp ; there is constant hiccup, and, unless relieved by operation, the patient dies from gangrene of the intestine, with all the symptoms of collapse. Before this takes place, however, the local symptoms are usually well marked. Emphysema takes place under the skin, the tension becomes diminished, and the tumour feels doughy or emphysematous. The bowel gives way into the sac, and unhealthy sero-purulent matter forms in the subcutaneous tissue over the hernia. These are the typical symptoms of a hernia passing from the state of acute incarcera- tion to strangulation. We may also have all the violent and1158 REGIONAL SURGERY. dangerous symptoms present from a portion of omentum be- coming strangulated, though in such cases we may have the free movements of the bowels, as the bowel itself is not con- stricted. In some instances only a part of the intestine is nipped in the constriction, and then also the bowels may con- tinue to act. (Fig. 35.) In old people the symptoms go on more slowly, and insidiously. Often the pulse does not rise, and there is simply tension of the abdomen. The bowel is sometimes rapidly constricted, and the gangrene is confined to the portion pro- truded. Long before complete strangulation the constriction may lead to peritonitis, with pain and tympanitic tension of the abdomen, and pain on pressure. The peritonitis generally commences at the constricted portion, spreads along the peritoneal surface of the bowel, and then attacks the parietal peritoneum. This is a most dangerous condition, almost as much so as gangrene itself Peritonitis is sometimes supposed to supervene in consequence of the operation ; but I never saw a case of peritonitis in hernia where the peritonitis did not exist prior to the operation. We sometimes find a portion of the bowel which has been protruded retaining the indentation caused by the stricture, even after the constriction has been removed, thus causins: intestinal obstruction, either complete or partial. Occasionally the portion which has been constricted gives way some days after the operation, and then the symptoms are those of acute peritonitis rapidly supervening. This arises from ulceration of the mucous membrane of the bowel, the peritoneal coat only giving way at the last, and so perforation takes place, either by a large rent or numerous minute apertures. (Plate li. Figs. 2 and 3.) I have also known this to occur when the hernia had been reduced by taxis—in one case eight days after reduction. It is most important, as I have already said, that you should fuUy understand the methods by which, and the principles on which, the surgeon interferes in cases of hernia, because promptitude in treatment is essential to a successful result. iTHE TAXIS. 1159 In a case of incarcerated or strangulated hernia, where it cannot be easily reduced, the surgeon must have recourse to other measures ; and the first of these is the Taxis. Although, in the ordinary reduction, the pressure by which the hernia is returned may be called taxis, yet by taxis we mean reduction by mani- pulation, where the hernia is not, as usual, reducible by the patient, and where a certain amount of incarceration has occurred. The first thing to do is to ascertain whether the difficulty in the reduction does not depend on the protrusion having been twisted upon itself, as very often happens in femoral hernia, where, from the way in which the hernia descends under the falciform edge, the body bends upon the neck, and tends to pass towards the abdomen. In such cases, therefore, we cannot press back the tumour directly, for then the pressure would not be in the axis of the opening through which the tumour has passed. Hence we must always attend to the position of the tumour, and its relations to the canal or opening through which it has passed. Again, the tumour may yield to a certain extent in relation to the canal, but if it be very bulky, and if we press directly upwards or backwards, we press the mass of distended intes- tine and omentum over the margins of the opening, and thus create a difficulty. Hence attention to the position of the tumour, and the mode of dealing with the bulk which is protruded, are very important in attempting reduction. Often no difficulty occurs in reducing the bowel, if these little points be attended to. The difficulty, however, more generally occurs from a certain amount of incarceration and constriction being present, and a loss of proportion between the protruded parts and the opening through which they originally passed. In reducing such a hernia in the early stage, when the patient begins to feel a little nausea or vomiting and pain in the tumour and abdomen, but without any great general disten- sion of the abdomen, and where there is no reason to suppose there is any absolute strangulation, the first thing to do is to relax the parts, and place the patient in as favourable a1160 REGIONAL SURGERY. position as possible for the taxis. Muscular fibres never form a complete constriction in hernia, but they may give rise to some congestion by pressing on the tumour, and hence we relax all muscular fibres as far as possible by placing the patient in certain positions ; so also with all tense fascial margins. Thus, in inguinal hernia, we generally bend the body forwards and raise the lower limbs, so as to relax the anterior abdominal muscles, and get over certain obstacles to the reduction. In femoral hernia, again, we turn the thigh inwards, and flex it slightly upon the pelvis, so as to relax the falciform edge of the fascia. These are examples of the position in which the patient should be placed for the taxis. Formerly, the warm bath, tobacco enemata, bleeding, and simple distending enemata, were used as adjuvants to the taxis. Now, the only thing done is to give an enema to clear out the lower part of the bowel, and also to excite the peristaltic action of the intestine above, thereby giving a chance of the hernia being drawn backwards into the abdomen. The use of tobacco enemata and bleeding are quite unnecessary since the introduction of chloroform, which is both a safer and more effectual relaxant of the muscles. If it be true, as I believe, that the real constriction in hernia is always formed by aponeurotic or fascial texture, then we can- not expect very much good from relaxation of muscles in tightly- incarcerated hernias; but we prevent the violent action of the diaphragm and of the abdominal muscles, while we also prevent the patient's straining against us. The enema should be given in very large quantity, to distend the lower portion of the intestines thoroughly, and excite them to peristaltic action. We should apply cold to the tumour, either by means of the ether spray, or by ether dropped on the part, which should be fanned, or what is still better, place some ice in a bag over the tumour for a short time. Cold should only be used in cases of recent hernia, and should not be continued long, and never when there is any suspicion of gangrene. The cold is beneficial in two ways; generally there have been attempts made both by the patient and by the surgeon to reduce the gut, and these give rise to a1161 DANGER OF DELA Y IN OPERA TIONS. great deal of irritation and tenderness in the part, independently of the hernial symptoms, and the hernia itself is engorged from venous congestion. The cold relieves this local irritation and con- gestion, and causes contraction of the vessels. It also diminishes the distension of the gut itself, and by condensing the gaseous con- tents, lessens the bulk of the protruded mass. These are the means which I would advise you to use as auxiliaries to the taxis. The patient should be put thoroughly under chloroform be- fore the taxis is attempted. If the bowel is not so tightly con- stricted as to prevent its being returned by taxis, we will be able to reduce the hernia under these circumstances if the taxis be pro- perly applied. In a case of femoral hernia, for example, we bring the hernia down to the axis of the canal through which it has passed ; and now we must not press upwards, as that would only press the hernia upon the margins of the opening, but rather draw a little portion down, and then gradually try to pass the hernia back, bit by bit, into the abdomen. When once a small portion is got through the opening, the rest of the gut soon follows, with a peculiar gurgling sound. If we find that the taxis properly applied fails to reduce the hernia, then we should lose no time in operating, for I believe that any further persistent attempts at reduction by the taxis, owing to the manipulation, delay, and the risk of peritonitis, are much more dangerous than the operation itself In many cases, if the hernia has only been down for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, and if the symptoms are not very marked, we can return the bowel by the extra-peritoneal operation, i.e. without dividing the sac of the hernia at all. Thus we only cut through skin and fascia, and this cannot cause any great risk ; but in the taxis, we cannot tell how the part is constricted—we may be pressing the intestine against the sharp margins of the ring, and so cause very serious lesion. Often on operating we find that the taxis has done harm. We must of course give the taxis a fair trial, but do not put off too long with it; there is no risk, I hold, in the operation itself, whether extra-peritoneal or by opening the peritoneum, if done early, and before changes have takenREGIONAL SURGERY. 1162 place. The causes of death after operation are invariably due to changes taking place in the sac, or hernial protrusion prior to the operation. I feel satisfied that in cases of incarcerated hernia the fatal results depend rather on the state of the parts prior to the operation, and on delay in operating, than on the operation itself, which involves scarcely any risk to life ; and it should therefore be performed without undue delay, when it will pro- bably be necessary at last. We are sometimes advised to wait until urgent symptoms come on, but this is very wrong. What is the use of waiting for the urgent symptoms ? The very accession of these shows that the bowel has undergone changes which would render the operation much less likely to be of use. Another point often insisted on is, that in small hernise, such as the femoral, we must be quite sure we have to deal with a hernia. We are told sometimes it may be a gland, for there is no impulse in the tumour; but in a very tightly-strangulated hernia we cannot expect impulse, and this is merely a greater reason for operating, as the part is so tightly constricted. I never yet felt any impulse in the tumour, when the bowel was thoroiighly strangulated; and the want of impulse is a sign that the bowel is completely and tightly strangulated. As regards the tumour being a gland, or a collection of matter, the diagnosis is to be found in the history and symptoms of the case. In doubtful cases, operate. If it be a gland or an abscess, an in- cision over the tumour will do no harm whatever; but if it should be a hernia, and if we delay the operation, waiting for urgent symptoms, we are risking the patient's life. I have repeatedly met with objections of the kind above alluded to, but I have always operated wherever there was the slightest doubt; and I have never yet operated without finding a hernia present, and this experience, conjoined with the great general principle, justifies me in strongly advising the operation. Several years since I looked over the results of 127 cases of hernia in which I had operated, and in these there were 26 deaths : in 17 out of the fatal cases the gut was1163 CAUSES OF DEATH IN HERNIA. distinctly gangrenous, and therefore, though the operation was the only chance of saving the patient's life, the state of the intes- tine was such that a favourable result could hardly be expected. In 7 cases, peritonitis had commenced before the operation ; and of these, 4 were cases of congenital hernia, where peritonitis occurs rapidly. In one case, pyaemia proved fatal on the eighth day, but this case was a very complicated one. In one recent case, a fatal result occurred : here the operation was extra-peri- toneal, and the hernia was very large and bulky, and had come down rather rapidly, while the patient was at his work. The man made violent efforts at the time to reduce the hernia, while afterwards attempts were also made, but without success. In this case, the hernia had only been down for twelve hours. When I operated, I divided the integument and the fascia down to the deep ring, and then, by dividing the textures external to the neck of the sac, I was able to reduce the hernia with great ease. After a time, the patient began to pass bloody stools, showing that haemorrhage from the interior of the gut had taken place, evidently in consequence of the efforts the man had made to reduce the hernia at first. I believe, that if cold had been ap- plied to the tumour, and the taxis properly employed at first, the hernia might have been reduced without any operation. The real cause of the fatal result was evidently the mischief pro- duced by the violent and ill-directed efforts made by the patient to reduce the hernia, when it came down. 4 GLECTUEE CXII. Treatment of Hernia by Operation—Eesults—The Extra-Peritoneal Operation— The Ordinary Operation—After-Treatment: Local and General. The Operation for Hernia consists essentially in the divi- sion of the constriction of the hernia ; but to reach this con- striction we require to divide certain parts, vs^hich differ in the special hernise. The great object is to expose the constricted part, and to divide it thoroughly and completely. To do this in all cases of hernia, whether large or small, the incision should be made so as to give us plenty of room over the part corre- sponding to the neck of the sac, or where we expect to meet with the constriction. In inguinal hernia, there is no use making an incision down the whole length of the scrotum ; in fact, this very often misleads. The incision should be made where we feel the neck of the hernia, and should extend above and beyond this so as to let us see the parts properly ; and for this, an incision two or three inches in length is quite sufficient. If we expose the parts too much, we are very apt to have a quantity of the intes- tine coming out of the incision. The incision should be no longer in a large than in a small hernia. We should aim at exposing the part where the constriction exists, and then we see exactly what textures we require to divide, for these are different in different herniee, though the principle of the operation is the same in all cases. The constriction may be in the apo- neurosis through which the hernia has passed out ; or it may be in some condensed cellular tissue, external to the neck of the sac, for a few fibres will sometimes cause constriction ; or it may be, and very generally is, in the sac itself. The constriction in old-standing and in congenital herniae is almost invariably owing to thickening in the neck of the sac itself This thickening takesEXTRA-PERITONEAL OPERATION. 1165 place by deposition of lymph and condensed cellular texture from without, and the smooth surface of the peritoneum only becomes contracted towards the very last. In recent cases, by scraping rather than cutting on the constricted part, we can often readily reduce the hernia without opening the sac. This is called the extra-peritoneal method of operating. The next thing to consider is the state of the bowel when exposed. If we have operated early and by the extra-peritoneal method, we do not see this ; we simply return the contents of the sac into the abdomen, taking care not to push it up m masse. It is very important to remember this rule in small herniae, for in them we might push the small knuckle of gut up within the abdominal parietes without relieving the stricture, and this is more apt to occur if the sac be not opened. To avoid this in the extra-peritoneal method, we must take care as to the mode of dividing the constriction. We see the constriction in the tightness existing round the swelling; we find the parts above and below distended, and when we scrape through the fibres causing the constriction, the indentation on the sac immedi- ately becomes effaced, showing that the constriction is relieved, and that the contents of the upper portion of the bowel pass down to the portion in the sac. The protruded intestine can then be readily returned from the sac into the abdomen. We may then invaginate the sac, if it be small and loosely con- nected, and so get it out of the way of the pressure of the thick retaining pad. In inguinal hernia, however, we cannot generally do this. When we require to examine the state of the bowel, we must open the sac. This is an important point in the question between the extra-peritoneal, and the ordinary operation in which the sac is opened. Why do we open the sac in any case when the bowel is to be returned ? My answer to this is, that in many cases when I commence the operation I cannot be sure that the bowel is in a state to be returned. The extra-peritoneal opera- tion is proper when the case is very recent, and when there is no reason to suspect any alteration in the structure of the bowel,REGIONAL SURGERY. 1166 and when there can be no hesitation in returning the bowel. But if the hernia has been constricted for forty-eight hours, I would not feel justified in performing that operation, for in that time changes may have taken place in the bowel itself, and the very reduction of the affected bowel might prove fatal to the patient. The extreme advocates, however, of the extra-peritoneal method say that we try the taxis, and hence, say they, you would have been quite content to return the bowel by the taxis without seeing it, and why not after operation ? But it is clear that if the taxis reduces the hernia, the parts have not been actually strangulated, while, if the taxis does not succeed, it shows that strangulation has occurred; and if some time has elapsed during which the hernia has been down, the condition of the bowel may be such as to render it unwarrantable to reduce it into the abdomen. A doubt as to the fitness of the bowel for return is thus raised, and when there is any doubt I prefer to open the hernial sac and see the state of its contents. We often find, when operating for hernia, that the moment the bowel is brought into view, and the stricture divided, if we then try to push up the gut, we very often succeed readily enough, and often without any harm resulting ; but this is not very safe, for we should see the state of the bowel at the constricted part. We must not judge by what we see pro- truded below the constriction, we want to see the part which has been subjected to the greatest pressure, and also to make sure that we have thoroughly divided the stricture. I therefore gently draw down a portion of the bowel from above, which brings into view the part which has been subjected to the con- striction, and from this part I judge whether to return the bowel or not, for this part may show symptoms of incipient gangrene, and if it were returned the results would be fatal. We should therefore always examine the bowel in this way ; and this also gets rid of the indentation of the gut, which sometimes remains for a length of time. It moreover shows us the state of the bowel above; and I think this is important, for I judge of the result of the case very much by the appearance of the bowelSTATE OF THE STRANGULATED BOWEL. 1167 above tlie constriction. If it be of the natural appearance of a pinkisb-grey colour, and smootb, and glistening ; even though the constriction has been tight, I generally augur well of the case, for this shows there is no general peritonitis, or if there is any, it is only in a very slight form ; but if the bowel be granular and vascular, and covered by a sort of glistening fluid on the surface, even though the part of the bowel below be not much congested, then I consider the prognosis of the case to be unfavourable ; the patient will probably die of intense peritonitis, for it is already existing before the operation. In some cases we find the condition of the bowel rather doubtful; and in small hernise this is very troublesome. We find a portion of the protruded gut dark, congested, and ecchymosed. I have even seen a portion of bowel quite black from ecchymosis caused by the taxis, and yet the patient recovered perfectly; but if the bowel be granular, and has lost its smooth appearance, or is soft like wet paper, the case is very doubtful; and then we generally find the constricted part deeply indented, and of a somewhat pale yellowish colour. If we see, moreover, that on the surface of the bowel there are points here and there of a greyish or white appearance, even though they are small, the risk is greater, for probably a slow form of gangrene is occurring, and this is showing itself by these points in the parts beyond the constriction. If the gangrenous or ash-coloured spots be minute and not numerous, there is a chance of the patient's recovering without opening the gut; but if we find the gut perfectly gangrenous, and of a dark colour, we must not return the bowel under any circumstances. In such circumstances we are told to cut off the portion of gangrenous bowel, and allow the faeces to be evacuated through the wound after the stricture has been divided. Such is the general practice, and so I used to do; but my own experience has altered my practice in this respect. Even when the bowel is distinctly gangrenous, I do not cut off the gangrenous por- tion of gut at once, for I have seen that in many cases in which this was done, the patient, instead of experiencingREGIONAL SURGERY. 1168 any relief from the operation, died -witli intense suffering. When we cut off such a portion of bowel, and divide the constriction at the same time, as the patient is recumbent while a portion of the fluid faeculent matter passes externally, part of it also passes back into the abdomen along the external sur- face of the gut, and so more acute peritonitis is set up. I there- fore divide the constriction freely, and draw down the gan- grenous portion of the gut beyond the stricture, and leave it in the wound, merely covered by lint soaked in warm water. I give the patient an opiate after the operation, and then some hours afterwards I open the gut and cut off the gangrenous portion, so as to allow the faeces to escape. By that time lymph has been effused around the protruded gut, and the risk of fagculent fluid passing back into the abdomen is very miich lessened. I have seen great benefit derived from this method in diminishing pain by obviating acute peritonitis, even though it may not lessen the great mortality after the operation when the bowel is gangrenous. When the state of the bowel is doubtful, which is most frequently seen in femoral hernia, the plan I have adopted for many years to prevent effusion taking place into the abdomen, is to draw the bowel down and examine it as usual, and then simply return it—not into the abdomen—but just within the ring, keeping the doubtful part of the gut opposite the wound, so that I can feel it readily; no dressings are applied on the wound beyond warm-water lint; the patient is placed in bed with the pelvis somewhat raised, so as not to allow the rest of the bowel to drag back the doubtful portion, but this is not very likely to occur, owing to the effusion of lymph which takes place. In many of these cases it happens that perforation does take place afterwards ; generally from the sixth to the eighth day after the operation. The patient is relieved from all the symptoms of strangulated hernia by the operation ; opiates are given to check the action of the bowels at first, but in about a week a small quantity of thin faeculent or bilious matter is dis- charged from the wound, and this gradually becomes moreJAFTER-TREA TMENT. 1169 copious, showing that the bowel has given way. If effusion of faeculent matter takes place, a fistula is formed, and no harm is done, as the parts heal and become adherent to the part corre- sponding to the opening in the bowel. If the bowel does not give way, the patient is no worse than in ordinary cases. In a case at present in hospital, the symptoms had existed for some time before the woman was brought into the hospital; the parts over the hernia were red and congested, and it looked like a gangrenous hernia ; on examining the bowel, I found it to present white points at one or two parts of the surface, and I therefore adopted the plan of treatment just described. In this case, the patient, instead of going on from bad to worse, as might have been expected—for peritonitis had set in before she was brought to the hospital—has gone on very well, and now the wound is healing ; all the bad symptoms have passed off, and no fistula has formed. This, and many similar instances, satisfy me that, in cases where the bowel is at all doubtful-looking, the above plan of treatment is the best we can adopt. In cases where the bowel is decidedly gangrenous, I repeat that we should not cut it off at once, but divide the constriction, and wait till lymph is effused before we remove the gangrenous part, so as to prevent the fseculent matter passing back into the cavity of the abdomen. The after-treatment of cases of strangulated herniae, in which the condition of the bowel is such that we are justified in re- turning it after division of the constriction, is comparatively simple. Still there are some points of importance to be attended to as regards the principles on which it should be conducted. At one time the general practice of surgeons was to give a purgative soon after the operation, so as to obtain a free evacuation of the bowels, and satisfy themselves that the operation was suc- cessful, as it was termed—that is, to be sure that the constriction was relieved. The effect of this violent action excited in the intestinal canal often injuriously affected the portion which had been strangulated, and set up enteritis and peritonitis ; and in the present day most surgeons are agreed as to the propriety ofREGIONAL SURGERY. 1170 avoiding sucli stimulation of the intestine after operations for strangulated hernia. In my own practice, immediately after the operation, I give an opiate, to delay the peristaltic action as mu.ch as possible and keep the bowels quiet, so that the intestine may not be irritated by the passage of the faeculent matter. The opiate also allays the vomiting and irritation which are present. After thirty-six or forty-eight hours, we may give an enema to stimulate the peristaltic action of the bowel. In general, however, if there has been any great distension of the intestine, the bowels will generally act after the operation without any purgative. When the bowels are long of acting, as sometimes happens in old people, we should give some gentle laxative. The local treatment is very simple. The wound is to be dressed like an ordinary wound, and a compress supported by a spica bandage is applied over the opening to pre- vent the hernia descending. The wound seldom heals entirely by the first intention, but the greater part of it heals pretty quickly ; and after four or five weeks we may fit on a truss. In cases where, from the previous symptoms and from the appearance of the intestine, as seen during the operation, it is evident that peritonitis has set in, the use of calomel and opium in the proportion of half-a-grain of the latter to two grains of the former should be begun at once, and the dose repeated every four or six hours, till some slight effect is produced on the mouth ; or, in some cases, opium may be given alone at intervals with good effect. If the patient be young and robust, leeches may be applied over the abdomen. In all cases, the application of a blister over the epigastrium, or over the whole abdomen, with the exception of the part near the wound, is advisable, and it is much more generally applicable and productive of more benefit than leeches. Enemata may be used to relieve the tympanitic condi- tion of the bowels ; but no active purgatives should be given. Under this treatment I have seen several severe cases of perito- nitis recover ; but in general, the diseased action has existed and spread extensively before the performance of the operation, and then the case is very hopeless; The treatment of the large1171 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED OMENTUM. masses of omentum sometimes found in operating for strangu- lated hernia, especially in old large hernias, requires some con- sideration. In many instances, after division of the constric- tion and reduction of the intestine, we find that the omentum left in the sac is very bulky, and partially or largely adherent to the sac, or large portions of it are nodulated and altered in form and consistence. The reduction of a very large mass of omentum, even sup- posing no adhesions or alteration in structure have occurred, is always attended with the risk of exciting peritonitis, owing to the manipulations required; for it does not glide back like the intestine. Every portion requires to be guided and pressed back, and when it has suffered from strangulation, its vessels are congested, and then portions of the serous texture are liable to be lacerated by the manipulations necessary to return it. In other cases, when adherent or when altered in structure, form- ing as it often does a large pedunculated mass, the difficulties and dangers are increased. Under these circumstances, the question arises whether there is least danger incurred by re- moving the protruded mass, or using efforts to reduce it. If the portion of omentimi be not. very large, inadherent, and pre- sents a healthy appearance, the proper treatment is to enlarge the incision of the constriction freely, and gradually reduce the mass, keeping the sac intervening between the omentum and the fingers. If the protruded omentum be of moderate bulk, and only partially adherent to the sac, divide the adhesion, taking care to twist or tie a small vessel that may ooze, and then proceed as in the forjner case. In cases where the omen- tum is very bulky and loaded with fat, or consolidated and altered in form, so that the incision of the abdominal parietes would require to be very large to enable us to return it, and even then only with considerable manipidation and probable irritation or laceration, the safest plan is to remove it. The neck of the mass is firmly grasped by the assistant, and trans- fixed with a needle armed with a fine silk or catgut ligature, the loop of the ligature divided, and each portion of the neck of the1172 REGIONAL SURGERY mass firmly constricted, and the protruded omentum cut off close below the ligatures, which are then cut short, and the upper portion of the omentum reduced. Or, the neck of the omental protrusion being firmly grasped, the surgeon cuts away the bulky portion, and ties each bleeding point separately. I have treated such cases very frequently in both ways, and can- not say I have ever seen any bad results fairly referable to the section, whether the ligatures were applied by tying the vessels individually, or simply by constricting the neck of the protru- sion as described. If the omentum, even when not bulky, pre- sents any doubtful appearance of commencing gangrene, there should be no hesitation as to its removal, as the fat with which it is loaded has but little vitality, and is not likely to recover when reduced. The local after-treatment of gangrenous herniee, in which a portion of the gut has been cut away, consists in applying a fold of lint soaked in warm water, and covered with gutta-percha tissue over the wound; favouring the escape of the fseculent discharge, and paying great attention to cleanliness. There is at first a fulness of the mucous surface of the intestine, causing it to project, so that it forms an obstacle to the passage of the faeces; and there is also a loss of tone in the intestines, so that they cannot propel their contents as usual; hence the surgeon often requires to introduce his finger, or inject some tepid water, to help the faeces to pass away. This distended and convoluted state of the bowel is one which is very common, and which is often fatal in peritonitis, even where there is no gangrene, from the obstruction it gives rise to. Supposing, however, the patient to go on well, we require to consider the question how the artificial anus which results is to be cured. The two portions of intestine connected to the mesentery at the root of the loop of the protrusion lie at first parallel to each other, and the contents of the bowel pass completely from the orifice of the upper portion through the opening. The lower part has a tendency to become contracted, for there is nothing passing through it. After a time, however, owing to the contraction1173 TREATMENT OF ARTIFICIAL ANUS. from the effusion of lymph and the healing process, we find that the two parallel portions of the bowel gradually tend to ap- proach each other, and come to na angle as it were ; the orifices thus approach nearer the axis of the line of the gut, and what the surgeon has to do is to take advantage of this natural process, and assist it to a certain extent. After a time, as I have said, the portions of bowel tend to become more in a line, but still the passage of fseces prevents closure of the intestine, and the septum will continue to act as a valve, and a fseculent fistvda will be established. Sometimes nature will cure the fistula, but the surgeon occasionally requires to use compressing forceps to efiace the septum and establish the continuity of the canal of the bowel. The blades of the forceps are introduced separately into the two portions of the bowel, and they are very gradually closed upon the projecting septum, so as to compress it. If this be done too tightly at first, violent irritation may follow, and hence great care is required in watch- ing the patient after the first application of the forceps. They are kept on for some time, and gradually the valvular projection of the septum is effaced, and the continuity of the bowel is re- established ; the fajces pass along the track of the bowel, and the natural channel is restored, while the fistula gradually heals. In less extensive gangrene of the bowel, treated by the method I recommended when speaking of the slightly gangrenous or doubtful state of the gut, when a fistula does take place we do not require this treatment, for in such cases there is only one opening ; the continuity of the bowel is complete from the first; the parts become adherent to the integument, and the opening contracts and heals up.LECTUEE CXIII. Complications met with in cases of Hernia before and after Eeduction—Illustra- tive Cases—Precautions in operating which they suggest—Special Herniae, and their Treatment—Inguinal Hernise: Direct and Oblique—Differential Diagnosis. I HAVE now brought amder your notice the usual patho- logical conditions in cases of hernia, and the general principles on which the treatment of these conditions should be conducted ; but before proceeding to the consideration of special herniae, I must refer briefly to some complications, occasionally met with, which may render our diagnosis as to strangulation of the pro- trusion, and consequently our decision as to the line of practice to be adopted, more difficult. Some of the conditions which may cause doubt as to the nature of a swelling occupying the position of a hernia, such as hydrocele of the cord in inguinal, and en- larged glands in femoral hernia, I have already alluded to, and they will require to be noticed when speaking of special hernise. At present I shall confine myself to noticing two conditions— 1st, Cases of old irreducible hernia, in which symptoms usually indicative of strangulation occur. 2d, Cases in which symptoms of strangulation continue, after a hernia seems to have been fairly reduced by taxis. The former condition is that in which there is most diffi- culty in deciding as to the symptoms depending on strangula- tion. One of the conditions which enables the surgeon to decide and act promptly, by operating early, in an ordinary case of strangulated hernia, is, that hitherto the rupture had always been reducible by taxis, but has become suddenly irreducible, and is accompanied by symptoms more or less urgent. This can only be accounted for by constriction of the protrusion;COMPLICATED CASES. 1175 and the surgeon proceeds on that ground. In the class of cases I am now speaking of, this element, so important to correct diagnosis, is wanting. The protrusion has in these cases been irreducible probably for years, owing to adhesions, or some other cause ; and whilst the symptoms present may depend on strangu- lation from fresh accession to the protrusion, or from congestion and engorgement of the old protrusion, they may also depend upon mere irritation of the intestine or omentum contained in irreducible hernia, for the protruded parts are quite as liable as other portions of the viscera to be affected by various sources of irritation. The tumour is more tense than usual, tender to the touch, and there may be vomiting and constipation, and yet the hernia may not be strangulated ; and having been long irre- ducible and fixed there, you cannot hope to reduce it now. I recollect many years ago being called to see an elderly woman, a servant, who was labouring under very urgent symp- toms—vomiting, tension of the swelling (an old irreducible femoral hernia), and tenderness of the abdomen. Enemata and other means had been used before I saw her, and medicine given by the mouth, but without affecting the bowels. I tried gentle pressure to the swelling, after having applied ice for some time, in hopes that I might reduce any new descent which might have occurred, but without effect. I then advised her to submit to the operation, but she refused, and stated as her reason that she had formerly had a similar attack, and that Mr. Liston had insisted on operating, but she had refused, and got better. I ordered her an opiate to relieve the pain and vomiting, but told her friends to send for me if the symptoms continued, and left her with fore- bodings of a bad result. Next day, when I went to see her, I found her almost quite well, and then I was informed that there had been a party in her master's house, and that she had tasted a variety of articles, and so set up the irritation in the hernia. Still I consider I would have been fully warranted in operating under the circumstances in which I first saw her. In several very similar cases which I have met with, I have had to operate, and in all of them there was tight strangulation, so that, had IREGIONAL SURGERY. 1176 trusted to my experience of the exceptional case above narrated, these others would have been lost. Three years ago a man was admitted into the Eoyal Infirmary, under my care, suffering from an irreducible omental scrotal hernia. By applying cold, moderate pressure, and enjoining absolute rest and low diet, I was able to return a considerable portion of the omentum, and he was dismissed relieved. About ten months afterwards he was again brought from a long distance to my care, suffering from symptoms of strangulation and peri- tonitis. The surgeon who had seen him had wished to operate, and urged him to submit, but, remembering his former recovery, he refused, and insisted on being brought to me. There was evi- dently a portion of bowel as well as omentum in the sac, and I told him there was no chance but by operating. I did so, and found the gut almost gangrenous, and he died in about forty- eight hours. This case, in contrast with the first mentioned, will show you the difficulty of being absolutely certain as to the cause of the symptoms arising in patients afflicted with irreducible hernia ; but I would advise you that, though there may be some doubt, whenever the symptoms are severe, or do not speedily yield to opiates, and cold to the tumour and other remedies, the safety of the patient is in operating. There used to be a good old general order in the British navy, issued to all commanders, as regarded the propriety of engaging an enemy of superior force, " When in doubt, fight;" and in regard to hernia I would say, " When in doubt, operate." The second class of cases I have referred to are those in which a hernia has apparently been reduced by taxis, and yet the symptoms of strangulation continue. When this occurs in the case of small hernise, we at once conclude that the sac and its contents have been returned en hloc with the constriction remaining on the contained gut. But in cases of large scrotal hernia, for example, you might question the possibility of this occurring, and yet I have met with several instances. In these large hernise we have seen that an old small sac, with its con- stricted neck, may be pushed down before a fresh protrusion.HERNIA REDUCED EN BLOC BY TAXIS. 1177 In these cases the neck of the upper sac is wide enough to per- mit reduction of the mass of the hernia ; but a small portion of gut has got into the old small sac, and become strangulated; and this has been returned m Hoc. Such has been the condition I have found in the cases I have had to deal with, accounts of some of which will be found amongst the Clinical Cases. In such cases there should be no hesitation as to the line of practice ; the continuance of the symptoms are our warrant for operating. Though perhaps fairly reduced within the upper ring, the hernia cannot be far removed from the opening ; and by freely opening up the textures in the line of the canal through which it pro- truded, the surgeon is sure to find the strangulated mass, and can easily relieve it. The sketch, Fig. 1, Plate li., was taken from the case of a patient who was sent to my care from the country. Three days previous to his admission into hospital a large scrotal hernia had come down, and he was unable to return it as he usually did. Symptoms supervened, and he sent for a surgeon, who, with some difficulty, reduced it; as, however, the symptoms increased, he sent again on the second day for the surgeon; nothing like a swelling could be felt, but suspecting the real state of matters, he sent the patient to me. On the most careful examination, I could detect no swelling, though from the dilated condition of the inguinal canal I could easily pass my finger v\p throughout its whole extent ; but I noticed, when he coughed, there was not the slightest tendency to de- scent of the rupture, and there was an indistinct feeling of some firm substance impelled against the finger. The man was evi- dently in a very dangerous state, almost in collapse, with con- stant hiccough and occasional vomiting. I laid the inguinal canal freely open, and divided the margins of the external oblique and transversalis muscles, to give me a full view of the parts. On doing this, and introducing my finger upwards, I felt a hard mass about the size of a small walnut, which was easily brought down into the wound, and proved to be a small sub- division of the hernial sac. This contained nearly four inches, ofREGIONAL SURGERY. 1178 intestine, not distended, but closely packed and tightly strangn- liited. On dividing the constriction I found the gut quite gan- grenous, and on drawing down the portion of intestine continuous with it, I found that the gangrenous condition had extended for upwards of twelve inches. The gangrenous portion was cut away, and the ends of the bowel stitched to the integument, to prevent retraction, as no adhesions had occurred. The appear- ance of the parts is shown in the sketch. The man rallied, and for some time seemed to improve, but the portion of gut strangu- lated had been high up in the jejunum, and he ultimately sank. On the same evening that I operated on this patient, another man with a moderate-sized inguinal rupture was sent to my care. After cold had been applied, I reduced it without any great difficulty, and without giving chloroform. I applied a com- press and bandage, and sent him to bed, expecting that he would be quite well next day. N"ext morning, however, I found he had been vomiting almost constantly, and complained of pain in the abdomen, near the site of the deep ring ; he had also a quick pulse and anxious expression. ISTo vestige of swelling could be seen or felt, but he complained of extreme tenderness at the point mentioned. His bowels had not been opened since the rupture first came down. From the ease with which I had reduced the hernia, and the sensation of its return, I could not believe any portion was strangulated ; but the urgency of the symptoms, and the coincidence of the former case which I had just operated on, decided me on cutting down and examining the canaL I did so ; but no protrusion appeared, nor could I feel any, though I slit up the parietes freely to make quite sure. But whilst the state of the patient, prior to the operation, was such as to indi- cate extreme danger, yet from the time of its performance all the dangerous symptoms disappeared. The intense pain and vomit- ing ceased immediately. The bowels were moved naturally the next day, and he made a rapid recovery. The results of these two cases, occurring as they did, formed a strong contrast, and warrant me, I think, in saying that safety lies in operating ; and that, even though nothing be found, the patient is certainly notPRECAUTIONS IN RETURNING THE BOWEL. 1179 placed in greater clanger. I can hardly help thinking that in the second case some small portion of gut must have been re- duced during the manipulations, without having been noticed, the relief was so immediate and complete. In operating for strangulated hernia, as well as in reduc- tion by taxis, a portion of gut may be pushed back with the constriction unrelieved. This is most likely to occur in opera- tions for small hernijB, and especially v/hen the extra-peritoneal operation is adopted, unless care be taken to empty the sac of its contents before invaginating it, and to avoid pushing a small rupture back m masse. In femoral hernia this might easily occur, if the operation be roughly or carelessly performed. But even when the sac is opened this accident may take place. I have in my private museum a small inguinal hernia, from a case operated on by an excellent surgeon and anatomist, in which the gut has been pushed up within the parietes, with a tight strangu- lation at the neck of the sac still remaining unrelieved. I have, from the time I examined that case, invariably used the follow- ing precautions in all cases in which I find it necessary to open the sac :—First, after dividing the constriction, I draw down, very gently, a fresh portion of intestine, to feel that the gut is free, and to ascertain its condition at and above the constricted point. Secondly, in reducing it I follow the bowel or omentum with my finger, to make myself absolutely sure that it is fairly lodged within the peritoneal cavity, and that no constriction can remain. In operating by the extra-peritoneal method, I never return the sac and its contents simultaneously, but empty the sac of its contents first. If I find any difficulty in doing so, I open the sac, so as to avoid all risk, and to leave no doubt on my mind as to the state of the parts. For whilst in a recent case I see no reason for unnecessarily opening the sac, I have no such dread of the effects of opening it as to induce me to run any risk of an imperfect operation. The great safety in strangu- lated hernia is early operation, performed carefully and deliber- ately, making sure of free, or at least complete, division of the constriction, and avoiding, as far as possible, fingering the in- 4 H1180 REGIONAL SURGERY. testine, or using much pressure to return it into the abdomen. When much pressure is required, the constriction is not suffi- ciently divided, and unless it be more freely relieved, the tense bowel will suffer if it be forcibly returned. The Special Hernia most commonly met with in practice are Inguinal, Femoral, Ventral, and Umhilical. The other forms, Vaginal, Obturator, and Diaphragmatic, are very rare. I have seen a vaginal hernia, but I never met with an obturator hernia in the living. The points in the abdominal parietes where hernise pro- trude most frequently are the inguinal and femoral regions. The inguinal hernia is much more common in males than in females. I have not operated on more than four cases of strangulated inguinal hernia in women out of nearly 200 cases, and these I did not meet with till I had operated on more than 100 cases. The reason of this is, that in the female the canal, only transmitting the round ligament, is very small, and can scarcely be said to exist; the walls of the canal are in close apposition, except where the small cord-like ligament passes down. Again, in the female, the pelvis is very wide, and the space between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes being larger than in the male, there is a larger space between the vessels and the crescentic margin of Gimbernat's ligament, and therefore the weakest point in the female is in the femoral, whilst in the male it is in the inguinal region. At the same time femoral hernia is by no means uncommon in males, though not so com- mon as inguinal hernia; but we require to operate very often for femoral in males, because it is more frequently irreducible from constriction than the inguinal. In the female, as I have said, an inguinal hernia is comparatively rare. 1. Inguinal Sernice are divisible into two great forms, the OUiqiie, and the Direct or Ventro-Inguinal. In an ordinary oblique inguinal hernia the protrusion passes down very nearly in the direction of the cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. If we trace it from within outwards, we find that it emerges, in the first instance, at what1181 ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. is termed the deep ring or opening in the fascia transversalis. The sac of the peritoneum, containing the protruded viscera, descends from within this, and as it passes down it is invested by a thin layer of condensed fibro-ceUular tissue, which may be looked on as an offset of the fascia transversalis, continued along the cord from the margins of the deep ring or opening. That opening, however, presents distinct margins of a resistant and somewhat aponeurotic character; the hernia protrudes through this opening, the peritoneal sac being of course carried before it, and forming a part of the protrusion. The protrusion passes down in front of the cord, insinuating itself between that structure and its different coverings as it passes down. In the first instance, therefore, it is covered by the fascia spermatica interna, or, in surgical language, the fascia propria—the prolongation of the fascia transversalis already mentioned. It then proceeds down the canal for about half-an-inch, where the lower margin of the transversalis muscle crosses it, next the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle also covers it in part, and just as it emerges from imder the edge of that muscle, in the male, it receives a series of fibres coming from the internal oblique—the cremasteric fibres. In a case of inguinal hernia, the fibres of the cremaster are scattered and flattened out, mixed with condensed cellular tissue, and this has been termed the cremasteric fascia. The hernia then continues its course along the cord, and passes down, merely covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, till it arrives at the lower opening. At that point an inguinal hernia is generally prevented from passing lower down for a time, and merely bulges out, forming what used to be called a bubonocele or proper inguinal, as distinguished from a scrotal hernia. From the margins of the external ring in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle it receives another covering, the fascia spermatica externa; and after this it is covered by the common superficial fascia and integument, and then passes down into the scrotum, receiving the different scrotal coverings. On looking at a case of inguinal hernia, as the surgeon cuts down upon it, the coverings are, the skin, superficial fascia, the fasciaREGIONAL SURGERY. 1182 spermatica externa, tlie iatercolumnar fascia between the pillars of tlie external ring, the cremasteric fascia, the margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles wliich cross and over- lap it, and, lastly, the fascia propria immediately investing the sac. While it is well to study these anatomical points, that the surgeon cutting down on the hernia may recognise these parts, yet you must not expect to see them as in dissection. You should examine preparations of hernise, to recognise the morbid changes in structure in old hernia3. It is wrong, however, to say, as some do, that a knowledge of anatomy is of no use in regard to operating for hernia, for it teaches us not only to recog- nise textures when operating, but also to understand the direc- tion of the protrusion and its relations to other parts, and hence is useful in regard to diagnosis and treatment, whether the latter consists in the taxis or the operation. We must now briefly consider the course of a Direct or Ventro-Inguinal Hernia. This kind of hernia does not pass through the whole length of the canal; it emerges through some weak point in the conjoined tendons, from distension of the abdomen, or some other predisposing cause, leading to the formation of a weak point in these tendons. The hernia may either carry before it the fascia transversalis, or burst through it, as that fascia is very thin at this point. The protrusion therefore passes along only the lower part of the canal, and then directly downwards and forwards, so as to correspond at once to the lower or external ring. It very generally carries the then almost cellular portion of the fascia transversalis before it. Camper, however, was of opinion that it always broke through the thin fascia transversalis, and hence he stated that the fascia propria of a direct inguinal hernia was different from that of an oblique, and was formed by the intercolumnar fascia, or fascia spermatica externa, from the margins of the external ring. The principal point of difference to consider is, that the direct or ventro-inguinal hernia appears on the inner side of the cord, and crosses and covers it at the lower part of the canal; whereas an oblique inguinal hernia follows the direction of theRELATIONS OF DEEP EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. 1183 cord, and crosses over the course of the great epigastric artery (&), running from without inwards, so that the neck of the hernia (a), where it emerges from the deep opening, corresponds at its inner side to the artery, while in the direct inguinal hernia the artery lies to the outer side of the hernia. This used to be considered of great import- ance as regarded the opera- tion. In oblique inguinal hernia the rule was to turn the edge of the knife obliquely upwards and outwards, so as to avoid the deep epigastric artery ; whereas in a direct inguinal hernia, if we divide the stricture by cutting outwards, we would be almost sure to injure the artery, and therefore the surgeon was warned that he must be very careful in deciding whether the hernia be direct or oblique. Sir Astley Cooper showed that practically we only require to divide the few fibres forming the constriction ; and if we carry the knife directly upwards parallel to the mesial line, so as to divide the constriction at its centre, there is no risk of wounding the artery whether the hernia be the oblique or direct form. In regard to the Diagnosis of inguinal hernia, I have already stated the absolute diagnostics of hernia, and these being kept in mind, I have now to bring before yoix what is sometimes termed the differential diagnosis, or the distinction between this form of hernia and other diseases occurring in the regions which it occupies. When the swelling is confined to the inguinal canal, the diseased conditions which are most likely to simulate hernia are, hydrocele of the cord, cystic tumors, or fatty accumulations developed in the canal in front of the cord, or abscess over the cord.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1184 Encysted hydrocele of the cord at its upper part has a very close resemblance to a small inguinal hernia, but there is want of direct impulse, whilst we find irreducibility, tension, fluctuation, and dulness on percussion, without hernial symptoms; when the swelling is prominent, the light test for transparency can some- times be applied. In most cases its defined form, and position in relation to the cord, together with the history and irreducibility, leave little doubt. But if such a case becomes complicated with symptoms of strangulation, there is no safe diagnostic, short of cutting down upon the tumour to make sure; for cases have occurred in which a small hernia had descended behind a hydro- cele of the cord and become strangulated. Encysted tumours in the canal are rare, and when present, their globular form and the cord being felt free above the cyst, the mobility of the cyst, its irreducibility and want of direct impulse, are generally sufficient to settle the question of diagnosis. Fatty masses in the canal are not very common, and when developed high up, so as to cover the cord in the whole length of the canal, they present very much the feeling and character of omental hernia ; indeed, it is almost impossible to distinguish them during life from small irreducible omental hernise. Should symptoms of strangulation occur under these circumstances, and the surgeon cut down upon the swelling and encounter such a defined mass of fat, he must take care not to be thrown off his guard, but should slit up and examine the canal thoroughly, lest a small constricted rupture be also present. Abscesses, acute or chronic, sometimes occur in this region, and I have already spoken of these and their symptoms; but I cannot say that I have ever seen any case where there was difficulty of distinguishing between such abscesses and hernia.LECTURE CXIV. Diflferential Diagnosis of Herniae continued—Diagnosis between Hernia and In- flammation of the Descending Testicle in Cliildren or Adolescents : between Hernia and Hydrocele, Hsematocele, Cirsocele, and Special Tumours of the Cord and Testis—Keduction of ObHque and Direct Inguinal Hernia by Taxis and by Operation in Adults and in Cbildren—Modifications of Oblique Inguinal Heruise—Congenital—Infantile. There is one condition likely to simulate an inguinal hernia in the canal, which I have purposely refrained from speak- ing of, that I might draw your attention specially to it, as I have seen errors of diagnosis occur which might have led to very serious risk. I allude to cases in young children or adolescents, in whom the testicle has not descended into the scrotum. In such instances, from injury or some in- definite source of irritation, it sometimes happens that the testicle becomes inflamed and swells, and becomes as it were compressed or almost strangulated by the dense structures bounding the canal. Under these circumstances there is a tense and excessively tender elongated swelling, occupying the canal and bulging the intercolumnar fascia at the external ring ; and along with these local conditions there are severe constitutional symptoms, vomiting, tenderness, and swelling of the abdomen, frequently constipation, and invariably a great amount of fever. The coincidence of such symptoms with tense, tender, and irreducible swelling in the inguinal region, excite suspicion of strangulated hernia ; and even when, from examination of the scrotum and the history of the patient, you arrive at the conclu- sion as to the true nature of the case, still you will oiten feel anxious lest there may possibly be some hernial complication ; and this, more especially, if the bowels do not act under the effects of medicine. In such cases you must take into account1186 REGIONAL SURGERY. all tlie circumstances. By applying cold over tlie swelling, or at a later stage by opiate fomentations, and the administration of anodynes, tlie swelling and painful symptoms usually abate. If, however, the symptoms become aggravated, I can conceive of the necessity for the surgeon cutting down upon the swelling to ascertain whether it be a hernia; and in case it was not, there would be no great harm done, the gland would be relieved from compression, and by a little gentle traction it might be brought into the scrotum. In all the cases I have seen, however, the symjptoms have passed off under rest and treatment, without necessitating such an operation. The diseased conditions which may simulate an inguinal hernia when it has descended into the scrotum are, Hydrocele, Hsematocele, Cirsocele, and special tumours of the cord or testis. The distinguishing marks between hydrocele and hernia are, the general form of the tumour and its relation to the cord and testis. In an ordinary scrotal hernia, the protrusion having descended in front of the cord from above, the whole extent of the cord is covered by the swelling, and the testicle can be felt at the bottom of the scrotum below the hernia. Now, in hydrocele, the cord can generally be felt free in the inguinal canal and at the external ring, whilst the testicle cannot in general be felt, as the sac of the tunica vaginalis is distended round it. Then the swelling in hydrocele has no distinct impulse given it by the patient coughing ; it has swollen gradually from below upward, there is dulness on percussion, and on examining it with the transmitted light of a taper it is generally transparent. In haematocele the weight of the swelling, its dulness on percussion, and the rela- tions to the cord and testicle, as in hydrocele, together with the history of the case, are in general sufficiently diagnostic. In most cases of cirsocele there is really little or no difficulty of diagnosis, the relations of the swollen veins to the testicle, the peculiar sensation on feeling the distended vessels, the way in which they can be emptied by pressure when the patient is re- cumbent, and the manner in which the swelling gradually returns when the patient is erect, even though the finger is pressed onTAXIS IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 1187 the aperture, together with the worm-like sensation the distended veins have, and the peculiar kind of impulse when the patient is made to cough, are usually sufficient to decide the surgeon as to the true nature of the case. At the same time, I have seen some few cases where, from enormous dilatation of the veins, and from serum apparently being effused amongst the constituent textures of the cord, the swelling in cirsocele has very closely simulated a scrotal hernia. Tumours of the testicle can hardly simulate hernia, but some soft malignant tumours of the cord closely resemble it as to position and relation to the testicle; but then all the other symptoms are different, and the history of the case is usually quite sufficient to decide its true nature. We now proceed to consider the method of returning an obKque inguinal hernia by Taxis or operation. In this form of hernia the canal is oblique; and if taxis is to be applied here, let us see how it is to be done. It must, of course, be applied in the axis of the canal, i.e. obliquely, upwards and outwards, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the last part of the pressure must be applied directly from before backwards, when we have reached the upper opening. In ap- plying the taxis we must bring down a little portion of the bowel, as before mentioned, to try and free it from the constric- tion. The obstacles to the reduction of this form of hernia by taxis are the margins of the external ring, which do not in general, however, form any very great obstacle : then there are the muscles covering the hernia, which should be relaxed: although they do not absolutely constrict the protrusion, yet they oppose reduction. It is at the deep ring and over the neck of the sac that the resistance is greatest; but it is only when there is incarceration that there is any difficulty, for in most cases of inguinal hernia we can pxit two or three fingers into the opening, and therefore the taxis is not generally very difficult. In children the canal is not oblique, and the two openings lie nearly opposite each other. It is only as development proceeds that the canal becomes oblique. We must remember this asREGIONAL SURGERY. 1188 regards the diagnosis of a direct from an oblique hernia, and also as regards the use of a truss in a child. By using a truss in a child, as I have already stated, at an early period, we often effect a radical cure ; so that when the child grows up the truss may be left off altogether. Even in the adult, in many cases, the canal looks almost direct; and it used formerly to be of great importance to distinguish a direct from an oblique inguinal hernia. In probably nine out of ten cases an inguinal hernia is oblique, but the hernia presses inwards towards the inner margin of the ring, and dilates it, so that it comes nearly opposite to and in a line with the superficial or external ring, and it looks very direct; but this is merely from the great dilatation of the deep ring. In the Operation for inguinal hernife the line of incision is much the same in either case, whether it be oblique or direct. Commence the incision well over the neck of the sac, corresponding to a point above where we notice the projection, because we want to expose and see clearly the parts at and above the neck. The length of the incision should be from two and a half to three inches. Even in a large scrotal hernia the incision should not be longer. We only want to make the incision over the canal. Beginning, then, above the neck of the sac, we cut through the skin and superficial fascia with one incision. I generally make this first incision from within outwards, by pinch- ing up a transverse fold of the integuments and loose textures from over the protrusion, and transfixing it with the bistoury, the back of the knife being towards the hernia. I then cut out, dividing the fold, and extend the incision upwards and down- wards, if necessary. In cases of gangrenous hernitB, or in those where, from inflammatory action, the superficial parts are matted together, the method just described cannot be followed. In such cases we must cut cautiously from the skin through the dif- ferent textures, till we reach the sac. If any vessel, no matter whether large or small, begins to bleed, it must be secured, not so much on account of the risk from loss of blood, as that the haemorrhage would interfere with the after proceedings. WeOPERATION: TREATMENT OF THE SAC. 1180 easily recognise the external oblique aponeurosis, which is generally distended by the hernia. We open the fascia at the lower part of the ring, and then with a probe-pointed bistoury sKt up this fascia to the upper part of our incision in the skin. We have now before us the hernia covered by the cremasteric fascia, and we require to make an incision about an inch in length through that covering, by raising it with a pair of forceps, and open- ing it; then on a flat director we slit up this fascia, and the edge of the internal oblique muscle to the upper part of our incision. We are now upon the fascia propria of the hernia, which we next slit up. In the extra-peritoneal operation, it is at this point that we require to begin to clear the neck of the sac, which, if the incisions have been properly made, is now distinctly visible. We see the bulging above and below the constricted point. This constriction of the hernia we touch lightly with the knife, until we find the constricting fibres give way, and then we may attempt to reduce the hernia. If we cannot do this easily, and if we find that the constriction is in the neck of the sac, we must open it and divide the stricture from within. The sac must be very carefuUy opened. Sometimes the sac is not very easily recognised. We pinch up a portion with the finger and thumb, or we feel if there is anything gliding under the sac ; if so, we raise it, cut a little bit of it horizontally, and then enlarge the opening. If no fluid escape, we should introduce a flat director, and make sure whether it is really the sac we have opened. It it be the sac, and if there be no fluid between it and the bowel, we then recognise the gut; but if we were to cut rashly, we might cut into the bowel. We open the sac, and enlarge the incision, upwards and downwards, then introduce the flat director under the edge of the constriction. A probe-pointed bistoury, laid flat upon the director, is glided under the constriction, and its edge is then turned upwards so as to divide the sharp margin directly at its • centre. We can then get our finger so far under it as to feel the constriction and guide the bistoury. The director should not be used in dividing the deeper part of the stricture, but only to allow us to divide or notch the tight1190 REGIONAL SURGERY. margin, and then we can complete the division of the stricture more safely by using our finger as a guide. In oj)erating on large scrotal hernise great care should be taken not to open the sac too largely. It should be opened about an inch or little more below the neck, and slit up to the point of constriction, and then the stricture divided by the probe-pointed bistoury, guided on the finger or flat director. If this be done^ and the constricted portion gently drawn down, and then returned, mode- rate equal pressure on the fundus and body of the sac made with the left hand, whilst the right hand regulates the neck of the protrusion, will usually suffice to reduce it, without any undue fingering or manipulation of the intestine. On the contrary, if this rule be not observed, and the sac be largely slit up throiagh- out nearly its whole extent, the convolutions of the imprisoned intestine escape in all directions, twist upon themselves, render the division of the constriction more difficult, and, worst of all, require too much handling of the intestines to repress and reduce them. The same observations apply to all large hernife. In certain cases, complicated by adhesions or other peculiar condi- tions, we must open the sac largely to examine and deal with the complications, whatever these may be; but such cases are excep- tions to a great general rule. (See Plate lii. Fig. 2.) In cases where the state of the hernia contra-indicates the extra-peritoneal operation, we open the sac without making any attempt to divide the constriction on its exterior. The sac is opened, and the constriction divided, as described above. After the operation, a flat compress of lint, supported by a folded soft towel or napkin, and seciired by the spica bandage, is applied. In applying the bandage the thigh should be slightly flexed on the pelvis, so that when the limb is stretched it becomes firmer. The same general rules as to the extent and method of making the incisions, apply to the operation for direct or ventro- inguinal hernia as for oblique. We mvist, however, bear in mind the difference in the anatomical relations which I have previously alluded to. First, that the protrusion occurs throughateLII. HERNIACONGENITAL HERNIA. 1191 some opening or weak point in the conjoined tendons, nearer the mesial line than the deep ring, consequently that the hernia only occupies the lower part of the canal, rather crossing the direction of the cord at its lower part, so that this form of hernia has fewer coverings ; it is only covered by the skin, superficial abdominal fascia, and the intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia,—some- times termed the fascia propria of Camper,—and sub-peritoneal cellular tissue; the coverings derived from the internal sper- matic and cremasteric fasciae being absent. Secondly, that at the deep part of the wound the relation of the neck of the protrusion to the deep epigastric artery is reversed ; for as this hernia pro- trudes nearer the mesial line of the body, the artery lies to the outer side of the neck of the sac. At the same time, if the in- cision of the deep constriction be carried directly upwards, parallel to the linea alba, as recommended in oblique hernia, the artery runs no risk. If, however, the edge of the knife is to be inclined to the side, it must be directed-towards the internal side of the neck of the hernia. The after dressings and treat- ment are the same in both forms. Hitherto I have been speaking of the two general forms of inguinal hernia, but under the head of oblique inguinal we meet with two important modifications of hernia—the congenital and infantile. Of these the former is the most common, and, I think, the most important, perhaps, of almost any modification of hernia that we meet with, both as regards diagnosis and treatment. The latter is not so easily defined, and I suspect the arrange- ment of parts must be often varied, to judge from the varying descriptions of it given by different authors. We must now turn our attention to these forms of inguinal hernia; and first to the congenital hernia. By the term Congenital Heknia we do not merely mean a hernia which comes down at birth, but we mean a hernia arising in connection with a peculiar congenital condition of the inguinal canal, which often continues to exist through- out life. The general sac of the peritoneum and the sac of1192 REGIONAL SURGERY. the tunica vaginalis, as you are aware, are originally one con- tinuous serous sac. As the tunica vaginalis descends into the scrotum, the portion passing through the canal becomes nar- rowed, and bulges out when it emerges into the scrotum; thus two serous sacs are formed, connected by a narrow canal, which continues pervious till the birth of the child, when in general the communication becomes obliterated. It is usually said that the tunica vaginalis is drawn down into the scrotum as the testicle descends, but the tunica vaginalis is generally in the scrotum before the testicle comes down. When this continuity between the peritoneum proper and the tunica vaginalis con- tinues after birth, if the canal does not become obliterated, then there is a narrow communication between the abdomen and the tunica vaginalis along the cord. A hernia or portion of bowel may descend through this narrow canal into or towards the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and this is what constitutes a congenital inguinal hernia. The testicle is very often found lying in the canal, and the cord shorter than usual. When the hernia descends into the scrotum in such a case, the tunica vaginalis forms the sac of the hernia. In many cases, a portion of gut merely protrudes through the lower opening of the canal of com- munication just within the tunica vagi- nalis in the scrotum. The resistant cha- racter of the canal through which it has passed prevents more passing down, and in such circumstances there is a difficulty in the diagnosis. In a strangulated congenital hernia, where we can see and feel fluid within the scrotum, with pain in the lower part of the abdomen, we may find nothing but what seems to be a thickened cord ; yet, in some of these cases, we find that what appears to be a swollen spermatic cord is really a portion of in- testine contained and constricted within the canal, and often tightly strangulated. Fig. 37. Hernia Infantilis.DANGERS OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. 1193 The reason wliy I draw your special attention to congenital inguinal hernia is, that it requires to be, if possible, more promptly attended to than any other form. The state of the parts and the degree of constriction are such, that bad consequences very soon follow any attempts at reduction, unless they succeed. In many instances, continued attempts at reduction do much harm. As regards the operation in congenital hernia, the extra- peritoneal operation is not suitable, as the neck of the sac, or the narrow portion of the canal, forms the constriction; and therefore, when operating on the adult, we must open the sac in all cases, to divide the stricture. As regards the peculiar dangers of strangulated congenital hernia.—Any one who has carefully noticed the results of such cases must have been struck with the greater fatality in them than in other forms of rupture ; whilst those who have had much experience in operating can scarcely have failed to be surprised at the amount of morbid action which is often pre- sented in the contents of such a hernia in a very short period of time, compared with what we find even in cases of femoral or umbilical herniae. These results seem to me to dej)end chiefly of course on the nature of the constriction, but are increased or modified by the extent of the protrusion, and the treatment adopted prior to operation. The very nature of the constriction is essentially dangerous ; for if we consider the long narrow canal of communication which exists between the general peri- toneal sac and the tunica vaginalis, and the process of condensa- tion, elongation, and increased obliquity, which it undergoes as the patient advances towards adult age, we will at once perceive how difficult it will be for a hernial protrusion to descend ; and having descended into the scrotum, and become distended or congested, how almost impossible to return it by taxis; especially Avhen we further recollect the unyielding texture of the walls of the canal of communication in such a case. This resistant, un- yielding character is easily seen when the hernia is down, and indeed often forms a cause of doubt as to the scrotal swelling being a hernia; for there is apparently no continuous neck pass-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1194 ing towards the abdomen—nothing but what feels like a slightly swollen and hard spermatic cord, so firmly is the gut embraced throughout the whole length of the canal; and then the bowel, emancipated iu the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, becomes dis- tended and congested, and tightly nipped above by the sharp resisting margin of the lower opening of the canal. These are what I consider the essential dangers of the con- genital rupture. But it is evident that they will be much in- creased, if, as often happens, a large portion of gut has sud- denly been protruded, in consequence of some violent effort or force. Then, even slight efforts at reduction only make matters worse; and in such a case I have seen the coUs of small intestine highly inflamed, matted together, and at some points gangrenous, even in the course of sixteen hours ; whilst in another I have seen the peritoneal coat of the intestine abraded and cut by the stricture, and the bowel inflamed, in less than six hours from the time of descent, where the patient had been very restless, and had made violent efforts at reduc- tion. On the other hand, if only a small portion of bowel has passed beyond the lower margin of the canal of com- munication, or where the bowel has been somewhat protected by a portion of omentum, I have found, even after the lapse of thirty hours, not much more alteration than in an ordinary case of hernia. In one case, that of a young man aged about twenty- one, who had suffered from hernia as a child, the hernia came down suddenly while he was at his work. I saw him sixteen hours afterwards, but on operating I found a very large quantity of gut in the tunica vaginalis, which was much inflamed and adherent. In another case, a man received a blow upon the testicle, and complained of pain and sickness when I saw him. The general opinion of others who saw him was that it was acute hydrocele. I thought, however, that it was a case of hernia, and I accordingly cut down upon it; for even if it had been an acute hydrocele the incision would have done no harm, while, if it was a hernia, it was the only safety for the patient. I found a quantity of serous fluid very like that of a hydrocele, but onOPERATION FOR CONGENITAL HERNIA. 1195 further examination I found a small portion of gut tightly con- stricted and highly congested protruding into the upper part of the tunica vaginalis. The constriction was relieved, and the man recovered, but the diagnosis of the case was exceedingly difficult, and most of those who saw it thought it was merely swelling of the cord, arising from a blow on the testicle. Attempts at reduction are not very likely to succeed, owing to the direction of the canal, except in young children ; in them I have frequently succeeded, but we should not try the taxis too persistently. In a young man on whom I operated without attempting the taxis at all, I found that the posterior part of the tunica vaginalis had been ruptured from the at- tempts at reduction which had been made before I saw the patient. In this case the tumour was confined to the canal, neither testicle having passed through the external ring; the swelling was large, tense, and painful, and the patient had attacks of vomiting. AU attempts by taxis had failed. My resident surgeon ordered a distending enema, and this brought away such a copious loose stool as to make me doubt the tightness of the constriction ; stUl, as the tumour was tender, I put the patient under chloroform, and cut down upon it, and found a large sac, partly occupying the canal, and partly pressing up between the parietes and peritoneum. On drawing it down, to bring its neck within easier reach, I found the sac had rent on its pos- terior aspect from the previous attempts at reduction, and on laying it freely open there was exudation of blood here and there on the surface of the bowel, showing the danger of the taxis in such cases. This patient ultimately did well. There is no peculiar difficulty or danger in the operation You make an incision over the swelling, and cut down upon the parts in the usual way. You must expose the inguinal canal and the upper part of the scrotum, and then you can easily divide the stricture without any danger, just as in inguinal hernia; but to relieve the constriction you must divide the whole length of the canal of communication from its lower to its upper opening. 4 I1196 REGIONAL SURGERY. The after-treatment is similar to that of ordinary inguinal hernia—only we must avoid pressure on the testicle, if it lies in the inguinal canal. In some cases we can draw it so far down as to be able to apply the compress higher up. But in cases where the shortness of the cord will not admit of this, there is often difficulty in avoiding pressure upon the testicle in retaining the hernia, and even without direct pressure it some- times inflames, swells, and gives trouble in the treatment of these cases. Infantile Hernia exists in different forms, and has been differently described by surgical authorities. The general cha- racteristics are that it passes down behind, not into, the tunica vaginalis, very often splitting up the constituent parts of the cord from each other, so that it has the spermatic vessels some- times on the surface and sometimes at one or other side. The principal peculiarity is, that in operating on such a hernia we first come down upon a serous sac, which when opened contains no gut. Behind this is some cellular tissue, and under this again is the sac containing the intestine. When operating therefore, if we remember that the part of the tunica vaginalis corresponding to the cord lies in front of the true hernial sac, we will be prepared to proceed without hesitation if we meet with this complication.LECTUEE CXV. Femoral Hernia—Anatomy of tlie region in both. Sexes — Comparative Fre- quency of Femoral Hernia in Males and Females—Difficulties in Diagnosis, and how to meet them—Eeasons for operating early—Mode of operating- Ventral Hernia : its Nature and Treatment—Radical Cure of Hernia—Con- sideration of the various methods for effecting it—Statistics of Operations for Strangulated Hernia. Femoral Hernia can protrude only at one part of the abdomen. On looking at the interior of the pelvis and abdomen when the peritoneum has been stripped off, we notice that the fascia iliaca, as it passes down, is perfectly continuous on the outer side of the iliac vessels with the layer of fascia passing up to line the posterior abdominal parietes. In fact, there is no break in the continuity of these two fasciae from the superior anterior spine of the ilium to the outer side of the femoral sheath, so that in this space no hernia can protrude. When the fasciae arrive at the vessels, they arrange themselves into a funnel-shaped sheath to admit of the passage of the great vessels into the thigh. That layer of these fasciae corresponding to the posterior aspect of the transversalis muscle passes down in front of the vessels, and can be traced continuously with the deep portion of the fascia lata, while the fascia iliaca, which passes behind the vessels, sweeps down posteriorly, or on a deeper plane, and corresponds to the pubic or internal portion of the fascia lata of the thigh. Wliere the vessels pass out, whilst there is a separa- tion of these layers of fasciae, they send down a septum between the vein and the artery. Besides this fascial funnel the vessels have also their distinct and proper cellular sheath, and this pre- vents any protrusion descending between the vein and the artery. But between the iliac vein and the pubes we have a space almost1198 REGIONAL SURGERY. unoccupied. Tliis space is bounded on the inner side by cres- centic fibres from tlie crural arch and from its falciform process, and also fibres from the lower pillar of the external oblique tendon and conjoined tendons, passing down towards the pubes, and towards the spine of the pubes, forming Gimbernat's liga- ment, or the crescentic margin of the crural arch. Behind, we have the pubes, covered by the pectineus and fascia ; and in front we have the crural arch formed by Poupart's ligament and the abdominal fasciae. The space so bounded is one of the weak points of the abdominal walls; it is merely closed internally by a deli- cate layer of tissue derived from the transversalis fascia, called the internal cribriform fascia. There is often a sort of indentation corresponding to the space, which is fUled by a small, deep, absorbent gland. This is the only point where a femoral hernia can protrude. The protrusion passes down on the inner side of the sheath of the vein, and passes through the crural ring or canal, which is bounded in front by the crural arch, internally by Gimbernat's ligament or cres- centic margin of the arch, behind by the fascia iliaca, and on the outer side by the sheath of the femoral vein. (Fig. 38.) Through this ring or space the hernia passes down and appears in the thigh, immediately below and behind the falciform edge of the fascia lata, which is stretched in front of it, and it lies upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The hernia is covered in this region by the cribriform fascia, the thin upper portion of which it either distends and carries before it, or it sometimes dilates and passes through one of the foramina in that structure. The relations of tliis cribriform fascia should be carefully studied, andFASCIA OF THE GROIN. 1199 nothing in regard to the anatomy of femoral hernia has puzzled me more than to understand what can be the reason for such diversity of description and views as to the cribriform fascia; for, after many years' experience in dissecting and demonstrating these parts, together with careful examination of them for my own special satisfaction, I have not been able to see any reason for describing this cribriform fascia otherwise than as a continu- ous portion of the fascia lata, always presuming, of course, that no artificial dissection is made to separate the natural connections of the parts. If the subcutaneous superficial fascia be carefully raised, commencing over the saphena vein, and the fat be cleaned away with the handle of the scalpel, so as to expose the saphenic edge, the falciform process, and the fascia lata generally; we see between the falciform edge above, and the saphenic edge in- feriorly, a continuous layer of fascia stretching from the iliac towards the pubic portion of the fascia lata; thinner, perhaps, and reticulated by foramina for vessels, but still perfectly con- tinuous with the two great portions of the fascia. If the handle of the knife or a probe be passed under the saphenic edge, and pressed downwards, it is resisted in its progress, showing that here also, though the edge is abruptly reflected, the membrane is continuous, and above, at the falciform process, where the re- flexion is less sharp, the continuity can be seen. It is only .by artificial dissection that we can destroy this continuity, and make a distinct saphenic opening as it is called. As to the description of its being a portion of the superficial fascia of the thigh, that is evidently incorrect; for the saphena vein, the superficial branches of the common femoral artery, and their accompanying veins, together with the superficial set of femoral glands, form a natural separation between that fascia and the cribriform. As little do I see any reason for considering or describing the cribriform as a distinct structure, for any such distinction must be purely artificial. As the space already described between the iliac vein and Gimbernat's ligament is wider in the female than in the male, femoral hernia is commoner in females than in males, though inREGIONAL SURGERY. 1200 the latter it is not uncommon. When a hernial protrusion passes through the femoral opening, then, from the way in which the cribriform portion of the fascia of the thigh is arranged, the protrusion tends to pass up towards the abdomen, so that it lies obliquely, and resembles in some instances a small inguinal rup- ture, and this flexure of the body of the hernia upon its neck constricts it still further. If we attempt the taxis therefore, whilst the gut is in this position, we will simply bend it further upon itself, and cannot possibly reduce it. We must first bring the body of the swelling in a line with its neck, and the whole into the axis of the opening through which it has passed out. The hernia descends into the thigh through the saphenous opening at its upper part, but the term has given rise to much misappre- hension, for it is sometimes understood to mean the saphenous edge or lower part of the saphenic opening ; that edge is reflected back upon the vein, and therefore a hernia could never pass out there, unless it passed down between the vein and its sheath, and this it is said does happen sometimes, but I have never seen a case of it. At the upper part of the saphenic opening we have the weak point corresponding to the femoral ring, and when a hernia descends, it passes down immediately below the falciform edge, and invariably occupies the inner compartment of the fascial sheath. A hernia which has emerged at the point just indicated, when of small size, passes at first directly down on the thigh, projecting the superficial cribriform fascia, glands, and skin, before it, and forms a small rounded or sometimes a flattened swelling at the upper and inner part of the thigh immediately below the crural arch. As the hernia enlarges, the connections of the cribriform fascia prevent it passing further down the thigh, and so the body of the swelling is pressed up towards the abdo- men, and lies along the line of Poupart's ligament—its deep surface resting on the fascia of Scarpa, whilst its superficial aspect is in relation with the common superficial fascia of the groin, and the ascent of the swelling is limited above by the angle of union of the fascia of Scarpa with the superficial fascia of the abdomen.DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 1201 The superficial inguino-pudic and epigastric arteries and veins are stretched over the hernia as it ascends. This hernia, there- fore, whilst it will present all the usual symptoms absolutely diagnostic of hernia in general, requires great care on the part of the surgeon to distinguish between it and other swellings occupy- ing the same or nearly the same position. The difficulty in dia- gnosis will be increased if the swelling be of small size, or if the protrusion be largely composed of omentum, for in these circum- stances the important diagnostic of direct impulse on coughing is often very imperfect, even when the hernia is not constricted. In a tightly-constricted hernia there is no direct impulse, as I have already pointed out. The diseases in the inguino-femoral region, which may be mistaken for femoral hernia, are, enlarged and partially sup- purating glands, chronic abscess of the iliac fossa pointing or projecting at the femoral ring and taking the same position as the hernial protrusion, varicose dilatation of the femoral vein, cystic and fatty tumours, and psoas abscess. Besides these distinct diseases the surgeon requires to diagnose this hernia when it is reflected on the abdomen, from a small oblique inguinal hernia. As one or more of the inguinal glands lie directly over that portion of the cribriform fascia which a femoral hernia pushes before it, you will easily understand how closely such an inflamed and swollen gland may simulate this hernia ; indeed, as I have seen, you may have both conditions present, and on cutting through the suppurating gland you may expose a small hernial sac, but in such cases the general symptoms will so far guide your practice. If the bowels act freely under the use of castor-oil or other gentle purgative, and there be no vomiting, and merely the tender swelling, and the skin not easily movable over the tumour, the diagnosis is, that it is an inflamed gland. If, moreover, you detect any cause of local irritation likely to lead to such glandular swelling, and if the tumour, at first comparatively small and hard, gradually becomes larger and soft, or fluctuating, with red adherent skin, and general feverish symptoms, this diagnosis is strengthened. But if theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1202 swelling is at first deep seated, with impulse on coughing, and can be reduced, it is hernial. If, with all clear indications of an in- flamed or suppurating gland, the symptoms of acute incarceration or strangulation supervene, these shovild decide the prompt inter- ference of the surgeon, by cutting down on the swelling; and should his incision expose an inflamed gland or give vent to purulent matter, he must not be thrown off his guard, but pro- ceed, and make quite sure lest there be a small hernia present. I recollect, when a student, reading a criticism in a medical journal on a hospital surgeon for operating on a case of supposed femoral hernia. The article was headed, " Opening an abscess by aT incision!" Though I have since then seen a good deal of surgical practice, I know of no deadly results which would be likely to follow opening an abscess by a T incision, but I do know that leaving a hernia strangulated would be fatal. Chronic abscess formed in the loose subperitoneal cellular tissue on the surface of the fascia iliaca makes its way towards the weakest point in the same way as the hernia, and therefore bulges at the femoral ring. There is impulse on coughing, the swelling can be reduced, and even for a time retained by the finger after re- duction ; and except, perhaps, that it wants the firm elastic feeling of hernia, the symptoms are very similar, and the surgeon may be misled by the patient stating that the lump appeared suddenly after violent coughing or some other exertion. But, if there be a circumscribed fulness of the parts above Poupart's ligament, when the swelling is repressed, if the patient be pale and un- healthy-looking, or if there be pain in the back, suspicion should be aroused ; and if the patient has been trying a truss, and finds that the swelling always manages to escape from under the pres- sure, the nature of the case becomes more apparent, and gradually the increase and character of the swelling leave no doubt of its true nature. But at first the difficulty of diagnosis is consider- able. In psoas abscess, which arises under the fascia iliaca, there is not in general any real difficulty in diagnosis; the matter points lower down, bulging the fascia lata before it, and its position, inDIAGNOSIS. 1203 conjunction with the history of the case, leaves little doubt as to its character. Varix of the femoral vein, distending and pressing out the thin fascia on the inner side of its sheath, has somewhat the appearance of a small hernia; but the sensation to the finger is quite different, and, moreover, it must be very rare indeed that varix of the femoral exists without a varicose condition of the saphena and other veins of the lower extremity, and this will generally give a clue to the nature of the swelling. Except when symptoms of strangulation exist, cystic and fatty tumours in the femoral region wUl be distinguished from hernia by their form, feeKng, want of direct impulse, and irreducibility. They may, however, prove puzzling to the surgeon when operating for symptoms of strangulation. I have in several cases met with such cysts overlying a hernia. In one case I found no less than four cysts about the size of large grapes under the fascia over- lying a small strangulated hernia, and when I opened the first, I thought, from the escape of serous fluid, that it was an empty hernial sac, but on perceiving the others I saw their real cha- racter, and dissected them off and exposed the true sac. As regards the diagnosis between femoral and small oblique inguinal herniae, I have never found any great difficulty in distinguishing them. Though a femoral hernia does ascend obliquely towards the abdomen, it does not pass up to the level of, nor in the direction of, the deep abdominal ring. The connection between Scarpa's fascia and the common super- ficial fascia a little above Poupart's ligament prevents it ascend- ing far, and so it passes more transversely out towards the iliac spine, and does not present the obliquity of an inguinal hernia. Besides, unless the sac and its fascial coverings have become adherent to the adjacent textures, we can, even in strangu- lated femoral hernia, bring down the tumour from off Poupart's ligament, so as to ascertain distinctly its relations and the point from which the neck emerges. It is only in old adherent and irreducible herniae that difficulty in diagnosis between the two forms can occur.1204 REGIONAL SURGERY. The crural arcli is of great importance in reference to the taxis and operation, and considered anatomically it is a very com- plicated structure, but we have not time to enter fully on the subject here. I would merely refer you to the simple and com- prehensive statement given by Mr. Listen of the disposition of the lower crural arch, as distinguished from Poupart's ligament— which I have verified in its main points in a very large number of dissections—as a model of anatomical description. He explains that the iliac portion of the fascia lata, together with its falciform process, is formed by the union of the deep layer of the abdominal superficial fascia (Scarpa's fascia) with the fascia transversalis, below Poupart's ligament; which ligament lies enclosed between these two laminae, above their angle of junction, so that the com- bined fasciae referred to, form in fact the resisting portion of the arch which is in contact with the neck of the hernial sac. This can be proved by dividing and removing Poupart's ligament, and rendering tense the fasciae, when the constricting edge will still be felt. The only point of description in which Mr. Liston's views are defective in regard to these structures is, that he did not keep sufficiently in view the strong attachment of the deep layer of the structure to the posterior reflected edge of Poupart's ligament, and the tension consequently exerted upon that ligament by the fascia lata in certain positions of the limb. In applying the taxis in femoral hernia, we are told to flex the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, and rotate inwards. How does this afl^ect the crural arch? It cannot affect Pou- part's ligament directly, because this stretches between two fixed osseous points, and it is only in so far as it is curved down- wards by its attachment to the fascia lata that we can act upon it at all. It is only by acting on the falciform edge that we can relax the lower crural arch. As the fascia iliaca and fascia transversalis pass down, Scarpa's fascia, which is the deep layer of the superficial abdominal fascia, becomes perfectly continuous with the anterior layer of the iliac or outer portion of the fascia lata; whilst behind Poupart's ligament the fascia transversalis descends and becomes continuous with the posterior or deep sur-1205 OPERATION FOR FEMORAL HERNIA. face of the fascia lata, and these two laminse close below Pou- part's ligament, and form the falciform process, and the lower crural arch the constricting edge. In the taxis, therefore, we relax this edge, but scarcely Poupart's ligament. In applying the taxis, after using the general means formerly mentioned, we bring the tumour, if it be a large one, from off the surface of the abdomen, and press it directly upwards, after bringing it into a line with the axis of the opening through which it has passed. In most cases, at an early period, we can thus reduce the hernia easily, but sometimes the textures offer great resistance to reduction, and the bowel becomes so altered in its relations and proportion to the opening, that we can no longer return it. If left long unreduced, the sharp margins of the constriction would cause great mischief, and therefore in femoral hernia operation should be resorted to early. In operating for femoral hernia, we should see the falciform edge and parts immediately over the neck of the sac. We therefore make an incision, with this object, over the whole length of the tumour, if small from above downwards, and I generally make another slightly oblique along the line of Poupart's ligament. In very fat patients I make a crucial incision. I then divide the skin and super- ficial fascia, push aside any glands, and secure any vessels which may bleed. When the superficial fascia is fully divided, the body of the hernia is released, and appears like a rounded protrusion lying loose, and generally tilted up over Poupart's ligament, as shown in Plate lii. Fig. 3. The smooth texture covering the hernia is generally the cribriform fascia, but we may have to cut cautiously through two or three layers of condensed cellular tissue before we come to the sac. We should try the extra-peri- toneal operation, if the hernia has not been very long down, for we see the neck of the sac very distinctly, and by touching the constriction lightly with a bistoury, we cut through the re- sisting fibres. If we find that the indentation is effaced, and that the sac becomes more distended, then the constriction is1206 REGIONAL SURGERY. divided, and we next empty the sac of its contents and reduce them. But if we cannot do this, we must open the sac and divide the constriction from within. In small femoral hernise we must do this very cautiously, for there is often no fluid in the sac, and recent adhesions may even have taken place between the bowel and the sac. We should introduce the finger, and feel whether there be adhesions. In dividing the stricture in femoral hernia, the surgeon passes his finger or the flat director in front of the bowel, and somewhat to its inner side, and with a bistoury introduced flat on the finger he insinuates its point through and beyond the constricting edge, then turning the edge of the knife upwards and inwards, he divides the falciform edge and the deep crescentic margin, or Gimbernat's ligament. When the deep crescentic margin is divided we at once relieve the falci- form edge and the constriction, and the bowel can then be reduced. The case is treated afterwards like any ordinary case of hernia. We should not carry the knife directly upwards, but obliquely upwards and inwards, so as to divide the crescentic margin where it forms the upper and inner part of the ring. By doing so we avoid aU risk of injury to the vein or to the epigastric artery, or the spermatic cord in the male. As regards the dangers of the operation, there are hardly any incidental to the operation itself if it be properly and carefully performed; we simply divide the skin and fasciae, and sometimes also the sac. The only vessels which require to be divided are the branches of the inguino-pudic artery. They are generally cut in the first incision, and should be secured at once as divided. The obturator artery sometimes courses close round the inner side of the neck of the sac in femoral hernia, and under such circumstances it has been wounded in dividing the constriction. This occurs when the obturator arises, in common with the deep epigastric, by a long common trunk, which, after ascending on the parietes, sends off the obturator, which in passing to its destination, lies so as to be in the rela- tion above mentioned. In the cases where the obturator comes off from the external iHac artery, it lies beneath a hernia passingIRREGULAR OBTURATOR ARTERY. 1207 through the femoral canal, and consequently can be in no danger. In one remarkable case, on which I operated, the irregular Fig. 39.* obturator artery so constricted the large intestine forming the protrusion, that I was obliged to tie it with two ligatures, and divide it between them before I could reduce the hernia. The case will be found detailed amongst the Clinical Cases; but it is unique, I believe, and I think rather proves that in ordinary femoral hernia, wound of the irregular artery may be avoided, if care be taken to examine with the finger before dividing the deep constriction. Umbilical Hernia, as the name implies, protrudes at the navel. Venteal Heeni.^ may protrude either in the mesial line, or at one or other side. In all these cases the gut comes * This woodcut was taken from a case operated by the kte Dr Richard Mac- kenzie. The obturator, which encii-cled the neck of the sac, escaped division. I am indebted to Professor Struthers, of Aberdeen, for the use of the woodcut. A notice of the case, by Dr. Struthers, will be found in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, July 1855, page 74.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1208 through a distinct circular opening of a dense aponeurotic cha- racter, the thinned edges of which are prolonged over the hernial sac, forming a sort of fascia propria. In many cases the hernia is very large. Sometimes it contains the larger por- tion of the floating viscera of the abdomen, the abdomen itself being contracted, and not having capacity to contain the viscera, which have made for themselves a sort of new cavity under the skin and fasciae. In reducing an umbilical or ventral hernia by the taxis, the patient should be placed with the shoulders raised, and the lower limbs flexed towards the beUy, so as to relax the abdo- minal parietes. We first try to disengage and draw down the neck, and then gathering the body of the swelling, and rais- ing it slightly, we press it directly backwards in the line through which it protruded. In large umbilical hernite, even when reducible, the reduction is not very readily accomplished, owing to the difficulty of managing such a bulky mass. Another cause of difficiilty is that most umbilical or ventral herniae contain a large amount of omentum; and this, when long out of the abdo- minal cavity, becomes loaded with fat, and so altered in form as not easily to pass back through the opening, the margins of which are very resistant. In operating for these herniae, if we were to make an incision corresponding to the bulk of the tumour, or a crucial incision, the consequence would be that the bowels would come out by it, and, instead of facilitating matters by a free incision, we should only make them much worse. No matter what the size of the hernia is, the incision ought to be small. We require to make an incision 2\ or 3 inches long, beginning about an inch above or below where the hernia protrudes, and continue it down over the tumour. We first divide the skin and superficial fascia, and then we come down upon the thin fascia immediately investing the hernial sac. In one case I found the fat under the skin in contact with the omentum, the sac being apparently worn through at one point by the pressure. In general, how- ever, the sac is well defined, and after dividing the skin andOPERATION FOR VENTRAL HERNIA. 1209 superficial fascia we can draw down the tumour, and the con- striction becomes apparent. In performing the extra-peritoneal operation in ventral herniee, we divide the textures very care- fully till the constriction ceases to exist, cutting directly up- wards. In most cases, however, it is better to open the sac by a smaU opening, and introducing the finger, feel till we come to the point of constriction, then introduce a director, and divide the constriction upwards for about a quarter of an inch. We must be careful that the bistoury has the probe on the end, and not on the back, for the stomach and colon are sometimes displaced and distended in umbilical herniae, so that they might be injured by the point of the knife. Another thing to be attended to is, that when we require to divide the constriction freely in a very large hernia, instead of dividing further up in the mesial line, we may either draw up the hernia and repeat the incision below, or we may divide the constriction at the sides to a certain extent. It is a complete circrdar constriction, and we may relieve it in this way by division of different parts of the circle. The hernia is then left with the skin and sac upon it, and we can gradually reduce it bit by bit. Sometimes, in old umbilical hernise, the convolutions of the bowel are contained in hollows in the cellular tissue, so that we require some little time to reduce the hernia. In other cases the bowel is adherent; but if the constriction be divided that is the main point. As regards a large incision, I can only say that I have seen it once, and I would never wish to see it again, for the whole convolutions of the bowel were spread over the abdomen, and it was very difficult to get at the constriction. A moderate incision is quite sufficient, owing to the comparatively superficial position of the protrusion, which is just under the skin and superficial fascia. In some cases where, in operating, we find a large mass of omentum altered in form or adherent, it may be necessary to enlarge our incision, to enable us to see the state of the omentum, and judge whether we should return it by mani- pxilation, or remove it after ligature of the vessels at its root. In such circumstances, however, we ought first to reduce all theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1210 intestine before proceeding to enlarge the incision, in order that the convolutions may not protrude and embarrass us, or run the risk of injury. As regards large portions of omentum, either in this or other forms of hernia, if much manipulation is likely to be required to return it, bad consequences are apt to follow, so that I be- lieve it is better, in many instances, to remove the mass en- tirely, or in part, rather than continue efforts to return it, as it is very apt to take on a sloughy action. When the hernia is reduced, and the wound closed, we require to apply a compress of lint and a folded towel, supported by a broad binder or flannel bandage. When lecturing on the subject of reducible hernia, and the palliative treatment by trusses, I stated that the consideration of the Radical Cure would be better appreciated after discussing the special herniae. The radical cure of hernia, though it has of recent years attracted attention, and been brought prominently before the profession, has from time immemorial been attempted to be ob- tained by various methods—by operation, or otherwise. Thus, the application of medicated compresses or plasters, combined with rest in the horizontal position for weeks or months, at one period had its successes and its advocates; and as for operative procedures having the same object in view, their name is legion, and they have been practised from the days of Abulcasis to the present time. I can merely name some of the general plans, such as exposing the sac, and, after reducing its contents, applying the heated cautery to the exterior of the neck of the sac; or even opening the sac and cauterising the interior by actual or poten- tial cautery—ligature of the neck of the sac, so as to cause con- solidation and obliteration—incision of the sac—excision of the sac, either by dissecting it from the scrotum, or partial excision of a part of it. The last-mentioned plans were the operations which, together with lithotomy, at one period formed a specialism as we would now call it, in the hands of itinerant operators like Franco and Frere Jacques;—some of them, however, so ignorant, both of the anatomy and functions of the parts, that we are told1211 RADICAL CURE. they very generally simplified their proceedings by making a clean sweep of the testicle as well as the sac. In 1830 M. Belmas re-excited attention to this subject in France. His method seems to have been not unlike Gerdy's and Wiirtzer's methods. It consisted in inserting and fixing a small bag of goldbeater's skin in the upper part of a hernial sac, leav- ing it there to excite inflammation and consolidation of the neck of the sac. His first operation succeeded, without inducing any bad symptoms. In another case, however, operated on at his request by Baron Dupuytren, though the patient ultimately recovered, he very nearly succumbed from peritonitis; and in other cases subsequently operated on by M. Belmas, the risks seem to have been so great as to deter others from adopting the plan; and whilst the radical cure was still considered theoreti- cally as a result which might be obtained at certain risk, sur- geons were content, as a general rule, to trust to the palliative method by retentive apparatus. Of late, however, attention has again been drawn to the sub- ject, and various plans adopted with more or less success, and, so far as published results show, with less risk to life. The part of the question which I feel most doubt regarding is, the per- manency of the cure. From what I have seen of some cases in which I had operated for strangulated hernia, and where great consolidation and apparently obliteration of the sac had occurred, I have for a time hoped for a radical cure ; but in all of them the consolidated mass gradually became less, and was carried down before a fresh protrusion, and the same has been my experience in cases operated on by Wiirtzer's plan, and the various modifications of it. In regard to the general question, my own opinion is, that whilst in certain cases where the herniae cannot be easily retained by trusses, or where circumstances render the patient anxious to try the radical cure, the operation to obtain that may be performed ; yet I believe that in the great majority of instances, owing to the risks and uncertainty of absolute permanent retention without the use of a truss, the palliative treatment by trusses is preferable. In young children, 4 K1212 REGIONAL SURGERY. as I have already pointed out, the truss, properly and persistently applied till the development of the abdominal parietes, in- creases the obliquity of the canal, causes a really permanent cure in most instances ; and in children I therefore consider opera- tive procedure unwarrantable. The principles of the operations of Gerdy and Wiirtzer for the radical cure of hernia are nearly the same. They both con- sist in invaginating the sac and superimposed integuments after returning the contents of the sac, without any preliminary inci- sion, and then carrying a needle through the upper part of the sac and the skin. By means of the strong thread with which the needle is armed, a plug of wood, gum elastic, or a portion of wax candle proportioned to the parts, is drawn up through the whole extent of the invaginated textures, and fixed by tying the thread, and applying a compress over all. The plug is generally anointed with some irritating substance to cause excoriation of the invaginated skin, so as to make its opposed surfaces adhere when the plug is withdrawn, and, finally, firm compression kept up for some time. In Wiirtzer's method these objects are effected by a special apparatus, but for my own part I prefer the finger to guide the needle, so as to be sure that no por- tion of gut has fallen down after having been reduced. In oper- ations performed on these plans it has been found, as I have stated, that though successful for a time the protrusion oiten recurs. The method of Professor Wood, of King's College, London, seems to me to promise more permanent chances of success, though not devoid of risk. The principles of Professor Wood's operation are, limited incision of the superjacent tissues to insure proper invagination of the textures, and enable the needle to be carried with certainty and safety in the directions de- scribed. But liis special object is not merely invagination of the sac and skin, but to carry the needle and copper wire suture in such directions as will enable him to draw together the aponeurotic or fascial margins of the openings through which the hernia has descended, close these openings, and narrow theSTATISTICS OF HERNIAL OPERATIONS. 1213 canal. It is impossible, however, to describe satisfactorily the details to be attended to in performing these special operations without quoting very largely from Mr. "Wood's work, and as abridged descriptions of such procedures are apt to mislead, I would refer you to Mr. Wood's monograph on the subject for details. I referred at page 1162 to the results of 127 cases of stran- gulated hernia on which I had operated. These results were collected many years ago, and since then I have operated on a large number of hernial cases ; but as I have not been so careful or methodical in noting results as I formerly was, I subjoin the brief summary of cases referred to, as a contribution to the general statistics of strangulated hernia. Summary of 127 Cases of Strangulated Hernia. Nature of Hernia. No. Recovered. Died. Inguinal * 46 38 8 Femoral 77 60 17 Umtilical and Ventral 4 3 1 Total . 127 101 26 Of 46 Inguinal Hemise, 4 occurred m females. „ 77 Femoral „ 14 occurred in males. The Umbilical and Ventral Herniae aU occuiTed in females. Tlie causes of death in the 26 fatal cases were as follows :— In 17 cases the bowel was distinctly gangrenous. „ 7 „ peritonitis had commenced prior to the operation. (Four of these were cases of congenital hernia.) „ 1 „ pysemia proved fatal on the eighth day. „ 1 „ melsena was the cause of death, t 26 ■ The age of patients on whom the operation has been per- formed is not unfrequently made the subject of notice in me- * Of the inguinal herniae, 8 were congenital herniae, and of tliese 4 died. + In this last case the protrusion, a large scrotal hernia, was returned with great °ase by the extra-peritoneal operation, within sixteen hours from the time of its descent; but the patient, before applpng for medical aid, had resorted to most violent efforts ro reduce it.1214 REGIONAL SURGERY. dical journals. I have repeatedly operated both on males and females above 80. The youngest patient I have operated on for strangulated hernia was between eight and nine months old. My oldest patient was a woman who had completed her 98th year two days previous to the operation. She made an excel- lent recovery, and I believe lived to complete her 100th year. The infant above alluded to also did well. Except as a matter of curious interest, however, I cannot see what the age of the patient has to do with the propriety of performing an operation of necessity such as that for strangulated hernia. In connection with the subject of Hernia, I would briefly allude to the question of surgical interference in cases of obstruc- tion of the bowels from internal strangulation of the intestine, or from intus-susception. From what I have said in favour of operative interference in cases in which a hernia has been reduced en masse, the symptoms of strangulation remaining unrelieved, you might naturally conclude, that operation was equally im- perative in the cases of internal obstruction. The conditions, however, are really very different. In cases of intus-susception or internal strangulation, we have not the same certainty, either in regard to diagnosis as to the cause of obstruction, or as to the position of the constriction, if it exist, or even as to our power to relieve it when found. I have repeatedly seen in post mortem exa- minations, the small intestine so twisted that when fully exposed the adhesions and constriction could not be relieved; and in cases of intus-susception at the period at which we would be warranted in operating, the adhesion and sloughing of the inva- ginated portion of bowel would generally render the operation useless. Again, in many cases of obstruction in which I have been consulted and advised delay, I have seen the patients recover under the use of calomel and opium, so that I cannot look upon the operation of gastrotomy with favour, nor can the circumstances of the class of cases for which it has been proposed be considered as analogous to those of strangulated hernia.LECTUEE CXVI. Injuries of tlie Bladder and Urethra : their Dangers ; Treatment—Stone in the Bladder : Causes ; Symptoms—Diagnosis between it and other Diseases— Prognosis as to result of Operations, according to the Nature of the Concre- tion. I NOW pass on to treat of the injuries and diseases of the pelvic viscera, commencing with those of the genito-urinary system. Injuries of the Bladder or urethra may occur as the result either of penetrating wound or of force directly applied ; or from indirect force in certain injuries of the pelvis. The most frequent site at which the urethra is wounded or lacer- ated is in the perineal portion of its course. In this position I have seen several cases of direct wound from persons falling on some sharp substance ; in some of the cases, in young children, it occurred from the breaking of an earthenware chamber-pot. In these cases the wound attracted immediate attention, and prompt treatment. The catheter was introduced at once, and retained for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, until the soft parts in the perineum were glazed with lymph, and then introduced occasionally from time to time until the wound finally closed, and also for some time subsequently, to prevent the contraction giving rise to stricture. All the cases of this kind which I have seen, did well at the time ; but I have had to treat some of them in after years for very bad stricture, owing to their neglect of the occasional introduction of an instrument. In such cases, when the superficial wound is small, or the soft parts over the wounded urethra imperfectly divided, I would advise the practice I have always adopted of dilating the wound freely in the line of the raphe of the perineum, to afford free outlet for the urine, pus, and sloughs of cellular tissue.1216 REGIONAL SURGERY. The urethra may also be lacerated without any external wound in the perineum, in consequence of the person falling astride a bar or rope, or from some similar accident; or in consequence of in- direct violence, as, for example, from a weight of earth falling on the lower part of the back when the person is stooping. Such an accident may cause more or less separation of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, or even of the pubic symphysis, and the mem- branous portion of the urethra gives way at its inferior aspect. Hence, in all cases where we have injury of the pelvis, it is a wise precaution to pass a full-sized catheter at once, before the patient tries to make water, for, if the urethra be ruptured, part of the urine would be extravasated into the tissues, and give rise to infiltration of urine, with all its disastrous effects. In the cases where the urethra is ruptured from the person falling directly upon the perineum, there is generally bleeding from the orifice of the uretlira, and extravasation of blood into the textures of the perineum. The latter condition is sometimes the cause of considerable difficulty in passing a catheter into the bladder, for the extravasated blood displaces and compresses the torn ends of the urethra, so that they no longer correspond. The treatment in such injuries is to pass a gum elastic catheter into the bladder at the very first, before much effusion of blood has occurred, as the catheter can then be generally passed with ease, if the point is kept bearing gently along the upper or lateral portion of the canal, so as to prevent its point passing through the laceration, which is almost invariably in the floor of the urethra. "When much blood is effused it requires great care and skill, by gentle and patient manipulations, to guide the catheter along the canal. So great indeed may be the difficulty that you may even require to incise the swollen perineum, to turn out the clots ; and then, with the finger in the wound, guide the catheter onwards, or open the urethra further back. If the patient has attempted to pass his water, and there be much swelling in the perineum, an incision in the line of the raphe should be made at once, as the proba- bility is that the urine will have been extravasated amongst the coagula, and unless it gets vent, it will lead to very serious.1217 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. if not fatal, consequences. In all sucli cases the catheter must be kept in the bladder for a day or two. The urinary bladder is so placed in the pelvis as not to be exposed to much risk from penetrating wounds of the abdomen, unless these pass obliquely from before downwards and back- wards, or unless the bladder be distended so as to have risen above the pubis at the time of the injury. In fractures of the pelvis, however, sharp projecting portions may perforate the viscus, or it may be torn by the force causing the injury. When the bladder is much distended, it may be ruptured in consequence of the patient receiving a blow on the abdomen, or by his falling, or running against a post. In such circumstances the rupture usually takes place towards the posterior aspect of the superior fundus, and consequently the urine is effused into the peritoneal sac amongst the viscera. In other cases where the blow has been received just above the pubis, the anterior wall of the dis- tended viscus yields below the reflexion of the peritoneum, and then the urine is extravasated into the cellular tissue of the pelvis and iliac fossae. In either case the injury is one that leaves small chance of recovery. In the rupture immediately above the pubis there is some slight chance of recovery if prompt treat- ment be adopted.—by incising the integuments and linea alba at the lower part of the abdomen, whereby an outlet is afforded for the urine and sloughing cellular tissue; then introducing and retaining a vulcanised india-rubber catheter in the bladder, taking care to change it every second day, and at the same time watching the constitutional symptoms and supporting the patient's strength. Even in the case of rupture of the distended bladder into the peritoneum, there is one case of recovery on record, re- garding which, from the history of the case and the symptoms, I think no reasonable doubt can exist that the bladder was rup- tured above the peritoneal reflexion. When this case was first published, it was objected, that, with the exception of the urine first drawn off, there was no bloody urine. But this is not won- derful, for the bladder, in its ordinary condition, is not very vas- cular. And as to matter of fact, in a case which I attended along1218 REGIONAL SURGERY. with the late Dr. John Taylor of this city, and in which I drew off the nrine with the catheter at the first, and subsequently, until the man's death, there was not even a tinge of blood in the urine, and yet the bladder had been fairly transfixed by a portion of the fractured pelvis. It has been proposed that, when the urine is effused into the peritoneal sac, the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the peritoneum should be punctured by means of Pouteau's trocar, as it is supposed that the urine wUl naturally gravitate in that direction ; but in reality, the urine is effused amongst the viscera ; and in the post-mortem examinations I have wit- nessed of patients who have died from such injuries, I have never seen any such amount of fluid in the inferior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum as would afford an indication for puncturing it. Be- yond using the catheter, and treating the general symptoms, I fear we can do but little in these almost hopeless cases. (See case of ruptured bladder in Clinical Cases.) In approaching the consideration of Stone in the Bladder, I need hardly seek to impress you with the importance of the subject, for there is no disease, either medical or surgical, the treat- ment of which has attracted so much general attention. All kinds of secret medicinal agents have from time to time been vaunted as solvents of the offensive body, and a British parliament, with a view to benefit the public, once voted a large sum to purchase the secret of one of these, the efficacy of which was strongly vouched for. The wonderful remedy turned out to be lime- water ! Whatever use may result from medicines used internally in preventing the formation of stone, or correcting the conditions in the digestive functions which lead to its formation, or in allaying the symptoms, I fear that when a stone is formed we must trust to surgical procedure for its removal. Injection of fluid solvents into the bladder has been proposed and tried, but an acid or alkaline solution sufficiently powerful to act energetically on the calculus would be stiU more likely to act detrimentally, if not destructively, on the coats of the bladder ;STONE IN THE BLADDER. 1219 indeed, even frequent injection of the bladder with simple tepid water is not very safe. A time may come when medical therapeutics may achieve a triumphant solution at once of this difficult problem and of the stone; meanwhile, it is to the surgeon that the patient afifiicted with stone in the bladder must look for aid and permanent relief. In considering this important disease and its treatment, however, the surgeon must not limit himself to the mere local condition, and the methods of operating necessary for its cure. He must equally with the physician examine into the probable causes of the origin of the disease, both as a subject of patho- logical interest and as indicative in many cases of constitutional tendencies, requiring his attention either before or after his operations, and in deciding him as to the plan of operation he may adopt. But this is not the proper place to enter on the chemical composition and tests for the different forms of urinary calculi; nor, except incidentally and in the briefest manner, can I enter on the physiological conditions which, under certain cir- cumstances, may lead to the formation of stone. The formation of urinary calculi is now generally admitted to depend on some derangement of the primary or secondary digestion—a portion of the products of digestion being deposited in the kidney or bladder in the form of urates, phosphates, or oxalates. The disease seems to be endemic in some localities and is sometimes referred to the nature of the water drunk by the patients. In the neighbourhood of limestone, for example, there is a tendency to earthy deposits in the urine, either directly, or more usually owing to derangement of the digestion, leading secondarily to the formation of calcareous deposit. In Great Britain, calculous disease is very frequent in Norfolk and in the north and north-east of Scotland, while in other districts it is comparatively rare, though occasionally met with every- where. In India it is exceedingly common, especially in the north-west upper provinces of Bengal. In the Madras Presidency it is not so frequent, and yet there the operation has been long practised by the natives. In those departments of this country1220 REGIONAL SURGERY. in whicli it is most common, I think we shall find evidence of some common cause leading to derangement of the digestive organs, as, for example, in the food not being very digestible ; while in other parts of the country, where the diet is different, the disease is more rare. There are four different forms of urinary calculi generally recognised, but we must keep in mind that a urinary calculus very generally consists of strata of different salts. The Litkic or Uric Acid deposits are far the most common either as gravel or stone. Uric acid calculi vary in colour from a reddish orange to a dark brown colour, are hard and consistent, sometimes rough on their surface, at other times quite smooth and frequently of large size. The White Salts—phosphates of lime, and the triple ammonio- magnesian phosphate—form calculi, white, very friable, and often of large size. Oxalate of lime forms the " mulberry " calculus. Cystic oxide, which is an exceedingly rare calculus, is of a pale yellowish tinge and rather firm consistence. There are certain points to be attended to as regards these different kinds of urinary calculi, with reference chiefly to the prognosis of the disease, and the probability of a favourable result after operation. When the calculus consists of pure phosphate of lime, or of the triple phosphate, the prognosis is not, as a rule, very favourable. This form of stone occurs in old people, or in those whose general health and nervous system have been much shattered, and where there is a large elimination of the phosphates from the system. This generally indicates an un- favourable condition of the patient, but at the same time we must look to all the circumstances of the case. It is very common for example to find the main body of the stone composed of uric acid, whUe outside there is a layer of phosphates, de- posited in consequence of the chronic inflammation of the bladder, and from the urine being at times phosphatic. But when the whole body of the stone is composed of phosphates the prognosis is unfavourable, because phosphaturia generally shows a greatURINARY CALCULI. 1221 deterioration of the general health, and especially of the nervous system, and when this occurs in young persons the prognosis is still more unfavourable, for in them there is not the same natural tendency to the deposition of phosphates that there is in the old. In the young, when there is great irritability and much pain, with alkaline urine, the chances of a successful residt after lithotomy are doubtful. Even after the operation in some instances we find the margins of the wound coated by the white salts, showing the tendency to the deposition of phosphates from the urine. The phosphatic calculi may form originally in the prostate, and then they do not indicate any constitutional disturbance, but depend on the nature of the prostatic secretion, and consequently are not necessarily unfavourable cases for operation. The oxalate of lime, or mulberry calculus, is excessively hard and dense, of a very dark brown colour, and presents a peculiar nodulated appearance. It derives its name from its form and colour. When present it causes great pain in the bladder from two causes, first, from the rough irregular surface of the stone, and also, even when the sharp points are not present and the surface is quite smooth, from the sensitiveness of the nervous system present in oxaluria. In some instances the mulberry calculus attains a large size, but most generally, owing to the intense pain it occasions, the patients apply for relief before it has be- come so large as other forms of stone. In the uric acid calculus we find the stone composed of dif- ferent strata. It is occasionally coated with phosphates and urate of ammonia. The phosphate of lime calculi are excessively brittle, even though the nucleus be composed of uric acid. A calculus may attain a very large size, and may be of almost any form. A patient suffering intense pain from stone in the bladder may, under some remedy such as lime water, be completely relieved for a time, and think he is cured of the stone ; but the real state of matters is, that the patient was suffering from a uric acid or mulberry calculus with rough surface, which was the cause of the intense pain at first. Owing1222 REGIONAL SURGERY. to the irritation of the bladder, the tendency to the deposition of phosphates had perhaps already begun, and this would be in- creased by the action of the lime water. The deposition of the phosphates would round off the rough surface of the calculus, and make it smooth, and its presence comparatively or altogether painless. This shows that we should not be sure of a stone having disappeared under the action of internal remedies, for the improvement in the symptoms is in general due to such causes, and only temporary. The symptoms of stone are very analogous to those of an irritable bladder. There is pain in making water, with a fre- quent desire to micturate. The stream sometimes stops suddenly from spasm produced by the presence of the stone, or from the calculus falling over the orifice of the bladder, and after a pause begins to flow again, either spontaneously or when the patient alters his position. Occasionally the patient suffers intense pain while making water in the ordinary position, which passes off on changing his posture. The stone in the first instance has been resting on the most sensitive part of the bladder—viz. between the orifice of the ureters and the base of the prostate, and the relief is caused by the stone falling from off this sensitive part when the patient changes his posture, the water then passing more readily and with much less pain. There is pain after making water, generally intense suffering if the stone be rough and irregular, owing to the bladder contracting on the stone. In most cases the patient strains very much in passing water, and a little mucus and blood are expelled with the last drops of urine. In young patients the prepuce is generally very much elongated. This arises from the irritation produced by the stone—the pain is referred to the glans penis or orifice, and the patient grasps the glans, dragging the prepuce forwards while making water, so as to benumb the pain, and this causes the great elongation of the prepuce. In the adult, also, the glans penis is very often compressed and irritable, from the patient pressing on it to relieve the pain while making water. These are the general symptoms of stone, but they may be1223 DIAGNOSIS OF CALCULUS. simulated by those of some other diseases. In irritable bladder, and chronic or acute cystitis, many of the symptoms are identical with those of stone ; there is a constant desire to pass water, with pain in doing so from the violent contraction of the muscular fibres, and from the irritable state of the mucous membrane of the bladder ; and sometimes, from the irritation and spasm, the stream of water is arrested for a little, and then goes on again. In disease of the prostate, also, there is a similar condition, but both in this and in irritable bladder, the pain, as a general rule, is greatest before and whilst making water, and relieved after the bladder is emptied; if there is any pain after making water, it gradually passes off, while in stone the pain is, as already explained, most intense after the bladder is emptied. It is not always easy to diagnose disease of the prostate from stone in the bladder. In cases of enlargement of the third lobe of the prostate, when that projection is incrusted with earthy matter, the irritation thus produced is almost identical with that caused by a calculus, as the lobe is somewhat pendixlous, and in some cases forms a valvular projection; there are, in fact, pliysical causes in operation similar to those which give rise to the symptoms in cases of stone in the bladder. Even in sound- ing there is a difficulty in diagnosis, for we feel the sound rubbing against the earthy matter on the prostate, which com- municates a sensation like that produced by the rub of the sound on a calculus, and in the case of the pendulous projection we can pass the sound above and under it. In children the presence of ascarides in the rectum may very closely simulate the symptoms of stone. I have in several cases seen all the symptoms of stone present when no stone really existed, but they disappeared when the ascarides were removed from the rectum—hence in any doubtful case we should, especially in children, examine the state of the lower bowel. The pain is not always in proportion to the irregularities on the surface of the stone, for we have sometimes a smooth surface accompanied by symptoms as severe as those produced by mulberry calculus. This is due more to the deranged nervousREGIONAL SURGERY. 1224 condition which gives rise to the disease than to the actual degree of local irritation. The symptoms in diseases of the kidney, especially in some cases of albuminuria, when this is combined with scrofulous disease of the prostate in boys, are exceedingly like calciilus. All the symptoms of stone may be present, and depend entirely on the above causes ; the general health, however, in these cases very soon gives way. The only sure diagnostic for stone in the bladder is the use of the sound, and the method of doing this will be fully considered by and by. In all urinary affections we ought to be very particular in examining into the general symptoms of the patient, the state of the pulse, and digestive organs, and especially the condition of the urine. When there is any reason to suspect a tendency to the deposition of phosphates, or that the urine is albuminous, the urine should be examined repeatedly. When a little of the urine is heated, if there be any phosphates in it it becomes opaque and muddy, but, on adding a drop or two of nitric acid, it at once becomes clear again, with perhaps some slight effervescence ; the phosphates are decomposed by the acid and dissolved. If albumen be present, the addition of nitric acid will only make the urine more opaque than it was after being heated. When pus is present the tests of heat and nitric acid give results some- what similar to those of albumen; but if, instead of nitric acid, we add a few drops of liquor potassse to the opaque urine, the pus becomes dissolved and the fluid clears. When both albumen and phosphates are present in the urine, and if this condition be persistent, the case is a very unfavourable one ; still in many of these cases we must allow for a certain amount of fibrinous matter, the result of irritation of the organs, causing the albuminous deposit, and then the average specific gravity of the urine must be carefully ascertained. When the phosphates are very largely present, and when the general state of the patient indicates debility or nervous exhaustion, though that should not absolutely prevent us from operating, still the prognosis is un- favourable, especially when the patient is young. In phosphate of1225 PROGNOSIS. lime calculi the condition is generally due to prostatic calculi, and tlie prognosis is not necessarily so unfavourable. The oxalate of lime or mulberry calculus is not unfavourable for operation, but after its removal the use of nitro-mi;riatic acid and other tonics is reqiiired. Cases of uric acid calculi are generally favourable as regards the prognosis, and there is seldom anything to contra- indicate the operation after the presence of the stone has been ascertained.LECTURE CXVII. Operations for the Eemoval of Vesical Calculi—Lithotrity and Lithotomy : the Cases most suitable for these Operations—Preliminary Exploration of the Bladder, or Sounding—Lithotrity. There are two great methods of getting rid of stone in the bladder, Lithotomy and Lithotrity, each method being more suitable for certain cases than for others. When lithotrity can be performed in cases where everything is favourable for it, there is no doubt that the operation is one attended with less risk to life than lithotomy ; but then, unfortunately, it happens that the cases suitable for lithotrity are compara- tively rare. In private practice, among the better class of patients, lithotrity can be performed much more frequently than in hospital practice ; for in the former the patient generally applies to a surgeon early, whilst the stone is still small and friable, and before its presence has excited chronic vesical irrita- tion, and when it can therefore be crushed under the most favour- able circumstances. But there are certain conditions which must be attended to in deciding which is the preferable operation in each individual case. What then are the conditions favour- able for the performance of lithotrity ? First, the stone must be of a small size, or at all events not large ; it must also be of a somewhat friable composition, and likely to yield readily to the crushing instrument introduced into the bladder per urdhram, because the force we can employ is limited by the size of the canal. The stone should be friable in a particular way. It should break up readily into small fragments or sand. The oxalate of lime calculus is not friable in this way ; it breaks rip into a number of smaU sharp fragments, which are not easily broken up completely, and these sometimes get impacted in the urethra, and cause a great deal of trouble and danger ; henceCASES SUITABLE FOR LITHOTRITY. 1227 mulberry calculi are not cases in whicli lithotrity should, as a general rule, be employed. The kinds of stone best suited for this operation are the uric acid in its early formation, and the phosphatic calculi. These latter calciQi are very readily broken up and crushed to powder, and after the earlier sittings, by injecting the bladder, portions of the stone may be dissolved and brought away, so that in many respects the phosphatic and soft uric acid calculi are the most favourable, and the oxalate of lime the most unfavourable for the operation of lithotrity. Where two or more calculi exist, lithotrity is not so advantageous, as the different calculi are caught and partially crushed at the dif- ferent operations, and hence there is a want of certainty as to the result. The condition of the urinary organs should be attended to in choosing eitlier operation. For lithotrity the bladder must be sufficiently capacious to retain a moderate amount of fluid, say from five to eight ounces. When the patient has suffered from stone for a long time, or when he is constantly making water, the muscular coats of the bladder get thickened and irritable, and the capacity of the cavity is diminished, so that it is unable to contain even a moderate quantity of water. The opponents of lithotrity used to argue that the operation could very seldom be performed on this account. We can, however, obviate this difficulty by injecting a little tepid water occasionally into the bladder, and so gradually increasing its capacity, and accustoming it to contain some bland unirritating fluid. If we can by suph treatment get the bladder to contain say from five to eight ounces of water, we are quite justified in performing lithotrity, provided all the other conditions are suited for it. The most important point, however, is the size of the canal of the urethra; it must be of such a size as to allow a full-sized lithotrite to enter the bladder. We must have an instrument of full crushing power, and therefore the urethra must be tolerably large to allow of the passage of the instrument. It must also be large for another reason—to allow the fragments of the stone to come away readily. If the urethra be small, they will probably 4 LREGIONAL SURGERY. 1228 become impacted in the canal, and give rise to much trouble, or even danger. It is obvious, therefore, that lithotrity is not an operation suitable for boys, for in them the urethra is neither large enough to allow of the passage of a full-sized instrument, nor to allow the larger broken fragments to come away readily with the urine ; besides, in children, the bladder is generally very irritable in cases of stone. In children, moreover, the lateral operation of lithotomy is almost unattended with danger, while the irritation caused by the use of the lithotrite is very great. I consider that lithotrity ought, therefore, never to be performed in children. When the prostate is enlarged and dense, as in old people, lithotomy is not so favourable, for in such cases we require to cut very freely, and split up the resistant gland; and though there is little risk of infiltration of urine, and the operation itself is easy enough, and though the patient goes on very well for some time, even for weeks after the operation, yet we sometimes find that at a later period gastric and hepatic irritation set in, dysentery comes on, and the patient ultimately sinks. The wound itself may have healed, but it is the effect of the operation that has killed the patient; and therefore in this class of cases I prefer lithotrity if the stone be small and easily broken, and if the prostate be not of such a form as to present a valvular obstruction to the passage of the fragments of the stone. In these cases we can introduce a full-sized instrument, and by proper medical treatment get over the irritable state of the bladder, and thus there is every chance of a successful result after lithotrity, more especially as the calculi are generally phosphatic. In the female we do not often require to operate for stone, because, from the shortness and straight course of the female urethra, calculi readily pass out of the bladder by the urethra if they are of a moderate size, and hence they do not often attain any great size in the female ; but, when they do, they give rise to intense suffering, and require some operation for their removal. If we perform lithotomy in these cases, or instead of this use me- chanical dilatation, such as the sponge or tangle tent, or specialCASES SUITABLE FOR LITHOTOMY. 1229 dilating instruments, we can extract the stone readily enougli by- forceps ; but then the patient is sometimes left in a very pitiable condition from the permanent incontinence of urine which results from the cutting or dilatation. Lithotrity has everything to re- commend it in the case of females ; in them the urethra is wide, short, and straight, and we can therefore introduce an instru- ment of great crushing power into the bladder, easily seize and act upon the stone, and there is a direct and free outlet for the crushed fragments of stone. For these reasons, I hold that in females lithotrity is far preferable to extreme dilatation or lithotomy when the stone is so large as to require any surgical interference. In the adult male, however, when the stone is tolerably large and the patient is otherwise healthy, with no great enlargement or hardness of the prostate, and when several sittings would be required before the stone could be thoroughly crushed by litho- trity, I thiak that lithotomy is generally the preferable operation. There is no great danger attendant on lithotomy if it be properly performed; and I would therefore limit lithotrity in the healthy adult male to those cases in which the stone is small and easily friable, and the bladder not excessively irritable, or to cases of enlarged or rigid prostate. Before proceeding to demonstrate the method of performing lithotrity or lithotomy, I must first describe the preparatory exploration of the bladder with the sound, which, as I formerly stated, is the only positive diagnostic of the presence of a stone. This preliminary operation, though simple, requires certain precautions, and must be proceeded with method- ically, so as to make sure of detecting a stone if present; and also to ascertain, approximately at least, the bulk and general character of the calculus. "Whilst doing this, the size of the prostate and its consistence should be examined, so that we may, if possible, avoid any unnecessary explorations prior to the opera- tion. Before proceeding to sound the patient, the bowels should be cleared out, and the rectum emptied by an enema. If the bladder be not very irritable, the patient should be made to1230 REGIONAL SURGERY. retain his urine for an hour or so before the examination. If, however, the patient is unable to retain his water, then we must inject some tepid water into the bladder. This requires to be done very gently, by means of a slow continuous stream, avoid- ing all jerking, pausing occasionally to give time for the muscular coat to dilate gradually. About six or seven ounces of water are quite sufficient to enable us to explore the bladder fully. The form of sound to be used is of some importance, for, with a sound with the curve of the ordinary catheter, we cannot move the instrument freely in the bladder, and might readily pass over a flat stone lying in the pouch behind the prostate—a position the stone often occupies—and this will be more li]?:ely to occur in old persons, or in patients in whom the gland is enlarged. For these reasons, the sound is generally made with a short and rather sudden curve, so as to enable us to turn the point in all directions, and sweep the whole cavity of the bladder. Of late years I have gener- ally used a sound with the end made of the same form as the closed lithotrite, but the stalk much smaller —about No. V or 8 gauge—to enable it to lie loose and move easily in the urethra. I first used this to prepare the urethra for the lithotrite ; but I found it so easily moved in the bladder, and give rise to so much less pain than the ordinary sound, that I now use it in almost all cases in the adult. In many instances the closed scoop lithotrite answers very well to sound with, and has moreover this advantage, that it enables the surgeon to measure the bulk of the stone, by seizing it between the blades. In all cases, however, we shordd have at hand sounds of different curves, and a short pointed catheter. This last-mentioned instrument is some- times needed, not only to enable us to inject water into the bladder, but also in cases where the detection of the stone is difficult. By using the catheter, and allowing the urine to escapeSOUNDING. 1231 slowly, it often happens that, as the bladder contracts, the stone is brought into contact with the instrument, which can then be used as a sound. Whilst I consider the short-pointed sound as most suitable for complete exploration, I cannot help noticing a circumstance which has often struck me—viz. that in cases even where there had been some difficulty at first in detecting the stone by the sound, I never knew an instance in which the staff, when iutroduced for the purpose of performing lithotomy, did not, almost at once, strike the stone, thoiigh, from its long point and larger curve, it seems the most unlikely form of instru- ment for the purpose. In proceeding to explore with the sound, the preparations already mentioned having been attended to, the patient should be placed recumbent, with a pillow placed under the hips to elevate the pelvis. The surgeon, standing on the left side of the patient, introduces the sound, previously warmed and oiled, into the urethra. If the oval-pointed sound or the lithotrite be used for exploration, the large extremity must be introduced, so as to present its flattened surfaces to the sides of the orifice, to suit its long axis—not transversely, which would over-distend the opening. The instrument is then carried onwards, with the extremity bearing gently towards the right side and upper sur- face of the urethra, until it reaches the opening in the triangular ligament; the penis is then drawn gently forwards on the sound, whUst at the same time the operator depresses the handle of the instrument, to make it take the turn of the. canal, and pushes it onwards till he feels it enter the bladder. In depressing and passing home the sound, no force should be used, merely the gentle pressure of one or two fingers on the upper surface of the handle will suffice ; and when the litho- trite is used, the weight of the handle of the instrument requires only the finger to guide and give it direction. When the sound has entered the bladder, it may possibly strike the stone at once ; but still we require to ascertain its bulk, and whether it is movable, and other conditions. The surgeon waits for a minute or two, and then proceeds to1232 REGIONAL SURGERY. move the sound with, great care and lightness over the in- terior of the bladder. If the patient has been placed as directed, the instrument naturally glides down the inclined plane from the prostatic part of the urethra, over the trigone, towards the posterior fundus of the bladder, and, as the stone has most likely fallen back in that direction, it may strike it at once. If it does not, the curved extremity should, by merely rotating the handle, be moved first to one side and then to the other. If this manoeuvre does not succeed in detecting the calculus, then the sound is made to sweep round the whole surface, and, as it is withdrawn to near the neck of the bladder, the concavity of its curve is turned backwards, so that the point may search the sac-like part of the " bas fond" of the bladder, which exists when there is an enlargement of the prostate. If not felt there, the concavity is turned for- wards, in case the stone be resting on the pubis, a position it sometimes occupies, although this is not likely to be the case when the patient is recumbent. Should nothing be felt, the patient is then brought into the erect position, and the catheter may be used to empty the bladder gradually, when the stone, if there be one, will probably be brought in contact with the instrument. It is advisable, however, to avoid introducing many different instruments ; and, if the form of sound I have described, or the scoop lithotrite be used, if the handle be a little depressed, so that the large extremity is re- moved from the neck of the bladder, the patient in most cases can pass water by the side of the instrument, and there is therefore no use in introducing the catheter, and irritation is thus avoided. When the calculus is touched, the surgeon passes the end of the sound over its surface, so as to gain some idea of its length and breadth; next, he passes the point by the side of the stone to measure its thickness ; and then, passing the sound under it, he determines its mobility, and at the same time gains some notion of its weight. The knowledge so gained, however, is very imperfect, as you may easily conceive. If, however, the lithotrite be used as a sound, then, when the foreignLITHOTRITY. 1233 body is felt, the surgeon, by opening the blades widely, and gradually closing them, will generally get the calculus between the blades, and will thus be able to form a pretty accurate idea of its bulk. Of course he must examine it in different positions, for a small stone caught in its largest axis would give an erro- neous idea of its bulk. The grasp of the lithotrite also serves to indicate, in some degree, its character of hardness or softness. In cases where, after careful exploration, gently carried out as just described, we cannot detect a stone, we should desist, use means to allay the irritation of the bladder, and after a few days, examine again, using an instrument of a different form, should that be thought advisable. In sounding, care must be taken to avoid being deceived as to the sound touching a stone. I have known the surgeon and those present momentarily deceived by the sound produced by the handle of the instrument striking a ring on the operator's finger, and not unfrequently, in disease of the third lobe of the prostate, the projecting part is covered with earthy sabulous matter, and the same earthy deposit may take place on the pro- jecting rugse, caused by the hypertrophied muscular coat of the bladder. We must never be satisfied by feeling a mere rub, but should make quite sure of the presence and mobility of the concretion felt. Having thus described the process of exploring the bladder to ascertain the presence of a stone, I now proceed to describe the different operations for the purpose of crushing or extracting it, and begin with Lithotrity. In describing the method of performing lithotrity, I have no intention of describing or discussing the merits or the mecha- nism of the different forms of lithotrites now used ; for that in- formation I would refer you to the works of Sir William Fer- gusson, who has done so much to simplify and improve the instrument, and to the monograph of Sir Henry Thomson. The instrument which I show you is that usually known as Sir Henry Thomson's Lithotrite, and, for ordinary practice, you re-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1234 quire two of these—one powerful, and having the end of the female blade fenestrated ; the other the scoop lithotrite, in which the flattened end is hollowed to receive the end of the male blade, but not fenestrated. The former of these instruments is intended for crushing the stone in the first operation, and is fenestrated to permit the larger fragments to be thrown out from between the blades, and should be very powerful and cut from the solid metal. The other is used in the after sittings, to reduce the fragments to sand, and hence no opening is made in the end of the female blade. Both instruments act on the same principle, and have two movements. As I use it now, you will observe it acts with a sliding movement, so that I can readily open and close the blades, and use a certain amount of per- cussion, by pressing on the handle of the lithotrite with the ball of my thumb; but when with the point of my thumb I draw up the small button-slide towards the handle, I at once convert the movement into the powerful screw action ; and this again can be altered by pushing down the slide. This form of lithotrite, therefore, enables the surgeon to use it with great facility. The preliminary arrangements for, and the earlier steps in the operation of lithotrity, are so similar to or identical with those of sounding just described, that I shall only briefly reca- pitulate them here. The patient should have the lower part of the bowels cleared by an enema about an hour and a half before the operation, and should be told to retain his urine. Should his bladder be too irritable to retain a sufficient quantity of urine, the surgeon must in that case inject six or seven ounces of tepid water into the bladder, using the precautions I mentioned when speaking of sounding. The patient should be placed on a firm table, lying on his back, his head moderately raised, and a pillow placed under his hips, to elevate the pelvis, and favour the calculus falling backwards. In using the sound or lithotrite, I prefer to stand on the left side of the patient, and then, having warmed and thoroughly oiled the fenestrated lithotrite, I introduce the broad flattened beak ofLITHOTRITY—SEIZING THE STONE. 1235 the instrument sidewise, so as to correspond to the long axis of the urethral orifice. I then glide it downwards, bearing gently towards the right side and upper surface of the canal, and gra- dually bringing it away from the abdomen. On reaching near the sinus of the bulb, I draw forwards the penis gently on the instrument, and depress its handle, to make it take the turn and enter the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra. Then, keeping the instrument in this position, with the pressure of a single finger on the extremity of the handle, it is gently pushed along the prostatic urethra, and enters the bladder. In passing the lithotrite, no force is permissible or necessary. When the lithotrite has entered the bladder, the surgeon pauses for a moment, and then begins to search for the stone. In the position in which the patient has been placed, it is probable, that as the instrument ghdes backwards it may strike the stone at once. If it does not, the closed Kthotrite is gently withdrawn towards the neck of the bladder, and then, by turning the handle, the beak of the instrument is made to turn first to the right and then to the left side, to feel if the calculus be there; or its point is turned backwards behind the prostate in case the stone be lying close behind the gland. If not found in any of these positions, the patient should be slightly moved to try to change its position, and the lithotrite swept gently round the bladder. Some recommend that the blades of the lithotrite should be opened pretty widely and depressed, and then closed, to try to catch the stone. I have occasionally succeeded in doing this when I could not detect the calculus with the closed lithotrite, but it seems to me an uncertain proceeding, and one not to be generally recommended. Other operators recommend pressing the end of the lithotrite back towards the posterior fundus of the bladder, so as to make a depression, and then to open the blades to allow the calculus to fall into it. Various other methods have been proposed, and perhaps that of Civiale is the best. Having felt the stone with the lithotrite, he turns the beak to- wards the opposite side of the bladder, and opens the blades widely, then turning them over to the side where the stone lay.1236 REGIONAL SURGERY. he gradually closes them on it. The stone being caught and care- fully secured between the blades of the lithotrite, the operator now gently depresses the handle, so as to raise the instrument and stone from the posterior fundus of the bladder, and bring them into the centre of its cavity, away from its walls. He grasps firmly the handle of the lithotrite with his left hand, glides the button of the catch upwards by a touch of the Fig. 41. thumb of his right hand, and so converts the sliding into the screw action. "With a gentle turn of the screw he fixes the stone firmly, and then, by half-turns of the screw, he exercises at first a sort of percussion force on the stone, till he feels it begin to yield, and, by the more forcible screw movement, he gradually crushes the calculus. When the fragments are felt to separate and fall out of the lithotrite, the surgeon should screw the blades fairly home. He now, by pushing down the catch, resumes the sliding action of the instrument, turns its beak, laterally depresses it, and separates the blades, so as to enclose any large fragment, which he crushes either by simple pressure of the blades or by reverting to the screw if necessary. This- may be repeated onAFTER- TREA TMENT. 1237 one or two fragments, but great caution is required, to avoid doing too much at the first sitting. After the operation the patient should lie on his back, and an opiate suppository should be administered, to obviate irritation and prevent the patient straining to make water. In passing water he must not be allowed to stand up or kneel, as by so doing sharp fragments may be forced into and become impacted in the urethra, lacerating it, and giving rise to great danger. He should pass his urine lying on the back or side, and the urine should be kept in a glass vessel to permit the detritus to sub- side. Very little of the debris of the calculus passes during the first twenty-four hours ; but, if the patient drinks freely of dilu- ents, the fragments become water-worn and rounded, and then pass more readily when the patient makes water. No second examination or operation should be had recourse to for at least four or five days. More generally, a week should elapse, and then we should only interfere if all irritation from the first operation has ceased. On the occasion of the second sitting, as it is termed, we should use the scoop instead of the fenestrated lithotrite, our object now being to crush any broken fragments into sand. In the first and second operations it is not desirable to wash out fragments by injecting the bladder; but afterwards, when we feel sure that only some moderately small fragments remain, we may proceed to wash out the bladder by means of Clover's apparatus, which consists of a large catheter, with the eye in the concavity near its point fitted to an india-rubber bottle, with an intermediate glass reservoir into which the detritus faUs. The forcible impaction of a sharp fragment of stone after the first crushing is a serious danger, and various forms of forceps have been proposed for extracting such fragments. If it has been forced very near the external orifice, there can be no great difficulty in getting it out by gently pressing it forwards to the orifice, which may, if necessary, be dilated or cut. When the fragment is placed far back, attempts to use forceps would only,REGIONAL SURGERY. 1238 in my opinion, add to the mischief. The safest plan, in such cases, is to push back the fragment into the bladder by gentle pressure with a full-sized catheter, or by a stream of tepid water injected into the urethra. Should the fragment be large and firmly impacted near the sinus of the bulb, I consider that an incision in the middle line of the perineum would be safer prac- tice than attempting its removal by urethral forceps, however ingeniously devised for the purpose. In extreme cases, where one or more fragments have become impacted in the prostatic or membranous portions of the urethra, the mesial or lateral opera- tion of lithotomy should be performed. Such cases, however, must be of very rare occurrence if ordinary precautions are observed.LECTUEE CXVIIL Lithotomy—Supra-pubic, or Higli Operation—its Dangers, and Proposals for diminisliing them—Steps of the Operation—After-Treatment—Sub-pubic or Perineal Lithotomy—Different Methods—Anatomy of the Male Perineum with reference to Lithotomy. I SHALL now describe to you as succinctly as I can the prin- cipal methods of performing Lithotomy, or the operation of cutting for stone. The methods of performing the operation of lithotomy may be first classified under two great divisions—Supra-pubic and Perineal Lithotomy. The former, or High Operation, is never now performed except as an operation of necessity. In cases where there is any deformity in the bones of the outlet of the pelvis, or where the stone is excessively large, so that it cannot be extracted through the lower outlet of the pelvis, the high or supra-pubic operation is the only means of relieving the patient. It has, however, been proposed in such cases, rather to cut into the bladder by the lateral operation, and introduce a powerful crushing instrument, so as to break up the stone in the bladder when it is so large that it cannot be extracted in the usual way. The supra-pubic operation has this great disadvantage, that, whenever the bladder is opened, it subsides behind the pubis, and the urine tends to infiltrate into the loose sub- peritoneal cellular tissue of the pelvis. To obviate this a variety of methods have been proposed. Some recommend an incision to be made in the perineum opening into the mem- branous portion of the urethra, and a tube or catheter in- troduced into the bladder, to give a free dependent opening for the urine to escape, and so prevent, or at least diminish1240 REGIONAL SURGERY. the risk of urinary infiltration. Others recommend cutting down on the bladder and exposing it; then, some forty-eight hours afterwards, opening it and extracting the stone. But, to say nothing of two operations, the objection to this latter plan is obvious—the patient could not contain his water for forty- eight hours ; and, therefore, the bladder would shift its position slightly in the interval between the two oj)erations. When the supra-pubic operation is really required, I believe that the best plan is simply to cut into the bladder above the pubes, with the proper precautions, and extract the stone ; and afterwards to introduce, by the urethra, a flexible or vulcanised india-rubber catheter, and keep it constantly in, to allow the urine to flow off by the natural passage, and so prevent, or at least lessen the risk of infiltration. Still further, by placing the patient on his side, and introducing a long narrow strip of gutta-percha tissue, previously varnished, into the wound of the bladder, and allow- ing the end to hang out over the side of the incision, the over- flow of urine will pass along it. This may be still further assisted by means of tepid water constantly dripping into the wound from an irrigating apparatus, should that be thought necessary ; but I confess I have but little faith in such irrigation. I have seen one case of the high operation under treatment on the Con- tinent, where the patient, a boy, was lying with the lower part of his body immersed in a tepid bath, and had been kept in it for some days. He seemed to be very comfortable. The principle of the operation is founded on the varying position of the bladder, and its relation to the peritoneum in different states of the viscus. When distended, the bladder rises above the pubis, and gradually throws upwards the fold of the peritoneum, which, in its contracted state, lies upon it. As it becomes very fully dis- tended, the peritoneum is thrown off its anterior surface alto- gether, so that, by cutting down upon it in the mesial line above the pubis, we can open into the bladder without wounding the peritoneum. The bladder, therefore, requires to be very fully distended, or injected with water, before operating, so that it may occupy the proper position. Some recommend that a large1241 HIGH OPERA TION FOR STONE. catheter should be passed along the -urethra, and the bladder projected before it, so as to form a guide to its position; but this is never a safe method. The bladder having been felt distended above the pubis, the High Operation is performed as follows. The surgeon makes an incision about two and a half or three inches long in the mesial line of the abdomen at its lowest part, immediately above, or even partly over the pubis. This first incision divides the skin and fat, and exposes the lowest part of the linea alba., which is next divided between the pyramidal muscles. The edges of these muscles and of the wound should be gently held, not dragged, aside by copper spatulee. The knife should now, if at all, be very sparingly used. With his finger the operator separates the loose connective tissue, and recognises the anterior surface of the bladder, and, if possible, ascertains the position of the reflected peritoneum. He then feels for the distended bladder, and pushes his knife into it about an inch and a half above the pubis, with the edge directed downwards, and cuts towards the pubis, then hooking his finger in the opening so made, he draws forward the bladder, and, guarding the peritoneum, enlarges the opening. There is no necessity, however, for making a very long cut through the coats of the bladder, for the divided muscular coat readily yields, so as to allow the easy extraction of a very large calculus. The introduction of forceps and the extraction of the stone are not attended with any of the difficulties which are occasionally met with in perineal lithotomy. The operation is unattended by any risk of hgemorrhage, and, as regards its manual procedure, is very simple ; but un- less the precautions I have described be attended to, the sac of the peritoneum may be opened, and the intestines escape; and when I mention that this accident actually happened in the hands of so dexterous a surgeon as Baron Dupuytren, you will see the necessity for care. The after-treatment is to be conducted on the principles already laid down when speaking of the dangers of this method, and the means of diminishing or obviating them.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1242 All the metliods of performing Sub-pubic or Perineal Lithotomy have for their object the extraction of the stone, by incisions, through the parts closing the inferior outlet of the pelvis. This outlet or space in which the incisions must be made is limited by osseous and ligamentous boundaries, and by the relations of the great pudic artery, and some of its branches, which, at certain points, lie close to the lines of incision of some of the methods. Deeply, towards the pelvis, the extent and direction of the incisions of the prostate are limited by the connections of the pelvic fascia ; whilst posteriorly the widest part of the outlet is largely occupied by the lower part of the rectum. As regards perineal lithotomy, the problem to be solved is, to obtain an opening from the perineum into the bladder of sufficient size to admit of the easy extraction of the stone, without passing beyond the limits of the prostate gland and its fascial coverings, with the least risk to the pudic artery or its branches, and without injury of the rectum. In the recto-vesical method the last consideration is of course disregarded, as wound of the rectum forms in it a part of the operative procedure. Lithotomy by any of the perineal methods is an operation which, although in many cases simple and easy of performance, is in other instances attended with great difficulties, requiring all the skill, dexterity, and determination of the most experienced to overcome. Such difficult cases the surgeon who undertakes the operation must be prepared to meet, and, like every other surgical operation, it especially requires a thorough knowledge of the anatomy of the parts concerned in the operation. Although the modifications of the different methods of perineal lithotomy are almost endless, these methods may be enumerated under four heads—viz. 1st, the lateral operation—that most generally performed ; 2d, the bi-lateral operation; 3d, the central or median operation; and 4th, the recto-vesical or median opera- tion, combined with division of the anterior wall of the rectum. Before you can understand the comparative merits or demerits of these different methods, it is first necessary that I point outDANGERS OF LITHOTOMY. 1243 to you tlie general dangers of lithotomy. Amongst these dangers there are some common to all methods, such as pyaemia, inflam- mation of the neck of the bladder, uraemia from siippression of urine, and the shock. This last, however, is now much dimin- ished since the introduction of chloroform. These risks do not depend on the method of operation, and, so far as the incisions are concerned, may be termed unavoidable. The dangers incident to certain methods of operating are—haemorrhage, infiltration of urine into the subperitoneal cellular tissue of the pelvis, and wound of the rectum. The last-mentioned occurrence, however, is rather a disagreeable accident than a danger; and indeed, as I have already stated, free incision of the rectum forms a neces- sary part of the recto-vesical operation. To these risks must be added the danger of bruising and lacerating the textures at the neck of the bladder and of the perineum, in attempts to extract forcibly a large stone through an insufficient incision. To understand how far some of the methods give a greater chance than others of avoiding some of these dangers, and how some of them, in trying to avoid one risk incur another equally dangerous, let us take a general view of the space in which any of the forms of perineal lithotomy must be performed, and the relations of the pelvic fascia to the deep incision in reference to the risk of infiltration of urine. The perineal space, or inferior outlet of the pelvis, is not very large in the male ; bounded in front by the pubic arch and sub- pubic ligament, and laterally by the rami of the pubis and ischium and tuber ischii, and laterally and posteriorly by ■ the great sacro-sciatic ligament overlapped by the margins of the gluteus maximus of each side, and posteriorly by the coccyx. We have a diamond or lozenge-shaped space, which, for the sake of description, may be divided into two nearly equal triangles by a line draAvn across the space from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. The anterior is sometimes termed the urethral triangle, and corresponds more directly to the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra and the neck of the bladder, the parts towards which our incisions in lithotomy are directed. 4 M1244 REGIONAL SURGERY. The posterior or anal region of the perineum, the anterior part of which is implicated in the lateral and bilateral methods of lithotomy, is occupied in the centre, and to some extent laterally, by the anus and the lower pouch of the rectum, on either side of which we find the ischio-rectal fossse, containing a quantity of fat and loose cellular tissue and the inferior heemorrhoidal arteries and veins. The widest part of the space, in reference to lithotomy, is between the tuberosities of the ischium. The measurement here is very variable. Dupuytren and Velpeau give its dimensions— the former as varying from 2 to 3j, and Velpeau from less than 2 to 4 inches. The general average of my own measurements is rather less than 3 inches. When viewed as in lithotomy, the anterior space is bounded by the scrotum, and in the central line we remark the raised line or raph^, and the fulness caused by the spongy part of the urethra. The space is covered by the skin and common superficial fascia ; under this it is closed in by a dense layer of fascia, the true superficial fascia of the perineum. Under it we find the superficial perineal branches of the pudic artery and nerve, the accelerator urinae muscle covering the bulb and spongy portion of the urethra and part of the surface of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and laterally, in close contact with the accelerator anteriorly, is the erector penis covering the crus penis. Posteriorly the transversus perinei muscle crosses the space from the tuberosity of the ischium to the central point of the perineum. If we now draw aside the erector penis, clear away the posterior fibres of the accelerator, and draw down or divide the transversus perinei, we perceive a dense aponeurotic structure. This is the anterior or super- ficial layer of the triangular ligament, which stretches across and closes the anterior part of the perineum, merely presenting an opening for the urethra. This triangular ligament consists of two layers which coalesce at the posterior boundary of the ante- rior triangle, but which are elsewhere separated for nearly the depth of 3-4ths of an inch. This interval between the layers is traversed from above downwards and forwards by the mem-SURGICAL ANATOMY. 1245 branous portion of the urethra, and is occupied by the muscular fibres of the compressor urethrse, and a plexus of veins, whilst, about 16 lines in front of the anus, the artery of the bulb runs across the space from without inwards, close to the anterior layer of fascia, and immediately below it, and close behind the bulb, the ante-prostatic or Cowper's gland is situated. If, at this stage of the dissection, we mark a line beginning about an inch and a quarter in front of the anus, close to the raph^, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards about midway between the anus and tuber ischii, we indicate the line of incision in the lateral operation of lithotomy, and we see the parts which must be divided to reach the triangular ligament. If the posterior margin of that fascia be lightly touched with the knife, and the finger entered deeply about the middle of the line of the incision, and directed upwards and to the central line of the peri- neum, as if to reach the subpubic arch, the groove of the staff will be felt in the membranous part of the urethra, and you will notice that the artery of the bulb lies anteriorly and superficially to the part of the urethra into which the knife should be entered. If, on the contrary, you were to cut the triangular ligament as far forwards as the extent of your external incision, you would be very likely to divide the artery of the bulb. If you now examine the mesial line of the perineum, you will perceive that whilst it is the shortest and most direct route to the neck of the bladder from the perineum, there is only a very short space between the bulb and anus, and that this space diminishes between the bulb and rectum, as we pass upwards. Indeed, in many subjects, the bulb completely overhangs the membranous part of the urethra. At the same time, however, you will observe that no important structures occupy the recto-urethral space, that the rectum can be easily pressed back, and that by dividing the muscles and other textures connected at the central point of the perineum, and by bulging forwards the convexity of the staff, the membran- ous urethra can be made easily accessible. Still, the mesial inci- sion must necessarily be limited as compared with the lateral,1246 .REGIONAL SURGERY. unless we divide the anterior wall of the rectum, as in the recto- vesical operation. We now remove all the muscular and other structures, leaving merely the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and we can feel the prostate though we cannot see its form. AVe therefore dissect away the posterior layer of fascia, and this brings into view the thick anterior fibres of the levator ani descending on the sides of the prostate, and you will notice how these strong fibres will require division to some extent in lithotomy. Cut across the anterior part of the levator, and the contour of the perineal aspect of the prostate, enclosed in its fascial sheath, is seen. We now turn from the perineum to the interior of the pelvis, strip off the peritoneum from the pelvic fascia, and clear away any fat with the handle of the scalpel. You now perceive that a lamina of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia is reflected on the upper surface of the prostate, and from it upon the sides of the bladder, above that gland, so as to form a septum or barrier, as it were, between the upper and lower part of the pelvis. Looking from the pelvis you can see nothing of the perineal dis- section. Looking from the perineum you can see nothing above the prostate ; but if you pass the fingers of one hand from the pelvis, and those of the other from the perineum, you feel that they are only separated by this reflected layer of fascia, and you see at once how an opening in the prostate, if made either directly downwards, as in the median operation, or obliquely downwards and outwards, as in the lateral and bilateral methods, if not car- ried too transversely or too far outwards, beyond the base of the gland, will enable you to open the bladder, and extract a stone, without dividing this important barrier, so that the urine will naturally flow by the perineal incision, and cannot possibly reach the subperitoneal cellular tissue. I have avoided entering on the complex descriptive anatomy and nomenclature, and all the connections of these fasciae. I merely content myself with pointing out their relations and bearing on the incisions in lithotomy. The dimensions, form, and structure of the prostate glandINCISION OF THE PROSTATE. 1247 also demand our special attention, for the direction and the extent to which we can carry our incision through its substances without dividing that part of its base where the reflection of the fascia takes place, forms one of the most important points in regard to lithotomy. The form of the prostate has been well compared to that of a chestnut. It surrounds the commence- ment of the urethra, at the neck of the bladder. The great por- tion of the substance of the gland lies posterior to the canal of the urethra, about one-third or one-fourth of its substance lying on the anterior or pubic aspect of the canal. The prostate is placed somewhat obliquely, its apex directed downwards and forwards, whUst its body and base rest upon the rectum, the base as it were embracing the neck of the bladder, and con- nected with the vas deferens and vesiculte seminales, whose ducts pass into and through its substance. If we take the measure- ments of the prostate in different directions, we shall find that in the mesial line, from above downwards, from its base to its apex, it measures from twelve to fourteen lines in the adult, and that its longest axis on each side is from the apex, at the mem- branous part of the urethra, obliquely downwards and outwards, which gives a difference of from three to four lines more than the mesial measurement; and this direction is also that in which the incision is least likely to injure the reflection of the ileo- vesical fascia, as it runs lower down and parallel to the line of reflection. Incisions made in similar directions, through both sides of the gland, will of course double the size of the opening in the prostate, and give us the largest aperture we can obtain consistently with the non-division of the base of the gland. But to understand how stones are readily and safely extracted by the ordinary lateral operation, though much larger than we should suppose the opening of the prostate would permit, we must consider the character of its structure. The prostate, in its normal healthy state, is soft and yielding, composed of a congeries of mucous follicles interspersed with a peculiar fibrous structure, which some anatomists consider as mus- cular, and these textures are enclosed in a very thin but1248 REGIONAL SURGERY. strong fibrous capsule, which gives the gland its form and compactness. If we examine the gland where it surrounds the neck of the bladder, by dissecting off the mucous membrane from the commencement of the prostatic portion of the urethra, we find that at the opening of the bladder there exists a ring of dense elastic fibrous texture, about three lines in breadth and depth : and even in the dead subject, though the orifice of the urethra into the bladder can be dilated to some extent without incision, it will not yield beyond a certain point unless this dense ring be divided, and then we find that when it is cut the gland texture splits up in the direction of the cut with very slight force; this dense structure should always be divided in lithotomy, to enable us to enlarge the opening with the finger. When we look at a dissection of the parts after lithotomy has been performed, such as that shown in Plate Iv. Fig. 1, it would seem as if the incision of the prostate was limited to the opening at the apex of the gland ; but if you look from the interior of the bladder, as in Fig. 2, Plate Iv., you will see that the incision has traversed the whole length of the prostatic urethra, and divided it, together with the elastic fibrous structure—this is indicated by the dotted line in the diagram of the lateral operation. In looking at such a dissection you must, moreover, recollect that the prostate is enveloped in a sort of sac formed by the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. We have seen that the ileo-vesical layer is reflected upon its base, and from it to the bladder on the side, the prostatic layer covers it and the vesiculee seminales laterally, whilst between it and the rectum we find the recto-vesi- cal layer of fascia passing across from one side of the pelvis to the opposite. It is this fascial envelope which maintains the form and gives the appearance of a very limited incision ; for, if we remove the parts, and dissect off the fascial covering, as in Fig. 3, Plate Iv., you observe that in most cases the limited incision made by the knife has split up under pressure of the finger throughout nearly the whole extent of the substance of the prostate, but leaving the resisting fasciae entire; and you will thus understand how a large stone may be easily extractedSOURCES OF HEMORRHAGE. 1249 througli what at first seems a very limited opening. I need hardly remind you, that in old people the prostate alters both in size and structure, and, although its increased bulk enables us to make a larger incision in the gland, its altered indurated stnic- ture does not yield as in the healthy gland, and requires to be freely divided with the Imife, to enable us to extract the stone. In such cases I can only compare the sensation to that of cutting through a thick mass of India-rubber. You feel at once that attempts to dilate or split up would be useless. The general position of the blood-vessels of the perineum also requires your attention in reference to the different methods of performing lithotomy. The internal pudic artery, after re-entering the pelvis between the greater and less sciatic ligaments, courses along the deep surface of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium and ramus of the pubis, and passes obliquely forwards and inwards in the perineum, to which region it gives off several branches, some of which it is of importance to avoid in lithotomy. At first the pudic artery is bound down to the surface of the obturator internus muscle by the obturator fascia, and when the fat is cleared from the ischio-rectal fossa, the vessel, if well in- jected, can be felt through the fascial covering, lying about three- fourths of an inch above the internal margin of the tuberosity, and protected by the bone. At this part of its course it could scarcely be wounded in lithotomy unless the edge of the knife were not only lateralised but turned towards the internal surface of the tuberosity. As the pudic passes forwards in the peri- neum, it gradually leaves the protection of the ramus of the ischium, so that anteriorly, after it gives off the artery of the bulb, it actually lies between the layers of the triangular liga- ment, and is here in danger of being wounded if the knife be withdrawn transversely, or too much outwards, after division of the prostate. The pudic artery, as it passes forwards, gives off branches to the perineum. Where it lies in relation to the tuber ischii it sends off the inferior ha^morrhoidal artery, which divides into two or three small vessels which traverse the ischio-rectal fossa,1250 REGIONAL SURGERY. and ramify on the lower part of the levator ani, and ultimately supply the lower part of the rectum. Some of these branches are necessarily divided, both in the lateral and bilateral operations of lithotomy, but seldom bleed much, and can be easily secured if they do. A little more anteriorly the pudic gives off the superficial perineal, a large artery, which supplies the more superficial textures of the region, and ultimately passes to the scrotum. This vessel pierces the obturator fascia, turns round the transverse perinei muscle, giving off small twigs which run parallel to the edge of that muscle, then continues its course obliquely upwards and forwards, lying along the internal surface of the erector penis muscle, and covered by the superficial peri- neal fascia. This artery must often be cut in the lateral opera- tion, especially if the incision is not begun close to the raphe ; but, as it lies superficially, it can be readily secured. M. Eoux, however, observed, that if the surgeon lateralised his knife too much, and divided the artery near its origin, it might retract within the obturator fascia and simulate wound of the pudic; and when we consider that the vessel is stretched, by the scrotum being drawn up during lithotomy, I think that M. Eoux's sug- gestion shows the necessity of beginning the incision close to the raphe, and not carrying it too far out towards the ramus of the ischium. The branch of the pudic of most importance in reference to lithotomy is the artery of the bulb. This vessel arises from the pudic trunk, about fourteen lines in front of the anus, and crosses the perineum between the layers of the triangular ligament, sends off a small twig to Cowper's gland, and then enters the spongy portion of the urethra, immediately above the pendulous portion of the bulb. It is in general a short vessel, about the size of one of the digital arteries. On entering the spongy por- tion of the bulb it immediately subdivides into numerous minute twigs, which assume the peculiar arrangement of the erectile texture. It is not so much the size as the dej)th of this vessel, and its short origin from the pudic, that render it so dangerous a source of bleeding if wounded in litliotomy. In the ordi-RELATIONS OF THE RECTUM. 1251 nary lateral operation, if we begin our incision not further for- ward than an inch and a quarter, or an inch and a half in front of the anus, and close to the raph^ and take care to divide the base of the triangular ligament low down, and then to push the finger upwards, as I pointed out when describing the perineal dissection, so as to feel the staff immediately in front of the prostate, there is no risk of this vessel being wounded if it occupies its normal position. The terminal branches of the pudic have no relation to the incisions in lithotomy, if their dis- tribution be normal; and at present, in considering the avoidable risks, I do not enter on the abnormal sources of htemorrhage ; but, in regard to these, I would refer you to a paper I published on the sources of haemorrhage in lithotomy in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, March 1842, vol. i. Venous bleeding from the large prostatic veins in old men is a risk incident to all forms of perineal lithotomy ; but it is not of frequent occurrence. As regards wound of the rectum, I would merely observe, that it is not in our first incisions that the gut is in danger. For a short distance above the anus the rectum becomes somewhat contracted, and curves back from the bulb and urethra. The part of the operation at which there is most risk of woundiug the bowel is either in opening the membranous portion of the urethra, and carrying the knife onwards through the prostate, or in enlarging the wound in withdrawing the knife from the pro- static incision. At this deep part of the wound the rectum is distended into a large pouch ; and I confess that it is a wonder to me how the bowel escapes injury ; yet the accident is a very rare one—indeed I cannot recollect ever having seen it happen ; and what has also struck me as remarkable is, that though urine must constantly pass over the portion of the rectum where it is exposed in the upper part of the track of the incision, I never knew of a case in which ulceration in the gut occurred after lithotomy. The close proximity of the rectum to the prostatic incision, is well seen in the view of the track of the wound resulting from the lateral operation. Fig. 1, Plate Ivi.LECTUEE CXIX. Perineal Lithotomy, continued — Preliminary arrangements—Celsian Operation " on the Gripe "—Operation by the " Apparatus Major "—Lateral Operation as introduced by Frere Jacques—Description of the Modern Lateral Opera- tion—Modifications of the Operation—Lateral Lithotomy in Children— Lithotomy in Patients who have been previously operated on—Bilateral Lithotomy : Advantages in certain cases. Having directed your attention to the anatomy of the perineum in so far as it is connected with lithotomy, I now proceed to con- sider the different methods of performing that operation. In lithotomy, besides the preliminary treatment common to all great operations, there are some special preliminaries to be attended to. On the day before the operation the patient should have a dose of castor-oil to open the bowels, and, about two hours prior to the operation, an enema of warm water should be administered, to clear out any fseculent matter from the rectum. I generally advise the patient to take a draught of water about half-an-hour before the operation, so as to have a moderate amount of urine in the bladder; but if the patient cannot retain his water, or if the urine is passed as he comes under the influence of chloro- form, the safest plan is to introduce the catheter, draw off the remaining urine, and inject about six ounces of tepid water into the bladder. The patient should be placed on a firm table, about 2J or 3 feet high, and the stool for the operator to sit on should be about a foot lower. In children there is no necessity to tie up the patient, the limbs are held in position by assistants ; but in adults the patient must be properly secured. At one time this was done by means of long bandages, or lithotomy garters, as they were termed, wound round the wrists, hands, and ankles. All that is requisite, however, can be accomplished by the short lithotomy loop or garter represented in Plate liii. Fig. 4, appliedPOSITION OF THE PATIENT—INSTRUMENTS. 1253 as shown in Fig. 1 of the same plate. This garter is fastened as followsthe wrist is passed through the loop, which is then tightened; the assistants bend up the leg, and draw down the arm till the wrist is opposite the centre of the foot. The free ends of the garter are then passed one over the dorsum and the other under the sole, and tied firmly on the inside of the foot. If this be properly done and firmly secured, it will be found quite sufficient. The knees are then separated, and the limbs and pelvis maintained in the proper position by two assistants, one on each side. Special attention should be had that the pelvis is placed even, and the breech projecting over the edge of the table. As a general rule, it is advisable that the staff should be introduced before the limbs are tied up. The instruments required will vary somewhat according to the method to be adopted, or any modification of the operation. In general terms, however, the apparatus required is a grooved staff; a sharp-pointed lithotomy knife; a probe-pointed knife for enlarging the deep incision, should that be required ; different forms of lithotomy forceps and scoops for the extraction of the stone ; and a gum-elastic tube, to be kept in the bladder after the operation. Besides these instruments, there should always be at hand a Eeade's injection syringe, or other injecting apparatus, with tubes, for injecting water into the bladder previously to operating, or for washing out the bladder should the stone break during extraction ; and of course the ordinary apparatus of artery forceps, ligatures, etc. When lithotomy was first performed, it was done without any reference to anatomy. All that the operators thought of in those days was to get out the stone by the easiest and most direct method. In the earliest or Celsian method, the surgeon introduced his fingers into the rectum and tried to grasp the stone and press it into the perineum till it formed a projection there. He then cut down upon the swelling in the perineum till his knife grated on the stone, and removed it either by tilting it out from behind by his fingers in the rectum, or by means of hook orREGIONAL SURGERY. 1254 lever. This simple method was called " the operation of tlie gripe," or operation by the Apparatus Minor, and continued to be performed by some surgeons even till a comparatively recent period. In many cases this method of operating was successful, but in others quite the opposite. It was a very uncertain opera- tion ; for, whilst in some cases the parts divided to reach the stone might be those proper to be cut, in others the prostate might be completely divided, or the bladder cut above the pros- tate, or a portion of the rectum might be projected before the coats of the bladder, and a fsecal fistula result from its division. In truth, it was a mere matter of chance what parts were pro- jected before the stone. There must always have been great risk of infiltration of urine occurring after such an operation. (See woodcut at end of Lecture.) An Italian surgeon, Joannes de Eomanis, introduced a method of operating, which was considered of a scientific character, founded upon an axiom of Hippocrates, " that wounds of the bladder are always fatal." This method was adopted by the family of CoUot, in Paris, and continued to be practised by them for many years. To avoid cutting the bladder, these surgeons began their incision in the anterior part of the perineum, and opened into the spongy part of the urethra, at or in front of the bulb, and then dilated or rather tore open the textures of the perineum, the membranous and prostatic urethra and the neck of the bladder, till the aperture was large enough to enable them to extract the stone. This was termed the method by the " Appa- ratus Major." One of its princij)les was " a small incision and large dilatation." And, properly understood, this is one of the principles of lithotomy in the present day. But their plan of dilatation was really extensive and deep-seated laceration. These surgeons used two instruments, at first merely as conductors for the forceps, these they afterwards converted into powerful dilators, which, instead of dilating the parts, lacerated them extensively. The urethra and prostate were either separated from the bladder or so torn up as at last to enable the stone to be got out of theOPERATION OF PRE RE JACQUES. 1255 bladder. Subsequently compound dilators were used, wbicli give enormous power to the surgeon, and with, these the parts were still more torn and lacerated than before. This method, though very fatal, was more successful than we should expect, for, considering the force used and the way in which the parts were torn and bruised, the wonder is that any survived. The operation on which the present lateral operation is founded, was introduced into France by an itinerant monk, the famous Fr^re Jacques. His operation, as he first performed it, though itwas rapid and successful in regard to extracting the stone, was uncertain in its results, owing to want of precision as to the parts cut in opening the bladder. He used a sound without any groove, and having passed that into the bladder he plunged a dagger-shaped knife into the perineum, close to the left tuber ischii, carrying it deeply, towards the sound in the neck of the bladder, and at the same time cutting forwards in the perineum and inwards towards the raph4 so as to make a cut much in the position of the ordinary lateral incision. The stone was then extracted with the forceps or hook. This operation, like that of the gripe, was very uncertain, but it proved so much more suc- cessful than that by the apparatus major that it attracted the attention of surgeons, who taught Frere Jacques the anatomy of the parts. He then substituted a grooved staff for the plain sound, and made his incisions more methodically. His later operations were eminently successful; the number of cases on which he is said to have operated in different parts of the Conti- nent seems almost fabulous. It is very curious that the instruments which I show you, which are those still used by the native operators in the north- west provinces of India, are almost identical with those employed by Jacques in his first operations, namely, the ungrooved staff, dagger-like knife, and forceps with one handle, in the form of a lever-hook. I shall now describe and demonstrate the method of perform- ing the Lateeal Opeeation of Lithotomy with the curved staff and knife.1256 REGIONAL SURGERY. The staff should be grooved obliquely, on the left side, between its convexity and concavity. The knife I prefer is that known as Liston's knife, moderately broad in the cutting part of the blade, sharp but not too long in the point, and bevelled off at the back, near the point, so as to glide readily in contact with the groove of the staff. The cutting edge extends only for about an inch and a quarter from the point, the part nearer the handle being blunted. (See Plate liii. Fig. 3.) The forceps require to be of different shapes, curved and straight, some with flattened, others with more hollowed blades, so as to grasp firmly different forms of stone, and some so arranged that the blades can be intro- duced separately to enclose the stone, and then locked by a sliding joint. The scoop should have one end hollow and the other curved, so as to act as a lever hook. The gum elastic tube must vary in length according to the depth of the perineum. In ordinary cases four or five inches will be sufficient. Be- fore the operation a circle of cotton bandage is fastened round the abdomen, to which the tapes of the tube are secured after the operation is completed. I shall now suppose that all the preliminaries have been attended to, and that the staff has been introduced and the patient placed in the proper position. The operator, seated before the patient, passes his finger into the rectum, feels the position of the staff, the relations of the prostate and membran- ous part of the urethra, and, having finally adjusted the staff, gives it to the assistant to hold. It should be kept steady, with- out any inclination of the handle towards the abdomen, and, in general, in contact with the stone in the bladder. The position of the staff is all important, more especially in children, or in cases of enlarged prostate in old men, for, if the handle be inclined towards the belly, the point of the staff may be with- drawn from the bladder, and lead to awkward or even serious results. Having adjusted the position of the staff, and committed it to the assistant, who holds it with one hand, and draws up the scrotum with the other, the surgeon feels the space between theLATERAL OPERATION. 1257 raphe and the tuber ischii, inserts his knife close to the left side of the raph^, about an inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and cuts obliquely downwards and outwards, so that his incision terminates at or a little beyond the lower margin of the anus, and about midway between the anus and tuber ischii, or rather nearer the tuberosity. I believe a great deal depends on the way in which this incision is made. The knife should be inserted deeply at first, and the incision deepened as it passes backwards. We shall thus have a clean decided cut, which should divide the skin, fat, superficial fascia, and the transversus perinei muscle. The surgeon then runs the edge of his knife Kghtly over the resisting muscular and fascial textures, and, inserting the fore- finger of his left hand deeply about the middle of the incision, pushes it upwards in the direction of the sub-pubic arch. The soft textures are readUy displaced by the finger, and he feels the groove of the staff thinly covered, just in front of the prostate. He turns the pulp of his left forefinger towards the staff, and inserts his nail in the lower margin of its groove, and, guiding the knife over his left forefinger, lodges its point in the groove, and feels it fairly in contact with the metal of the staff. He then lateralises the blade, and, keeping the back of the point of his knife in close contact with the staff, carries it steadily along the groove, through the prostate, till the point of the knife is arrested by the termination of the groove. (Plate liii. Fig. 2.) He now feels all resistance cease. The surgeon then withdraws the knife steadily from the prostatic incision, without cutting laterally ; but, as he withdraws it from the more superficial.part of the wound, he presses aside the rectum, and cuts downwards and outwards, and divides any resisting texture which may have escaped division in cutting towards the staff The operator then glides his left forefinger along the staff, through the pro- static incision into the bladder, and by a gentle lateral and downward movement he dilates or splits up the prostate, and touches the stone. If satisfied that the incision is sufficient to permit extraction, he desires the assistant to withdraw the staff, and then introduces the lithotomy forceps along his finger into theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1258 bladder. On introducing the forceps tlie urine generally comes away with a gush, and, if the blades of the forceps be opened when just within the bladder, the stone is frequently carried between the blades and caught at once ; but the forceps should never be opened suddenly, nor until fairly lodged in the bladder, lest they should tear the prostate or neck of the bladder. If the stone is not caught as above described, the points of the forceps should then be directed downwards and backwards till they touch the stone ; their blades are then opened so as to seize it. (Plate liv. Fig. 1.) "When the calculus is fairly grasped, the direction of the forceps is altered, the handles are depressed, and the extraction effected by drawing from above downwards, in the axis of the outlet, and towards its widest part. (Plate liv. Pig. 2.) If a number of small calculi or fragments of stone require to be extracted, the scoop should be used, as shown in Pig. 3. When the stone has been extracted, the surgeon should carefully examine the bladder, both with his finger and the bulbous searcher, to make sure that no other stones or fragments of stone remain. He then examines the wound to see if any vessels require to be secured ; and finally inserts the gum elastic tube, and secures it to the bandage round the waist. When the lateral operation is performed, as above described, we have a funnel-shaped incision passing from below upwards, gradually diminishing in extent towards the neck of the bladder, and forming a free dependent outlet for the urine to flow by after the operation. The deep or prostatic incision, though limited in comparison with the superficial wound, is yet in such a direction as to give the longest diameter of the left lateral half of the prostate gland, without dividing the ileo-vesical layer of fascia, and amply sufficient to permit the safe extraction of a tolerably large stone. The lower part of the triangular ligament, and the other fascial and muscular structures closing the outlet, in the Kne of the incision, are fairly cut, and oppose no obstacles to the introduction of the forceps or the extraction of the stone. If the incision is placed low and made in the manner directed, neither the artery of the bulb nor the pudic trunk can bePlate LIV LI TH OTOMY,1 AMODIFICATIONS OF THE OPERATION. 1259 woxmded if in their normal position, and even the superficial perineal can scarcely be cut, its small transverse twig and the anterior htemorrhoidal branches being the only vessels divided ; so that the risks of infiltration of urine, and of hsemorrhage, are almost at the minimum ; whilst, by care in using the knife, and by pressing the rectum aside with the left forefinger in making the deep incision and in withdrawing the knife, wouiid of that intestine is not likely to occur, and in point of fact is a very rare accident. I therefore consider tliat the lateral opera- tion of lithotomy is in general preferable to any of the other methods. I have described the steps of the operation as usually per- formed, but various modifications are used by different siirgeons, and numerous instruments have been devised to overcome diffi- culties, or with the intention of giving precision to the incisions. The different mechanical devices seem to me to resolve themselves into two general forms—\st. Those intended to facilitate finding the groove in the membranous part of the urethra, and caiTying the knife easily along the groove without risk of its slipping downwards in taking the curve. Amongst these devices we have Earle's d'ouble staff, to enable the operator to cut directly from the skin into the urethra, a thing which no one now thinks of. And more recently we have Aston Key's straight staff and Buchanan's rectangular staff, both of which enable the operator to run his knife very easily into the bladder, and by attending to the angle formed by the knife, to regulate the extent of the prostatic incision. The second series of mechanical contrivances are the most numerous, and are those intended to ensure making the incision of the prostate of a determinate size. Such are the different forms of gorgets and broad knives cutting only to a limited extent, to be used for the prostatic incision, such as those of DesaUlt, Cooper, Brodie, and Syme, and the lithotome cache. But, except in some cases of enlarged and rigid prostate, where a bluntish-edged gorget or the probe-pointed knife may be useful to enlarge the prostatic incision, the ordinary lithotomy- knife is far safer. I have never used any of these instruments 4 N1260 REGIONAL SURGERY. on the living, but I have tested most of them on the dead sub- ject, and I feel satisfied that none of them gives such a perfect prostatic incision as the knife if properly used. In regard to the rectangular staff of Dr. Buchanan, I believe it to possess some decided advantages if used with, the ordinary lateral incision. Every one must admit that it is much easier to carry the knife along a straight director, such as that formed by the horizontal limb of the rectangular staff, than to make it follov? the curve of the ordinary staff; and if care be taken not to bulge forward the angle of the staff, so as to make it superficial, but to keep it held like the ordinary staff, the groove will be readily felt, and the knife run along it with great ease and certainty into the bladder, and without risk to the artery of the bulb, as I have repeatedly tested on the subject. Were I to make any change on the instruments I have been accustomed to use in operating on the living, I should be inclined to adopt the rectangular instead of the curved staff, but not to alter the line of the lateral incision. In referring to the mode of feeling for and inserting the knife into the groove of the staff", I have described the method usually followed ; but I very generally use the forefinger of my right hand, with the knife laid flat upon it, the back of the blade toward the left side, and the point not advanced to the pulp of the finger. (Fig. 5, plate liv.) With the knife so placed and protected, I pass the forefinger into the wound till I feel the groove of the staff in the membranous portion of the urethra, and then, when the pulp of the finger rests in contact with the groove, I project the point of the knife into it by a slight move- ment of the thumb, and at the same moment turn the finger laterally, as in Fig. 6, then withdraw my finger along the blade and handle, keeping the forefinger below the blunt part of the lower edge of the blade, so as to prevent the ;^^ibility of the point slipping out of the groove in taking the turn at the curve of the staff. The movements described are executed instan- taneously, and almost imperceptibly, and ensure the knife being easily inserted into and carried along the groove, especially in aLATERAL OPERATION IN CHILDREN. 1261 deep perineum. In ordinary cases the method formerly described answers well enough. In performing the lateral operation on young children, it is important to keep in mind that the bladder lies high up, and that, from the small size of the staff, great care is requisite to open into the groove, and still greater care in carrying the knife onwards into the bladder. The sensation of the knife grating along the groove should never be lost for an instant till the bladder is opened. Another rule specially to be attended to is, that when the staff is introduced into the bladder, and the stone touched by it, it should be held in contact with the stone from first to last, and the surgeon should never desire the staff to be withdrawn till he feels the stone distinctly with his finger. If these directions were attended to, the accidents of which we some- times hear, of lithotomy being performed and abandoned after efforts at extraction, and of the bladder after death being found unopened by the incisions, could not occur. The real causes of such misfortunes seem to me to be, either that the point of the staff has slipped from the bladder, and so misguided the knife, or that the knife has slipped from the groove in taking the curve, and thus when the operator passes up his finger, the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum is broken up with the finger, and he mistakes it for the cavity of the bladder, and feeling the stone perhaps through the thin coats of the bladder above, he makes futile attempts at extraction. I repeat, the forceps should never be used till the surgeon feels the stone distinctly with his finger. In extracting the stone, either in the adult or child_, it occasionally, though rarely, happens that it slips from the forceps after having passed the opening in the prostate. In such cir- cumstances the operator should insert his finger into the rectum, so as to fix the stone from behind, and prevent its slipping back, and then with the curved lever end of the scoop draw or tilt it out of the wound. It occasionally happens that a patient who has been the subject of lithotomy is again affected with calculus, and requires to be again operated on. In such circumstances it has been1262 REGIONAL SURGERY. advised that the incision should be made on the right side of the perineum, and the right lateral lobe of the prostate di- vided. The reason assigned for this recommendation is, that the textiires formerly cut will be so condensed and resistant as to render their division and the extraction of the stone very difficult. I have had occasion to operate on a patient, fifteen years after he had been operated on for stone by another surgeon. The patient was a big, stout man, above sixty years of age, with all the ap- pearance of a very deep perineum. I performed the ordinary lateral operation, dividing the old cicatrix, and not only met with no difficulty, but feel satisfied that the textures were atrophied so as to render the perineum shallower, whilst the prostate, usually rigid in old men, oi^ered no resistance, the incision yielding easily to the pressure of the finger. In a word the operation was easier than usual in performance, and there scarcely was a table- spoonful of blood lost. So that, in such cases, I see no reason for performing lithotomy on the right side of the perineum. The Bilateral Operation of lithotomy, as its title implies, has for its object the section of both lateral lobes of the prostate, so as to give a larger opening at the neck of the bladder, with- out division of the fascial structures which oppose the risk of urinary infiltration. In performing the lateral operation, it has long been a rule with surgeons, when the stone was found of a size larger than was likely to be easUy extracted by the section of the left side of the gland, to divide the right lateral lobe with a probe-pointed bistoury. Baron Dupuytren, however, proposed the special operation as the safest, and therefore the preferable method in aU cases, as he considered it diminished both the risk of infiltration and haemorrhage; and, by giving the largest possible opening in the prostate, avoided the risks arising from bruising the deep textures in extracting the stone, and the line of the external incision was allowed to correspond to the double incision of the prostate. The bilateral operation of Dupuytren is, as described by himself, the Celsian lithotomy,1263 BILATERAL OPERATION. performed on anatomical and scientific principles. The external incision is placed rather less than an inch in front of the anus, and is of a curved form, the concavity of the curve looking back towards the anus, the horns of the incisions directed towards the hips, and about 2J or 2f inches in extent. A staff grooved on the centre of its convexity, and somewhat more curved than the ordinary staff, is introduced prior to the operation being com- menced, and held in the usual manner by an assistant. The in- cision I have described divides the skin, fat, and fasciae, down to the muscles and central point of the perineum. The connec- tions of the sphincter ani and other muscles at the central point are divided, the lower part of the rectum pushed backwards, and the bulb of the urethra pressed forwards. The forefinger of the left hand is then passed deeply at the centre of the wound, to feel the groove of the staff in the membranous part of the urethra, and from the very convex form and open groove of the staff, it is usually easily felt. The membranous urethra is then opened freely, so as to expose the groove, and the operator inserts the beak of the double lithotome cache—a special instrument for double section of the prostate. The closed lithotome is glided along the staff with its concavity towards the groove, until it is felt to enter the bladder and touch the stone; then the concavity of the lithotome is turned back towards the posterioi-^surface of the bladder and prostate. The staff is, in general, withdrawn, so soon as the surgeon satisfies himself that the lithotome has touched the calculus in the bladder. The extent of the prostatic incision is determined by adjusting the projection of the blades of the lithotome previously to the opera- tion, by means of a screw moving on a graduated scala The concavity of the lithotome having been turned towards the in- ferior aspect of the bladder, and having its beak projecting within the cavity, the operator then opens the blades by pressing on the lever spring at the handle, and withdraws the instrument steadily downwards through the external incision. The prostatic incision is then gently dilated by the finger, theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1264 forceps introduced, and the stone extracted, as in the lateral method. I have never performed this operation on the living. In some cases where the stone was large I have divided the right side of the prostate with the probe-pointed bistoury, and in ordinary cases I have found this to answer well enough ; but in a case on which I had to operate lately, where the stone was of a very large size and of a disc-like or circular form, lying across the cavity of the bladder, which it nearly filled, I found great difficulty in seizing and extracting the stone, even after free division of the right side of the prostate and enlargement of the lateral incision, owing to the obliquity of the stone in reference to the lateral incision ; and I feel satisfied that the bi- lateral operation, with the external incision somewhat modified, would render the grasping and removal of the stone much easier. Moreover, I think every surgeon who has had to enlarge the prostatic incision, by cutting the right side of the gland with the probe-pointed knife, must have felt a want of certainty as to the exact extent and direction of this second in- cision ; whereas the double lithotome, as now improved, makes a perfectly smooth incision, passing equally through each side of the gland obliquely downwards and outwards in its longest diameter. My objection to the external incision of Dupuytren's method is, that it really does not correspond to the prostatic incision, is very limited in extent, and does not afford a free exit for the urine. The semilunar incision no doubt is intended to present two dependent points at the horns of the crescent; but if we look at the external incision when completed on the sub- ject, or in the representation given of it in the posthumous work of Baron Dupuytren, edited by M. Sanson, we see that the wound is no longer crescentic, that the skin towards the anus stretches across in a straight line forming the chord of the arc, so as to prevent the urine escaping readily. Were I to perform the bilateral operation, I should begin the external incision about an inch in front of the anus, and then carry it obliquely down- wards and outwards, as in the lateral operation, first on the left1265 BILATERAL OPERATION. and then on the right side of the perineum, so as to form two oblique lateral incisions converging at the raphe. Such a form of incision would give greater space for extraction of a large stone; and, by corresponding to the direction of the bilateral section of the prostate, would permit of a free exit for the urine. In other respects, I should follow the steps of Dupuytren's opera- tion, as already described. LITHOTOMY "on THE GRirE."LECTURE CXX. Lithotomy, continued—Mesial Operation—Recto-vesical Operation—Points to be attended to in regard to Extraction of the Stone—General After-treatment— Haimorrhage—Infiltration of Urine after Lithotomy—Suppression of Urine— Inflammation of the Neck of the Bladder—Pyaemia—The Author's experience of the results of Lithotomy Cases — Remarks on Statistics of Lithotomy— Lithotomy in the Female. It now ouly remains for me to describe the two forms of the mesial operation, which I must do very briefly. The simple Mesial Operation of Lithotomy is performed as follows :—A staff somewhat similar to that used in the bilateral operation is intro- duced into the bladder, and given in charge to an assistant, and the patient is then secured in the usual manner. The surgeon commences his incision about an inch and a half in front of the anus, exactly over the central line or raphe, and continues it back till within a few lines of the anus. This incision is carefully deepened anteriorly until it exposes the posterior part of the accelerator urinse muscle covering the bulb, and the posterior fibres of that muscle are divided in the middle line, and the bulb pressed forwards and guarded by the finger, the rectum pressed backwards, and the finger feels for the staff in the mem- branous part of the urethra. The point of a narrow knife is now entered into the groove of the staff, with the back of the blade directed towards the rectum. When the knife is felt to have entered the bladder, the cutting edge is turned back towards the lower surface of the prostate, and carried down through the substance of that gland exactly in the middle Hne, the rectum being at this stage protected, and pressed back with the fore- finger of the left hand. The wound is next dilated with the finger, and when the stone is felt the staff is withdrawn, and the forceps or scoop introduced and the stone extracted. In someMESIAL AND RECTO-VESICAL OPERATIONS. 1267 respects this operation might seem the simplest, and as most completely avoiding the risks of infiltration and hsemorrhage. The incision of the prostate cannot implicate the reflexion of the pelvic fascia. There are no vessels in the central line of the perineum to cause bleeding, the only risk being wound of the bulb if not properly guarded, and besides, the opening towards the neck of the bladder is direct and shallow. But then the space for extraction is very small. The fascial and muscular textures closing the outlet being, as it were, merely separated in the mesial line, not divided, oppose resistance to the free use of the forceps, and the easy extraction of stone, so that even on the dead body the extraction of a stone of very moderate dimen- sions is attended with the sensation of drawing a tight cork from a bottle. Mr. AUarton, who some years ago tried to revive this method of operating, considered that, by merely notching the apex of the prostate, the prostatic portion of the urethra and neck of the bladder could be dilated without further cutting; but from repeated trials on the dead bodies of adults 1 found that no stone could be extracted in that way, except of such a size that it could have been easily removed by lithotrity. I consider the mesial operation, though apparently simple, to be really more dangerous, and less suited for extraction of a mode- rately-sized stone, than the lateral method. The other form of mesial operation—the Eecto-Vesical—is one which has been practised principally in Italy and by some surgeons in this country, apparently with success as regards safety to life: but it is so obviously liable to the risk of being followed by recto-vesical fistula, that it is not likely to be adopted, except in special cases, to enable us to extract a large calculus through the widest part of the outlet of the pelvis, or where, as happened in one of Mr. Liston's portion of a large stone is sacculated and fixed between the bladder and the rectum. The steps of the operation are very simple. The staff having been introduced, and the other preliminaries attended to,- the surgeon begins his incision as in the mesial operation, only carrying it back to the verge of the anus. He next dissects1268 REGIONAL SURGERY. towards and opens the membranous part of the urethra, and runs his knife along the groove of the staff into the bladder. He now introduces the forefinger of his left hand into the rectum above the base of the prostate, to guide the knife. ISText, by raising the handle of his knife, he depresses its point, so as to puncture the bladder immediately above the base of the prostate, and then placing his left forefinger so as to press on the projected point of the knife, he carries it down, dividing the anterior wall of the rectum, prostate, sphincter ani, and intervening structures in the central line. Or he may proceed in a different and more sum- mary manner. Placing two fingers of the left hand into the rectum, as for puncture of the bladder, the surgeon feels the groove of the staff above the base of the prostate, and then introducing a long sharp-pointed curved bistoury flat upon the fingers, he turns its point forwards, punctures the bladder in the groove of the staff where it is felt above the prostate, and by throwing back the handle of the bistoury carries its point forwards along the groove into the perineum, projects it through the skin about an inch in front of the anus, and then drawing the blade towards himself, lays the track of the wound through the bladder, urethra, and rectum, freely open. Through this large wound any stone that can possibly pass through the inferior outlet of the pelvis may be extracted ; and whilst few will be found who would follow this method as a general plan, I should undoubtedly prefer it to the high operation for the extraction of large calculi, and, as I have stated, the results in regard to safety to life, and even as to the healing of the recto-vesical wound, are more satisfactory than we might have expected. The risk of haemorrhage must be kept in mind, for hsemorrhage from branches of the middle heemorrhoidal artery, or from the inferior part of the prostatic plexus, is liable to occur, but from the size of the opening, the bleeding, if noticed, can in general be easily arrested by ligature or pressure. Before concluding the consideration of the operative pro- cedure in lithotomy, I would draw your attention to the im-1269 EXTRACTION OF THE STONE. portant point of extraction of the stone. In most cases, if tlie stone is of a moderate size, and if a clean incision has been made, sufficient to admit of the easy introduction of forceps of sufficient size and grasp, and if these are introduced and used as directed and as indicated in the diagrams in Plate liv., you will generally meet with no difficulty in seizing and extracting the stone. But when the stone is large, or the perineum very deep, as in the case of enlarged prostate, the difficulties are increased, and in some rare cases the stone may be so placed as to require the use of curved forceps. In my own practice I have in three instances only met with difficulty in extracting the stone. In one of these the patient had an enormously enlarged and rigid prostate and very deep fat perineum, and the difficulty was not, properly speaking, in the extraction of the stone—a small flat one—but in feeling it with the forceps to seize it. It was easily felt with the sound and staff, but it lay flat in the bas-fond of the bladder behind the prostate, and even the curved forceps reached it with difficulty, and the bladder was far beyond the reach of the finger. The patient recovered from the operation, but died about four months afterwards from a paralytic attack, so that I had an opportunity of obtaining the parts, which are in my museum. The track of the wound is still visible, though con- tracted to a mere line, and the measurement from the external incision to the opening in the bladder is fully six and a half inches, even in the dissected preparation. With the exception of that case, which occurred many years ago, I have met with no difficulty in extraction, though I have removed some large calculi, until during the past year, in which I met with two cases. In both of these the perineum was deep, but not of the excessive depth of the case I have mentioned. In one of them the difficulty in seizing the stone was principally due to my neglect of a precaution which I generally take, of making sure of the bladder containing a moderate amount of fluid. The incisions were rapidly effected, but when I introduced my finger and felt the stone, I found that there was very little urine, and that the bladder was contracted so as to render the use of the forceps1270 REGIONAL SURGERY. difficult. The stone, a large flat one, was resting in close contact with the left side of the bladder, and I felt that moving about the forceps would do no good. I therefore introduced the curved lever, and displaced and seized it with a pair of curved forceps, and extracted it without using any force, and without, perhaps, any very great delay; but I believe, that had I injected the bladder before the operation, the stone would have been seized and extracted with ease. The third case was one of real difficulty, owing to the large size and form of the stone, and the position it occupied in the bladder. The patient had suffered from symptoms of stone for above thirty years, and had a contracted perineum and anchylosed hip-joint, owing to old-standing disease of the hip. I felt the stone to be a large one, but never could form a very decided idea of its size. It did not feel very thick, and indeed was only an inch and a half thick in the centre, and much thinner at the edges; but it was nearly circular, being 3 inches 5 lines in one diameter, and 3 inches 2 lines in the other. It lay obliquely across the bladder, which was small and nearly filled by the stone. I felt it was too large to pass through the single lateral incision of the prostate, and therefore divided the right lateral lobe of the gland also ; but, from the position which it occupied, it was difficult to open the forceps so as to seize it, and when seized, the raised centre of the stone did not give a very secure grasp, and it slipped several times before I succeeded in extracting it. As I have observed, when speaking of the bilateral operation of Dupuytren, I believe that method would have enabled me to reach and seize the stone more readily than I could by the lateral superficial incision, even with bilateral section of the prostate, and I should have recourse to the bilateral operation in cases of very large calculi. Still, as a general rule, extraction of the stone is not difficult. If the stone be not caught at once, however, two errors of opposite kinds may be made,— the forceps may be passed too deeply into the bladder, overshoot- ing the stone, or in trying to avoid this they may not be passed sufficiently below it, so that the blades merely catch the end of the stone and do not grasp it fairly. In ordinary cases, the1271 AFTER- TREA TMENT. position of the stone can be felt with the finger, and then, when the forceps are introduced and touch the stone, by gently opening the blades and pressing one of them against the posterior wall of the bladder, so as slightly to shake the parts, the stone will often fall within their grasp. Or, after feeling the stone with the closed forceps, by turning the blades away from the stone, and then opening them, and making a half-turn over in the direction of the stone, you will generally seize it. In some cases there can be no great risk in opening the blades pretty widely, and drawing them gently over the inferior and posterior surface of the bladder, to catch the stone; but I have a great objection to sudden plunges, or opening and shutting the forceps rapidly in hope of seiziag the stone, as that is apt to injure the coats of the bladder. In regard to the after-treatment of Kthotomy cases, there is not a great deal to be said. If haemorrhage comes on after re- action, it must be arrested by tying the bleeding vessels if necessary; or, if deeply seated and venous, slips of lint are pushed up along the sides of the tube to control it. In most cases all that is required is to give the patient an anodyne draught to allay pain and irritation ; and to see that the tube is kept clear, by occasionally passing a feather or small gum-elastic catheter through it, or by injecting a little tepid water with a small glass syringe, so as to avoid all forcible injection. The diet for the first few days should be rather low, and the patient should drink freely of thin barley-water or other diluents, to increase and dilute the secretion of urine; the more he wets, the better. After forty-eight hours in the adult, or twenty-four to thirty hours in children, the tube should be removed, as the track of the incision is by that time covered with plastic effusion, and the urine flows over it without risk. The wound gradually contracts and heals, although at first the action of the urine gives it a dirty sloughy appearance. From the eighth to the tenth day some urine begins to pass by the urethra. It not unfrequently happens that, immediately after the tube has-been removed, the urine passes by the urethra in full stream. This, however, is only temporary, and is due to swelling of the prostate1272 REGIONAL SURGERY. closing the incision through its substance on withdrawal of the tube, and as the swelling subsides, the urine again passes by the wound. In some cases retention supervenes, and may lead to danger. In one case of a young man on whom I had operated, I removed the tube at the usual time. About twenty-four hours afterwards, when making my visit, I was summoned to see him, as haemorrhage had occurred. As there had been no bleeding of consequence during the operation, I was rather surprised, but on going to him I found that there was smart florid bleeding. He stated that he had been trying to pass water, and on ex- amination I found the bladder distended and the penis semi-erect. I passed a large gum catheter by the wound, expecting to find the bladder distended by blood, but it was full of clear urine, and so soon as the bladder was relieved all bleeding ceased and never recurred. The swelling in the deep part of the wound had caused retention, and the irritation and straining had caused engorgement of the organs and bleeding from congested vessels in the wound. It is not unusual, when the urine begins to pass again by its natural channel, to find the patient complain of a slight rigor or shivering; but this is merely due to sympathetic irritation, as the rigor that often follows the introduction of a bougie, and unless there be a repetition of the rigor or marked increase in the rapidity of the pulse, the symptom need not cause alarm. If the incision has been carried too far laterally or upwards, infiltration of urine into the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder may occur. The symptoms may supervene from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the operation. The skin becomes hot and dry, the tongue furred, and the pulse quick. Gradually the patient becomes very restless, complains of a sense of fulness or pain in the hypogastrium, and there is some degree of tympanitic distension. The pulse becomes weak and irritable, and gradually begins to intermit; the intermissions becoming more frequent as the diseased action proceeds ; the patient has a sunken, anxious expression, fumbles with the bedclothes, there is frequent hiccough, and incoherency or muttering1273 INFILTRATION OF URINE. delirium, and lie at last sinks and dies comatose. On examina- tion after death in such cases, the track of the wound is found discoloured and disorganised, and the fine loose cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, and in relation to the reflection of the peritoneum, is found sloughy and infiltrated with un- healthy purulent matter. This condition, however, must be very rare. I have never yet seen these appearances in the autopsy of any lithotomy case, and Sir "William Fergusson, in his lectures before the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England, states that he has never seen it, and seems to think that the risk of infiltration has been much exaggerated. I should, however, be rather in- clined to say that the attention which has been directed to this source of danger, and the care taken as to the direction and limitation of the prostatic incision in modern lithotomy, have in a great measure obviated it. Should this condition arise, I fear we can do very little to remedy it, beyond giving stimulants and trying to support the patient's strength. Sir Benjamin Brodie mentions a case in which, by laying the track of the wound and the cavity of the rectum into one, allowing the escape of the sloughing tissue, he saved the patient, but I am not aware that the treatment has ever been repeated by any other surgeon. A limited form of infiltration or foul urinary abscess may occur from imperfect division of the anterior fibres of the levator ani or other tissues, if these prevent the free flow of urine by the wound. The use of the tube, however, tends to prevent such lodgment, by maintaining a free outlet for the urine until the loose textures are consolidated by plastic lymph. For this reason, and also because it may be useful in enabling us to plug the wound in the case of venous bleeding, I consider its use advisable, and if it seems to produce irritation it can be easily removed. Suppression of urine occasionally, though rarely, follows litho- tomy, as it does other operations on the urinary organs. I have met with only one instance of it in my own practice, in the .case of an old stout man. There was no loss of blood during, nor any irritation after, the operation, but from the first four hours after theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1274 operation he passed no urine, nor felt any uneasiness. The day after the operation his pnlse was seventy-two, regular, and of fair strength. He had no anxious expression, and felt no pain or pressure over the bladder, and when I visited the ward he was lying reading a newspaper. Everything seemed so favourable, that beyond introducing a gum catheter through the tube to satisfy myself that there was no water in the bladder, and then injecting a little tepid water, I did not think it necessary to inter- fere beyond directing a sinapism and hot fomentations over the lumbar and hypogastric regions. Next day his pulse was irregu- lar, still he was quite collected and said he felt no pain, but he gradually became comatose, and died about sixty hours after the operation. I obtained an examination of the body. There was no appearance of disease or irritation in the peritoneum or abdominal viscera, with the exception of an enormous amount of fat. The bladder was free from any trace of inflammation, the track of the wound healthy, and the direction and extent of the pros- tatic incision all right. Indeed, the sketcli of the wound after lithotomy (Plate Iv.) was taken from this case. Both kidneys were very much congested, as also the renal veins, but there was no appearance of any structural change or disease of the kidneys. Were I to meet with a similar case, I should lose no time, hoM'- ever slight the general symptoms, in using the vapour bath and other means to induce free diaphoresis, as well as employing powerful counter-irritation over the lumbar region. Inflammation of the neck of the bladder, attended by exces- sive pain at the point of the penis, nausea, rigors, and other symptoms, occurring from six to eight days after the operation, is mentioned by some surgeons. I have never seen a case of this affection. The treatment recommended is depletion by leeches applied over the hypogastrium, or to the verge of the anus, opiate enemata or suppositories to allay pain, and diluent drinks and antiphlogistic regimen. The symptoms described as ushering in this inflammation of the neck of the bladder, as well as their progress and usually unfavourable termination, have a strong resemblance to those ofMORTALITY AFTER LITHOTOMY. 1275 phlebitic pyeemia. That unfortunate complication arises in old or elderly men from irritation and inflammation of the large prostatic veins, branches of the inferior plexus, being necessarily implicated by the incision. The symptoms generally manifest themselves by a rigor, fever, quick pulse, and slight nausea, about the eighth or tenth day. In one of my cases—a gentleman, fifty- eight years of age—the symptoms did not supervene until the fourth week, when the woixnd was all but healed. The patient had gone on most favourably, and I had ceased to visit him except occasionally. On calling one day he complained of not feeling so well, and attributed it to having partaken rather largely of hare-soup ; but his pulse was quick, and he had some tender- ness over the liver; as he had suffered from hepatitis in a warm climate, I was in hopes that the symptoms might pass off; but the next day he had two rigors, and had vomited several times. The small portion of the wound which remained open was dry. The pulse was 140, and the skin was hot, dry, and slightly jaundiced, and he died about a week from the acces- sion of the bad symptoms. The wound had contracted, and there was no trace of irritation in the bladder; the prostatic veins were engorged, otherwise they seemed healthy, but the liver was studded with numerous abscesses. My experience from the results of my own practice, as well as my observation of the practice of other surgeons, leads me to believe that, apart from the operative procedure, the mortality in lithotomy is mainly due to causes not under our control. The size of the stone in relation to the width of the parts through which we must extract it, and a rigid unyielding condition of the prostate met with in some elderly and old men, in whom we also most generally find enlarged prostatic veins, seem to me the conditions which continue to diminish the favourable statistics of lithotomy. Of children and boys under twenty years of age I have lost only one patient, and in adults between twenty-one and forty only one ; but out of thirty patients between the ages of fort}- and eighty-two I have lost seven, and all these fatal cases occurred in patients between the ages of fifty-six and seventy- 4 01276 REGIONAL SURGERY. two. All of tliem were large fat men, and in all of them the pros- tate was rigid, and the stone above the average size, with one excep- tion, where it was of moderate size, and in none of the fatal cases was there any difficulty in the operation, except in the patient seventy-two years of age, where the stone was very large and the perineum unusually contracted from old disease of the hip-joint. Of these patients, one died from continued venous bleeding or oozing, which neither plugging nor other means served to arrest. The patient was an old man with a deep perineum, biit the opera- tion was very easily performed, and there was no bleeding during its performance, nor for some hours afterwards. The lint prevented any bleeding from the wound, but clots oozed through the tube. I was anxious to obtain an examination, as the patient had suffered formerly from severe attacks of hsematuria, but leave was refiised. One case already mentioned died of suppression of urine, and four cases died from phlebitic pyaemia. Five of these patients were from sixty-five to seventy years of age, and one was fifty-six. One case, that of the old man seventy-two years of age from whom I extracted a very large stone, went on favourably for some days, and then died apparently from exhaustion. The two remaining fatal cases were young patients,—the one a child of four years of age, the other a young man of twenty- two. The circumstances of both these were peculiar. The child had suffered from symptoms of stone almost from his birth; but, except that he was very irritable, and that the urine was phosphatic, he seemed in fair condition. I extracted two calculi with great ease, and felt no anxiety as to the result. Next day I found him restless, and he had vomited, as was sup- posed, from the chloroform; but he had also diarrhoea, the stools being of a dark-green colour. The urine had passed freely by the tube and wound. As he was very restless, I withdrew the tube. Vomiting and purging of a green colour continued almost without intermission, and he died in thirty-six hours after the operation. That his evacuations were healthy prior to the opera- tion I can testify, for owing to some neglect, an enema had not been administered, and the faeces were evacuated when he was1277 CASES—STATISTICS OF LITHOTOMY. being brought under the influence of chloroform. I obtained the parts operated on, and they show that the direction and state of the wound are as perfect as could be desired. (Plate Ivi.) This is the only fatal case I have had in children, and I feel at a loss to account for it, as there was no disease of the kidneys or Kver, but merely congestion and irritation of the mucous coat of the stomach. The young man, although twenty-two years of age, might have passed for fourteen or fifteen ; he was extremely emaciated, stunted in growth, and sallow, had suffered intense pain from stone in the bladder from infancy, but both he and his friends had refused to permit any operation, until his sufferings became so excessive that he could endure them no longer. He had a quick irritable pulse, dull pain over the abdomen, particularly in the right iliac region, and tenderness on pressing the perineum. The case was evidently a most unfavourable one, but, as his only chance of relief lay in the operation, I performed it after some pre- liminary treatment. There was no difficulty in its performance, as I extracted a large phosphatic calculus with ease. The day after the operation, I found him in great spirits owing to the relief from his previous symptoms, and for about a week he went on so well that I began to hope for a favourable result. But he then began to complain of general uneasiness, thirst, and want of appetite, and gradually sank, and died fifteen days after the operation, apparently from sheer exhaustion, without any rigors or other marked symptoms. On examination, the kidneys were found diseased, the coats of the bladder thickened, the mucous coat presenting the appearances of chronic cystitis. The textures in the course of the wound were not altered, but on the right side there was a large chronic abscess occupying the iliac fossa and passing down into the true pelvis. All these morbid conditions were traceable, I think, to the long-continued irritation caused by the stone. In regard to the statistics of lithotomy, it has long been understood that the average of successful results is greatly deter-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1278 mined by the proportion of young patients operated on. If the number of children be large, the results will be proportionately successful. This circumstance, I think, accounts in some measure for the variations of success which, not only individual surgeons, but particular hospitals may experience. In the earlier years of my practice a great many young patients came under my treatment, and for a long time I never lost a patient, but latterly young patients seem to have become scarce, for I find the youngest I have operated on during the last four years was a gentleman thirty-five years of age. If an hospital be situated in the vicinity of what I may term " a stone district," it wUl be most likely to receive a great many more children suffering from calculus than an hospital at a con- siderable distance, for parents are naturally unwilling to be parted from their children under such circumstances. Now that many surgeons in the country operate, comparatively few children with stone are brought to Edinburgh, except from the vicinity; whilst adults still resort to it, for the benefit of surgical aid, from Caithness and other districts where stone is of frequent occurrence. As to the statistics of lithotomy in the future, I am also inclined to think that these will appear less favourable than formerly, because the cases now properly chosen for lithotrity— namely, those in which the stone is small, the bladder not very irritable, and the other urinary organs generally healthy—are just the cases which were the most favourable for lithotomy. Hence the abstraction of such cases wiU diminish the average of suc- cessful results, and make lithotomy appear more fatal than it used to be. I have had no experience of lithotomy in the female, and, as I have already stated, I consider lithotrity as in all respects pre- ferable to lithotomy or dilatation; but in any case of large or hard calculus, where lithotomy is required, the operation is per- formed as follows :—The patient being under chloroform, and held in the ordinary position, a straight grooved staff or directorLITHOTOMY IN THE FEMALE. 1279 is passed along the urethra into the bladder. The surgeon then passes a straight probe-pointed bistoury along the groove of the staff into the bladder, and cuts obUquely downwards and out- wards, but merely to a very small extent, so as to divide the urethra ; by dilatation with the finger sufficient space is gained to admit of the extraction of a large stone. Some advise that the incision should be carried upwards and outwards, but I think that is attended with greater risk to the termination of the pudic artery, and besides, it places the incision in the narrowest part of the outlet of the pelvis.posterior portion of the urethral canal. I have often had occa- LECTURE CXXI. Diseases of the Urinary Organs—Retention of Urine from a Calculus in the Urethra : from Injuries ; from Paralysis or Atony of the Bladder—Disease of the Prostate Gland—Catheterism in cases of Enlarged Prostate—Methods of relieving Eetention when the Catheter cannot be passed. In to-day's lecture I begin the consideration of those diseases of the urinary organs which present the common symptom of retention of urine. Eetention of Urine may arise from various causes, mecha- nical and constitutional. A direct mechanical obstruction is sometimes met with in the shape of a calculus impacted in the urethra, which effectually prevents the flow of urine. This often occurs in children as well as adults, and the accompanying symptoms are severe in direct proportion to the size of the stone. In children the calculus is generally small, and— owing to the great contractile power of the bladder, and direction of the urethra—it is generally projected far forward by the force of the urine—whence it is only prevented from being completely ejected by the narrow orifice of that canal. In treating such a case it is necessary, in order to remove the foreign body, to press it forwards towards the orifice of the urethra, and then if possible to expel it. If the orifice be too small to allow of this, it should be slit open, and the calculus then removed, after which the urine will flow freely. In the event of the textures being divided, it is necessary during the after-treatment to pass a catheter occasionally, so as to prevent the parts from contracting too much during the healing process. In the case of an adult, owing to the direction and curvature of the urethra, a calculus generally becomes impacted at a moreRETENTION OF URINE FROM PARALYSIS. 1281 sion to cut down upon the spongy portion of the urethra in order to reach the stone lodged in the sinus of the bulb. In one case of retention of urine I passed a gum-elastic catheter without much difficulty, and without feeling or expecting to find a stone, and drew off the urine ; but I discovered that I could not with- draw the catheter. On examining the perineum I at once felt the cause; the catheter had, in its turn, become impacted between the upper wall of the urethra and two large calculi, contained in the dilated sinus of the bulb ; and as these could be easily felt, I cut down upon and removed them, and left the catheter in the bladder for thirty-six hours. Sir Astley Cooper and others have recommended us to extract calculi from the urethra by means of an instrument formed for the purpose with expanding prehensile blades. But it is difficult to open these blades when in the urethra, so as to grasp the stone, and even if we succeed in this, it is difficult to effect extraction; so that this mode cannot always be trusted to. The best plan is to press the calculus forwards to as near the meatus as possible, and then eject it, or, if too large, increase the orifice by incision. If it be placed farther back, then fix it in front of the bulb, and cut down upon and extract it. Eetention of urine may arise from injuries of the urethra or bladder, but these injuries and their treatment have been already discussed. Another cause of retention of urine is Paralysis of the Bladder. This arises from affections of the nervous centres. It may occur, like paralysis of other parts of the body, without any apparent immediate cause, or it may arise as a direct result from injuries of the spine. Cases of the latter class seldom do well, for the original injury leads to changes in the mucous membrane of the bladder, which, in their turn, lead to decomposition of the urine contained in it, and this again to a low form of inflamma- tion in the coats of the bladder, which often causes a fatal result. This is the simplest case in which the introduction of a catheter is necessary, for if there has been no previous strictureREGIONAL SURGERY. 1282 the urethra continues in its normal condition, and there is no obstruction to the passage of the instrument. A large size of catheter should therefore he used, ISTo. 10 or 12. It is possible, however, to create difficulties even in connection with such cases as these, unless attention be paid to the position of the parts. If the instrument be passed too far down, it is apt to get hitched on the sinus of the bulb, just in front of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and if it be pushed too far in the same direction, a false passage will be made through the spongy portion of the bulb. If, on the contrary, the turn be made too soon, the point of the instrument comes into contact with the pubes, on the anterior margin of the opening in the triangular ligament, and that constitutes another difficulty. The point should be directed rather towards the right side of the urethra, and bearing lightly on its upper wall, until it be pretty well back in the perineum, and then the handle gradually de- pressed. If any obstruction be met with, the catheter should be withdrawn a little, and then passed rather towards the opposite side. The curve of the catheter should not be too large. In introducing it, the more lightly it is held the better. It should first be guided gently, but not forced in any degree. If these points be attended to, there wiU be no difficulty in introducing the catheter into a paralysed bladder, provided that there be no stricture of the urethra. Paealysis of the Bladder does not occur so often as is sup- posed. Many cases so called are simply instances of atony of the bladder, the result of over-distension of its muscular fibres, and not attended with actual loss of nervous power in the organ. In many such cases the enlarged outline of the bladder may be visibly traced on the abdomen, and in most, but not all, it may be audibly traced by means of percussion. The bladder may be irritable from other pre-existing causes, therefore we must not be misled by expecting to find that the degree of irritation wiU always be in direct proportion to the amount of distension. When we pass the catheter in a case of an enlarged atonicDISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 1283 or paralysed bladder, we are apt to be disappointed with the comparatively small stream which results. This is due to the want of contractile power in that organ, for it does not propel its contents, as a healthy bladder would do, and what little force the stream possesses is due more to the action of the abdominal muscles than to any other cause. Under frequent use of the catheter, the atonic bladder regains tone, and eventually con- tracts arife empties itself normally. In the slighter cases of retention, the bladder should be stimulated to action by sina- pisms over the spine and upper part of the sacral region, and heat should be applied to the lower part of the abdomen. The patient should be admonished to pass water frequently, so as to prevent large accumulations in the bladder, and then it will more readily regain its power. Amongst the most common of the causes of retention of urine are Diseases of the Prostate Gland. These are of great importance, and the different conditions require careful attention. There may be simple hypertrophy, or chronic or acute prostatitis, or malignant disease. Acute prostatitis is met with occasionally in young people. It is characterised by the ordinary symptoms of inflammation, one of which, the sivelling, gives rise to an additional symptom—that of obstruction to the flow of urine. On examination by the rectum, the gland will be felt enlarged, and very tender to the touch. What we have to deal with in connection with such a case, in the first instance, is the retention of urine, and you may well imagine that in such circumstances the passing of a catheter is attended with great pain, as well as danger, and this applies also to scrofulous disease of the prostate. If, therefore, any other means of relieving the bladder can be devised, they should be adopted. Opiate enemata and the warm bath should be tried; if these fail, the patient should be put under chloroform, and the urine drawn off with the catheter. A medium-sized catheter, say No. 7 or 8, is likely to be attended with least risk. This, if skilfuUy managed, will effect the desired result.-1284 REGIONAL SURGERY. In elderly or old people, the prostate becomes enlarged and rigid. This enlargement gives rise to an altered position of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and hence to a difficulty in emptying the bladder. In such cases the retention occurs mostly in fits, and continues for about a fortnight. During these periods of exacerbation, the patient requires to have his urine regularly drawn off. At other times, during the intervals he is able to pass it without assistance—more slowly than usual, however, and generally without completely emptying the bladder. The periods of exacerbation occur generally in spring and autumn, the damp, chilly seasons of the year; they are usually ac- companied by irritation of the bladder, and the urine is often loaded with phosphates and urates, together with a secretion of ropy mucus. In patients of arthritic diathesis, the uric acid is often deposited in very large quantities, as well as j^hosphates, and the affection often corresponds to an attack of gout. In enlarged prostate the obstruction is not due entirely to the enlargement, but partly also to the altered position of the urethra, the axis of which is often curved and distorted by the irregular swelling of the substance of the prostate which impinges upon it. Thus also the prostatic part of the urethra, which nor- mally is little more tlian an inch long, becomes dilated, elongated, and its axis altered, owing to the enlargement of the gland. The position of the bladder becomes altered, the superior fundus being elevated out of the pelvis, whilst the posterior part of the pros- tate itself is projected upwards within the bladder, the has-fond or inferior fundus of which forms a sort of cul-de-sac behind the gland. Owing to this condition, the urine tends to dribble away after it has ceased to flow in a stream. In treating the irritable bladder in cases of enlarged prostate, it requires to be freely washed out from time to time, as the urine lodges in the pouch behind the gland, and becomes decomposed and ammoniacal. In some cases the prostate gland may be enlarged on one side only, or one lateral lobe much more than the other. Or its body, formed by the two lateral lobes, may be very nearly of its normal bulk, that is, about the size of an ordinary chestnut, whilst its1285 ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTA TE. central and posterior part may be altered in size, form, and direction, constituting enlargement of the third lobe. A portion of the central part of the gland protrudes, so as to form a sort of valvular projection into the bladder and over the orifice of the urethra, and, when inflammation or engorgement occurs, the urine is prevented from passing out. In some instances this projection of the third lobe is almost pedunculated in form, so that when the urine is pressed down by the contraction of the bladder, the projection is forced before it against the opening of the urethra, and closes it like a valve. In other cases again the gland is not so much enlarged, as very dense and elongated, and the greater portion of it lying above the urethra. When this form of enlargement of the gland occurs, it becomes very much elongated, and the prostatic urethra is stretched almost to a straight line upwards, at an acute angle to the membranous portion. As I have mentioned, a larger portion of the glaud-substance lies on the pubic than on the sacral aspect of the urethral canal. If we examine such a prostate from the rectum, and at the same time have an instru- ment in the bladder, we feel no great enlargement of the gland. On the contrary, we feel that the finger is nearer the instrument than usual, but we also feel that the gland-substance is elongated and stretches up beyond the reach of the finger. Another condition is sometimes met with, namely, enlarge- ment of the gland, attended with peculiar symptoms. It may occur at any period of life, but is most common in people above middle age. The symptoms supervene rapidly. There is exces- sive and constant pain, frequent desire to make water, and much blood is passed by the urethra. On examining by the rectum, the gland is felt enlarged, but soft. On introducing a catheter, in passing it through the prostatic part of the urethra it seems to sink through a soft mass, and bleeding, occasionally very pro- fuse, occurs after vdthdrawing the instrument. There is great local irritation, the constitution sympathises, and the patient be- comes cachectic. These conditions are symptomatic of fungoid tumour, or malignant soft cancer of the prostate.1286 REGIONAL SURGERY. In treating cases of prostatic disease, if we had merely to relieve the retention of urine, their treatment would be attended with no great difficulty. But although in most cases of enlarged prostate we have the state of complete retention occurring after exacerbations caused by cold, errors of diet, and frequently coming on at certain seasons, as in spring and autiimn, yet the patients generally suffer more or less continually from irritable bladder or chronic cystitis. The bladder, in some cases, is never thoroughly evacuated, and the urine is apt to become decom- posed, and to keep up or increase the irritable or inflamed state of the organ. In treating such cases, therefore, we must attend to the general state of the patient. The use of the hip-bath and warm fomentations over the abdomen are beneficial, and the urine must be frequently examined, as it should be in all cases of urinary disease. If retention of urine be present when we are called to the patient, we must relieve that at once by the use of the catheter. We must not be thrown off our guard by the statement that an instrument has been used, and that there is no water in the bladder, as only some blood came away, for in that case we may safely conclude that the catheter has not been in the bladder, but has made a false passage through the urethra, or lodged in the dilated prostatic urethra. In some instances you may even get away a little water from this prostatic portion of the canal, which is often dilated into a small pouch, containing the urine which overflows from the distended bladder, and this urine, flowing by the catheter, might mislead into the belief that the catheter had entered the bladder. We are often told that the patient is constantly micturating, so that there can bfe nothing in the bladder ; but in all cases we should examine the abdomen by percussion and palpation, as that will show the true state of the bladder. We cannot feel the bladder from the rectum when the prostate is very much enlarged, because it is thrown up from the pelvis ; but we can always feel it from the abdominal parietes. Where there is the least doubt, we should pass the catheter and satisfy ourselves as to the real state of matters.1287 CATHETERISM. In most cases of enlarged prostate an ordinary catheter will answer well enough. A full-sized round-pointed catheter will enter most easily, but it must be passed carefully and gently. On coming to the prostatic part of the urethra, we depress the handle rather more than usual, so as to elevate the point of the catheter. If it be obstructed in the mesial line, direct the point to one or other side in case it be a lateral enlargement, but do not use force. An ordinary catheter, however, may not be able to reach the bladder when there is great enlargement of the prostate, and in these cases we should use the prostatic catheter, which is about thirteen inches in length, and which has a dif- ferent curve from the ordinary catheter. The curve is much more abrupt, and the instrument is longer from the curve to the point, than the ordinary catheter. Its size should generally be large, ISTo. 10 or 11 of the catheter gauge. In cases where there is any real difficulty from great enlarge- ment of the gland, the prostatic catheter passes much more readily, and will reach the bladder when an ordinary one may fail to do so. There is no more risk in using it than the common catheter, if it be passed properly. We must keep it bearing gently against the upper wall of the urethra, as we pass it onwards, not letting it get too far down in the perineum, hooking it up under the pubis as it were, then depressing the handle, and using very little pressure to guide it onwards and upwards. In this way the instrument may in general be readily passed into the bladder. Another method of emptying the bladder in cases of enlarged prostate, is ,to use a gum-elastic catheter with a stilette. We use it with an ordinary curve at first, and pass it down into the membranous, then into the prostatic part of the urethra onwards to the obstruction. We then fix the instrument here, and with- draw the point of the stilette. This increases the curve of the catheter, and makes its point pass over the obstruction, and thus it sometimes enters the bladder, when a silver catheter will not readily pass. When there is any real difficulty, however, I think that the silver prostatic catheter is the safest and the best,REGIONAL SURGERY. 1288 as we can guide it; though we may succeed occasionally with a gum-elastic catheter, by the manoeuvre above described; I occasionally use it when, from previous experience in a case, I know that there is a valvular obstruction from projection of the third lobe of the prostate. The vulcanised india-rubber catheter is very useful for some purposes. If we do not withdraw a catheter in prostatic disease, as we may sometimes be obliged to do, especially in country practice, where we cannot always visit our patient frequently, the vulcanised india-rubber catheter is most suitable, as it can be left in the bladder with much greater safety than the gum- elastic or the silver instrument. Again, whilst it is not always safe to allow patients to use a catheter themselves in pros- tatic disease, yet with a vulcanised india-rubber catheter, from its softness, they can do themselves no harm even if they fail in getting the instrument into the bladder. It should never be used, however, when there is any laceration of the urethra. This instrument nmst be introduced bit by bit, because, if we take too much of it in hand at once, it bends upon itself. The soft india-rubber catheter should have considerable resistance at the point, and the eye should be small, so as to obviate the bending of the point on itself near the eye. Besides the mere mechanical treatment in prostatic disease, I have already said that we must also attend to other things. Having relieved the urgent condition of retention, we then direct the patient to take some strong decoction of Pareira brava, or the infusion of Triticum rejpcns, to allay irritation of the bladder and urethra. If the urme be loaded with mucus, the infusions of buchu or uva ursi should be given either alone or with the pareira. We must also examine the urine to see whether it is phosphatic, or if it merely contains phosphates from the prostatic irritation ; and we must be careful to make this examination occasionally at short intervals. The first urine drawn off after retention will probably be ammoniacal; but if it be generally acid, a very small quantity of alkali, such as potass-water, should be taken as a drink in addition to the vegetable infusion. The1289 GENERAL TREATMENT. tendency in prostatic disease, however, is for the urine to be- come alkaline, and therefore we should be very cautious in giving alkalies too freely. We often require to give some nitric or nitro-muriatic acid to relieve the irritable state of the bladder caused by the presence of phosphatic or ammoniacal urine. In the earlier stages, and when no uraemic symptoms are present, the use of opium will sometimes relieve the pain and irritation, and the use of leeches to the verge of the anus, with warm fomenta- tions to the perineum, and sinapisms over the loins or sacrum, win occasionally relieve the congestion of the prostate. Iodide and bromide of potassium have been much used, and lauded as not merely relieving symptoms, but as diminishing the enlarge- ment of the prostate, but I cannot say I have ever seen much benefit from their use. In the more advanced stages of prostatic disease, attended with constitutional disturbance, we must be very cautious in giving opium, for there is a tendency to uremia, and the use of that drug is attended with danger, for the symptomatic coma of uraemia is very similar to that of opium-poisoning, and even a small opiate may determine an unfavourable issue, by increasing the tendency to coma. Henbane is preferable in such cases, when we require to use an anodyne. The means I have mentioned relieve the congestion and the irritable state of the bladder and kidneys, and then, in most cases, by the use of simple diluents, or of acid or alkaline drinks, according to the state of tlie urine, the general condition of the urinary organs is improved. In short, we must attend to the general condition of the patient. The diet should be nutrient, but not too stimulating. The best stimulants are the light Ehenish wines or claret, for they do not tend to irritate the bladder as most of the red wines do ; they also prevent the urine from be- coming alkaline, and are slightly astringent. If there be any malignant disease of the prostate, or if, in any case, there be much discharge of blood from the bladder, gallic acid, in 6-grain doses every three or four hours, may-be given with very great advantage. As a prophylactic in someREGIONAL SURGERY. 1290 cases of prostatic disease in gouty patients, I have found the beneficial effects of colchicum wine in small doses of eight or ten drops, taken at bed-time for a week or so, about the time when the exacerbation of the disease generally shows itself, or when there are any uneasy symptoms, as it will often ward off the attack; and, indeed, fits of retention are sometimes com- pletely prevented by this remedy. In cases of retention from enlarged prostate, when we are foiled in passing the catheter, how are we to draw off the urine ? In such cases it has been proposed to puncture the bladder from the rectum; but in any diseased prostate, where puncture would be warrantable, we cannot puncture from the rectum, because the bladder is raised out of the pelvis by the enlargement of the gland, and we are unable to feel or reach the part of the bladder above the prostate, where it is uncovered by the peritoneum. Hence, if puncture of the bladder is to be adopted, it must be performed in the linea alba, immediately above the pubes. In cases of enlarged prostate the bladder is not so likely to subside behind the pubes as in the high operation for stone, because it is kept in its elevated position by that condition of parts ; and here, therefore, we may introduce a trocar and canula with comparative safety, and then pass a large gum catheter through the canula, and leave it in the bladder. The opening so made may always continue pervious, as I have known in one case, where the patient makes water through the anterior abdominal parietes. In such cases, a continuous mucous surface forms from the bladder towards the skin in this locality. The operation, however, is not a satisfactory one ; it is attended with some danger, and there are few who would consider it comfortable to be compelled to micturate through the front of the abdomen. Besides, the operation is not necessary, for I think that with care and perseverance we should always succeed in passing a prostatic catheter, if not an ordinary one. But, if the natural passage be completely closed in, so that we cannot introduce an instrument, it is preferable to make a false passage through the prostate. A new and more direct canal1291 FORCIBLE CATHETERISM. is thus formed, and great benefit experienced. ' By passing a catheter, and guiding it carefully in the first portion of the pro- static part of the urethra, then, by attention to the axis of the pelvis, making it pass into the bladder, by forcing it through the substance of the prostate, and keeping it in for forty-eight hours, a new canal will be opened in a much more direct line—the urine will continue to pass through it, and the canal will remain per- manently open. This method should only be adopted when we cannot pass a catheter through the ordinary passage. It is safer and more satisfactory in its results, however, than puncturing the bladder above the pubes, and is much more likely to relieve the retention permanently ; and I believe it to be safer than con- tinued efforts to find the natural canal, when there has been much rough treatment with the catheter. 4 pLECTURE CXXII. Eetention of Urine from Stricture of the Urethra—Spasmodic or Congested Stric- ture : Treatment—Organic Stricture—Anatomy of the male Urethra—Patho- logy of Urethral Stricture—Morbid Changes in other parts of the Genito- urinary Organs arising from Stricture—Fistula in Perineo. Perhaps the most frequent and dangeroiTs cause of retention of urine is contraction of the canal of the urethra, leading to ob- struction, and constituting Stricture of the Urethra. The urethra may be contracted either temporarily from some irritation leading to spasm and engorgement, or from true organic stricture, resulting from inflammatory affections, such as gonorrhoea, lead- ing to consolidation and contraction in the parts. To the former of these kinds of constriction—the functional, or spasmodic, or engorged stricture—the term stricture should scarcely be applied. It is a mere temporary contraction, for there exists no real stricture. It arises in most cases from some irritation about the neck of the bladder, as in gonorrhoea, when the prostatic part of the urethra becomes irritable and the patient is constantly passing water over it, or from exposure to cold, or after some debauch. The bladder becomes distended, and the patient can- not pass water at all—the penis is semi-erect—the spongy part of the urethra is engorged, and there is a feeling of contrac- tion and irritation, and intense pain and spasm about the rectum and neck of the bladder, with spasmodic attempts to make water —the patient striving in agony to pass a few drops of urine. In such cases the patient may suffer to such an extent from the retention, that we may require at once to use a catheter to relieve him; we must, however, be very cautious in using it, and employ means to allay the pain and irritation when passing itTREATMENT OF SPASMODIC STRICTURE. 1293 In a very large majority of cases, however, the symptoms of retention are not so urgent. The pain and the desire to pass water are very marked, but the real distension of the bladder is not great. In such cases, where we have to deal with inflamed and congested and irritable parts as causing the obstruction, the introduction of an instrument really keeps up the irritation. We should therefore, if possible, avoid using a catheter, and rather put the patient in a warm bath, and give an opiate enema. When the patient is in the bath, pour cold iced water on the penis, and the spasm will often pass off, and the urine come away without the necessity of passing a catheter. Then, by attention to the general health, giving some alkaline diluent drink, and putting the patient on antiphlogistic regimen, the tendency to the retention is overcome. These means should always be used first, for even if the retention still continues, and the use of a catheter becomes necessary, they render the intro- duction of the instrument easier. When these means fail to relieve the patient, and we require to use the catheter, we should give the patient chloroform, and apply cold or iced water to allay the irritability of the penis, which is engorged, congested, and consequently semi-erect, thus rendering catheterism difficult. In such cases there is not merely spasm, but also engorgement of the textures, and the catheter is very liable to cause bleed- ing, for the swollen mucous membrane is very apt to be lacerated, and the slightest abrasion in this state causes profuse bleeding from the urethra. We then take a No. 7 catheter with a rather short curve, dip it in warm water, oil it well, and pass it care- fully along the urethra as far as the bulb. If we meet with any obstruction, we should withdraw the point a little, draw the penis forward upon the instrument very gently, and it will then pass in ; but the condition of the prostate and neck of the dis- tended bladder will cause some obstruction at the vesical entrance, for the parts there are very much swollen, the neck of the blad- der is elongated, the axis of the membranous portion of the urethra is consequently altered, and we therefore require more than usually to depress the handle of the instrument to make1294 REGIONAL SURGERY. the point enter the bladder. After once relieving this organ, we must try to avoid using the catheter again, as every introduction of it excites fresh irritation. We should employ an opiate sup- pository and give acetate of potash, or aerated potash water, or camphor mixture, and apply warm fomentations or poultices above the pubes. When there is much engorgement we may apply leeches to the verge of the anus, to relieve the fulness of the prostatic veins, as this is attended with marked benefit in relieving the local irritation. The regimen should be strictly antiphlogistic. True Oeganic Stricture of the urethra is one of the most important of surgical diseases, and one Which, perhaps, more than any othel", reiq[uires skill, experience, and tact in regard to dia- gnosis and treatment. This morbid condition may be defined as a diminution of the calibre of a portion of the canal of the urethra, due to the deposition and organisation of inflamma- tory products, either into the textures surrounding the mucous canal or on its free surface, leading to permanent and even pro- gressive contraction, attended with more or less obstruction to the passage of urine. To give distinctness to our views as to the usual sites of organic stricture and other important points in relation to its diagnosis and treatment, I must advert very briefly to the ana- tomical divisions of the urethral canal. If we trace this canal as it emerges from the bladder, we find it passing through the substance of the prostate gland, from above, downwards and forwards. This part of the urethra is wide, and closely connected with the substance of the prostate ; its floor presents foramina in which are openings of the prostatic ducts, and in the centre we have a raised line, terminating anteriorly in the verumontanum, in which the common ejaculatory ducts of the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia open ; so that the mucous membrane is pretty firmly attached to the adjacent prostate. This prostatic portion of the canal is about 1 inch and 2 lines in length. The mem- branous portion of the urethra is the shortest portion of theANA TOMY OF THE URETHRA. 1295 canal, and traverses the interval between the two layers of the triangiilar ligament in a somewhat oblique direction from behind forwards, and from above downwards. If we measure this por- tion, where it lies between the layers of the triangular ligament, its length is 6 lines, or if we regard it as extending from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the urethra, its length is 7^ or 8 lines. The portion lying between the layers is wide, dilat- able, and only loosely connected with the vascular and muscular tissues which surround it. Where it traverses the opening in the ligament it is closely attached to that resistant structure, is narrowed in passing through the opening, and receives an expan- sion of the fascia which is continued over the bulb, and gradually lost upon the spongy portion. When the urethra emerges from the opening in the triangiilar ligament, it comes in contact, and becomes intimately connected throughout its course, with a pecidiar vascular erectile tissue, which, commencing in a pen- dulous or bulbous form near the urethral opening va, the triangu- lar ligament, terminates by forming the glans penis. This spongy portion of the urethra, as it is termed, is by far the longest part of the canal, its usual length being 6J inches, but it varies not only in different subjects, but according to the state of the penis, as will be seen by referencp to the results of my measurements of the urethra. The mucous canal, corresponding to the spongy texture, presents some points worthy of our notice in reference to their surgical bearings. At the part where it corresponds to the bulb its lower wall or floor dilates into a sinus, which lies farther back in the perineum than the urethral opening in the triangular ligament, and hence an instrument has a tendency to pass into this sinus of the bulb, and, in such a case, when the handle is depressed the point hitches in the sinus below the margin of the opening. Into this sinus also the ducts of Cowper's glands open, a fact which we require to keep in mind in reference to some forms of perineal fistula. Along the whole mucous surface of the urethra are numerous small lacunae. Near the orifice the mucoiis surface presents a very large lacuna, which sometimes gets the blameREGIONAL SURGERY. 1296 of entangling the point of the catheter. Where the iirethra opens in the glans penis, it is contracted and compressed later- ally. The calibre of the canal at the orifice is even smaller than where it passes through the triangular ligament, so that it may serve as a gauge for the size of instrument Vi^hich should pass easily along the rest of the canal, unless there be some abnormal cause of obstruction. To ascertain the exact measure- ments of length of the different portions of the canal to which I have alluded, the plan adopted—as combining the advantage of anatomical precision while at the same time the relations are main- tained exactly as during life—was the following : The prepuce being well drawn forwards over the glans penis, two harelip needles are thrust through it near its orifice, and behind the needles a strong waxed ligature is firmly tied so as completely to constrict the prepuce in front of the glans joeuis. The bladder and urethra are then to be moderately distended with alcohol, injected slowly by the ureter. After the textures have by this means been hardened, a careful section of the bladder and urethra can be made without disturbing the natural relations or curvature of the canal, and thus not only may correct measurements of the whole length be obtained, but the definite length of the spongy, membranous, and prostatic portions, their relations to each other and to surrounding parts, together with their depth from the surface of the perinaeum, can be accurately determined. I have made many such sections, and have taken casts from them. In very fresh, firm subjects, the section, as far as regards the urethra, can be well enough made without hardening with alcohol. We may here subjoin the results of the measurements so taken. These were taken by means of a piece of thin waxed cord laid along the canal, and following its curve. I. Measurements of urethra ; parts in natural condition, penis resting on right groin. Total length of urethra from meatus iirmarius externus to anterior border of uvula vesicse, 7 inches lines, or almost 8 inches. Spongy portion.—From meatus externus to commencement of mem-1297 MEASUREMENTS OF THE URETHRA. branous portion at its entrance into the anterior layer of triangular ligament . . . . . . .6 inches 4 lines ]\Ieiubranous portion.—From its entrance at the an- terior to its exit at the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, half an inch, or . . 0 „ 6 „ Prostatic portion . . . . . . . 1 „ 1^ „ Total length . . 7 \\\ Measurement of the walls, membranous portion between layers of .. A Upper wall .... 5 lines, triangular ligament \ ^ • , ,, ( Lower wall, ^ inch, or . . 4J „ II. Measurements of urethra ; penis previously injected with wax, so as to represent the erect condition. Total length of urethra, from meatus externus to anterior border of uvula vesicae, 9^ inches. Spongy portion to orifice at anterior laj'er of triangular ligament, 7| ins. Membranous portion . . . . . . . Prostatic portion . . . . • . . . 1^ „ Total . . . 91 „ The exact measurements of the width of the urethra are very difficult to obtain ; our results can be but approximative. The best plan is the old one, of taking casts by filling the bladder and urethra with wax or fusible metal, and so obtaining the width of the canal at different points when dilated by a moder- ate and equal fluid pressure. Finally, as regards these anatomical hints, I would merely remind you that besides voluntary muscles related to the urethra at different parts of its course, modern investigations have shown that the mucous membrane is closely connected by its sub-mucous tissue with involuntary muscular fibre in every part of its course, not existing, however, in equal quantity throughout, and at some points interlacing with portions of the yellow elastic tissue. In regard to the general course of the urethra,—if we look at the canal when the penis is pendulous, we see it has a double curve like the letter S, but the anterior curve is effaced when we stretch the organ, as in introducing a catheter, and then there only remains a very gentle curve from the bulb backwards and upwards through the membranous and prostatic portions ofREGIONAL SURGERY. 1298 the canal to the bladder; but the direction of this curvature is liable to change, in consequence of alteration in the size of the prostate, or from dragging and elongation of the parts, con- sequent on great distension of the bladder. If we now examine pathological specimens of cases of stricture of the urethra, we find that two portions of the canal are almost exempt from this alteration. I have never seen, and do not know of, a single specimen of stricture situated in the prostatic portion of the canal, and strictures of the membranous portion are very rare indeed, except as the result of wound or injury. I have not as yet, in any collection I have examined, been able to find a specimen of organic stricture in that part of the mem- branous portion which lies free between the layers of the trian- gular ligament. Practically, therefore, M'e may say that strictures are almost limited to the spongy portion of the urethra, and perhaps the point of junction between it and the membranous portion at the opening in the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. If we examine the parts of the spongy portion of the urethra where strictures are usually situated, we find, that by far the most frequent site of stricture is in what may be termed the bulbous portion, extending for about an inch in front of the bulb back to the opening in the ligament, the most frequent site being about three-fourths of an inch in front of the pen- dulous bulb. The next most common site of stricture is from an inch to two inches from the orifice of the urethra; whilst the third, almost as common as the last-mentioned site, is imme- diately in front of the scrotum, nearly corresponding to the flexure of the penis when pendulous. The statement frequently met with in surgical works, that the most usual site is in the membranous portion of the canal, is the result of an indefinite idea of its position when passing an instrument in the living subject. The pathological condition, as already defined, consists essentially in the deposit and organisation of new material, causing contraction or obstruction of the canal. The morbidDIFFERENT FORMS OF STRICTURE. 1299 condition, however, is so modified by the position and extent of the deposit, and consequent alteration in structure, as to give rise to the different forms of stricture. These may be classified under two heads—1st, Contractions of the canal of the urethra caused by plastic deposit external to the mucous membrane into the submucous tissue, or involving the other textures and causing, to a greater or less extent, in length and depth, consoli- dation of the spongy erectile structure ; 2d, Contractions or obstruction of the canal due to the deposit and organisation of plastic material on the free or internal surface of the mucous membrane, whether in the form of lateral folds of false mem- brane, thread-like bands of lymph, or false membrane stretching between the surfaces, or projecting wart-like masses. Strictures arising from organised plastic deposit on the submuc- ous aspect of the canal are by far the most frequent. The plastic lymph causing the contraction may be very limited in breadth, but may be deposited so as to include the whole circumference of the canal at the affected point; and as it becomes consolidated and organised, it forms a firm circle round the exterior of the mucous canal, constituting what is termed the annular stricture. This form of contraction may occur at any part of the passage, but is most frequently met with in strictures situated in the anterior regions of the urethra, and especially in those about two inches from the orifice. In such circumstances we can feel a little hard mass from the exterior; and when a solid instrument is passed fairly through such a contraction and along the urethra beyond, the narrow ring of consolidation is very distinctly defined, and can be felt by the finger. On examining the con- stricted point in a morbid specimen of this nature, we find the submucous tissue, and also frequently the spongy texture, consolidated and altered by the new material. On trying to raise the mucous membrane by dissection, we find it firmly adherent at the constricted point, and under it a somewhat flattened band of white fibrous tissue, which is usually very elastic and resilient. In other instances, as in strictixres near the bulb, the new material generally involves a greater extent of1300 REGIONAL SURGERY. the textures external to tlie canal, and is often thrown out irregularly so as to impinge upon the canal laterally and distort the passage. The consolidation of texture arising from the plastic exudation may extend for some lines in length, and is usually more solid and resistant and less resilient than the annular form. In many cases the consolidation and contraction are pretty equally distributed around the canal, merely narrowing its circle; but in others, they take place so irregularly, as not only to alter the direction of the canal, but to cause its mucous surface to project irregularly, and thus render the passage of instruments very difficult. In old-standing contractions of this kind, the consolidated structure is very firm and unyielding, and when divided with the knife, it cuts with the crisp sensation of the section of cartilage ; and such old contractions are often spoken of as cartilaginous stricture. The forms of stricture included under the second head, viz.— Obstructions of the canal from new formations arising from plastic deposits on its free surface are much less frequently met with. The old surgeons used to speak of stricture as always arising from the presence of caruncles or warty projections on the interior of the urethra. Very probably they supposed that the obstruction was caused by warty excrescences, such as they would often see arising from the mucous lining of the prepuce in cases of gonorrhoea, which is so frequent a cause of stricture, and they might infer that a similar state of matters existed in the interior of the canal. In reality, projections from the free surface of the urethra, whether in the smooth polypoid or warty forms, are very rarely met with ; less frequently perhaps than in any other mucous canal. The projection of folds of false membrane of a crescentic form, stretching along and attached to the sides of the canal, are sometimes met with. The false membrane, closely resembling the mucous lining, is usually attached by its convexity, and stretches from the floor of the urethra along the side of the canal, the concavity of the fold looking towards the orifice of the urethra, and not unlike a very large lateral lacuna. This form was spoken of by Sir Charles1301 BRIDLE AND RESILIENT STRICTURES. Bell as one kind of bridle-stricture, but I think the term valvular expresses its appearance better. The true bridle-stric- ture is of very rare occurrence, and consists of a thread-like band of organised lymph or false membrane stretching across the course of the canal from one point of its circumference to another, attached at each extremity, but free in the middle of its course. The term resilient or elastic stricture is used to express a condition which may be present in any of the forms of stricture arising from alteration in the submucous tissues—those included imder the first head. It is recognised chiefly by its vital characters. When an instrument is fairly passed through the contraction, it dilates or yields so as to allow a rapid increase in the size of the instruments passed. Thus, in some cases where a No. 3 at first is passed with difficulty, when once it has been passed, 4, 5, and 6 may be passed in succession; but three or four days afterwards No. 3 is found to be grasped as tightly as at first. The new organised material presents a white fibrous texture, and is found to possess great elasticity and resiliency. I have said it may occur in any of the submucous forms of con- traction, but the annular stricture is that in which this peculiar and troublesome condition is most generally met with. Besides the pathological states of the urethra itself, we require to consider the morbid alterations of other organs which arise in connection with and in consequence of the urethral disease. Thus, even in its earlier stages the testicle may become painful or swollen in consequence of the sympathetic irritation of the prostatic portion of the urethra ; and in unhealthy patients sub-acute suppuration may even take place. In bad strictures of old standing the prostate gland frequently suffers. We often find it the seat of multilocular abscess. Its substance is sometimes entirely destroyed, and, its proper fibrous capsule thickened, forms the boundary of a cavity containing foetid pus, through which the canal of the urethra dissected bare passes, and with which it in general communicates by one or more ulcerated openings. In such cases the vesiculse seminales are also often distended with glairy and foetid purulent matter.1302 REGIONAL SURGERY. But whilst the prostate is subject to this state of disorganisa- tion, it is very rare to meet with enlarged prostate in combina- tion with tight or irritable stricture; at least such is the result of my observation after a very large amount of experience in the treatment of bad stricture cases during the last thirty years, and after having examined many collections of morbid speci- mens. It might, perhaps, be possible to account for this, but, without theorising, I content myself with stating the fact that, though I have had occasion to treat very many bad strictures in old men, and whilst I have often jnet with the serious altera- tions mentioned above, I have rarely found the prostate as much increased in bulk as it usually is after fifty years of age, and on two occasions only have I found chronic enlargement of the prostate so great as seriously to complicate catheterism in reten- tion. In one of these, after passing a No. 3 catheter through the stricture, I fopnd that, fropa the great enlargement of the prostate, and elong9,tion of the prostatic portion of the canal, the small catheter could not reach the distended bladder. I forcibly dilated the stricture with an old-fashioned conical catheter, and then passed a No. 7 prostatic one into the bla.dder, and retained it there for thirty-six hours. In the other case the patient had laboured under stricture for nearly |ifty years. He was seventy-six years of age, and the prostate was felt enormously enlarged ; but he was labouring under complete retention, with abscess in the perineum. I opened the abscess, having first passed a small grooved stricture-staff through the contraction, and then divided the stricture, and, by using a large and long gum-elastic catheter, I relieved the bladder. Both cases did well; but these, as I have said, are the only instances in which I have met with such a complication. The membranous portion of the urethra, as it yields more readily than other parts of the canal, is always very ranch dilated in c^ses of tight stricture. The bladder itseK is always more or less affected in cases of stricture, and in bad cases very seriously. Owing to the obstruc- tion it has to overcome in evacuating its contents, its muscular coat becomes excessively developed, the enlarged fasciculi of muscularMORBID CONDITIONS IN STRICTURE. 1303 fibres projecting the mticous coat and giving rise to the irregular appearance of its internal surface, termed the Fasciculated Bladder, a condition also met with in other morbid states, such as prostatic disease and chronic irritable bladder. This thicken- ing or development of its muscular coat, if accompanied, as it generally is, by chronic irritation of the mucous membrane, leads to contraction of the cavity of the organ, so that its capacity for containing fluid is diminished. When the contrac- tion of the urethra is very tight, and the bladder not so irritable, we sometimes find that the capacity of the organ is greatly increased, whRst at the same time the muscular coat is much developed. In other cases the increased capacity for retaining urine takes another form. Pouch-like portions of the mucous mem- brane are protruded between the fasciculi of the muscular coat, forming cysts, some of which are occasionally found even of greater capacity than the bladder. In most cases of bad stricture the ureters and kidneys are to some extent affected. In nearly all cases the ureters are some- what dUated ; but in certain instances the dilatation of the ureters is enormous, and in such cases the pelvis of the kidney and the infundibula are also distended, and the secreting portion of the gland compressed, so that the kidney presents the appearance of a cyst. This state, though in a less degree than just described, is by no means uncommon in old stricture cases, though the urine secreted during life may have given little or no indication of or- ganic change. Various other morbid conditions of the kidney are found in cases of stricture more or less directly connected with it,—granular disease, pyelitis, multiple abscesses in the cortical substance, and in some very bad old strictures, I have found both kidneys much enlarged, softened, and broken up into granular and filamentous matter, as if they had been decomposed by maceration. The irritation produced in contiguous textures by the presence of stricture not unfrequently leads to the formation of abscesges in the perineum, which, unless opened early, are liable to ulcerateREGIONAL SURGERY. 1304 into the urethra, behind the contracted part, and to burst exter- nally ; then, owing to the urine finding more easy vent through the adventitious opening than through the contracted urethra, a fistula in perineo results. When this condition occurs, fresh ab- scesses form from time to time, and new fistulous openings, through which the urine dribbles off. In many instances we find four or five such apertures, some opening on the scrotum, others in the perineum, and others towards the hips. There is great sur- rounding consolidation of the perineum, and when the patient makes water, a small stream is ejected through each aperture, and very little passes through the urethra. On examination of such a case after death, we almost invariably find that, however numerous and however distant the external apertures of the fistulse may be, they all converge to a common fistulous canal, communicating with the urethra behind the stricture. In old cases these fistulous tracks are lined by a smooth structure, re- sembling mucous membrane ; and where no proper means have been used, the contracted part of the urethra may have become absolutely impermeable from disuse.LECTURE CXXIII. Symptoms of Urethral Stricture—Secondary eflfects on the Digestive Functions and on the Nervous centres—Positive Diagnosis of Organic Stricture—Treat- ment of Retention of Urine, arising from Tight Stricture—Curative Treatment by Vital Dilatation—Diipuytren's plan of Vital Dilatation. A CONSIDERATION of the various morbid conditions which I have mentioned will show you that in the diagnosis and treatment of stricture of the urethra we have generally to deal with more than the mere local alteration, and it should also impress you with the necessity for careful examination into the state of the different organs likely to be affected, as modifying the plan of local treat- ment which we may employ ; and, besides these more direct com- plications, we have the less direct effect of the disease on the digestive organs and nervous system, which require our most serious attention. The causes of urethral stricture are various—injuries of the urethra and perineum; inflammation of the canal, produced by any cause; ulceration from applications of caustics to the urethra. By far the most common cause, however, is the peculiar form of venereal inflammation, gonorrhoea, and the succeeding gleet. I should say that about 96 out every 100 cases are due to gonorrhoea and its results. The symptoms of urethral stricture, depending on the local condition, are gradual diminution of the stream of urine, tiU at last it comes only drop, by drop, or ends in complete reten- tion. The diminution in the size of the stream, however, is so very gradual, that the patient does not at first notice it, and insensibly gets accustomed to this state of matters, until his attention is attracted to it by some other circumstance, such as the length of time he requires to empty the bladder, and the straining which is necessary to effect the emission of the urine.1306 REGIONAL SURGERY. Very commonly the thing that attracts his attention is, that after he has finished micturition and arranged his dress, he finds the urine dribbles away and stains his linen. At other times, he notices the twisted or forked appearance of the stream ; not un- frequently irritability or swelling of the testicle causes him to consult the surgeon, and leads to the discovery of the real cause of his symptoms. The condition of complete retention is, of course, too urgent to escape notice, and this state may arise at a comparatively early period of the disease; because congestion or irritation from any cause, when superadded to organic contrac- tion, may occlude the passage temporarily, and in all cases of retention from organic stricture these causes are in operation. The symptoms of disordered functions of the digestive organs, arising indirectly front, or connected with, urethral stricture, are generally present in cases of tight contraction. Mr. Abernethy drew attention to this, and also to the fact that disordered functions of other organs, by exciting irritation of the urinary organs, might simulate some of the symptoms of stricture. These views, though perfectly true when properly understood, led at one time to very mischievous practice. Unfortunate dyspeptics who, under a series of leading questions, were made to confess tliat they occasionally felt uneasiness about the urinary organs, were at once subjected to a course of bougies, and they were fortunate if they escaped without having real mischief excited in the urinary passage. From what I have seen of patients who have been under treat- ment for stricture, I fear the most extended charity will not allow me to believe that the practice alluded to has been alto- gether abandoned. I have been frequently consulted by patients, who had for weeks or months been undergoing gradual dilatation up to No. 3 or 4, but in whom I found that a Ko. 9 catheter passed without let or hindrance into the bladder. There is one indirect effect of bad stricture to which I would draw your attention, as of importance in regard to its diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment—I mean, the secondary effect produced on the nervous centres of the lower part of the medvdla spinalis, in consequence of the" long-continued irritation of the nerves1307 DIAGNOSIS OF STRICTURE. supplying the bladder and adjacent pelvic viscera, giving rise at first, by reflex action, to functional, but, unless cliecked, ulti- mately leading to organic alteration in the medulla spinalis. The symptoms of this condition are very alarming, simulating as they do those of incipient paraplegia, and in some cases culminat- ing eventually in that condition. Thus, vre have neuralgic pains in the lower extremity, and also in the lumbar region, cramps or spasmodic twitches of the lower limbs, especially when in bed, a feeling of dull weight and constriction over the lower part of the abdomen, and gradually increasing weakness of the lower limbs. It is of course quite possible that chronic disease of the medulla spinalis may occur coincidently with stricture or vesical affection ; but, in the cases I refer to, the symptoms are pro- duced, in the first instance, reflexly, and depend, as I have said, on long-continued irritation of the branches of the lumbo-sacral plexus, and also of the organic nerves of the hypogastric region. The chronic congestion of the vessels of the pelvis and neigh- bouring parts will also conduce to give rise to this condition. When these symptoms, therefore, arise in cases of stricture, we are, I think, warranted in forming a more favourable prognosis, as the morbid conditions with which they are connected are, in the first instance, merely functional; and if the treatment of the local affection—the stricture—be successfully carried out, and means taken to allay the irritation of the iirinary organs, and to relieve congestion, the alarming symptoms will disap- pear, and organic changes in the nervous centres will thus be prevented. In regard to the positive diagnosis of urethral stricture, that can only be arrived at by examination by instruments, when carefully and methodically conducted, for all the symp- toms of stricture, whether constitutional or otherwise, depend- ing on the local obstruction, may arise from other causes. In conducting an exploration with instruments, I have said it must be carefully done, and on some fixed principle, for otherwise it is quite possible to be misled by such an examination. Thus', if taking for granted the statements of the patient that he has a stric- 4 Q1308 REGIONAL SURGERY. ture, or, iafluenced by retention of urine being present, the surgeon at once begins by trying to pass a small catheter, he may not suc- ceed, but if he at last manages to get a No. 1 or No. 2 into the bladder, he may conclude that he has had to deal with a tight stricture. In such circumstances the diagnosis is not certain ; the operator has probably been making difficulties for himself, and it is not unlikely, that if he had begun with a No. 7 or No 8. catheter it would have passed with less difficulty. In all cases of a first diagnostic exploration, the surgeon should use a medium- sized catheter. If there be no organic stricture there is less risk of injuring or irritating the mucous membrane, and the instru- ment will pass more readily than a small one. If there be an or- ganic stricture, the point of arrestment will serve so far to indicate the site of the stricture. So far back as 1844 I devised a bougie with a probe point, about the size of an ordinary pocket-case probe, the stalk increasing very gently and gradually in diameter towards the handle ; this instrument I have found of great use in passing through tight strictures, and in determining in some measure the site and extent of the contraction. But the instru- ment which I consider affords the surest diagnostic evidence is the probe-pointed steel stricture-staff, such as is used in perineal section. The small probe-pointed portion of the staff, which is similar to the bougie just mentioned, will more easily pass than any other instrument through a tight stricture ; whilst the sudden swell of the thick portion of the staff is of course arrested by the organic stricture, and defines exactly the anterior part of the contraction ; whilst, if the case be not one of true stricture, whenever the probe point passes, the thick portion of the staff foUows without difficulty, and can be felt from the rectum, so as to settle completely all doubts on the stibject. We must, how- ever, be careful to examine from the rectum, and ascertain that the thick part of the staff has passed into the membranous por- tion of the urethra up to the prostate ; because, when the narrow part of the instrument passes a short stricture, and enters the bladder, the thick portion can be depressed by pushing the con- traction before it; but then, by means of the finger in theTREATMENT OF URETHRAL STRICTURE. 1309 rectum, we can feel that the narrow part of the staff only has passed, and that the thick portion is still arrested in the perineum. With these precautions, and using great gentleness in passing the instrument, I consider this method of diagnosis affords us absolute certainty as to the existence and site of an organic stricture. I now proceed to speak of the treatment of stricture, and we must consider this under two aspects. First, the treatment when the emergency of retention of urine has occurred in consequence of organic stricture; secondly, the different methods employed for the radical cure of the disease, or the treatment of stricture pro- perly so called. There are few emergencies in surgery attended with more urgent symptoms, or requiring greater skill, experience, and determination, tempered with gentleness in manipulation, than retention of urine arising from tight organic stricture; and whilst I may be able to give you some hints for your guidance, founded on a considerable experience in such cases, I feel at the same time, that this is one of those subjects where many im- portant advantages of experience are not communicable, but must be attained by each one for himself To begin,—In dealing with cases of retention from organic stricture, I would advise you to hold as an axiom, that, wherever the patient has, up to the time of the attack, been able to pass water by the urethra, in however slender a stream, there must be a passage along which you should be able to pass an instrument into the bladder. In regard to absolutely impermeable contractions, I know that, pathologically speaking, they do exist. I have two specimens in my own collection, but they are ex- cessively rare ; and in regard to your practice in the case of retention, you will do well to dismiss the idea of impermeability from your mind, and adopt the axiom I have recommended. Like the word "impossible," the term impermeable, in relation to stricture, is apt to lead to failure by preventing or weakening effort, and leading to a want of determination and perseverance, founded on a certainty of success if these efforts be properly di-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1310 rected, I once heard an old surgeon, who had had great experience in treating stricture, and witnessing the treatment of others, say, that he believed the success of some surgeons, in relieving re- tention where others had failed, depended on " patience, per- severance, and sweet oU,"—a quaint way of expressing what I believe is very true. Without at all disparaging the last very useful item, " the sweet oil," I would specially direct your attention to the combination of patience with perseverance. It is not by mere dogged, determined perseverance, persisting in the use of instruments, that you will succeed. You must, under trying circumstances, patiently consider the probable causes of difficulty, keep your temper from getting ruffled, and never let it lead you into forcible or unmeaning manipulations, otherwise you will increase your difficulties by making false passages. The instrument must be managed gently, held lightly, and guided by the finger of the left hand introduced into the rectum. No force should be used. But then, you may very well ask. What do you mean by no force ? Can you pass an instrument along the urethra, through a tight resistant contraction, without some degree of force ? and how much, then, is justifiable ? Well, I can- not answer the question by saying how many pounds weight of power would be safe, and how much w^ould do harm. So far as I can communicate my own sensations as to force, I say that, in using the catheter or other instrument in such cases, I hold its flat handle lightly between my finger and thumb, and merely communicate sufficient force to guide it along the canal. When I meet with an obstruction—if I feel the point of the instrument pushing against it—I use no force to propel it; on the contrary, I rather leave off all pressure, and, if the instrument feels loose, then I know it had not entered the contraction, but had been pressing against or hitched upon some fold of the mucous mem- brane, and that if I had persisted in pressing it on forcibly, I would have made a false passage. If, on the other hand, on withdrawing the guiding pressure, I feel that the instrument is held or grasped—it has entered the contraction, and if that be tight and of firm consistence, or of some lines in length, then aCATHETERISM IN STRICTURE CASES. 1311 moderate and sustained degree of force is warranted, and neces- sary to pass the instrument onwards to the bladder. I would here advert to another point in reference to pass- ing the catheter'in tight strictures — namely, that when the instrument has fairly passed through the stricture, it is some- times difficult to guide the point through the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal, from the firmness with which the body of the instrument is held in the stricture, and hence the use of the finger of the left hand being introduced into the rectum to guide the point of the catheter in its onward course. In all your manipulations in such cases, you must keep before you the natural direction and course of the urethra, in conjunc- tion with the anatomy of the parts, both in their healthy and morbid states ; but the tact in using instruments, and various manoeuvres by which difficulties are sometimes overcome, can, I believe, only be learned by each one for himself, as the result of experience; and on such experience, and the resources which he has in himself, will depend the greater success of one man than another in the treatment of stricture. In difficult cases of tight unyielding stricture, the probe-pointed steel stricture- staff is often of service to make way for the silver catheter, which, when of small size, has not sufficient rigidity to enable us to direct it so readily through the contraction and onwards. My colleague, Dr. Watson, uses a probe-pointed steel catheter. I never myself found occasion to use it, but I can conceive it of service in some cases. In most cases, however, when there has been great difficulty in passing a small instrument in cases of retention, I think it advisable to leave in the catheter, and should prefer a silver to the steel instrument for that purpose, and I confess to a dread of the temper of a hollow steel instrument, so that I have in very difficult cases proceeded by passing a steel staff, and then followed it by the silver catheter, or else performed perineal section at the time, and emptied the bladder by a full- sized gum catheter, and left it in for some hours. The latter method is rendered imperative in some cases by the viscid orREGIONAL SURGERY. 1312 purulent state of the urine, which would soon block up a small silver catheter. I have hitherto directed your attention principally to the method of dealing with the mechanical obstacle caused by the contraction. I have done so because in cases of retention from organic stricture we cannot afford to lose time. We must, however, recollect that in all such cases congestion and spasm from irritation are also present, and we should therefore use means to allay them, so far as that can be done, without risking delay in passing instruments. An opiate enema may be adminis- tered, and cold or iced water applied to the penis and perineum to relieve congestion, and chloroform may be iised before resort- ing to instruments. But none of these measures are to be trusted to by themselves, because the difference between this and spasmodic stricture is, that here the spasm and irritation are due to and kept up by the organic disease, and will not yield until the catheter has been passed. A warm bath often relieves the uneasiness of the patient, and he sometimes passes a little urine whilst in the bath ; but I repeat that no time should be put off in trying such measures when retention is urgent. In dealing with old tight strictures, when retention is not present, and where there is therefore no absolute necessity for at once passing an instrument, we should take measures to allay irri- tation, and prepare the patient for strictly surgical treatment by attending to the state of the bowels, the character of the urine, and other general conditions, as well as by using the hip-bath and ano- dyne suppositories to allay local irritation. In some patients, who suffer from aguish symptoms, the use of quinine, or infusion of cinchona, is generally of great benefit. In trying to pass instru- ments in such cases, whilst it is always advisable to get an instrument passed through the contraction, it is unwise to per- severe too much ; there is not the necessity as in retention, and our manipulations may do harm. Still, as I have said, it is important, if possible, to pass an instrument, however small, fairly through the stricture into the bladder for this is alwaysDIFFICULTIES FROM FALSE PASSAGES. 1313 attended with relief of irritation, whereas unsuccessful attempts generally increa,se the irritability of the urethra and bladder. In such old tight strictures one cause of difficulty and embar- rassment is the existence of numerous old false passages, some of them, perhaps, nearly parallel to the natural passage, and of considerable length, and as their walls are consolidated, the sen- sation in passing the instrument is very similar to that of pass- ing through a stricture, whilst there is no bleeding, as when a new false passage is made in catheterism. In most instances, by gentle and careful use of the probe-pointed bougie or stric- ture-staff, we will succeed in getting it into and through the contraction ; but I have occasionally succeeded in some cases of very tight strictures, complicated with false passages, by a simple and ingenious method long practised on the Continent. It con- sists in passing a number of fine probe-pointed whalebone bougies. Say that there exist three false passages.—The surgeon takes one of these instruments and tries to pass it through the stric- ture, but feels that it has found its way into a false passage, and leaves it there; he then tries another, and leaves it in like manner in another false route; and so with the third. He now takes another of the bougies, and as all the three false passages are pre-occupied, this, if passed gently, almost infallibly passes into and through the stricture. The whalebone probes are so fine that they will pass through a contraction which will admit a bristle, and their delicacy prevents undue force being used. I have never tried this plan in retention cases, because the con- gested state of the parts seems to me to be unsuitable for it, and besides, we require to pass an instrument of sufficient size to evacuate the bladder. Dr. Gourlay, of New York, has ingeniously adapted this method as a means of conducting a metallic catheter grooved on its convexity down to the stricture, so as to enable him to divide it by perineal section in cases of very tight stric- tures ; but the fine probe-pointed grooved staff, passed fairly through the contraction, is a much surer guide for the knife. The Curative Treatment of organic stricture is conducted by different methods and on different principles, but all have forREGIONAL SURGERY. 1314 their ultimate object the more or less rapid and complete re- moval of the conditions causing the contraction or obstruction. It would be alike difficult and useless to try to enumerate all the plans proposed for the treatment of urethral stricture. I shall confine my remarks to the methods now practised. These may be classified under the heads of—Vital dilatation, Destruction of the contraction by caustics, Division of the stricture by lan- cette-catheters from within the canal or by Perineal section from without, and by forcible dilatation or rupture of the contrac- tion, as by Holt's method. Some of these plans of treatment I can do little more than mention. The methods which, from extensive experience in stricture cases, I consider really safe and effective, are—Vital Dilatation, Holt's Method, and Perineal Section. Vital dilatation is perhaps the method most generally appli- cable in ordinary cases of stricture, especially in private practice, and therefore I shall begin with it. By this method, I mean the introduction of an instrument through the contraction, and leaving it for a longer or shorter time for the purpose of promot- ing absorj)tion of the new material which has caused diminution of the width of the canal; repeating this process every three or four days, and gradually increasing the size of the instrument until we can pass one which fully occupies the orifice of the urethra, which I have indicated as the natural gauge of the calibre of the rest of the canal. The principle upon which we proceed may be understood from what we find takes place in cases of retention in which we leave in a small catheter, say No. 1 or No. 2. After ten liours or less the urine is noticed to trickle along the sides of the instrument, as well as through it, and when, at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, we remove the small catheter, which was at first tightly held, we find that a No. 4 can be passed with perfect ease, showing that, beyond the mere mecha- nical distension, vital causes have been acting on the organised material, and have led to partial absorption of it. Indeed, at one time, this plan of causing rapid vital dilatation was used as a gene- ral method, instruments being introduced in succession, and leftVITAL DILA TA TION. 1315 in xTutil, at the end of a week, a full-sized catheter coiild be passed. The excitement caused by such a procedure, however, is hurtful and dangerous ; and, moreover, this treatment, even when not attended by constitutional disturbance, was found to be followed by rapid return of the contraction, and it is now, I think, aban- doned. It was carrying a good principle to the extreme, without considering anything but the local action ; we may take advan- tage of it to gain ground until we can pass a No. 3 or 4 easily, but after that the dilatation ought to be carried out gradiially. To describe the proper treatment by dilatation succinctly, I will suppose that you have passed a No. 2 fairly through the stricture, and that it is tightly grasped. You leave it in the canal for five or ten minutes, and then withdraw it, and advise the patient to keep at rest as much as possible for a few hours. In many cases this is best secured by arranging to pass the smaller- sized instruments in the evening. If no great irritation follows, in three days you should again pass No. 2, leave it for a few seconds, and then pass No. 3, leaving it in for five minutes or so ; and so you proceed gradually, until complete dilatation is effected, always passing the size of bougie you used on the last occasion, and then the next larger size. Never yield to the temptation to gain ground by passing over one size, or by pass- ing two larger sizes at a time. You are almost sure to excite undue irritation, and more likely to lose than gain ground. At the commencement of the treatment, when only the smaller sizes can be introduced, I prefer catheters, especially if there be any false passages, so as to make sure that the instrument is fairly in the bladder. When we reach the larger sizes, the metallic bougies answer better and produce less irritation. In many patients affected with stricture the introduction of an instrument, however gently and easily accomplished, is almost in- variably followed by a rigor more or less severe. From what I have observed in such cases, I have come, rightly or wrongly, to associate this with irritation produced by the passage of the in- strument over the prostatic portion of the urethra and neck-of the bladder, and practically I have found that in most instances T1316 REGIONAL SURGERY. can diminish or obviate this symptom by the following method:— When using small instruments, where I consider it essential to pass them into the bladder, so soon as the flow of urine satisfies me that this has been effected, I withdraw the catheter from the bladder and prostatic portion of the urethra, and leave it in the stricture ; and when passing larger-sized bougies I merely pass them fairly through the stricture, and no farther. During the treatment by dilatation, the patient should avoid stimulants, and drink freely of diluents to allay the irritation of the bladder and urethra. When dilatation has been fully effected, he should be taught to pass an instrument, and advised to use it once a fortnight, to prevent any tendency to relapse ; and this should especially be insisted on in the case of patients going abroad, or to places where surgical aid cannot be obtained. At the same time, I regret to say such advice is seldom long attended to ; the patients, after a time, gradually forget their former suf- ferings, and neglect to use the instrument until some difficulty in passing water shows that the contraction has returned. There is another method of treatment, which used to be called vital dilatation by Dupuytren, and which has more recently been termed cross-tunnelling, but wliich I think very dangerous. It consists in introducing an instrument down to the stricture, and tying it in, with the point resting against the obstruction. The principle of this plan is founded on the assumption that the force of the urine on the proximal, and the pressure of the catheter or bougie on the distal side of the stricture, will cause absorption to take place, and that ultimately the stricture will yield. The progress used to be measured from day to day by the stem of the catheter. I have repeatedly seen instruments passed in bit by bit in this way, until they should have passed into the bladder, but on examination it was found that they had only dilated false passages. In treatment by dilatation, therefore, we should always try to get the instrument into the bladder, and carry out the dilatation as I have advised, for that is the only safe plan of effecting our object.LECTUKE CXXIV. Treatment of Urethral Stricture, continued—Use of Caustics : their Dangers— Holt'sMethod of Immediate Dilatation—Precautions after Treatment—Section of the Stricture from within by Lancetted Catheters—Perineal Section—Old Operation in Impermeable Contractions—Syme's Method : description of the Operation—Special points to be attended to in Operating, and in the after- Treatment. The employment of caustics in the treatment of stricture was had recourse to in old times, in the first instance, in consequence of the erroneous pathological opinion, that the obstruction was always due to the projection of caruncles or warts from the lining membrane of the urethra, the destruction of these growths being the object aimed at by this plan of treatment. In more recent times, the application of nitrate of silver in the treatment of stricture was revived by John Hunter, and subsequently ex- tensively practised by Sir Everard Home and others. It was first used, not to destroy the contraction, but with a view of allaying the morbid irritability often present in cases of stric- ture. Some forms of stricture are excessively irritable, so that the passage of an instrument invariably gives rise to constitu- tional disturbance, as well as intense pain at the time. Hunter used the nitrate of silver in such cases at first, with the view of exhausting the morbid irritability of the part, and altering the action of the morbid surface, as we do in the case of irritable ulcer. To that extent the treatment was justifiable and useful. It happened, however, that, in some cases in which the caustic had acted more energetically than usual, the contraction was destroyed, and that large bougies could be introduced into the bladder more rapidly than by the ordinary treatment. This led to the caustic or armed bougies being used, so as to effect de- struction of the contraction, as a method of treatment; and this,1318 REGIONAL SURGERY. as I have said, was at one time extensively practised, and is still, I believe, practised by some surgeons. I consider that destruction of the contraction by caustic is exceedingly dangerous. I have treated and seen many cases of stricture in v^^hich caustic had been previously used, and have no hesitation in saying that they were the most troublesome and worst cases I have had to deal with. In most of them, the complications of abscesses in the prostate, or fistula in perineo, were present, with irritable bladder and tendency to renal disease. In all, the strictures had become contracted and hardened by the application of the caustic, and had the constant tendency to contract after dilatation, so that, before the use of perineal sec- tion, it was almost impossible to keep the canal patent by the use of instruments. Whately and Wade's method, by the use of potassa fusa instead of nitrate of silver, which was also attempted to be revived some fifteen years ago, is, if possible, worse. I have, in several cases, seen false passages resulting from its use. In one instance a patient applied to me, saying he had a bad stricture. I used a No. 10 bougie, as I generally do when examining a patient for the first time. The instrument passed, with the greatest ease, apparently, into the bladder, so that I could fully depress the handle, and feel its point free in a cavity. As it is not a very unusual thing to find, on examination of supposed stricture cases, that there is no strictiire, I merely observed that, from the way in which the instrument passed, I did not think there was any great obstruc- tion ; on which the patient said, " The bougie has gone by the false passage, and if you examine you will find its point in the gut;" and so it was. The caustic had established a false passage into the rectum large enough to admit a No. 13 bougie, whilst a No. 3 catheter could only be passed with difficulty by the true passage through the contraction. I succeeded in curing the stricture by gradual dilatation, and the false passage contracted, but never closed completely, so that great care was required in passing instruments. Unfortunate results like these show the un- certainty and danger of using such agents as caustics, which may1319 HOLT'S METHOD. make a false passage for themselves, and which, even if they do pass into or destroy the contraction, only aggravate its condition ultimately, and predispose to abscesses in the neighbouring parts and disease of other organs. Holt's Method of Immediate Dilatation, or rupture of the contraction, is the method of treatment which I consider most suitable for the treatment of tight firm strictures. If the kidneys and prostate gland are not affected by disease, this plan of treat- ment is, I believe, nearly, if not quite, as safe as that of gradual dilatation, and I should always advise its employment in cases where the contraction returns quickly after dilatation; foralthougli I do not believe that any method of treatment will absolutely preclude the return of the contraction, or that it is ever safe to neglect the occasional use of a bougie to maintain the patency of the canal, still the tendency to relapse seems less after Holt's method than after simple dilatation. I was at first much prejudiced against this plan, owing to what I had seen of the effects produced by the forcible dilatation with the conical sound. In cases where that in- strument had been used, I had noticed that an irritable and resilient state of the contraction was the almost invariable result. From some opportunities I had of examining stric- tures dilated by this method, on the dead body, I found the mucous membrane at and. on either side of the stricture fissured, and I considered this condition so similar to that of fissure of the rectum, that the intense irritability seemed to me referable to this fissured condition of the mucous mem- brane. Hence the immediate dilatation, by Mr. Holt's method, seemed to me as likely to lead to the same disagreeable results ; but, after trying it in some cases, and having had an opportunity of examining a stricture which had been treated by his method, I found there was a difference between its action and that of the conical bougie. I saw that by his plan the stricture was fairly ruptured, not only through the mucous membrane, but through the condensed submucous tissue forming the contraction.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1320 Now we know all that is required to cure the excessive irrita- bility of fissure of the anus, is division of the fissure fairly through its hard base; and whilst we usually effect that with the knife, still it can be effected by the coarser method of forcible rupture with the fingers ; so that Holt's method, by fairly rupturing the hardened basement texture of the contraction, prevents, or even cures, the irritable condition of the stricture, and thus acts very differently from the partial fissuring of the mucous membrane caused by the conical bougie. For the last nine or ten years I have practised Holt's method, and with great success, so that I feel no hesitation in recommending it as at once efficacious and safe—that is, as free from danger as any operation on diseased urinary organs can be. I need not repeat, that all the usual precautions must be taken that the patient be in a proper state for inter- ference of any kind; but I very seldom now have recourse to the large doses of quinine recommended by Mr. Holt as prophylactic. I believe nothing more is necessary than the ordinary attention to the general health and state of the urinary organs, and characters of the urine. This preliminary treatment can be carried out whilst we continue ordinary dilatation up to the gauge of No. 3 catheter. The operative procedure is very simple. The dilator is passed closed, till its point enters the bladder, and this is made sure of by withdrawing the stilette from the small tube within the dilator, when some drops of urine will flow by it if it has entered the bladder. But we must recollect, that, from the form of the instrument, if it be passed far in, its point rests against the walls of the bladder, so that, if the urine does not flow, we should withdraw the point a little, and then the urine will come if the instrument is fairly in the bladder ; and we must make quite sure of that before we proceed to the next step. The rupture of the stricture is effected by loosening the screw which fixes the blades of the instrument, near the handle, so as to allow them to open. We then pass the dilator upon the tubular con- ductor, between the blades, and push steadily and forcibly tillSECTION OF THE STRICTURE. 1321 ■we feel the contraction yield. Lastly, the instrument is with- drawn, and a No. 10 or No. 11 catheter passed into the bladder, and the urine drawn off. The patient is then desired not to make water himself, but to have his water drawn off with tlie catheter every six hours, for the first twenty-four. I have always adopted this precaution, although some con- sider it unnecessary; but I regard it as a safeguard against infiltration; and if we fairly rupture the contraction, as we ought to do, some infiltration might occur ; indeed, I have seen it take place in one case, that of a stricture about three inches from the orifice, which I split, and where the patient neglected the direction I had given. I am also aware that occasionally patients are told that there is no necessity for even remaining quiet for twenty-four hours, but that they may go about as usual; but, in really serious cases of stricture, that is not safe advice nor judicious practice. Unless the natural orifice of the urethra is very small, I always at once use the largest of the dilators, so as to ensure complete rupture of the contracted portion of the canal and the condensed surrounding textures. At the end of eight or ten days I pass a No. 10 catheter ; repeat this at gradually increasing intervals, and then instruct the patient to pass one for himself occasionally, so as to guard against relapse. The treatment of old unyielding strictures, by dividing the contracted portion of the urethra with cutting instruments, has often been recommended. The methods generally adopted were either the old operation, termed " la boutonniere," which used to be practised at first only in cases of impermeable strictures arising from partial destruction of the canal, with a view of restoring its continuity, but gradually came to be used in cases called impermeable, where the surgeon could not pass an instru- ment into the bladder. The operation consisted in passing a full-sized catheter down to the obstruction, cutting down upon it in the mesial line of the perineum, and dissecting back- wards to try to find the urethra beyond the contraction, and then, after cutting through the dense intervening structure1322 REGIONAL SURGERY. forming the contraction, passing the catheter onwards into the bladder, and retaining it there for forty-eight hours at first, and introducing it occasionally to re-establish the course of the urethra. This, however, was a most uncertain and difficult opera- tion, as in the method adopted there was no guide to the posterior part of the canal amongst the altered textures, and when suc- cess was attained it was by chance. When I come to speak of puncture of the bladder, I shall point out how, by using a modi- fication of the foregoing operation, the membranous part of the canal can, with certainty, be reached, so as at once to relieve the retention and re-establish the canal. But, as a method of treating stricture, the boutonniere is certainly not one which T should recommend, and I would specially guard you against confounding it with Mr. Syme's method of perineal section, which I shall immediately describe. Division of the stricture from within has long been prac- tised, especially on the Continent. I can hardly conceive any method more uncertain and dangerous. If the form of instrument used is such as not to pass within the contraction, but is only passed down to the stricture, and the lancet then projected with the intention of dividing the obstruction, it is quite as likely to cut the less resisting textures and form a false passage. If, on the other hand, the instrument is to pass within the con- traction, before the lancet is projected, then a stricture which would admit an instrument of such a size would not require such a hazardous operation. In any form of division of the stric- ture from within with cutting instruments, the risks of bleeding and infiltration of the spongy texture of the urethra must be very great, and for niy own part I consider it a method which should never be adopted. Perineal Section for division of urethral stricture, as pro- posed by the late Professor Syme in 1844, and performed on the principles laid down by him, differs essentially from any of the foregoing methods for section of the contraction. It is an operation admirably adapted for the treatment of certain forms1323 PERINEAL SECTION. of complicated stricture, attended with no great difficulty in its performance, not dangerous in itself, and attended with probably as little risk as any cutting operation can be in cases of diseased urinary organs. Since I began to use Holt's method, I liave not performed perineal section so generally as I formerly did, but for nearly twelve years, whilst I used dilatation in ordinary cases of stricture in private practice and in hospital out-patients, I per- formed perineal section almost invariably in all resilient, irri- table, or old indurated strictures ; and in the Edinburgh Eoyal Infirmary these were of frequent occurrence, and the results were most satisfactory. In the very few fatal cases which I have met with, the cause of death was almost invariably phle- bitic pyaemia. I have never met with haemorrhage or urinary infiltration, the bugbears which used to be urged against this method; and, therefore, though I now use Holt's plan in many cases where I should formerly have performed perineal section, yet in cases of cartilaginous irritable resilient stricture, with induration of the perineal textures, or perineal fistula, I prefer perineal section by Mr. Syme's method to any other plan of treatment, and still frequently perform it. I have said that the operation is not difficult, and that its performance is effected with certainty if the principles laid down by Mr. Syme be attended to, together with some minute points in the manipulations, the neglect of which makes all the difference between a perfect and an imperfect operation. I shall first briefly describe the mode of performing the operation, and then allude to the points which I consider as deserving special attention. The instruments required are a grooved stricture-staff, a small sharp-pointed bistoury, and a No. 10 silver or gum catheter. The perineum having been shaved, and the narrow part of the staff passed through the stricture fairly into the bladder, the patient is placed in the same position as for lithotomy, and the hips brought close to the edge of the table. The operator feels for the termination of the thick shoulder of the staff in the perineum, begins his incision over it exactly in the line of the raphe, and cuts backwards for about 4 R1324 REGIONAL SURGERY. two inches. He next feels for the groove in the narrow part of the staff with the point of his right forefinger, and having felt the groove distinctly, he takes the handle of the instrument in his left hand, and guarding the point of the bistoury on his right forefinger, inserts it with its edge directed forwards into the groove, and carries it forwards through the stricture into the grooved part of the thick shoulder of the staff so as to divide the stricture thoroughly, and depresses the handle of the staff gently till he feels its thick portion pass fairly into the mem- branous portion of the urethra. Lastly, he withdraws the staff and introduces the full-sized catheter into the bladder, and retains it by tying it in position. Such is a general description of the operation of perineal section. The points deserving attention are, first, the instruments. The staff consists of an anterior thick portion, which should be always about the gauge of a No. 11 catheter, and should terminate in an abrupt manner to mark the anterior boundary of the contrac- tion. The narrow portion of the staff varies in gauge from No. 3 down to the small probe-pointed instrument for very tight strictures. The groove should be carried well up from the narrow into the thick portion of the staff, so as to allow the knife to cut freely forward. The set consists of four of these steel instruments, and a small probe-pointed grooved silver director, used in cases of tight strictures in the anterior part of the urethra. The knife should be an ordinary small-sized bistoury in a fixed handle, very sharp at the point, with the back part of the point slightly bevelled off, by touching it on the stone in setting the instrument. The gum-elastic catheter is most suitable for leav- ing in the bladder; but in case of any difficulty in introducing the catheter owing to the point passing out of the wound in the urethra, the silver catheter should be at hand, as it can be guided with greater certainty. Secondly, as to the procedure, the staff should always be introduced fairly into the bladder, and entrusted to an assistant before the patient is placed in position for the operation. Immediately before commencing his incision, the surgeon should, by examining from the rectum, satisfy himself as to the staff beingSTEPS OF THE OPERATION. 1325 fairly in the bladder. In commencing the incision, the thick shoulder of the staff forms an excellent guide as marking the an- terior limit of the contraction, and therefore the incision should begin over it and be carried backwards to the requisite extent. The incision must be exactly in the middle line or raph^ of the perineum, and should be carried deeply at once, especially as it passes backwards from the thick part of the staff; by so doing we avoid the risk of lateral dissection in the deep part of the wound, and the danger of going to one side of the small grooved part of the staff, and come directly down upon it. In cases of indurated perineum, where we might expect great difficulty, we often find the narrow grooved portion of the staff very easily, as the tex- tures do not yield laterally or separate. Moreover, by a decided deep incision in the middle line we incur less risk of htemorrhage. On completing this incision, the operator should pass his right forefinger into the posterior part of the wound, and, with the pulp of the finger directed forwards, feel for the groove in the narrow part of the staff behind or on the vesical aspect of the stricture. If the incision has been deep and well placed, he will generally feel the staff easily; if not, he must touch the textures with the knife directed in the middle line, until he feels the groove almost bare. It is at this stage that an error is apt to occur, unless you attend to a point which you might possibly think of but little consequence in the description of the operation as given by Mr. Syme, but the neglect of which, I am satisfied from experience, was often the cause of difficulties and imperfec- tion in our earlier operations for perineal section. Mr. Syme directs that, on the groove being felt, the knife, guarded oh the forefinger of the operator's right hand, should be inserted into the groove ; in other words, whilst the point of the forefinger has felt and is fixed against the groove, the knife, which has been lying upon the finger, is projected forwards so that it must enter the groove; it cannot pass to either side, and hence is directed at once into the centre of the groove, however narrow that may be, and easily carried through the contraction by pressing it forwards by the finger placed behind it. If, on the contrary, weREGIONAL SURGERY. 1326 do what was very generally done in the earlier operations for perineal section—viz., use the finger of the left hand to feel for the groove in the narrow part of the staff, as is done in lithotomy, and then pass the knife over the nail of the left forefinger which is fixed in the groove as a guide—the knife is directed to one side, misses the small groove, and is carried along the side of the staff, thus leading to an imperfect incision, or to uncertainty as to complete division of the stricture. I repeat that this apparently trifling manoeuvre is of the greatest importance as to the ease and certainty with which the stricture will be divided. The edge of the knife should always be carried well forward into the groove in the thick portion of the staff. There is another precaution which I take at this stage, and which I consider should never be neglected. When the stricture is divided, we are told to withdraw the staff and proceed to introduce the catheter. But we must first make quite sure that the whole contraction is divided. The limit of the stricture in front is well marked by the thick slioulder of the staff arrested there, but the posterior limit is not so surely marked, we judge of that chiefly by feeling the groove less thickly covered. Even as regards the anterior part, a few fibres may escape before the pressure of the knife, but we can give perfect certainty to the complete section of the stricture by using a very simple precaution. Instead of with- drawing the staff, I pass my left forefinger into the wound, and with my right hand depress the handle of the staff so as to carry it towards the bladder. If the contraction be fully divided, the thick part of the staff passes on easily beyond the cut in the urethra into the membranous part of the urethra, and its posi- tion is felt by the finger in the wound. If, on the contrary, there be any catch or hindrance, I never attempt to force the staff onwards; but, again using my left hand to steady the staff, I re-introduce the knife on my right forefinger and divide any resisting fibres, whether at the anterior or posterior part of the urethral section, until the staff glides easily onwards. No force to overcome a difficulty should be used. It may be that a small portion of the anterior boundary of the contraction has escapedINTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 1327 complete division ; very little propelling force would overcome this, as the remains of the white fibrous texture would readily yield for the time, and permit the instrument to be carried on towards the bladder; but the operation would be incomplete, and contraction would soon return. Moreover, by this same pre- caution, the introduction of the catheter is rendered more easy and certain. As regards the introduction of the catheter, we should be careful to keep the point of the instrument bearing gently on the iipper or pubic wall of the urethra, to avoid the risk of its pass- ing out through the section, and getting entangled in the tissues of the wound. Should any hitch occur, do not press on, but withdraw the instrument, and introduce it again, keeping the finger of the left hand in the wound to guide its point if neces- sary. I have already said I prefer the gum-elastic catheter to be retained in the bladder. It is best secured in position by means of a silk thread tied round the ivory mouthpiece of the instrument, the ends of which are carried back, one on either side of the glans penis, and secured by a circular strip of adhesive plaster. If a silver catheter be used, it should have a very short point. We secure it in the following manner, which is that used for securing the silver catheter under any circumstances:—A broad bandage is tied round the abdomen above the crest of the ilium. To this we fasten two perineal loops on either side. These loops are simply narrow strips of bandage, brought obliquely from under the perineum on each side, and' tied to the abdominal bandage. Through each ring of the catheter a narrow strip of oiled silk, or a piece of thin string waxed or oiled is passed, and the ends secured to the perineal loops on each side. Care should be taken not to tie the catheter too far in, nor to allow the water to flow off through it continually, because the small thickened bladder will contract on the point of the instru- ment, and vilceration of the mucous coat may ensue. This hap- pened in one of my cases, at a time when, from dread of the risk of infiltration, which was then so much spoken of, the practice was to allow the urine to flow off continuously. Since then I1328 REGIONAL SURGERY. have almost invariably used a gum catheter, and in all cases I leave a plug in the instrument, which can be withdrawn when necessary. Bad results might occur from tying in a full-sized instrument for any cause, if the bladder is permitted to be con- stantly empty, owing to the continuous draining away of the urine. The after-treatment of perineal section is very similar to that of lithotomy cases—anodynes at first, and the free use of dilu- ent drinks, to allay irritability of the bladder. The catheter should be withdrawn at the end of forty-eight hours, or earlier, if it cause much irritation. At the end of ten days a No. 8 or No. 9 catheter should be passed, and then at intervals of eight days, as the wound heals. For the first fortnight the patient should be kept in bed, but after that he may be allowed to sit up, or walk about, unless the wound be irritable. In concluding this important subject, I would briefly state, in a dogmatic form, the methods of treatment I should recom- mend in cases of stricture. 1st. In the simpler cases of non-irritable stricture, and where the patient cannot conveniently be confined to the house, even for a few days, vital dilatation methodically carried out on the principles I have laid down. 2d. In more severe, irritable, indurated, and resilient strictures, I prefer Holt's method of splitting the stricture, as it involves very little risk, is uncomplicated with wound, and is therefore attended with less necessity for confinement in the after-treat- ment. 3d. In tight cartilaginous and irritable strictures, with in- duration in the perineum or abscess, or complicated by fistulous openings, I should recommend perineal section on Mr. Syme's principle.LECTURE CXXV. Puncture of the Bladder for Eetention of Urine in cases of Stricture—Puncture by the Rectum : by Incision from the Perineum—Extravasation of Urine—Symp- toms of rapid Extravasation from yielding of the Urethra behind the Stric- ture—Treatment—Extravasation resulting from neglected Urinary Abscess— Fistula in Perineo—Different forms of Perineal Fistulse, and their Treatment —Retention of Urine and Catheterism in the Female. Occasionally, but very rarely, cases of retention occur in which the surgeon requires to puncture the bladder. There are two methods of doing this. The bladder may be punctured from above the pubes, as already described when speaking of diseased prostate, or by the rectum in cases where the prostate is of its natural size. The latter is a very simple mode; rather too simple in fact, becaiise some surgeons are much inclined to re- sort to it, rather than persevere in attempts to pass the catheter. In retention of urine from stricture, unless there be absolute destruction of the canal, the surgeon ought always to be able to pass a catheter. If he perseveres skilfuUy, he will hardly ever fail in doing so, though it requires, as I have already shown, some determination and experience. Sometimes it may happen that a person who has had few opportunities and little experience in treating stricture will be called in to a difficult case ; and then, if he cannot obtain further aid, puncture of the bladder by the rectum is certainly preferable to delay, or dangerous efforts with the catheter. When the bladder is distended, and the prostate healthy, the bladder bulges towards the rectum and be- tween the vasa deferentia and vesiculee seminales on either side, there is a point below the reflection of the peritoneum from the rectum to the bladder, where that viscus is in close contact with the bowel. In puncturing the bladder from the rectum, the surgeon1330 REGIONAL SURGERY. passes two fingers into tlie rectum, till he feels the base of the prostate. He then takes a curved trocar and canula (Pouteau's) —the trocar being drawn back within the canula—presses the point of the canula against the bulging portion of the bladder, as represented in Plate Ivii. Fig. 2, and then pushes the trocar onwards until perforation is effected, and the urine evacuated. The canula is then tied in the rectum, projecting into the bladder, and left there for forty-eight hours, until the surgeon is able to introduce a catheter and dilate the urethra, which can often be more readily done after the bladder is relieved, and the con- gestion and irritability of the canal allayed. I have only twice punctured the bladder from the rectum. Once, nearly thirty years ago, in a man who had been previously subjected to rather rough catheterism, and who would not submit to allow me to try the catheter. There could have been no real necessity for puncture, as I passed a No. 6 catheter easily two days afterwards. The second case occurred in my hospital practice, and was rather puncture of a vesical cyst than punc- ture of the bladder in the usual way. A full-sized catheter was introduced into the bladder, and relieved it, but not the dis- tended cyst, and therefore puncture of the cyst was absolutely necessary. (See Clinical Cases.) When, from any cause, it is necessary to resort to an opera- tion to relieve the distended bladder, there is another method which is, I think, much better than puncture by the rectum. Where there is absolute obstruction of the urethral canal from injury or disease, we have a fixed and sure guide to opening into the membranous part of the urethra. By passing the forefinger of the left hand into the rectum, we can feel the apex of the prostate gland distinctly, and in front of the prostate the dilated membranous portion of the urethra can be reached and opened with safety. In operating, the surgeon, having his finger in the rectum in contact with the prostate, takes an ordinary straight bistoury and plunges it into the mesial line of the perineum, in front of the anus, with the back of the knife towards the coats of the rectum, and, keeping its point directed obliquely upwardsPlatelVII. PUNCTURE OF BLADDER & IMPERFORATE ANUS.EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. 1331 he cuts freely, as if he were going to cut into the apex of the prostate. That gland forms a fixed point in front of which he cuts into the membranous part of the urethra (Plate Ivii. Fig. 1), and the urine then escapes. Afterwards, he either leaves in a lithotomy-tube, or introduces a catheter down to the obstruction in the perineum, cuts on its point, and passes it on to the blad- der, so as to re-establish the urethra. This may seem a difficult operation, but it is really not so. It is, I think, a much safer and better operation than punctiiring the bladder from the rectum, as it not only relieves the retention, but enables us to restore the natural passage at once. It can, however, only be required in cases where the continuity of the canal of the urethra has been destroyed by injury, and where, therefore, a catheter cannot be passed, or when the scrotum and penis are involved in a cancerous swelling. I have performed the operation several times under both of these conditions, and met with no difficulty. Extravasation of Ueine may occur from various causes, some of which, such as injuries of the urethra and bladder, have been already spoken of When the extravasation takes place in certain positions, as at the neck of the bladder within the pelvis, or when it escapes into the abdominal cavity, we have seen that the condition is one which does not admit of much being done for its relief It is different, however, with respect to extravasa- tion or infiltration of urine in the perineum. In that case we can do much to save life, and prevent, or at least diminish, the destruction of tissues, if only our interference be prompt and decided, and I therefore desire to draw your attention very specially to this subject. It is not a condition in which you can wait to have a consultation or obtain aid. To be of service you must act at once, and understand how to act, and the prin- ciples on which you proceed. I have said that extravasation may arise from injuries of the urethra and other causes; but in this position it most usually occurs in consequence of obstruction in the canai, and in connection with urethral stricture.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1332 There are two forms in which it may arise. One ahnost instantaneous in its occurrence, rapid in its destructive effects, and attended with very marked local and constitutional symptoms. The other, preceded by the formation of deep abscess in the perineum, and only supervening as a consequence of that having been neglected, and hence its progress and symptoms are different from those of the former, and perhaps not attended with so much, certainly not with such immediate, danger. I shall first describe the condition in which the urine escapes, and is rapidly extravasated into the tissues. This usually occurs in cases of tight indurated strictures. In such instances there are always pathological changes, tending to ulceration of the urethra behind the stricture, resulting from long-continued irritation, and the pressure of the urine from behind over-distending the canal immediately on the vesical aspect of the contraction ; and in cases of retention under such conditions, unsuccessful at- tempts to introduce catheters may also tear and still further weaken the walls of the urethra. Under such circumstances the patient, straining with great force to empty the over-dis- tended bladder, feels something give way, and experiencing the relief of the bladder evacuating its contents, thinks he is making water, but seeing none coming by the natural passage, he becomes alarmed, especially when he finds a sudden swelling between his thighs, and distension of the scrotum and penis. The urethra has yielded in the perineum behind the stricture. The mo- mentary relief is soon followed by an intense burning sensation in the perineum, and medical aid is procured. If the surgeon sees the patient immediately after the occurrence of the extravasation, he finds the scrotum and coverings of the penis swollen and tense, and the anterior part of the perineum occupied by a tense prominent swell- ing, at first sharply defined. This perineal swelling is con- tinuous in front with that of the scrotum ; posteriorly, in the middle of the perineum, it passes no farther back than about three-fourths of an inch from the anus; but laterallyPOSITION OF THE EXTRAVASATED URINE. 1333 and posteriorly it approaches the point of junction of the ramus with the tuber ischii; laterally it is defined by the line of the rami of the ischium and pubes on each side. After a time the definition may be less marked, owing to acute oedema of the subcutaneous tissue supervening. If the extravasation is allowed to proceed, the swelling passes up along the course of the sper- matic cord, to the lower part of the abdomen. It is of importance to notice the form and course of the swell- ing, as seen at the early stage, as that explains the site of the extra- vasated fluid, and indicates the measures necessary in the treat- ment. An examination of such cases shows that the urethra has given way behind the stricture, very generally just behind the bulb, and that the urine is extravasated below the triangular ligament, between it and the true superficial fascia of the perineum. The superficial fascia of the perineum, after passing over the muscles covering the bulb and crus penis, and the transverse muscles of the perineum, is reflected or passes deeply behind the last-men- tioned muscles, and becomes intimately united to the posterior margin of the triangular ligament. Laterally, as it ascends, it covers in the crus penis on each side, and immediately external to the crus it becomes firmly connected to the fascia covering the muscles of the thigh, which arise from the rami of the pubes and. ischium ; anteriorly, at the scrotum, it is continued as a part of the scrotal coverings, and thence along the chord to the lower part of the abdomen, where it can be traced as continuous with the fascia of Scarpa or deep layer of the superficial abdominal fascia. The anatomical arrangement of this fascia determines the position of the swelling caused by the effused fluid, and the course which that fluid takes. It will be at once seen that in the perineum the connections of the superficial fascia and its relation to the triangular liga- ment form a sac closed posteriorly and laterally, so that fluid effused between the triangular ligament and the superficial fascia cannot gravitate or pass back towards the anal or posterior region of the perineum, or laterally towards the thighs, but must neces- sarily pass forwards and upwards to the mouth of the pouch, whereREGIONAL SURGERY. 1334 the superficial perineal fascia becomes continuous with the cover- ings of the scrotum, in which direction it finds a ready vent into the loose cellular tissue under the coverings of the scrotum and penis. In cases where the urethra gives way a little in front of the bulb, besides the swelling described, a portion of the urine sometimes infiltrates the erectile spongy texture, causing gan- grene, which is indicated by the glans penis becoming black, or presenting black spots on its surface and in its substance. The condition thus indicated is one of great danger, and the prognosis most unfavourable. In the course of a very short time the swollen and distended parts become discoloured, at first of a dusky red, and then mottled with black patches, and the character of the swelling gradually alters. It becomes boggy and emphysematous, rather than tense, and the same condition extends over the abdomen, ascending gradually higher and higher unless interfered with. These local conditions speedily give rise to marked constitu- tional symptoms. The patient becomes feverish and excited, with a quick, sharp, or jerking pulse. The fever speedily assumes the irritative typhoid character. The tongue becomes dry, the skin is covered with profuse perspiration, and exhales a urinous odour, there are low muttering delirium, fumbling with the hands, cold clammy sweats, and finally, unless decided measures be resorted to at once, coma and collapse close the scene. When called to a patient suffering from extravasation of urine, the character of the swelling, in conjunction with the cir- cumstances accompanying, should leave no doubt as to the nature of the case ; and the treatment, to be effective, must be imme- diate and decided. No delay is warrantable, even though the constitutional symptoms may not have arisen; our object, in- deed, should be to prevent or diminish these. There is no use in wasting time in attempts to^ass the catheter; for even sup- posing you managed to get it into the bladder, it would do no good, for the contents of the bladder have been already extra- vasated amongst the tissues, and you must relieve that condition by free incisions.77?^^ TlifENT OF EXTRA VA SA TION. 1335 To evacuate the extravasated fluid and sloughs of cellular tissue destroyed by the action of the urine, you must make a free and deep incision in the middle line of the perineum, from behind the lowest part of the perineal swelling forwards to the root of the scrotum, and lateral incisions also in many cases. Incisions must also be made into the scrotum, coverings of the penis, and into the boggy swelling over the chord and abdomen. In a word, wherever the swelling indicates that the urine has infiltrated the tissues, there we must incise freely to permit it and the sloughs of gangrenous tissue to escape. The incision must be deep and long, so as to pass through the fascia, and any sloughing fascia or tissue should be pulled out or clipped away, as it is a source of irritation, and acts also as a mechanical barrier to the escape of the discharge. When acute oedema has supervened, it is especially necessary to be on your guard against being misled by the apparent depth of your incisions, or the escape of serous fluid. Through the long central incisions in the perineum you can introduce your finger and feel the bulb and other deep structures, if you have made the cut of sufficient depth. Punctures or small incisions, even if deep, are of no use. Part of the urine may escape in a fluid state, but the greater part is infiltrated into the cellular tissue, and incor- porated with it, and therefore free deep incisions are absolutely necessary for relieving this state of the parts. When the sloughs and fluids escape, and the swelling subsides, you will find what, in the tense state of parts, appeared formidable-looking incisions, become very moderate in their dimensions ; besides the absolute necessity for free apertures of exit, by pursuing this course we really save tissues which would otherwise infallibly slough and be lost. It is very seldom that any dangerous amount of bleeding follows the incision of the parts, but if any superficial vessels bleed smartly, it is necessary to tie them and cut off the ends ot the ligatures. The subsequent local treatment consists in apply- ing poultices with charcoal for some time, till the slougHs are fairly thrown off; afterwards, chlorinated-soda, and other lotions1336 REGIONAL SURGERY. are used, according to the appearance of the granulating surface. When the swelling is partially diminished by the incisions, we can introduce the grooved stricture-staff through the contracted urethra into the bladder, and use the central incision to reach the groove and divide the stricture, and then pass and retain a full-sized gum catheter in the bladder. The constitutional symptoms are most likely to be relieved, if not prevented, by the active local treatment. But if they have arisen before the patient has been seen by the medical at- tendant, then stimulants to keep up the strength, anodynes to allay the general irritative fever, and subsequently generous diet, form the chief indications. The other form of urinary extravasation which supervenes on neglected abscess in the perineum arises in a different manner from that which I have just described; and, accordingly, its symptoms are different and its progress less rapid, in consequence of the pathological changes which have preceded the extravasa- tion limiting it for a time. Owing to the presence of stricture or some other source of irritation in or near the urethra, deep- seated inflammation is set up in the perineum, and as a result an abscess or collection of pus forms either under the superficial fascia or between the layers of the triangular ligament. This is attended by deep-seated, brawny hardness in the perineum, accompanied by great pain and constitutional disturbance, acute oedema of the scrotum, and, in most instances, painful and diffi- cult micturition and pain and fulness about the anus. If these conditions be neglected, or if the surgeon waits for distinct fluc- tuation, the purulent matter, prevented from making its way to- wards the cutaneous surface, points and opens into the mucous canal of the urethra. In consequence of this ulceration, whilst part of the pus escapes by the urethra, urine passes into the cavity of the abscess, and excites increased action of an un- healthy character, constituting urinary abscess, and attended ■with the peculiar constitutional symptoms of urinary fever. For a time the effused urine and purulent matter are confined by the barrier resulting from the plastic exudation which has1337 FISTULA IN PERINEO. consolidated the tissues and formed the cyst of the abscess, and hence the fluid is not largely extravasated as in the ordinary form of infiltration of urine. Unless, however, free vent be given to the collection, the barrier soon yields before the pres- sure and destructive action of the acrid fluid, and then the fluid contents gradually infiltrate the surrounding parts, and lead to sloughing and unhealthy suppuration, undermining and de- stroying the deep as well as the superficial structures, and ultimately, though more slowly, the fatal results follow as in the former case, or the patient may die with the symptoms of a com- bination of pysemia and uraemia. The pathological condition indicates the proper treatment, namely, early incision in all cases of suspected suppuration in the perineum, without waiting for fluctuation. When the symptoms of deep inflammation in the perineum have been followed by escape of pus by the urethra, without much diminution of the perineal swelling, and with per- haps increased local and constitutional irritation, no time should be lost in making a deep incision into the perineum to afford vent to the confined fluids, and so prevent mischief Should the urine have made its way through the consolidated tissue form- ing the boundary cyst of the abscess, and become infiltrated, we must make incisions over its course, and apply poultices and fomentations, as in the usual form of extravasation of urine, to allay irritation and favour the escape of sloughs of dead tissue, whilst at the same time we support the patient's strength by stimulants and nutrient diet. When speaking of the various pathological conditions arising in consequence of i^rethral stricture and complicating the treat- ment, I mentioned Fistula in Peeineo, and stated how it origi- nated in abscess, and was kept up by the urine passing through the fistulous track so long as the contraction remained in front. Wlien this condition has continued for some time, the sinuses and the main fistulous canal connected with the opening in the urethra behind the stricture become much consolidated; and lined with a structure resembling mucous membrane. In many1338 REGIONAL SURGERY. cases the whole perineum and posterior part of the scrotum pre- sent fistulous openings converging at the main track, and all the surrounding textures are thickened and consolidated owing to plastic exudation. In such cases, the first and most important indication for treatment is to restore the natural passage by curing the stricture. When that is done, nature in many in- stances accomplishes the rest of the cure, the urine flows by the natural canal, and the sinuses gradually contract and heal. In some cases, however, where great induration and many tortuous sinuses have existed for a long time, we may require to lay them open to some extent, and use a stimulant application, or the actual or potential cautery, to destroy the lining membranes and callous tracks of the fistulpe. This is best effected by means of the heated wire, or a probe coated with nitrate of silver, or by injecting a solution of nitrate of silver along the track, and when there is much consolidation and brawny hardness of the peri- neum the application of a blister is of great service in promoting absorption of the plastic exudation, and stimulating the parts to a healthy action. We must, however, remember that fistula in perineo may depend on other causes than stricture, or be kept up by a state of parts which renders it much less amenable to treatment, or even incurable. In cases where abscess forms from any cause in Cowper's gland, even although it is opened early there is often a tendency to the formation of a troublesome urinary fis- tula. The short duct of the gland opening into the sinus of the bulb is involved in the diseased condition, and hence the ulcer- ation opens into the urethra, and urine dribbles through the abscess and, though there be no obstruction in front, keeps the external aperture from contracting, and this condition is very troublesome and tedious of cure. The best plan is to lay open the fistula and cavity of the abscess, and touch the interior with strong tincture of iodine or nitrate of silver, and let the wound granulate from the bottom, and after a time apply the heated wire to complete the cure. Some recommend that a gum catheter should be retained, or that the patient should beCGMPLICA TIONS. 1339 taught to use the catheter to draw off the contents of the bladder, so as to prevent the urine passing into the sinus ; but the irrita- tion produced by the catheterism is as bad as that induced by the dribbling of urine, besides, in such cases where there is no stricture, a part of the urine always passes by the sides of as well as through the catheter. In the cases in which I have tried catheterism, it has retarded rather than expedited the cure. In patients in whom, as a consequence of stricture, chronic abscess of the prostate gland has occurred in the form al- luded to when speaking of the morbid changes following bad strictures, the pus is often discharged by ulceration through the mucous membrane lining the prostatic portion of the nrethra, and consequently, when the patient makes water, part of the urine finds its way into the prostatic abscess, and leads to further suppuration, and fistulae opening in the perineum, through which foetid pus and urine find vent. For the cure of the contraction, dilatation or other treatment of the stricture is in such circum- stances indicated, but we can hardly expect it to cure the fistu- lous condition, depending as that does on the disorganised state of the prostate. I possess a specimen in my collection from a patient in whom a fistula in perineo existed for many years. The stric- ture was fully dilated and cured, but, though most of the urine passed by the natural passage, a small fistula remained open, which could never be healed. The preparation of the morbid parts shows the reason of its incurability to be the state of the prostate and prostatic portion of the urethra with which the sinus communicated. In the case of a young man recently under my care, who suffered from urinary fistula connected, not with stricture, but arising from a strumous abscess of the left side of the prostate, after having diagnosed the condition by ex- amination from the rectum, I divided the sinus by an incision resembling that for lithotomy, and laid the cavity in the left side of the prostate freely open. The incision contracted and healed, but a similar abscess formed on the right side of the prostate, and ulcerated into the rectum. Under treatment this also contracted, but never completely, and abscess of the testicle 4 sREGIONAL SURGERY. 1340 supervened. After long treatment the patient was dismissed relieved, but I can hardly say cured; indeed, the state of his general health was most unfavourable for any treatment. • _ In cases where great sloughing has followed extravasation of urine, it often happens that, whilst the gap caused by the separ- ation of sloughs contracts and heals to a wonderful extent, a small fistulous opening remains. You must be very careful in your prognosis as to the curability of such a fistula. It looks so trifling that you are apt to imagine that, by dilating the stric- ture and touching the fistulous opening with the heated wire, there will be no difficulty in obtaining a cure. But you must recollect what has occurred. All the deep textures and a por- tion of the urethral wall have been destroyed, and though, by the process of cicatrisation the skin has nearly closed, it merely covers in a cavity, in which, when you pass an instrument into the bladder and enlarge the opening in the perineum, you can for an inch, or even more, feel the catheter bare. Such a case may be pronounced incurable, for the only chance of a cure is by means of a plastic operation, and the condition of parts is very unfavourable for that. I have dwelt at length on the sub- ject of perineal fistula, because, whilst the general principle of treatment and the favourable prognosis in ordinary cases con- nected with stricture are in consonance with what I first stated, the exceptions are so important and so little adverted to, that I considered it essential to draw your attention to them. Eetention of Ueine in the Female, owing to the short and direct course of the urethra and its large calibre, is not of frequent occurrence ; but it occasionally arises from malposition of the womb, as in cases* of anteversion and retroversion of that organ, and from the pressure of firm polypi, fibrous tumours, or other growths projecting from the uterus into the vagina. I have met with complete retention, and enormous distension of the bladder, arising from accumulation of the menstrual discharge in a case of imperforate hymen. Eetention of urine may also occur during labour, if the attendants neglect to have the bladder emptiedCA THETERISM IN THE FEMALE. 1341 before the head of the infant descends so as to compress and alter the position of the urethra ; and it also sometimes results after tedious or difficult labours. Atony of the bladder from over-distension, or paralysis from disease of the nervous centres, may, as in the male, occasionally lead to retention, but compara- tively rarely, as the size and shortness of the passage allow the urine to flow off. Stricture of the female urethra is an exceed- ingly rare disease, but it is occasionally met with, and most generally arises from some local injury of the passage. The orifice is not unfrequently obstructed by caruncles or warty growths, and one peculiarly painful growth, situated at the orifice of the urethra, sometimes causes complete retention of urine from sympathetic irritation, and the excessive pain caused in micturition. The growth is prominent, often pedunculated, and has the appearance of a small raspberry. In most instances there is no difficulty in relieving retention of urine in the female by means of catheterism, but, except in cases of unusual character, no exposure is permissible, and hence the introduction of the instrument requires some tact. The direction usually given as the best to guide the instrument into the orifice of the urethra, and avoid the more patent orifice of the vagina, is to pass the finger from the vestibule backwards until the point of the finger feels the papillary swelling of the urethral orifice. In many cases where we require to use the catheter, as in women who have borne children, the urethral orifice almost lies within the dilated vagina. The surest plan in all cases is to place the forefinger of the left hand in the vagina behind the orifice of the urethra, and with the catheter carried on the forefinger of the right hand to guide the instrument into the orifice. The position of the left forefinger prevents the in- strument passing into the vagina, or, if it tends to do so, detects the error at once, and then, by guiding the catheter a little forwards, it almost certainly enters the proper canal, and is easily carried on towards the bladder. A short flattened silver catheter is generally used, and answers well enough. The ordi- nary gum-elastic male catherer, without the stilette, will, how-1342 REGIONAL SURGERY. ever, I think, generally be found more useful for all purposes ; it is easily introduced, adapts itself readily to any alteration in position or length of the canal, which may be caused by the pressure of tumours or the displaced uterus, and avoids the urine wetting the patient or bed-clothes, which is liable to occur when the short catheter is used; and, moreover, avoids still more surely all exposure of the patient. When retention arises from some special cause, that, of course, must be attended to, besides relieving the bladder with the catheter. Thus, in the case of retained menstrual discharge, the hymen must be divided by a small crucial incision; the opening dilated with the finger, the collected discharge evacu- ated, and the vagina washed out with tepid watery solution of carbolic acid, and an opiate given, as considerable irritation and even danger of metritis sometimes follows this simple operation. "When caruncles or the painful vascular wart-like growths are present, they must be removed by ligature, or the knife or scissors, and the cut surface touched with nitrate of silver. Polypoid tumours of the uterus must be removed if their cha- racter and attachments admit of that being done; and in cases of ante- or retro- version of the uterus, means must be taken to re- place and maintain the organ in its natural position. Should an organic stricture be found, it will be best treated by gradual dilatation, or by splitting it, as in Holt's operation in the male, and then the patency of the canal must be maintained by the occasional use of a bougie or catheter.LECTURE CXXVI. Urethritis—Gonorrhoea Virulenta ; its Progressive Syraptoms — Gleet—Eetro- cedent Stage—Complications—Prostatitis and Irritable Bladder—Inflam- mation of the Testicle—Treatment of Gonorrhcea and Gleet—Gonorrhoea in the Female—Constitutional or Secondary Efifects of Gonorrhoea Virulenta— Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia—Gonorrhoeal Warts—Gonorrhoea Prseputialis. Inflammation of the mucous lining of the urethra, attended with pain and irritation of the parts, and pain during micturition, accompanied by the discharge of viscid muco-purulent matter, may arise from various causes not venereal, such as direct local irritation, or from affections of other organs leading indirectly to irritation of the mucous membrane, constituting Urethritis or GoNORRHCEA SIMPLEX. The term gonorrhoea was originally applied to all urethral discharges, under the idea that the irritation led to over-secretion and discharge of altered seminal fluid ; and although this erroneous notion has long ago been exploded, the term from custom is still retained. The form of urethritis which we have to treat most fre- quently is an inflammation of a specific character, arising from the application of a virus to the mucous surface, and hence it is termed Gonorrhcea Virulenta, not on account of the virulence of the symptoms, but to distinguish it from the simple form, as arising from a special virus, and by the poison-power the dis- charge possesses of communicating a similar disease when ap- plied to a mucous surface. At one time gonorrhoea and syphilitic affections were all in- cluded under the one head of venereal diseases, a nosological arrangement which led to lamentable results in practice, from the treatment adopted, in consequence of the idea that these dis-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1344 eases were identical in nature. In the present day, and indeed for a long period back, I believe that no one holds or has held such a view. Some, however, have gone to the opposite ex- treme, and consider that there is no evidence of specific cha- racter in gonorrhoea: that the disease is simply to be regarded as discharge arising from inflammatory action, and possessing the same characters whether the inflammation be excited by some accidental local irritant or by impure sexual contact. Whilst I readily admit that any acrid discharge or other irritant of a non-venereal character applied to the urethra may excite all the acute symptoms of the inflammation and the purulent dis- charge, yet such an irritant will never produce certain specific symptoms which we meet with in many cases of gonorrhoea virulenta, and which are liable to occur in all, if proper treat- ment be not adopted. I allude especially to the peculiar lichenous eruption, and the acute or subacute forms of articular rheumatism, which frequently supervene during the retrocedent stage of the affection, and the gonorrhoeal, ophthalmia and otorrhcea, which occur when the discharge has ceased, or been suddenly arrested, and which cannot be accounted for on the supposition of direct application of the discharge to the part. Such constitutional affections never follow on simple urethritis, and the period at which and the manner in which they occur seem to me distinctly to indicate the specific character of gonor- rhoea virulenta. One reason why I have drawn your attention to this character of the disease is, that in gonorrhoea, as in most diseases arising from a specific virus or infection, we have it run- ning its peculiar course, and undergoing a series of natural changes, the observation of which may form indications for, or modify its treatment. Thus, from the period of accession, we find a gradual increase in the violence of the symptoms up to the eighth or tenth day, when it culminates; and from that period the violence of the pain and amount of the discharge diminish, and the character of the discharge alters. During the retrogres- sive stage, affections of some of the other organs connected withGONORRHCEA VIRULENTA. 1345 the urethra by function and continuity of mucous surface, such as Cowper's glands, the prostate and testicle, may and generally do supervene ; and, as I have already stated, it is at this period that the secondary or constitutional symptoms often show them- selves. I shall now proceed to describe, as briefly as I possibly can, the symptoms of a case of gonorrhoea virulenta. A period of incubation, varying from three to eight or ten days, seems generally to intervene between the receipt of the infection and the manifestation of the symptoms of the disease. Most generally about the sixth or seventh day the patient feels an un- easy irritable or itching sensation about the orifice and anterior part of the urethra, and on looking at the parts he observes that the lips of the orifice are red and swollen. When he passes water, the stream scatters, and micturition is followed by increased irri- tability of the passage. The irritable sensation soon changes to that of pain of a sharp burning character, and then there is noticed a purulent discharge, at first small in quantity, but which soon becomes profuse. The inflammatory swelling of the orifice is increased, and there is often swelling of the prepuce from acute oedema. The pain on micturition is now so intense and burning in its character, that the patient dreads to relieve the bladder, and in some cases the agony is excessive. The constitution sympathises, and there is always more or less fever and disturbance of other functions, while in some patients the symptomatic fever runs very high. Little hard masses and in- flamed absorbents can often be felt along the penis, and the absorbent glands in the groin are swollen and painful. The burning pain and profuse purulent discharge continue unabated for eight or ten days, and then the pain begins to be less severe, and micturition is not attended or followed by such intense suffering. Gradually the discharge becomes thinner and less in quantity, and in some instances it may become suddenly arrested. A new train of symptoms now develop themselves : the swelling and irritation near the orifice of the urethra disappear,REGIONAL SURGERY. 1346 but the patient begins to feel an uneasy irritable condition in the perineum, and then a feeling of weight and itching about the anus and lower part of the rectum. At night the patient is often awoke by a painful erection of the penis, the organ is tense from engorgement, and curved downwards, constituting the condition termed Chordee. The erection evidently depends upon irritation of the prostatic portion of the urethra, the reflex effect being excitement and erection of the penis, which, in the inflamed state of the mucous membrane, gives rise to in- tense pain by stretching still further the swollen and inflamed membrane. The pain on micturition is generally very slight after the first fifteen days, but the discharge may continue to be con- siderable in amount and of purulent character for a much longer period. In some instances it seems to disappear, and then, without any obvious cause, to re-appear. This is most usually observed in persons of delicate or lymphatic tem- perament, or in those who have had gonorrhoea previously. In such cases the painful symptoms are less marked, but the pro- gress of the disease is generally tedious, and most frequently ter- minates in gleet. By the term Gleet, strictly applied, we mean a thin viscid and clear fluid discharge from the urethra ; but the word is often made to include chronic thin purulent discharge in obsti- nate cases of gonorrhoea. There are few conditions more annoying to the patient and the surgeon than gleet. In many cases it baffles all our remedial measures, and often, when it has yielded to remedies, it re-appears whenever they are left off. Gleet seems to depend not only on the chronic inflammation of the mucous surface, but also apparently on an affection of the mucous follicles, increasing the discharge by over-secretion of thin mucus ; and occasionally these follicles, or Cowper's glands, suppurate and give rise to troublesome complications, such as urinary fistula. In cases where the patient has previously suffered from attacks of gonorrhoea, when gleet is very obstinate, it is advisable to1347 RETROCEDENT GONORRHCEA. examine the urethra with a bougie, as not unfrequently the irri- tation causing gleet is kept up by the presence of a stricture. "When gonorrhoea is passing off it becomes retrocedent. The prostatic portion of the urethra becomes affected, and if the patient, thinking himself better, is imprudent, or so reckless as to indulge in any debauchery, acute abscess of the prostate may occur. This is attended with intense pain, and weight in the perineum, congestion and protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum, like hemorrhoids, and sometimes the serious mistake is made of treating the hemorrhoidal swelling by ligature, as being the cause of the symptoms. More generally, as the dis- charge ceases, the patient becomes affected by swelling of the testicle—Oechitis, or Hernia Humoralis. He complains of pain in the loins like lumbago, becomes feverish and nauseated, and the urine is scanty and high coloured. By and by pains of an acute character shoot along the inguinal canal, then intense pain is felt in the epididymis and spermatic cord, and the testicle becomes greatly swollen, tense, and painful. As the swelling increases, acute cedema of the scrotum occurs, or more generally effusion of serum takes place into the tunica vaginalis, constituting acute hydrocele, and from the vessels thus relieving themselves the tension and pain in the testicle is diminished. "When under treatment resolution is effected, the swelling, tension, and pain gradually disappear, and the symptomatic fever passes off. In most cases, however, hardness of the epididymis remains for a long time, and in some cases continues throughout after-life. During the retrocedent stage of gonorrhoea, irritation of the bladder, of a very acute character, frequently supervenes, and is, I believe, often induced by the use of cubebs in large doses. There is considerable pain in the bladder, almost constant desii'e to pass urine, only very small quantities being passed at a time with great straining and severe smarting pain at the neck of the bladder. If this condition be not soon relieved by appropriate treatment, spasm and engorgement of the textures at the neck of the bladder and around the urethra speedily lead to complete1348 REGIONAL SURGERY. retention of urine, which, under the above-mentioned conditions, is attended with excessive suffering. The Treatment of gonorrhcea depends on the stage of the disease when we first see the patient, and also on the state of the constitution. In the very early stage of gonorrhoea it has been proposed to cut short the disease by injecting a strong solution of nitrate of silver into the urethra. This is what is termed the Ectrotic or Abortive treatment. The latter term, in one sense, designates it best, for it almost invariably faUs in effecting the purpose intended, and, from what I have seen of cases in which it had been tried, it frequently excites great irritation in the urethra, and leads to abscesses in the prostate, and lays the foundation of affections of the genito-urinary organs, which may ultimately destroy life by irritation and exhaustion. My limits forbid me entering on a consideration of the many plans of treatment or remedies recommended in this disease, and I shall therefore state briefly the method which, from expe- rience, I believe to be most generally suitable and efficacious. In the very early stage, when the discharge is just beginning, the bowels should first be cleared out by some bland laxative, such as a dose of castor oil, and then regulated by the use of bicarbonate of potash and rhubarb—drastic purgatives should never be given. The patient should be kept as quiet as circum- stances will permit, and the diet should be light and unstimulat- ing. Acetate of potash, in ten grain doses in camphor mixture, should be taken twice a-day, and hyoscyamus may be added if the pain be very great. The parts should be kept very clean, and bathed with some mild alkaline solution. A weak injec- tion of tannin, thrown into the urethra, may be used with advantage, but no stimulating injection should be used in this stage. The patient should drink freely of thin barley water or linseed tea, or the old-fashioned but useful remedy, five-grain doses of nitrate of potash, combined with powder of gum arable, dissolved in water. If he wishes to avoid taking such remediesTREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. 1349 lest lie incur suspicion, he may drink aerated potash, or seltzer waters. After the discharge has become thick and muco-purulent, we may begin the use of the specific remedies, such as cubebs or balsam of copaiva. In my own practice I generally begin by exhibiting the balsam of copaiva in doses of fifteen drops, thrice a- day, either by itself or in the form of emulsion, combined with tincture of hyoscyamus, liquor potassae, and some mucilage, afterwards the dose of the balsam may be increased, or it may be combined with cubebs and henbane into a paste, of which the patient takes a bolus thrice daily. In cases where the discharge continues longer than usual, or where the patient has had pre- vious attacks, a grain or two of tannin or powdered alum may be added to each dose of the paste. As to local applications, at first, acetate of lead lotion may be applied to bathe the glans penis, and to the inflamed orifice of the urethra, and subsequently in weak solution with acetate of morphia it maybe injected into the passage. In using this, or any other form of injection, the canal should first be washed out by injecting tepid water. Should pain and swelling of the inguinal glands occur, rest is absolutely necessary, together with the local application of acetate of lead lotion to the swollen glands. My experience is, that suppuration rarely occurs in such swollen glands in gonorrhoea, but these precautions are requisite to prevent the risk. If chordee super- venes, the use of an opiate suppository at bedtime, or an enema of iced water, and a camphor and hyoscyamus pill at night, are the best means of preventing this painful symptom. When an attack does occur, plunging the organ into cold water is the best means of affording temporary relief. When, during the retrocedent stage, symptoms of prostatitis and irritable bladder supervene, the use of cubebs and the balsamic remedies should be left off, and camphor and henbane, either in emulsion or in the form of pill, substituted, and the patient should drink freely of diluents; and after the bowels have been cleared out by a dose of castor oil, an opiate, enema, or suppository, should be administered. If the patient be youngREGIONAL SURGERY. 1350 and robust, and the symptoms acute, great relief will be experi- enced from the application of leeches to the verge of the anus. Of course, under these circumstances, the most absolute rest is necessary. The most troublesome stage, or rather consequence of gonorrhcea, is the chronic form of discharge termed gleet. It often baffles all remedies for a time, and runs its own course in spite of them. This condition is, I believe, most likely to be prevented by commencing the use of astringent and slightly stimulating injections when the discharge of gonorrhoea becomes thin, and the pain in micturition has nearly disappeared, and it is at this stage that I think the use of cubebs in moderate doses, along with eight or ten drops of the muriated tincture of iron, diffused in a large proportion of water, is most beneficial. At the same time the strictly antiphlogistic regimen, necessary in the acute stages of gonorrhoea, should be relaxed, and some wine allowed, at first in small quantity, but gradually in- creased unless it re-excite the pain. When gleet is fairly established, the remedies, local or constitutional, most generally useful are those of a tonic or stimulating character. Internally, the use of cubebs and iron, or of sulphate of zinc in doses of one or two grains twice a-day, combined with Chian turpentine, and extract of gentian, are what I find most serviceable. In some patients I have found sulphate of quinine act beneficially. Zinc and alum injections, and occasionally passing a bougie, are the local remedies in which I have the most confidence. Gonorrhoea in the female differs in some respects from the disease in the male, both in regard to its symptoms and treat- ment. In the female the disease may be, and often is, confined to the vagina, and as that passage has no necessary connection with the urethra, the symptoms are often only heat and pain in the vagina, and swelling of the vulva, followed by the purulent discharge, and unless the urethra becomes affected there is no heat or pain in micturition, nor any other affection of the urinary organs. When these organs, however, do become affected, then of course all the symptoms of urethral inflammation occur as in1351 SECONDARY AFFECTIONS. the male, and are even intensified. The conditions just alluded to modify the treatment. In vaginal gonorrhoea the treatment is almost entirely local, and consists in washing out the passage with mild alkaline lotions and then injecting solution of acetate of lead and opium, and applying lint soaked in the solution to the vulva, and when the more acute symptoms pass off, using zinc and alum injections to arrest the discharge. Eemedies such as balsam of copaiva or cubeb pepper, which are considered specifics in the male, exert no influence in the cure, as they act on the urinary organs, and do not affect the vagina. But they are required if the urethra becomes affected. In speaking of the general characters of gonorrhoea virulenta, I mentioned the secondary constitutional affections which often follow it—the lichenous eruptions and rheumatic symptoms. When these supervene, we should leave off the balsamic remedies and cubebs, and have recourse to small doses of the nitrate of potash, colchicum wine, and diaphoretics, and the occasional use of the alkaline warm bath, or the vapour bath in bed may be substituted, to avoid the risk of the patient being chilled after the bath. As the more acute symptoms pass off, the iodide of potassium may be given with advantage. One of the most serious affections following gonorrhoea is gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. It may arise from the patient inadver- tently touching the eye with the gonorrhoeal discharge; but it arises as a constitutional affection independently of such cause. The disease is characterised by extreme vascular congestion, and bright redness of the conjunctiva, the sub-conjunctival cellular tissue becomes infiltrated and swollen, leading rapidly to chemosis, infiltration, and swelling of the eyelids and puru- lent discharge. The cornea is very liable to suffer at an early period owing to the pressure and interference with its nutrition. It becomes opaque from effusion between its layers, and ulcera- tion or sloughing may result. The treatment reqmres to be very active. The chemosed conjunctiva should be snipped to allow the infiltration to escape, and to relieve the congested vessels ; the swollen conjunctiva of the eyelids should be snipped or1352 REGIONAL SURGERY. scarified for the sanie purpose, and the conjunctival surface painted over vi^ith a solution of nitrate of silver, or a strong solution of alum ; leeches should be applied to the temples and a blister behind the ear, and strict antiphlogistic regimen enforced. In milder forms, the solution of nitrate of silver or alum to the conjunctiva to arrest the purulent discharge, combined with the use of saline purgatives, is in general sufficient to relieve it. When the sclerotic coat of the eye or the iris becomes affected, the use of calomel and opium, and the local application of bella- donna or atropine, must be used in addition to antiphlogistic re- medies, on the general principles of treating sclerotitis and iritis. The irritation caused by the gonorrheal discharge sometimes leads to the formation of warts on the prepuce and glans penis. I believe that attention to cleanliness, and washing the parts fre- quently with some mild alkaline lotion, wiU do much to prevent such formations. They occur, indeed, in their most exaggerated form, in females, in whom, from the constant discharge lodging on the nymphae and vulva, and passing back from the vagina, we frequently find enormous masses of warts occupying the peri- neum and around the orifice of the anus. In the early stage of these warty excrescences, the application of nitrate of silver, strong acetic or chromic acid, is sufficient to destroy them, and if alkaline lotions be subsequently used, their extension will be prevented. When large, pendulous, and prominent, they must be clipped off, and the cut surface, and any incipient vegetations, touched with nitrate of silver. We occasionally meet with a discharge of purulent matter from the lining membrane of the prepuce, and the surface of the glans penis—Gonoerhcea Pr^putialis. The prepuce is swollen, oedematous, and painful, and the discharge is of a greenish- yellow colour, and has a peculiarly offensive odour. The se- baceous secretion seems to be altered in character, and increased. There is no pain on micturition, but considerable tenderness of the glans penis. The treatment required is purely local. Alka- line washes should be injected between the glans and prepuce,GONORUHCEA PR^PUTIALIS. 1353 or, if the latter can be drawn back, applied directly to the parts ; the affected surfaces should then be painted over with a solution of nitrate of silver. These measures generally serve to arrest the discharge and effect a cure ; or if the discharge continues it is less offensive, and the use of sulphate of zinc and alum lotion are sufficient to complete the cure. In cases where the prepuce is inflamed, swollen, and oedematous, the acetate of lead and opium lotions should be applied to the part to allay the swelling, and the alkaline and astringent lotions injected beneath the prepuce to arrest the discharge. Beyond antiphlogistic regimen, no con- stitutional treatment is required.LECTUEE CXXVII. Phymosis and Paraphymosis : Treatment—Orchitis or Inflamed Testicle : Treat, ment — Hydrocele : Diagnosis and Treatment ; Operation — Haematocele : Difficulties in Diagnosis ; Treatment—Cirsocele and Varicocele ; Diagnosis and Treatment—Tumours of Testicle—Castration : Steps of the Operation and points to be specially attended to. During fhe progress of gonorrhoea the irritation caused by the disease may induce tlie affections of the prepuce, termed phymosis and paraphymosis; but as these conditions arise also from other causes, we may as well consider them in their general character. The condition termed Phymosis consists in the prepuce being elongated, closing in the glans penis, its orrfice being contracted and thickened, so that it cannot be drawn back to uncover the glans. Phj'mosis frequently occurs in children as a congenital condition, and is, ex- cept under some accidental circum- stances, unattended by swelling or inflammation. But when it super- venes on gonorrhoea or syphilis, the prepuce is swollen, hard, and its margin slightly oedematous. In such circumstances, by the use of acetate of lead lotion, and injecting tepid water beneath the prepuce,the swelling diminishes, and the glans penis can be exposed. If this condition, however, has been permitted to exist till consolidation of the inflammatory swelling has taken place, the discharge is apt to collect beneath the pre- puce, and give rise to abrasion of the opposed surfaces, and partial adhesion may take place between the glans and liningPHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 1355 membrane of the prepuce, or the foreskin may ulcerate or slough. When we are called to a patient under such circumstances, we must sKt up the foreskin to such an extent as to be able to uncover the glans. To effect this, we take an ordinary director, pass it between the glans and prepuce as far up as the reflection of the lining membrane, bring the director close to the side of the frai- num, then carry a sharp-pointed, curved bistoury along the groove of the director, transfix the skin at the point of reflection, and slit the prepuce freely open. In many cases, when this is done, it will be found advantageous to clip off the thickened and altered foreskin, so as to effect complete circumcision. A few stitches may require to be inserted to diminish the cut surface. In cases of congenital phymosis, circumcision should always be performed. This is sometimes done by pressing back the glans penis, and then seizing the anterior part of the foreskin be- tween the blades of a pair of dressing forceps, and clipping off the projecting part of the prepuce ; but this method is very im- perfect, the skin and lining membrane of the prepuce are very loosely connected, and the latter is closely applied, almost adhe- rent to the surface of the glans ; hence, when the projecting por- tion of the foreskin is cut off, you must slit up the lining mem- brane, and cut it off subsequently. It is better to proceed in the manner described in the case of acute phymosis ; that is, to slit up the prepuce to the point of reflexion, and then clip it off with scissors. In this case, however, we must recollect that it is essen- tial to stitch the cut edges of the skin and lining membrane, to prevent their separation. Ice or iced water dressing should be applied to prevent oozing, and the cut margins of the prepuce protected by the application of a little oil when the patient passes water. PARAPHYMOSIS consists in retraction of the prepuce, which becomes swollen. The sharp and unyielding cutaneous margin becomes tight, and constricts the penis behind the glans.' The mucous lining is swollen and oedematous, in consequence of 4 TREGIONAL SURGERY. 1356 infiltration of the loose submucous tissue. When we examine the part we find two swellings with a deep narrow sulcus be- tween them. In front there is the swelling caused by the mucous lining of the prepuce and the glans penis ; posteriorly, the swollen and inflamed integument of the prepuce; and on separating the swellings we perceive at the bottom of the intervening sulcus the tight constriction caused by the un- yielding margin of the prepuce. In the treatment of paraphy- mosis we must remember that, unless the condition be relieved, strangulation of the constricted parts will be the result, and sloughing not only of the prepuce, but even of the glans penis, may occur. We must therefore be prompt in our measures of relief If called to the patient in the early stage ; by punctur- ing the oedematous swelling in front, and by compressing the glans penis with one hand whilst we draw forward the prepuce with the other, we often succeed in removing the malposition of parts. But if there is any difficulty, the operation required for paraphymosis is so simple and so slight that we should have recourse to it at once. The operation consists in separating the two swellings, so as to expose the constriction at the bottom of the sulcus, and then with the point of a tenotomy knife or narrow bistoury notching the constricting ring deeply at two or three points of its circumference ; this at once relieves the con- striction, and the prepuce is easily replaced, and when this is accomplished, the marks of the knife can scarcely be perceived. The so-called operation is really less painful and less likely to injure the parts than attempts at reduction by pulHng forcibly on the prepuce. Cold-water dressing, to allay excited action, is all the after-treatment which is required. Inflammatory swelling of the testicle—Orchitis, or Hernia Humoralis, as it is sometimes termed—arises from various causes, but perhaps more frequently during retrocedent gonor-1357 ORCHITIS: TREA TMENT. rhoea ttan from any other. I have already described the mode of invasion and character of its symptoms when it results from gonorrhoea, and as these are the same from whatever cause the disease arises, I need not repeat them here, but shall simply state the treatment most suitable for its cure. The plan of treatment most generally useful is to deplete at the first by opening one or two of the small scrotal veins, and im- mersing the testicle in moderately warm water to encourage the bleeding, which is afterwards arrested by a bit of adhesive plaster, and the patient is made to remain in the recumbent posture, with the scrotum supported on a cushion, while lint dipped in slightly tepid anodyne lead lotion is applied over it. The bowels should be kept gently open, and the diet should be strictly antiphlogistic. If the disease occur during retrocedent gonorrhoea, all specific remedies should be abandoned, and cam- phor mixture, aerated potash water, and other diluents substi- tuted for them. In many cases effusion takes place into the tunica vaginalis, constituting acute hydrocele, and great relief is given by punc- turing the distended sac, and so relieving tension. In some cases I have made small incisions into the swollen testis, with great relief, and without any bad after effects ; but I have not carried out the practice, as I am impressed with the belief that the risk of exciting irritation more than counterbalances the relief which the incisions afford at the time. In many instances, if we see the case at the commencement, compression of the testicle by me- thodical application of adhesive strapping will often prevent the accession of swelling, and cure the disease; and, in all cases, the strapping applied after the painful symptoms are subdued, is Fig. 44.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1358 useful in obtaining tlie speedy absorption of interstitial exuda- tion, and so preventing permanent organic change in the gland or epididymis; and for the same purpose I think it is generally ad- visable to give a few doses of grey powder, or one-grain pills of the green iodide of mercury, during the progress of the treat- ment. If any hardness of the epididymis continues, a little iodine or camphor and mercurial liniment may be applied, rubbed in over the swelling. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis consists of a collection of serous fluid within the cavity of that sac. The scrotum gra- dually becomes distended, and the swelling passes up in front of the spermatic cord towards the external abdominal ring. The collection of fluid forms a tumour, generally of a pyriform sliape, perfectly smooth on the surface, and unattended by any painful symptoms except the dragging sensation caused by its weight and bulk. The history of the disease is that of slow gradual increase from below upwards. The testicle can be felt at first at the posterior part of the swelling, but its relation is lost as the fluid collects and overlaps it. The disease may follow some injury or irritation of the genito-urinary organs ; but, for the most part, no distinct cause can be assigned for its origin. It is a disease of common occur- rence in all countries, but is especially frequent in warm climates. The diagnostics of hydrocele are—its form, and the manner in which the swelling takes place, its weight as compared with solid tumours, the feeling of tense fluctuation, and the transpa- rency of the swelling when we examine it by transmitted light, by which last test we at once satisfy ourselves of the nature of the contents of the swelling, and see the relative position of the cord and testicle. When speaking of the diagnosis of scrotal hernia, I have already fully described the differential diagnosis of these two diseases, and need not repeat it here. It may, however, be mis- taken for other tumours of the scrotum, or other swellings may be mistaken for it, more especially medullary tumours, whichHYDROCELE-.'DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 1359 have a feeling of elasticity not unlike fluctuation. Sucli tumours, of course, are not transparent when the light test is used; but then, in some instances, hydrocele, owing to the density of the tunica vaginalis, is also opaque ; and unless care be taken, in applying the light test, to keep the ulnar side of the hand closely applied to the scrotum, the reflected light of the taper on the convex surface of the swelling may be mistaken for transpa- rency. As a general rule, however, the diagnosis is not difficult, if we take all the circumstances of the case into account. In young children, and even in other cases when the hydrocele passes high in front of the cord, it is advisable to place the patient recumbent, and try whether the fluid can be pressed back into the abdomen, as it occasionally happens that a narrow canal of communication with the peritoneal sac continues pervious; and this would alter our mode of treatment. The fluid in hydrocele is of a pale straw colour, and fre- quently we observe sparkling or oily-looking particles floating in it; this is cholestrine. In some cases having all the ordinary symptoms of hydrocele, the fluid drawn off is colourless and slightly opalescent, and, on examination with the microscope, we find spermatozoa in it. This constitutes what is termed Sipcr- matoccle. In its general symptoms it in no respect differs from hydrocele, except that it seldom attains so large a size, and the treatment is the same in both forms of disease. The Treatment is either palliative or radical. The former consists in tapping the distended sac with a trocar and canula, and drawing off the fluid from time to time, so as to alleviate the dragging and uneasy feelings produced by the swelling. This is done in cases where, from the state of the testicle, or owing to a communication with the peritoneal sac still remaining open, the radical cure is unadvisable. The radical cure is best effected by tapping the sac, as in the palliative method, and, when all the serous fluid is evacuated, injecting two or three drachms of strong tincture of iodine, shaking the scrotum so as to bring the iodine in contact with all parts of the affected serous surface, to create excited action. The part becomes in some1360 REGIONAL SURGERY. hours as much swollen as before the procedure, but the swelling is inflammatory, and a change of action in the serous sac is induced, which prevents re-accumulation of the fluid. It was formerly supposed that adhesive inflammation and obliteration of the sac followed the injection of irritating fluids; but where opportunities have occurred of examining the parts in patients who had undergone the operation, adhesions of the opposed serous surfaces have seldom been found to be extensive, and frequently none exist, so that we must account for the cure by supposing some change of action to be induced by the stimula- tion of the membranes. In cases where the ordinary method fails, which it does occasionally, then we must resort to the old operation of laying open the sac freely, removing a portion of it, and dressing the exposed surface with slips of lint soaked in some stimulating lotion, and allowing the remains of the sac to granulate and consolidate. The Operation for the cure of hydrocele is very simple. The instruments required are a small trocar and canula, and a small graduated glass syringe, with a brass nozzle to fit the canula, for the purpose of injecting the tincture of iodine. The scrotum is kept tense, and the position of the testicle ascertained. The sur-HyEMA TOCELE. ^ 13G1 geon then plunges the trocar perpendicularly (a) through the scrotal coverings, at the most prominent part, till he feels it enter the sac, then he changes its direction, and makes it pass obliquely upwards, to avoid injuring the testicle {b, Figs. 45 and 46). When the sac is fairly emptied of fluid, the iodine is injected, and the syringe and canula withdrawn at the same time. The patient should then be placed in bed, with the scrotum supported. Should the inflammatory swelling be slow of disappearing, stimulant evaporating lotions should be applied to hasten its discussion. HEMATOCELE, as the name implies, is a collection of blood or bloody fluid. It may arise from an injury rupturing or penetrating the tunica vaginalis, and blood distending its cavity; but true haematocele in the scrotum generally results from slow changes taking place in a hydrocele. The tunica vaginalis becomes re- markably altered in structure, greatly thickened, and of fibrous or even fibro-cartilaginous consistence, and occasionally loaded with earthy deposit, or ossified, as it is termed. The interior surface is also altered, congested, and flocculent; and, in general, a mass of fibrine or decoloixrised clot is found at the lower part of the cavity. The fluid contents, in case of true chronic haema- tocele, are usually of a dark-brown colour like porter, and, as in the case of hydrocele, cholestrine is usually found in the fluid. The diagnosis of hsematocele is not so easy as that of hydrocele, for in hsematocele we have no translucency, whilst the weight and the doughy, or even hard feeling, communicated by the coagulum which forms part of its contents, render more difficult the distinc- tion between it and tumours of the testicle. We must trust, therefore, more to the history of the case and the general aspect of the patient than to the local conditions by themselves, to guide us aright. Fortunately, the treatment which requires to be adopted in heematocele enables us to make sure of the true nature of the disease ; and, should the swelling prove to be a tumour of a more serious character, we can then proceed to re- move it at once. The Treatment of hsematocele consists in making a free inci-REGIONAL SURGERY. 13G2 sion into the tunica vaginalis, evacuating its contents, and then removing as much of the anterior and lateral walls of the sac as we can without injury to the testis and cord ; and, if the scrotum is much distended, a portion of it may also be removed with advantage. After all bleeding vessels have been secured, the surface of the portion of the sac which has been left is brushed over with a solution of perchloride of iron, or spirit of turpen- tine, and slips of lint or charpie laid lightly in the cavity. Sub- sequently, as suppuration and granulation proceed, the dressings must be conducted on the general principles applicable to all granulating surfaces. In those cases where the tunica vagi- nalis is ossified or cartilaginous, the testicle is compressed and atrophied, and so connected with the altered texture that its function is destroyed. In such cases, the best plan of treat- ment is to remove the whole mass, along with a portion of the scrotum, by castration. In cases where a large part of the con- tents of the sac is fluid, you might be tempted to draw it off, but such a procedure is almost invariably followed by decompo- sition and putrescence of the remaining semi-solid contents of the sac, exhalation of foetid gases, and formation of purulent matter, the presence and confinement of which give rise to intense irrita- tive fever. "When such practice has been adopted, and these con- ditions supervene, no time should be lost in laying the cavity freely open, washing it out with Condy's fluid, and subsequently with carbolic lotion, and applying charcoal poultices over the parts; at the same time using the general treatment necessary to allay the constitutional irritation. The disease termed Cirsocele is varix of the spermatic veins. Varicocele is also sometimes used to denote that condi- tion, as well as a general varicose state of the scrotal veins. There shoiild seldom be any difficulty in arriving at a correct diagnosis of this affection. The tortuous distorted veins, and their relation to the cord and testicle, are in general sufficiently obvious, whilst the feeling they communicate to the fingers when grasped, and impulse given to the blood contained in themCIRSOCELE AND VARICOCELE. ' 1363 when the patient coughs, are so peculiar as scarcely to be mis- taken. I have already discussed the diagnosis between this disease and scrotal hernia, and pointed out that the diagnostic chiefly to be trusted is, that if after reduction of the swelling, when the patient is recumbent, pressure be made over the in- guinal ring, and he then assumes the erect position, in the case of a cirsocele the varicose veins will rapidly become tense, whilst a hernia would be retained by the pressure of the fingers. Cirso- cele is generally met with in young men, and frequently causes great mental anxiety and depression, in consequence of the idea that it may lead to impotence. It is possible that very great distension of the veins, long continued, may give rise to condi- tions leading to atrophy of the gland ; but though the disease is very common, such a result is so rare as scarcely to be con- sidered as a probable one ; and, moreover, we not unfrequently find, that without any treatment the condition passes off as a patient grows iip. In many cases, by allaying sources of irrita- tion in the genital organs, we effect a gradual cure with scarcely any local treatment. As a general rule, I am very averse to advise any treatment beyond cold bathing to the genital organs, and the use of a light suspensory bandage ; but, in some cases, where the enlargement of veins was very great, and gave rise to great pain in the testicle, I have used acupressure to the veins principally affected, with advantage, and in several complete cure has followed. In other cases, where the skin of the scrotum was much relaxed, I have removed a portion of the scrotal integu- ments, and the subsequent contraction has afforded considerable relief, although in some instances only for a time. The class of cases to which the back lever vein truss is applicable are those where, from some obstruction to the venous circulation within the abdomen, the column of blood from above presses down upon and distends the veins of the cord and scrotum ; and the action of the truss is intended not to interrupt but to modify the circu- lation. A strong suspensory bandage should always be worn at the same time. In ordinary cases of cirsocele the truss would be hurtful. Whilst I mention the treatment which some specialREGIONAL SURGERY. 1364 cases may require, I repeat, that in the great majority of cases of cirsocele, all tliat is generally required or warrantable is, to use means to allay all sources of excitement and any irritation in the urethra, to use cold bathing to the genital organs morning and evening, and to support the scrotum by a well-made suspen- sory bandage. The Testicle is frequently the subject of tumour-growth, both of the simple and malignant forms. Unfortunately the latter are the most common. The simple growths affecting the testis are—simple sarcoma, filrous and fihro-cystic tumours. The malignant are generally of the medullary form, either ordinary cerebriform or vasctdar medullary sarcoma, fungus hcematodcs. Scirrhus, so common in the female breast, is exceedingly rare in the testicle. These diseased conditions of the testicle are distinguished by the same general vital manifestations and local appearances which I described when speaking of tumour growth ; and by attending to these we are able to diagnose the nature of each case, and to adopt the appropriate treatment. To describe each different form of tumour of the testicle would be to repeat what has already been discussed in the earlier part of the course. In all true tumours of the testicle, whether simple or malignant, removal of the tumour by castration is necessitated. In the case of malignant growths we must make sure that the cord is healthy, at a point where we can divide it, and that the inguinal glands are not affected by the disease. If there be nothing to contra-indicate the operation, Cas- TKATlON is performed as follows :—The groin and scrotum having been previously shaved, the operator grasps and slightly raises the diseased testicle with his left hand, and renders tense its scrotal coverings. He then commences his inci- sion through the integuments over the cord, a little above the external abdominal ring, and carries it down to the upper part of the tumour, where he makes it diverge first toCASTRATION. 1365 one side and then to the other, so as to mark out for removal a large elliptical portion of the scrotal integuments. These inci- sions should be carried deeply through the coverings to the tumour. The surgeon next clears the cord at the upper part of his incision, and cuts through the fibres of the cremaster, and separates the cord thoroughly, so that his assistant can grasp it firmly between his finger and thumb, above the point where it is to be divided. By taking these precautions, there is no fear of the cord being retracted or slipping. Of late I have in several instances secured the vessels of the cord, and prevented retrac- tion, by passing an acupressure needle beneath the vessels, and compressing them with the wire loop. When the cord is thus secured, the operator divides it, and then, unless any unusual adhesions exist, the testicle, along with the elliptical portion of integument marked out by the incisions, is turned out by a few touches of the knife ; indeed, the loose connections of the tumour to the scrotum scarcely require the use of the knife after division of the cord. To commence by dissecting the tes- ticle from the scrotum before dividing the cord is to prolong the operation unnecessarily. If acupressure of the cord has been adopted, then the only vessels which require ligature will be the large branch of the inguino-pudic artery, which will be readily found at the vTpper and outer part of the scrotal incision, and the numerous scrotal twigs of the superficial perineal artery at the lower part of the scrotum. The parts should be thoroughly cleansed by pouring first tepid and then cold water over the open wound, which should afterwards be brushed over with spirit of turpentine, to arrest all oozing, and act as an antiseptic. The margins are united by points of suture, the lowest sutures being left untwisted for a few hours to allow any oozing of blood to escape. The patient is then placed in bed, with the thighs slightly separated, and the scrotum supported on a pillow formed of tow or oakum, covered with gutta-percha tissue. A piece gutta-percha tissue is also laid over the wound, and an iee-bag applied over it, and frequently changed. This application of dryREGIONAL SURGERY. 1366 cold I use in all cases of excision of tumours, and find that it obviates oozing of blood, and keeps the local action within due bounds. It must of course be watched as to its effects, for in some instances it may prove too depressing, and interfere with union. Eemoval of a very large tumour of the testicle can be effected easily by a single longitudinal incision of the scrotum ; but it is always, I think, advisable to remove a very considerable portion of integument, to diminish the cut surface left, the number of vessels requiring to be secured, and the risk of re- actionary oozing of blood, whilst the removal of the loose skin also facilitates primary union. Besides tumours of the testicle, properly so called, we meet frequently with simple chronic enlargement of the gland, which in general yields more or less readily to strapping with adhesive plaster, or friction with mercurial and camphor liniment, or iodine liniment, combined with the use of internal deobstruent medicines, such as iodine, or a mild course of mercury. In some instances the swelling is obstinate, and proves a source of annoyance to the patient, and then castration may be war- rantable, but not until a fair trial has been given to other means.LECTURE CXXVIII. Syphilitic Hydro-Sarcocele : Dangers of Operation in such Cases—Scrofulous Testicle—Sinuses and Abscesses—Fungoid Scrofulous Testicle ; its True Nature : Methods of Treatment—Irritable or Neuralgic Testicle—Elephanti- asis Scroti: Operations for its Removal—Soot-Wart, or Chimney-Sweep's Cancer : Treatment—Epithelioma of Prepuce and Penis—Amputation of the Penis—Diseases of Genito-Urinary Organs in the Female—Ovarian Disease— Ovariotomy—Vesico-Vaginal Fistula, and Operation for its Cure—Suture of the Female Perineum. In cases of patients affected with tertiary syphilis, we not unfre- quently meet with a hard indolent enlargement of the testicle, combined with hydrocele—Syphilitic Hydko-Sarcocele. This condition is one in which you must be very cautious in having recourse to removal of the testicle, when the disease occurs in a cachectic person, or one past middle life. In such cases I have seen a low unhealthy form of gangrenous erysipelas attack the wound, and diffuse infiltration take place along the cord, and lead to fatal results. Puncture of the hydrocele and injec- tion with iodine do good, if assisted by internal remedies but removal of the testicle under the peculiar state of the constitution I consider to be hardly warrantable. In scrofulous patients subacute orchitis frequently terminates in suppuration in the substance of the gland, and gives rise either to extensive sinuses and small suppurating cavities in the gland, or to a larger ulceration of the tunica albuginea and scrotal coverings at some point, followed by the protrusion of a fungus of very formidable appearance. This latter condition is termed the ScKOFULous Fungoid Testicle. The treatment of sinuses in the substance of the testis con-1368 REGIONAL SURGERY. sists in dilating tlieir external orifices freely, and injecting a little tincture of iodine along their track, and then compressing the testicle by adhesive strapping. In cases where this fails to effect its object, we must fairly slit up the sinuses, and treat them as ordinary sinuses. When the gland is traversed by sinuses in all directions, with small depots of unhealthy pus in its substance, the function of the organ is destroyed, and the least painful and most effectual treatment is removal, and this should be done before the gland becomes largely adherent to the scrotum, as the operation then becomes much more difficult and tedious. At one time the fungoid testicle was looked upon as a malig- nant disease, and castration was resorted to for its removal. Sir William Lawrence pointed out that the disease was quite differ- ent in character from malignant fungus, and that by shaving off the more prominent part, and applying some mild escharotic or stimulant astringent wash, the skin would heal over it, and that, therefore, castration was not required. Following out a sug- gestion of Professor Goodsir's, who found that the protruded part contained the healthy tubular structure, merely separated by in- terstitial deposit of lymph, the late Professor Syme proposed to save the protrusion by dissecting the surrounding integuments of the scrotum, and bringing them over the fungus. The pressure of the integuments, and the excitement following the operation, led to gradual absorption of the interstitial deposit, and the gland was thus saved. I have frequently performed this operation, and always with success, so far as repression of the fungus was con- cerned ; but in several cases the gland saved soon became so atrophied, that I should doubt if its functions were retained. Still, in many instances, it does succeed perfectly, and is in all cases preferable to castration. But in cases where the patient is very weak, or where there is a syphilitic taint, hereditary or acquired, I would advise the method proposed by Sir William Lawrence as preferable to the more severe operation, as in such circumstances the dissected scrotal integument is apt to be affected by un- healthy action, instead of uniting over the protrusion.IRRITABLE TESTICLE—ELEPHANTIASIS SCROTI 1369 Neuralgia of the Testicle, or Irritable Testicle, is an excessively painful affection, but scarcely admits of surgical treat- ment. Castration has occasionally been had recourse to as a last resource, when the intensity of the suffering was unbearable, but the remedy is hardly warrantable, for 4;he relief is only tempor- ar}^ The divided cord becomes the seat of neuralgic pains, or the opposite testicle is soon affected ; and in some few cases, where the painful symptoms were cured, the patients, forgetting their former sufferings, have reflected on the surgeon for yielding to their importunities for relief and removing the testicle. The remedies most generally useful as palliatives are the application of blisters over the lumbo-sacral region, the cold douche to the spine, and cold baths to the genital organs, together with proper constitutional treatment by means of chalybeates and quinine, and taking great care to prevent accumulation of fseculent matter in the large intestine. In some cases marked benefit follows the use of Lallemand's cautery applied to the prostatic portion of the nrethra. Hypertrophy or Elephantiasis of the Scrotum, though of rare occurrence in this country, is occasionally met with, and in warm climates the affection is not uncommon. The whole integuments of the scrotum are swollen, thickened, and altered in structure, so as to form an enormous tumour, in which the penis and testicles are deeply imbedded, the integuments of the prepuce, hypertrophied and covered with indurated excres- cences, alone remaining visible, as shown in the woodcut on the following page. In such cases the only remedy is removal of the whole tumour, which, as it is a simple hypertrophy, lias no tendency to return. Such operations are attended with great risk from the immediate loss of blood, and therefore, except when the tumour is comparatively small, it is scarcely admissible to attempt any dissection for the purpose of saving the genital organs, but to proceed more summarily to complete ablation of the mass by a stroke of the long amputating knife. To obviate1370 REGIONAL SURGERY. or diminisli haemorrliage during tlie section, the method usually- adopted, is to suspend the tumour above the height of the body for some time before the oper- ation, so as to empty the large veins, and then the direct con- trol of the hemorrhage during the operation is best effected by the plan recommended by Professor Fayrer of Calcutta— namely, to carry a stout cord round the neck of the mass, and both ends having been passed through a strong steel ring, about the size of a small curtain ring, strangulation of the pedicle is effected by two assistants drawing on the ends of the cord in opposite direc- tions. Or a large stout needle in a fixed handle, and blunt except at the point, and with an eye near the point of suf- ficient size to admit a strong whip-cord, may be thrust through the narrowest part or neck of the tumour. The cord is thus carried through, the loop divided, and each half used to strangulate firmly one division of the neck of the growth, which is then cut off by the amputating knife. When the mass is removed, the open mouths of the vessels in the pedicle may either be secured separately, and the compressing cord removed, or if there be only slight oozing from the pedicle, the cords may be tied firmly and allowed to remain as ligatures. In cases where the tumour of the scrotum is of moderate size, and the integuments sufficiently soft to enable us to recognise the position of the testicle and penis; by careful dis- section at the upper part of the swelling, we may clear and isolate these organs so as to save them and a portion of integument, butCHIMNEY-SWEEPERS CANCER. 1371 even when the skin is so affected as to enable us to save but little, if any, it is wonderful how these organs become covered in by borrowing from the loose integuments of the ab- domen and perineum. Delp^che, in his Clinique Chirurgicale, has given the de- tails of a case of elephantiasis of the scrotum in which, by plan- ing his incisions, he obtained a covering for the parts at the time he removed the tumour; but in such prolonged and complicated dissections amongst hypertrophied and vascular tissues, the risk of the patient sinking from loss of blood is so great that it is better to take the more rapid methods of procedure. Before pro- ceeding to the removal of the diseased mass, careful examination should be made to ascertain that there is no hernial protrusion on either side, as that condition has been found present, and if it be, the steps of the operation must be conducted with great care, and in some cases a large scrotal hernia might contra-indicate the operation. The scrotal integuments are sometimes attacked by epithelial cancer. The parts present the usual appearances of that disease, and must be removed by the knife before the neighbouring lymphatic glands become affected. In operating, the integu- ments should be removed wide of the diseased part, and very little anxiety need be experienced as to there being sufficient covering left. In one case I removed almost the whole of the scrotal integuments, so that at the time it was impossible to cover in the testicles, yet in less than six weeks the wound was completely cicatrised without any apparent deformity; at all events, we must remove the disease thoroughly if we interfere at all. There is a peculiar form of epithelial cancer of the scrotum in which the disease seems to arise from the effects of a direct local irritant. I allude to what is termed Chimney-Sweeper's Cancer, or Soot-Wart, It is said by some that this is a peculiarly malignant form of disease, and it is quite true that if it be allowed to go on until the inguinal glands become affected and ulcerated, and till the ulceration extends A u1372 REGIONAL SURGERY. to the abdominal parietes, the local irritation soon destroys the patient. But from what I have seen of the disease, I believe that, like most cancroid affections arising distinctly from a local cause, if it be removed early there is not much tendency to recurrence, if the original exciting causes be guarded against; and I have seen enlarged glands disappear after the removal of the diseased integuments, showing that they had Whatever difference of opinion may exist as to the extreme malignancy of the disease, there is none as to the treatment. Early and complete removal of the diseased part of the scrotum is clearly indicated. When ulceration has taken place and extended, or is extend- ing, towards the groin, the free application of chloride of zinc is the most efficacious remedy if the parts cannot be excised. For my own part, even in cases such as that represented in Fig. 48,1 would advise excision of all the fungating margins and sur- rounding skin, and removal of the testes if affected, before apply- ing the chloride of zinc, rather than trust to that remedy alone. I would do so even although there were enlarged glands in the groin; and from what I have seen I would not despair of success in arresting the ulceration, for I have great belief in the doctrine that cancroid disease, arising from a local cause, is seldom truly malignant as regards the constitution; and at all events, by such procedure as I advise, we can hardly make matters Fig. 48. merely been affected sympatheti- cally. It is, however, quite pos- sible that this affection may be excited in a person of cancerous diathesis, and then, of course, the progress of the case will be very different. The accompanying figure (No. 48), represents the disease in its latter stage, when the ulcer- ation has destroyed the scrotum and exposed and affected the tes- ticle.1373 CANCER OF THE PENIS—AMPUTATION. worse, whilst we give a chance of relief, if not of absolute cure. When ulceration attacks the textures in the groin, we often find the common femoral artery and vein laid bare, and death may- occur from hemorrhage caused by the ulceration of these vessels. Epithelial cancer frequently attacks the prepuce, and may involve the glans penis and body of that organ, so as to neces- sitate amputation. The disease is very liable to arise in per- sons who are the subjects of congenital phymosis, as the lodgment of the sebaceous secretion between the prepuce and glans leads to attacks of irritation from time to time, and as the patients advance in life cancroid disease supervenes. If the dis- ease is limited to the prepuce, free circumcision is all that is requisite ; but if the glans penis be affected, then the removal of the penis wide of the diseased part is imperative. In many cases the warty induration of the prepuce renders it difficult to ascer- tain the extent of the disease, and hence it is generally advisable to slit up the prepuce to make quite sure whether or no the glans penis be involved in the diseased action. Like cancroid affections of the lip and scrotum, there seems to be different degrees of malignancy in different cases. In some the disease appears to be entirely local, and shews no tendency to return, whilst in others it affects the lymphatic glands and the general system, and returns rapidly. I know of cases in which, more than twelve years ago, I removed the penis for cancroid disease of very unfavourable appearance ; at present the patients are in excellent health, and without the slightest tendency to recurrence of the affection, whilst in other cases I have known it recur in less than twelve months, and lead to cancerous tumours of the inguinal glands. When removal of the diseased organ is obviously necessary. Amputation of the Penis is performed as follows :—The pubes and scrotum having been shaved, firm constriction of the penis is effected by a strip of cotton bandage tied in a slip knot, so as to command the circulation. The operator then grasps - and stretches the. penis, and, with a single stroke of a long amputatingREGIONAL SURGERY. 1374 knife, severs the organ well above the diseased part. He next looks for and secures the open mouths of the dorsal arteries of the penis, and the central artery of each half of the corpus cavernosum. The constricting bandage is then slackened, and two small vessels in the corpus spongiosum, on each side of and close to the section of the canal of the urethra, generally require to be tied, and also perhaps some small tegumentary twigs. The general oozing from the section of the corpus cavernosum, which is principally venous, is best arrested by the application of ice ; or, if necessary, a little of the infusion of matico or per- chloride of iron. A soft vulcanised india-rubber catheter is then introduced into the bladder, and a circular piece of lint, soaked in carbolised oil, and perforated so as to pass over the catheter, is applied upon the cut surface of the penis. By this arrange- ment the urine is prevented from irritating the raw surface. After forty-eight hours, or sooner, the catheter is withdrawn, and only occasionally introduced, to prevent closure of the urethra during the cicatrisation. Subsequently the patient should be furnished with a short straight metallic bougie to introduce from time to time, as there is always a tendency to contrac- tion of the orifice, even for years after the wound has healed, unless preventive measures be taken. The Diseases of the Genito-Urinaey Oegans m the Female have of late years had much attention bestowed upon them by obstetricians, and their treatment has in a great degree become a kind of special practice, forming what is termed Obstetric Surgery. Diseases of the Ovaeies, in all that appertains to their diagnosis, and the earlier part of their treatment, belong properly to the domain of obstetric medicine, whilst the operation of ovariotomy belongs strictly to that of surgery. It will thus be evident to you that questions involving such breadth of detail and nicety of discrimination, can hardly be done full justice to in a course of instruction which only professes to deal with sur-OVARIOTOMY. 1375 gery. We shall therefore limit our observations to that part of the subject with which every surgeon ought to be familiar, namely, the steps of the operation ; and refer you for fuller in- formation regarding the whole subject to the works of Clay, Spence^ Wells, Keith, Bird, and others. It would be great injustice, however, to speak of ovariotomy, now an established operation, and to omit the name of John Bell, who first pro- posed it, or of John Lizars, who first boldly carried it into prac- tice in this country, in the face of the almost unanimous opposi- tion of the profession. One or two major points of diagnosis will at once suggest themselves to you, and you would not be justified in proceeding to operate without satisfying yourselves with regard to them. Thus the site, size, definition, mobility, fluid or solid character of the tumour, and any tenderness, must be considered, together with the various phenomena discovered by careful auscultation, and superficial and deep percussion. These must be considered in the light afforded by the age, history, and habit of the patient, together with the progressive symptoms of the case. Having satisfied yourself as to the propriety of operating, your next object must be to do so with the least possible risk to the patient. Due attention must therefore be paid to the hygienic surroundings as regards locality, air, light, cleanliness, and the arrangements for subsequent nursing. The operation consists in opening the abdomen, exposing the tumour, tapping the cyst or cysts, supporting the tumour so as not to strain the pedicle, securing the vessels by ligatures or clamp, finally remov- ing what remains, and closing the external opening by sutures. During the operation, the surrounding surface of the abdo- men should be carefully protected from blood and other dis- charges w^hich may issue from the wound, or from the surface of the cyst, during the necessary manipulations. This is best effected by spreading over the abdomen beforehand an apron of india-rubber sheeting, with an oval opening in the centre, made to correspond with the site of the proposed incision. The edges of the under surface of this opening are smeared with carbolisedREGIONAL SURGERY. 1376 adhesive plaster, by which they are closely attached to the skin. After the incisions have been made, and the superficial vessels secured, a piece of carbolised muslin, of a similar size, with a simple slit in the centre, is placed over the india-rubber, and over the part of the abdomen left unprotected by the centre opening in it. The edges of the muslin slit are then attached by acupressure needles to the edges of the wound, and the muslin spread out ready to receive the empty cyst. Thus the maximum of cleanliness and the minimum of exposure are attained, and ovariotomy is rendered one of the most delicate, as it is, in suitable cases, one of the simplest operations. Having arranged your assistants—one to give chloroform, a second to apply pressure on the abdomen as the cyst is removed, a third to manage the trocar and tube and support the cyst— you should stand on the right side of the patient, and make an incision about four and a half inches in length over the linea alba, beginning two inches below the umbilicus, and extending towards the pubes. Make your way very carefully through the skin, fat, cellular tissue, and peritoneum, making use of a director for each successive step, and securing the smallest bleeding points as you proceed. Having reached the serous cavity, you use the finger for exploration, in order to ascertain the existence or non-existence of adhesions. These having been disposed of, you gently bring the cyst into view and proceed to tap it, by means of a trocar and long tube devised for the purpose. The cyst is then gently withdrawn from the abdomen, the pedicle secured by clamp or ligature, and cut through externally to either. ' Before closing the wound the opposite ovary should be carefully examined, and any rudimentary cyst either tapped or removed. Every bleeding point must be looked for and attended to. The sutures used for closing the wound must embrace the whole thickness of the cut structures including the peritoneum. In cases where adhesions exist between the cyst and parietal peritoneum, or between it and any of the viscera, the operation becomes much more complicated, and great care is required in breaking up the adhesions or in separating them by the knifeVESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 1377 and also in securing all bleeding points resulting from such dis- section. The after-treatment must be conducted on the general principles already laid down in reference to great operations, but in ovarian cases a stricter antiphlogistic diet, and free use of ice or iced milk for nourishment and to allay vomiting, seems more indicated than in other cases. Obstetric surgery also lays claim to the treatment of the various genito-urinary fistulae. These are designated according to their site—Vesico-vaginal, and Ueethko-vaginal. They consist of chronic passages or perforations communicating between the cavities indicated through the substance of the intervening septum, and allowing the escape of urine, either in scanty tricklings or a steady stream, according to the size of the communicating aperture, and constituting one of the most distressing infirmities of humanity. Formerly the con- dition thus established was considered incurable, and we are in- debted to Hendrick van Eoonhuysen (1663) for the first feasible plan for its remedy. This was suggested by the operation for the cure of harelip, and consists of a similar procedure, namely, paring the edges of the fistula, and bringing the raw surfaces into close apposition. We shall content ourselves with an ex- planation of the steps of the operation. Choose a bright day. Place the patient on her hands and knees, or recumbent on the left side. Insert a full-sized duck- bill speculum, of the form shown in the woodcut on next page, and expose the parts as fully as possible. Pare the edges freely, by catching up the lip of the fistula, and denuding the ad- jacent thickness by a sharp knife or scissors, so as to carry away the complete marginal ring, and leave, if possible, an elliptical opening. This leaves behind a large, wide, raw sur- face, for adhesion. Use torsion, and the application of turpen- tine for the bleeding points, and wait for the cessation of haemor- rhage. You next introduce metallic sutures by means of a tubular needle suitably curved, which is alternately inserted and "withdrawn until a proper number of sutures are placed in readi- ness to be secured. You then tie them, one by one, and by thisREGIONAL SURGERY. 1378 means bring the denuded surfaces into close apposition and exact coaptation. Introduce a catheter, of the form shown, by the urethra, to favour cicatrisation and consolidation of the parts. Great care is required in the after-treatment. The bladder must be kept tolerably empty, by the use of the catheter, Fig. 49. Fig. 50. and the bowels at comparative rest by the administration of opium. After eight or ten days the sutures may be removed, and the bladder gradually allowed to distend, and at length to empty itself by its proper expulsive effort. In some instances the wound may heal satisfactorily, and1379 THE OPERATION. then again give way. In one of my own cases, a very aggravated one, where the patient had been previously operated on, the wound healed firmly, and urine was retained; but some weeks afterwards, during a menstrual period, the wound again opened Fig. 51. to a slight extent, and required to be touched with the heated wire. Operative procedure is frequently required to repair laceration of the perineum into the rectum occurring during labour, or to remedy a relaxed condition of the vagina leading to prolapsus. In many cases of lacerated perineum the injury is very limited, the sphincter and orifice of the rectum only being im- plicated ; and in such cases, if the surgeon stitches up the part Immediately after completion of the labour, such wounds often heal very readily, notwithstanding the apparently unfavourable condition of the presence of the lochial discharge. In cases where the rupture implicates the vagina and rectum higher up, theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1380 operation consists in paring off the callous edges of the lacerated parts, after the patient has been properly prepared, and then uniting the margins by silver wire sutures, carried very deeply to keep the parts in close apposition. The operation for the relaxed condition of the vagina is performed as follows :— The patient is placed recumbent, with the thighs separated, as in lithotomy. The large duck-bill speculum is introduced, its concave surface looking towards the posterior wall of the vagina. The operator then proceeds to make a V-shaped incision, the apex of the incision beginning about two or two and a half inches above the orifice of the vagina. The lines of incision as they descend should include the mucous membrane on the lateral wall of the vagina, as well as of the posterior wall, and also the perineal integuments at the orifice of the vagina. The triangular flap of mucous membrane marked out is then dis- sected off, so as to leave a raw surface. All bleeding points should be secured by torsion, or fine catgut ligature, and the parts washed by a stream of cold water^from a syringe, and any oozing arrested by applying a little spirits of turpentine to the surface. When all oozing has ceased, the surgeon takes a strong needle in a fixed handle, and entering it deeply, at least half an inch from the side of the vagina, carries it across the upper part of the raw surface, and brings out its point at the same distance from the vagina on the opposite side. A strong but fine soft silver or copper wire is then passed into the eye of the needle, which is withdrawn, so as to leave the suture, and this is repeated till three or four sutures are passed, so as to bring the perineal and vaginal wounds into accurate and close apposition. These sutures should be left in for at least eight or ten days, unless they give rise to irritation, and the vagina should be kept cleansed by gently syringing it out with weak carbolic lotion twice a-day. In some of my earlier cases I used to employ the quilled suture, made with strong thread, to support the deeper parts of the wound ; and that method answers very well, and is stillPERINEAL SUTURE. 1381 preferred by some to the silver or copper wire. It is, in my opinion, of very great importance that the upper point of the vaginal wound be thoroughly secured, both that discharges may not enter and hinder union there, but also to prevent passive haemorrhage taking place into the vagina when reaction occurs. To secure this, before tying the other sutures, I take a short curved haemorrhoid needle, armed with fine silver wire or silk, and pass it across the apex of the incision at the highest point, and tie the ligature firmly. In one case, from neglecting this, I had considerable trouble from haemorrhage into the vagina after reaction.LECTUEE CXXIX. Diseases of the Kectum—HEeiaorrlioid.s—External and Internal Piles : their Pathology : Constitutional Symptoms arising from Loss of Blood ; Treat- ment—Prolapsus Ani—Polypus of the Rectum—Anal Ulcers—Fissure of the Anus : Symptoms and Treatment—Anal Abscess—Fistula in Ano : Different Forms; Treatment—Stricture of the Rectum: Simple and Malignant; Treatment—Amussat's Operation for Artificial Anus—Imperforate Anus : Operations for that Condition. The Diseases of the Eectum, although comparatively few in number, lay claim to a large amount of attention, owing to their painfully distressing and often intractable nature. The functions of the parts render impossible anything like absolute repose, and the healing processes of nature are necessarily much interfered with. Such lesions, therefore, as miyht in other parts of the body heal without treatment, are by these causes pro- tracted and aggravated, so that, instead of being ameliorated by time, their severity is generally in direct proportion to their duration. Partly from an ill-founded hope of natural recovery, and partly from delicacy and fear, patients generally postpone con- sultation until increasing pain and declining health compel them. Our skUl is therefore seldom brought to bear on the treatment of such diseases in their earlier stages, so that we must lay our account for dealing with them in their severer forms and complications. Sometimes the anal orifice and lower part of the rectum are the seats of an aggregation of tumid, vascular, or cutaneous projections, purple or pale in colour, and moistened on the surface with a mucous or sanious discharge. These are termed HEMORRHOIDS or piles. Although the protruded mass presents these varieties in colour and character, it will be found on closer examination that1383 HEMORRHOIDS. the cutaneous variety is placed on the outer side of the sphincter, while the purple and vascular haemorrhoids arise from the inner side of that muscle. Thus, they are naturally classified into the two subdivisions of External and Internal. The former are generally dependent for their formation upon the pre-existence of the latter, and these, therefore, have the first claim upon our attention. Internal piles originally consist essentially of a varicose condition of the hsemorrhoidal veins, arising from sedentary habits, constipation, pregnancy, or indeed any cause which retards the return of venous blood towards the heart, but more espe- cially any affection of the liver or abdominal viscera obstructing the Portal circulation. Under such circumstances the hsemor- rhoidal veins distend, and carry before them the loose mucous membrane at the lower part of the rectum, where they bulge out and form a tumour, in some cases almost like a prolapsus ani (Plate li. Fig. 4). As the disease progresses, the submucous tissue becomes thickened and altered in structure, the arteries supplying the mucous membrane become enlarged, and a sepa- rate and distinct growth is established, having special nutrient arteries. Still the disease remains dependent, in a great measure, on the venous dilatation, so that the pain and distension are relieved either by the bleeding of the pile itself or by the admi- nistration of such internal remedies as tend to relieve the con- gestion of the rectum. This congestion, however, will only be relieved by internal remedies to a certain extent, for the textures partake of their original hsemorrhoidal structure only to a limited degree. The remainder of the mass presents an altered condi- tion of texture, nourished by a persistent vascular supply. Thus, we often find an artery ramifying upon the surface of an ulcer- ated pile, and the patient suffering from loss of arterial blood caused by ulceration of that surface. Hence the anaemia which often accompanies the disease, hence also the numerous cases of mistaken diagnosis, as the emaciation, palpitation, and dyspepsia, pnd other constitutional symptoms, closely resemble those arising from disease of the heart. In all cases, therefore, where these1384 REGIONAL SURGERY. symptoms co-exist with pain in the rectum, we should examine for piles, or for any abrasion or ulceration in the mucous surface; and generally, the experience or observation of the patient will materially assist us. The Treatment of haemorrhoids varies in different cases. When the piles are in the process of formation, and have not yet assumed the character of actual tumours, but of tumid sensitive points upon the mucous surface, nitric acid may be applied with benefit, especially for the flattened granular piles, whether recent or chronic. In order to do this, it is necessary first to empty the bowel, then to get it protruded by the efforts of the patient. The hsemorrhoidal surface being thus exposed, it should be touched with acid—the other portions of the bowel being at the same time protected by lard or oil. For the more advanced prominent haemor- rhoids the simplest, surest, and safest method of treatment is extir- pation by the application of ligatures. For this purpose the bowels should be emptied as in the former case, and the piles made to protrude. They should then be seized one by one with a vul- sellum, and each transfixed at its base by a needle armed with a strong double hempen ligature. The ligatures should then be separated, and each one tied very firmly, so as to constrict each half of the root. If these be efl&ciently applied, the tumours will separate in eight or ten days, and leave a granulating surface. The whole of the piles should be ligatured at one sitting, for if part of them only are so treated, the remainder will become con- gested and painful The chances of enteritis, phlebitis, and other untoward results, are also much lessened by having the operation fully performed at once. Afterwards a full opiate should be given, and the bladder relieved from time to time if necessary. With the view of obviating the injurious effects which are sometimes ascribed to the presence of ligatures, Mr. Henry Smith has introduced a mode of operation by which their use may be dispensed with. The hsemorrhoidal mass is grasped close to the root by a clamp, the blades of which are firmly screwed upon it. The strangled piles are then clipped off close to the ^lamp, andEXTERNAL PILES—PROLAPSUS ANI. 1385 the actual cautery, at red heat, applied to the remaining raw surface. This prevents haemorrhage, and stimulates subsequent granulation. The outer portions of the clamp are shod with ivory, which, being a non-conductor of heat, prevents the adjoining parts of the rectum from being injured by it. The operation is said to be safe, cleanly, and effectual. External Piles are placed, as already indicated, on the outer aspect of the sphincter, and are just the remains of what were internal piles situated near the verge. These become gradually protruded, and the mucous membrane assumes the cutaneous character after exposure for a time. They are muco- cutaneous in character and consistency, pale in colour, and round or elongate in form. Sometimes they form a hardened or hyper- trophied ring around the margin of the anus, the cutaneous rugfe of which are so far obliterated by their presence ; but more generally the skin near the anus hangs in loose folds. As external piles are so far dependent for their existence upon the presence of internal piles, they should not be operated upon simultaneously with these, because, when the internal piles separate, the contraction of the mucous membrane may, and often does, cause effacement of the external pUes and loose skin. Should this faU, however, recourse must be had to appropriate treatment, and this consists in simple excision. This is generally performed by means of probe-pointed curved scissors. The piles being superficial, any bleeding which may result can be arrested by ordinary means, and there is of course no fear of internal hsemorrhage, while that taking place externally is usually slight. The case might be otherwise, however, were this operation per- formed at the same time that ligatures are applied to the internal pUes, for the congestion following that operation might then give rise to serious secondary hsemorrhage from the external rkw surface. We should therefore first tie the internal ones, and then, some time afterwards, if necessary, cut off the ex- ternal ones. Prolapsus Ani is a term sometimes used to indicate two1386 REGIONAL SURGERY. different conditions, requiring very different treatment, and therefore I think it right to draw your attention specially to this subject. The one form, true Prolapsus of the Eeotum, con- sists of a projection of the whole thickness of a portion of the gut through the relaxed sphincter. The connections of the lower portion of the rectum prevent the whole thickness of that part being projected, and therefore in true prolapsus the projecting mass is formed by the loosely-connected upper part of the bowel invaginated within the lower or fixed portion ; the relations of the different parts of the bowel being similar to that in intus-susception in the small intestine. This condition is very frequent in young and delicate, or even in otherwise healthy children, but is comparatively rare, though occasionally met with, in adults. The general appearance is the projection of a large ovoid or cylindrical florid mass, the everted mucous surface presenting, and on examination we can see and feel the continuous' canal of the invaginated portion of bowel. Prolapsus usually takes place when the patient is straining, either at stool or during painful micturition, and it is a very common symptom in cases of stone in the bladder. When the gut comes down, it generally soon attracts attention, and in the case of children the nurse or other attend- ant usually manages to reduce it under ordinary circumstances, and in adults the patient manages to do the same for himself by lying down and gently compressing and replacing the gut. In some cases, however, a very large cylindrical portion is protruded, and the reduction being more difficult, the surgeon is sent for. In such circumstances, if attempts have been previously made to reduce the protrusion, you should first apply cold to the parts, and, oiling the surface well, you should apply the pressure chieflj on the lower and central portion of the protrusion, so as gradually to invert and replace that, before you attempt reduc- tion of the whole mass. The old orthodox and popular method of using the rounded end of a tallow candle is not altogether to be rejected, as undignified, as a means of applying pressure onTREA TMENT OF PROLAPSUS ANI. ' 1387 the central portion, but the fingers, properly used, generally suffice to effect reduction. Eeduction having been accomplished, the more difficult part of the treatment is to remedy the tendency to prolapsus, or to palliate that condition. In children all that is necessary is to regulate the bowels, and employ cold bathing, and other means for giving tone to the system, and of course to get rid of any source of local irritation which may be present as an exciting cause. In adults, especially those in advanced life, we often find that the tendency to prolapsus has been gradually increasing, and in such cases the integuments near the anus are generally relaxed, and form folds radiating from the margin of the anal orifice. When that condition is present, the treatment consists in clipping out the loose skin in longitudinal folds, including also a small fold of muco-cutaneous tissue covering the sphincter. In many cases this effects a permanent cure, if conjoined with appropriate general treatment. In other cases, however, any operation is contra-indicated, and then support must be given by a properly-adjusted prolapsus truss. In neglected cases it may happen that, from congestion and swelling of the protruded portion of gut, it becomes strangu- lated, and then the condition is very dangerous, as, from the relation of parts, the whole canal is constricted. In such circum- stances we should try to press aside the protrusion at one part, so as to get the edge of a probe-pointed bistoury applied to the sphincter, and effect its division, first at one and then at another point of its circumference, and then, having relieved this source of constriction, attempt reduction. But, as in intus-susception, it may happen that the constriction is higher up, and may have induced strangulation and gangrene, then the only chance of relief for the patient is to remove the mortified part by including each segment of the protruded gut in a double ligature, and then cut- ting them off. By doing this we at once remove the gangrenous portion, and expose and free the canal of the bowel higher up. This, however, should never be done unless the protrusion is gangrenous, and then the double deligation of each half of the 4x1388 REGIONAL SURGERY. projected bowel must be carefully effected. To place a ligature around the whole protrusion, would be to tie in and obstruct the lower end of the intestine. The other form of prolapsus ani consists merely of the swollen mucous membrane of the lower part of the gut pro- truded through the relaxed sphincter, as represented in Plate li. Fig. 4, and sometimes in even a large mass. It is really a htemorrhoidal affection, totally different in its character from true prolapsus recti. There is no invagination, and the con- gested projections of the mucous membrane should be dealt with by ligature, as in any other form of internal haemorrhoids. The removal of loose folds of the anal integument should subsequently be had recourse to. Another diseased condition of the mucous membrane of the bowel, which is apt to be mistaken for hagmorrhoids, is Polypus OF THE Eectum. The polypus consists of a pyriform peduncu- lated vascular mass springing from the miacous lining, and occu- pying more or less of the cavity of the bowel, whence it is generally ejected with every feecal evacuation. Its delicate structure is very ill adapted for such tear and wear, hence it often gives way, and this sometimes gives rise to considerable haemorrhage. Independently of this contingency, such polypi are in themselves sufficiently troublesome, being sensitive in themselves, and sources of great irritation and severe lumbar pains and discomfort to the patient. They should be tied at the neck with a fine silk thread, and removed by scissors. Ulcers of the Eectum are not uncommon, and their pre- sence is not only difiicult of detection, but is often accompanied by most distressing and debilitating effects. The frequent pas- sive haemorrhage to which they give rise leads to great anaemia, palpitation of the heart, general emaciation and debility, whilst the comparative absence of local uneasiness may prevent us from suspecting the cause. Sometimes the haemorrhage is active; and, on the part being protruded, or on using the speculum a small artery is found bleeding per saltum from the ulcerated surface.1389 DIAGNOSIS—FISSURE OF THE ANUS. A careful examination of the internal surface of the rectum, by means of the finger, may lead to their detection, but the surest method of diagnosis is to examine with the speculum. The forms of these instruments in general use are not well adapted for examination of the rectum. They are either fenestrated on one side, or have an oblique opening at the upper end. When the former are used, the loose mucous membrane projects into the cavity of the speculum, and the others—those partially open above—are still more objectionable, as they permit not only the mucous membrane but discharge from the bowel above to pass into the speculum. I have of late years devised a form which, if well made and carefully used, answers exceedingly well for examining the lower part of the bowel. It is made of glass, of the ordinary cylindrical form, perhaps a little longer and larger, closed at the top. One-half is coated and silverised in the usual manner, the other half is left clear; and the glass should be very equal, and free from waves or flaws. Before this speculum is introduced it should be immersed in warm water, to prevent its being dimmed by the heat or moisture of the bowel, and then when introduced, by gently turning it round, we obtain a very perfect view of the interior of the bowel. The only difficulty is caused by the folds formed by the laxity of the mucous surface, and that is best ob- viated by the size of the speculum tube. Were it possible to combine the clear glass side with an expanding metallic speculum, the instrument would be perfect for the purpose of diagnosis. The Treatment of anal ulcers consists in touching them with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. Ulcers of a more formidable character are sometimes associated with Fissure of the Anus, and, when not syphilitic, are amenable to the same treatment. This consists in transfixing the ulcer by passing a sharp bistoury through its hardened base and a portion of the sound texture beyond it. It is generally situated close to the internal ex- tremity of the fissure, and is often continuous with it. After- treatment by lotions may sometimes be necessary. Fissure of the Anus is the term used to denote a1390 REGIONAL SURGERY. crack or chap in the mucous membrane of the anal orifice, ex- tending longitudinally in the direction of its rugfe, and lying concealed from view between them, or by a lijemorrhoidal pro- jection. It can only be brought into view, therefore, by forcibly separating the nates, and then dilating the anus. This proce- dure, which can scarcely be effected except when the patient is under chloroform, will disclose a red irritable-looking crack, with hardened base and edges, which will be either dry, or moistened on the surface with a muco-sanguineous discharge. The symptom attending the disease is an intense agony, which reaches its acme during and immediately after the act of defecation. The bowel feels as if it were dragged up, and sometimes the sphincter becomes spasmodically closed, so that the freculent matter is retained, giving rise to symptoms like those of strangulated hernia, owing to the absolute constipation which often occurs. Having made sure of the diagnosis, the Treatment is simple and effectual. All that is required is to take a narrow probe- pointed bistoury, lay the edge of this within the crack, and cut down through its hardened base. If the sphincter be much contracted, the incision should be extended through a few of its fibres ; the muscle should be completely divided if the spasm has been intense. The operation may also be conducted by the transfixion method already indicated, by making use of a sharp- pointed narrow curved bistoury, and passing it under the dense base in the line of the fissure, bringing it out beyond its upper extremity, and cutting outwards. M. Eibes, who first drew at- tention to this operation, thought it was absolutely necessary to divide the whole sphincter, and in some cases it is certainly well to do so, in order to leave the parts at rest, but the essential part of the operation is to divide the hardened base. This is followed by immediate and entire relief of the patient. A coarser method has of late years been occasionally used, of intro- ducing the operator's forefingers within the sphincter, and then forcibly tearing up the fissure ; but it is a very coarse and uncertain procedure.1391 FISTULA IN ANO. Abscess in the Vicinity of the Eectum was alluded to in the early part of the course, but it is necessary briefly to recon- sider the subject here, owing to its connection with Fistula IN Ano. From some of the local causes of irritation which we have just been considering; from the presence of foreign bodies, such as portions of bone perforating the rectum and lodging in the tissues external to it; exfoliations from the pelvic bones ; or, from a debilitated habit of body, inflammation may be set up in the neighbourhood of the rectum, and result in the formation of abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa. The pus, bounded below by the dense integument of the hip, by the ischio-rectal fascia, and levator ani internally, and the strong obturator fascia exter- nally, makes its way towards the rectum at the inner and lower part of the space where the ischio-rectal fascia becomes thin and cellular immediately above the sphincter ani, and there it undermines, thins, and ultimately perforates the bowel; the abscess very generally opens also towards the integuments of the hip, and so gives rise to sinus or fistula. After evacuation of the abscess, the openings formed, and the tracts or cavities connected with it do not heal, for mucus or thin fjeculent matter or flatus from the gut passes into and keeps up the irritation, and these causes, together with the con- stant movements of the parts affected, prevent the healing process by contraction from taking place, and as a result we have the formation of Sinus or Fistula. The term is used to express that condition which we meet with in cases where the cavity of an evacuated abscess has failed to contract and heal, but where it remains open and continues to pour from its surfaces a thin unhealthy discharge of a gleety or muco-purulent character. Gradually the walls become thickened and callous, the cavity diminished in size, the lining surface smoothly glazed, like a mucous membrane, the discharge lessened in quantity and altered in quality. The action is sluggish, without tendency to heal, and thus the diseased condition becomes established. On introducing a probe at the opening, it is found to passREGIONAL SURGERY. 1392 inwards in a widening conrse, while here and there it may meet with projections, which render its progress irregular and tortuous. After a time these attempts at closure may- become more numerous and continuous, until at length the original cavity, thus limited by them, may assume the character of a small hardened tubular canal. From the inner surface of this channel a thickened moisture exudes, and lymph is effused into the surrounding textures, so that the channel becomes more callous and persistent, having just suffi- cient vitality to prevent it from sloughing, -but not enough to produce healing action. A fistula may be either straight or tortuous, generally the latter, and it may have either one or two openings. If it has only one opening, it is termed incom- plete or blind : if it has two—the one opening internally, the other externally—it is termed a complete fistula. An incom- plete fistula may have its opening either on the internal or external surface ; in the former case it is more likely to become a complete fistula than in the latter, on account of the tendency of discharges to make their escape through the integument. These fistulje have little tendency to heal, although, after the opening or openings are formed, their cavities become con- siderably lessened, forming a simple elongated channel, the sur- faces of which are constantly moistened by a thin gleety discharge, which is alike pathognomonic of feebleness of action in the part and in the constitution. On introducing the probe by the external opening, its explorations are by no means restricted to such a narrow channel, for the efforts at closure have been weak and insufficient, and are easily broken down, so that the probe may possibly traverse the whole extent of the original cavity, and thus extend to beyond the internal opening, which seldom exists higher up than the distance of one inch from the orifice of the anus, for the anatomical reasons already stated. The external orifice of the sinus may exist anteriorly or posteriorly, in relation to the bowel, but it generally occurs at either side of it. The size is generally small, and it may be surrounded by pouting granulations, which form an elevated rimFISTULA IN ANO : TREATMENT. 1393 or lip to the orifice. Into this opening the probe is passed, the forefinger of the left hand being at the same time inserted into the rectum. By means of the probe we ascertain the extent and direction of the sinus, and by means of the forefinger being gently opposed to it from within the bowel, we search for an opening, through which, if it exist, we can readily pass the probe. If there be no internal opening present, we ascertain the part of the bowel which has become most attenuated by the diseased action. Besides the fistu.la proper, there are often numerous sinuses passing in different directions towards the hip and perineum. The Treatment will depend greatly upon the nature of the case. If you have been able to discover an internal openmg, and have had great difficulty in finding it, you will do well not to withdraw the probe, but to retain it, and introduce a bistoury into the bowel, and cut out the probe. Thus, the intervening septum between the bowel and the cavity of the sinus will be laid freely open, and the diseased surface will gradually contract, granulate, and heal. If the internal opening be easily found, you may withdraw the probe, and introduce in its stead a probe- pointed curved bistoury; although I consider it advisable to bend and leave in the probe in all cases, to ensure complete division of the septum. The probe point of the bistoury is Fig. 52. pressed against the point of the finger within the bowel, and both are withdrawn. Thus you will make a simple clean cut through the intervening textures constituting the septum, and leave the surfaces to granulate and heal. Should you fail toREGIONAL SURGERY. 1394 discover an internal opening, you should select tlie thinnest, most attenuated part of the septum, and, forcing the bistoury through it, perform the same manoeuvre. In the case of an internal fistula, with no external opening, the internal opening is usually large and easily felt with the finger in the gut, and the integuments near the anus are boggy and undermined, so that, by making a small incision there, it is readily converted into a complete fistula, and dealt with as already described. Sometimes, instead of using the knife, irritating injections have been employed with the view of causing obliteration of the sinus, and various other methods have been employed, some- times with success. As a general rule, however, such endeavours serve only to lose time, and to waste the strength and re- sources of the patient. For the obtaining of direct and satisfac- tory results, nothing can equal the operation just recommended. Previous to the operation the bowels should be thoroughly evacuated by means of an enema, and after the operation an opiate is given to prevent action of the bowels for a day or two. Great care and cleanliness are required in the after-treatment. When the hsemorrhage, which is generally slight, has ceased, a piece of dry lint should be gently laid in, not stuffed into, the cavity. This serves to favour granulation, and to prevent the newly cut edges from reuniting and healing up. After this lint is removed I seldom introduce more dressing, but merely touch the surfaces lightly with nitrate of silver occasionally. This serves the purpose of slight stimulation, and simplifies the after- treatment, whilst pushing lint into the wound prevents the healing process, and induces imdue action. Little else is required. The patient should be kept at rest in bed, and atten- tion given to the general health. From the frequency with which the disease under considera- tion is associated with disease of the lungs, no case can be said to be properly treated where the state of these organs is over- looked. If phthisis be far advanced, it would be obviously unwise to interfere locally for the relief of fistula ; but where there exists only the predisposition, a good local result may beSTRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 1395 obtained, and constitutional benefit may be derived from the cure of the fistula. Those remedies which tend to support and restore the general health must be employed, and change of climate recommended as soon as possible. In the lower bowel we sometimes meet with a condition similar to that described in connection with the oesophagus, and constituting Stricture of the Eectum. This arises at different points, generally either 2 J mches above the sphincter, or at the upper part of the rectum, close to the promontory of the sacrum. It may be simple or malignant in character, and may vary in extent from a simple semilunar fold or puckering of the mucous membrane to a complete hardened ring, gradually narrowing Fig. 53. to occlusion ; or the contraction may arise from without, owing to inflammation and contraction of the peritoneal investment of the gut. This latter form is usually situated near the promontory of the sacrum. The rectum may also be spasmodically contracted at some point, and for the time being present all the symptoms of stricture. This last form can hardly be regarded as a stric- ture ; it is just a functional disturbance, created by the irritation of some other disease in the neighbourhood. When stricture exists low down, its presence can be readily discovered by an examination with the finger. When it arises1396 REGIONAL SURGERY. at a part beyond the reach of the finger, the altered form and calibre of the faeces will guide us towards a diagnosis, and we will be further assisted by various constitutional symptoms. The additional work required by the bowel in forcing the faeces through the constricted part causes the portion immediately above the stricture to become greatly distended. This leads to general fulness of the abdomen, which becomes at length op- pressive ; it also leads to vomiting, and various other reflex symptoms. The constriction further leads to great irregularity of the bowels. Severe constipation, frequently alternating with equally severe diarrhoea, in which the semiflmd contents, instead of com- ing away regularly, are expelled in violent and sudden gushes. The irregular nodulated and indurated character of the circle of the contraction, and the peculiar sanious and fcetid discharge which accompany the malignant disease of the bowels, taken in conjunction with the history of the case and the con- stitutional cachexy, will serve to distinguish the cancerous form of the disease from the simple stricture. In the simple stricture we proceed by vital dilatation, on the same principle as in stricture of the oesophagus or xirethra, by tlie introduction of graduated bougies, or sponge-tents, using opiate suppositories to allay irritation if excessive. In malignant stricture, though we may require to use instru- ments occasionally in order to keep the gut pervious, still we can only look for palliation from such procedure. Sometimes the operation of opening the descending colon may be had recourse to, in this or in cases of simple stricture situated high up, but even this is only palliative, although better than passing bougies through an irritable cancerous rectum ; but in cancer the disease will prove fatal sooner or later. In the rectum we are liable to meet with a form of stricture which we might diagnose to be malignant, while it is really not so. This is a syphilitic affection, ulceration of the canal leading to its contraction. It is accompanied with great irritation in the part, and the emission of a peculiar sanious and foetid dis-COLO TOM Y. 1397 charge. In addition to these local manifestations, we have the constitutional cachexy as in malignant disease ; but then we have the presence of other syphilitic lesions to guide our diagnosis, such as maculiB, enlarged glands in the neighbourhood of the groin, nodes, and very often a corresponding history. Appro- priate constitutional treatment must be combined with local measures, and a favourable prognosis may be given. Hence we must be very cautious in our diagnosis. The Operation of Colotomy, for the purpose of forming an artificial anus, is best performed by Amussat's method, whicb is accomplished in the following manner :—The patient being laid somewhat on his right side, the operator com- mences his incision immediately over the external margin of the mass of muscles forming the erector spinae, and carries it transversely outwards and forwards for about three or four inches parallel to the crest of the ilium, nearly midway be- tween the crest and the last rib, or rather nearer to the crest. On dividing the skin, fat, and fascia, the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique muscles are brought into view, with an interval between them. The cellular tissue is divided, the margins of the before-mentioned muscles held aside or partially divided. With a little further dissection the portion of the lumbar aponeurosis, giving common attachment to the internal oblique and transversalis muscles is exposed and carefully divided in the line of the external wound, and also notched upwards and downwards with the knife to give more room ; then, by gentle use of the knife and finger, the surgeon works his way cautiously, so as to expose the extra-peritoneal aspect of the descending colon. Where that intestine is dis- tended with feeculent matter, it is easily enough recognised and opened, but when the operation is undertaken to palliate cancer of the rectum, this part of the colon is often contracted, and lies within the margin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and the peritoneal sac is then in great danger of being wounded unless some caution. be used. In opening the gut great care must be1398 REGIONAL SURGERY. taken to prevent feculent matter escaping amongst the tissues ; with this object the surgeon should guard the parts as in ovariotomy, and introduce a wide india-rubber tube into the opening, and so allow the accumulated contents to escape gradually. He afterwards draws the opening in the bowel outwards, and stitches the mucous membrane to the integu- ments by continued suture, places a piece of oiled lint round the opening, and inclines the patient towards that side to favour the escape of the faeces. An opiate suppository should be placed in the rectum; great attention paid to cleanliness, and the diet should be principally milk and farinaceous food for some days. A similar procedure will enable you to open the caput ccecum on the right side. In proper cases, as in obstruction of the bowels from stricture of the rectum, or in cases of obstructed bowel, where the course of the colon can be traced distended with faeces, there can be no question as to the propriety of perform- ing Amussat's operation. But in cases where the colon is not distended, or only distended by gaseous contents, as evi- denced by percussion, and that distension only arising at a late period of the symptoms, then the probability is, that there is obstruction in the small intestine, and we must decide as" to performing the more questionable operation of gastrotomy. The difficulties which may arise, both as to diagnosis and operative procedure, may be judged of by a case which occurred to me whilst writing these pages, and which will be found in the Clinical Cases, page 1420. We have hitherto been considering the diseases to which the normal rectum is liable; but I must now treat of an ab- normal condition of it, in which the external opening, and sometimes the lower part of the rectum, are absent. This defi- ciency is termed Imperforate Anus. It is of course a conge- nital malformation. It is generally noticed at once by the medical attendant or nurse, but in some cases, where the rudi- mentary indentation of the anal orifice is deeply marked, it may1399 IMPERFORATE ANUS: OPERATION. escape detection till the absence of evacuation of meconium attracts attention, and leads to the discovery of the malformation. Sometimes the occlusion is quite superficial and membran- ous, so that the distended bowel causes it to bulge, and the dark colour of the contained meconium can be seen through the thinned integument. In other cases the rudimentary anus is separated from the termination of the bowel by the thickness of an inch or more of intervening cellular tissue, and not unfre- quently the bowel is found to communicate with the vagina in the female, or the urinary bladder, or more usually the urethra, in the male. In some instances no trace of the anal depression is to be seen, and this indicates that the malformation is in an extreme form, and that the cul-de-sac of the gut is placed high up in the pelvis. In many cases of imperforate anus other congenital malformations exist, and the most frequent is imperfect develop- ment of the kidneys. In one infant on whom I operated, where the gut terminated high up, the child lived for three days, and died with well-marked symptoms of urtemia, scarcely a table-spoonful of urine being secreted during its short lifetime. The whole interior of the bladder was studded with dark nodu- lated masses like effused and hardened blood, and there was scarcely any trace of the kidneys, except a cyst attached to the ureters. In other cases I have seen similar conditions. In regard to the Operation for Imperforate Anus, that will be modified by the nature and extent of the malformation. In the simpler forms all we require to do is to take advantage of the swell- ing of the distended bowel when the infant is crying, and to make first a longitudinal and then a transverse incision, and introduce the tip of the little finger and dilate it, and nature will keep the orifice open. When the rectum terminates high up, we must proceed more carefully and methodically. We must keep in mind the small size of the pelvis, and the relations of the bladder and internal iliac vessels. The bladder should be emptied by a cathe- ter, to diminish the risk of its projection being mistaken for the cul-de-sac of the rectum; because, when the lower part of the gutREGIONAL SURGERY. 1400 is absent the bladder falls downwards and backwards into tlie pelvis. This precaution having been taken, the operator should incise the integument exactly in the position of the anal depres- sion. The point of the narrow bistoury should be inserted at the anterior part of the depression, with its edge directed towards the coccyx, and carried back to beyond the posterior margin of the depression, then a transverse cut is made on each side, so as to make a crucial incision and give room to introduce the finger. In those cases where no trace of the anal depression exists, the surgeon must judge of its position by the relation of the tuber- osities of the ischium and other parts of the perineum. The first incision should be carried deeply through the textures, so as to open into the lower part of the pelvic outlet, and the finger is then introduced along the hollow surface of the sacrum, the point directed very slightly upwards, but never forwards, for the lower cul-de-sac of the peritoneum with the contained viscera might be wounded. In general the cul-de-sac of the bowel can be felt when the child cries, or when the abdomen is pressed upon by the assistant. By passing the narrow bistoury or a flat trocar and canula upwards in the direction indicated, the bowel is punctured and some meconium escapes. A probe-pointed bistoury is then introduced into the aperture so made, to enlarge it, and allow of the free escape of the meconium, and subsequently of the faeces. Figure 3 in Plate Ivii. gives a plan of the opera- tion, and shows the relation of the contracted bladder and peri- toneal sac to the pelvic cavity and cul-de-sac of the imperfect rectum, but it is very rare indeed that the finger can be intro- duced as there represented to gixide the knife ; the space is too small We must feel for the gut with the finger, and then withdraw it, and guide the knife by the information so received. In some cases I have managed to introduce a tenotomy knife over the finger to open the bowel. When the opening is enlarged, if the cul-de-sac be placed very high, we should try by gentle pressure and traction to bring it down nearer to the surface, otherwise there is risk of effusion of fseculent matter lodging in the hollow of the pelvis and lead-IMPERFORA TE ANUS: AFTER- TREA TMENT. 1401 ing to fatal consequences. In all such cases it is necessary to maintain the orifice patent, and to prevent contraction during the healing process. A portion of gum elastic, or wax bougie, is generally used for this purpose, or a portion of sponge tent. The sponge tent is useful after a time, but too irritating at first. The substance I have found to answer best immediately after the operation, is a conical suppository composed of beeswax and soap. Afterwards a large bougie or a sponge tent should be introduced occasionally to prevent contraction. The tendency to contraction continues for a long time—for years indeed. In one case in which I had operated I was con- sulted by the patient when he was about twenty years of age on account of the inconvenience caused by the contraction of the orifice. I found it would hardly admit a No. 9 urethral bougie, yet he was in perfect health. I enlarged the orifice freely by a crucial incision, and advised him as to the occasional use of the rectum bougie, and as I have heard nothing of him for many years, I presume the contraction has not recurred. One peculiar anatomical fact in regard to imperforate anus is, that in the worst form, even when there is no anal depression, it has been found on dissection that the fibres of the superficial sphincter can be distinctly traced under the skin. In cases where the cul-de-sac cannot be reached, it has been proposed to open the descending colon.in the left lumbar, or the sigmoid flexure of the colon in the left iliac region, and success- ful cases are recorded, but in general we could hardly expect, or even I may say desire, such a success in an infant.CLINICAL CASES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE TREATMENT OF HERNIA. Case I.—Scrotal Hernia. Peculiarity in the Constriction. P. B., aged 40, the subject of the present case, had heen affected with hernia for a great many years. At an early period of the complaint he had worn a truss, but for some time back had discontinued its use. Since then, the swelling had rapidly increased in bulk, but he had always been able to reduce it himself when it became troublesome. On the 25th of August 1840, he was attacked with vomiting and twisting pains in the belly, which, as he had been living rather freely for a few days previously, he attributed to an "attack of bile," and did not apply for medical assistance until the morning of the 27th, when the hernial swelling became painful, and on trying to reduce it as usual, he found he could not do so. He then sent for Mr. Lawrie, who tried to re- duce it by taxis, but without success. I saw him for the first time, at 9 P.M. of the 27th August, along with Mr. Lawrie, when his state, as recorded in my notes, was as follows :— " There is a large scrotal hernia on the right side, which is tense, and painful to the touch ; but the contents of which can be returned into the abdomen, with the exception of a hard rounded mass, which feels exactly like an enlarged testicle, and which cannot be reduced. The cord can be felt behind the hernia, and the testicle, of natural size, in its usual position, at the lower part of the scrotum. He has frequent vomiting and hiccup ; the belly is tense, tympanitic, and tender to the touch, and he complains of severe twisting pains from the hernia towards the navel. Except a scanty stool when the vomiting first began, he has had no motion in his bowels since the commencement of the attack, although enemata and laxative medicines have been given. The expression of his countenance is anxioiis ; skin rather warm, and covered with perspiration ; pulse 108. He says that he never felt the ' hard lump' in the rupture on any previous occasion." At half-past 11 a.m. I saw him, .along with Drs. J. A. Robertson, J. Reid, and Duncan. The symptoms had become more urgent, and there was constant hiccup. Cold having been applied to the tumour, and the taxis again fairly tried, but unsuccessfully, I proceeded to operate. An incision about three inches long was made over the swelling, commencing at the situation of the deep ring, and continued downwards ; the different cover- ings were then divided, and the sac exposed and opened, in the usual manner, to a sufficient extent to enable me to pass my finger upwards toCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1403 the ring. Having divided some sharp resisting fibres at that point, I next proceeded to reduce the contents of the sac ; but after reducing some con- volutions of the gut, I found that the intestine seemed to be firmly fixed below ; and on opening the hernial sac, a little farther down, I exposed a rounded fleshj'-looking mass, evidently adherent to the scrotum by its outer surface. Its appearance was singular, resembling somewhat a portion of the large intestine twisted round the lower part of the loop of the small intestine, which had been partially reduced, and some of those present thouglit it was an intus-susception of the bowel contained in the hernial sac. As, however, it was evident that its circumference strangulated the other portion of bowel, it was resolved to notch its edges slightly with the bis- toury, at different parts, so as to try and relieve the bowel embraced by it. So tight was the constriction, that I could not introduce the probe-pointed bistoury between its edge and the intestine, and was obliged at first to divide from without inwards. When the stricture was thus relieved, the true nature of the case was at once seen—viz. that the fleshy-looking sub- stance surrounding and strangulating the intestine was a small subdivision of the lower part of the sac, greatly thickened, altered in structure and appearance, separated from the upper portion of the sac by a firm, narrow neck, and closely adherent to the scrotum below. The bowels were then reduced, a compress and bandage applied over the wound, and a large opiate draught directed to be given immediately. I saw him again at 3 p.m., and found that he had had no return of the vomiting or hiccup ; the bowels had not yet acted, but the enema had just been given before I called. His pulse had fallen to 96, and he expressed himself as much relieved. At 8 P.M. his pulse had fallen to 86, and was soft; he had had one evacuation after the enema ; he said he felt much better, complained of no pain on pressing the abdomen, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound. I directed him to take half-an-ounce of castor oil, to obtain a free motion from the bowels, and to have another opiate at night. I offered to send a person to watch him, but his friends stated that they had pro- cured one of his own relations, a sick-nurse, for that purpose, whom he would prefer to a stranger. I left strict orders to keep him perfectly quiet, and to let me know at once should any unfavourable symptoms appear. I heard nothing further till next morning, when, on my way to visit him, I met a person coming for me, who said he had not been quite so well during the night; and on entering his room, to my surprise I found him moribund, and no one in the room with him. From his landlady I then learnt that no sick-nurse had ever been in attendance, and that his brother and some acquaintances had sat up with him ; that they had given him, at his own request, a quantity of porridge and beer, shortly after which the vomiting had recommenced, with pain in the belly ; and these symptoms had been allowed to go on without ever sending for me or Mr. Lawrie. Every effort was made to procure a post-mortem examination of the body, but without success. Commentary.—The points principally worthy of remark in the case are —1st, The unusual position of the seat of the stricture, viz. in the body of the 4 YREGIONAL SURGERY. 1404 sac, and towards the lower part of the scrotum, and the peculiar appearance of the lower part of the sac, as seen during the operation; 2d, Some symptoms and features of the case, which, taken in conjunction with the patient's previous history, may serve as guides in the diagnosis of similar cases, and may also lead us to modify our operative procedure in such cases. With regard to the position of the constriction, it may be said, that, though rare, it has been noticed by several writers on hernia. Scarpa gives a plate of a hernia, with constriction of the sac in the scrotum, and points out the double swelling as marking the nature of the case. Lawrence mentions the case of a young man on whom he operated, in whom there was a very tight stricture midway between the testis and external ring, and where he had great difficulty in distinguishing the true nature of the lower swelling, the upper part of the sac having been opened first. Pott, Wris- berg, and Pelletau, all mention having met with similar cases ; but these differ from that which I have just detailed, inasmuch as they were all cases of congenital hernia, and the constriction in the middle of the sac was caused by the contraction marking the natural division of the tunica vagi- nalis from the general peritoneal sac. I consider this an important difl'er- ence in a practical point of view, because in these cases, although the sac would be constricted in an unusual position, and therefore render the nature of the case sufficiently puzzling, still the lower part would be of the same appearance as the upper portion, they would both present the usual ap- pearance of serous membrane, and thus the continuity of the upper and lower portions would be more readily recognised. Whereas, in the case I have described, the causes which had given rise to the constriction in the sac had also effected alteration of structure in that part of it below the stricture, and thus gave rise to greater embarrassment in the operation. What these causes were, and how they had acted in producing these effects, are, I think, obvious from the history of the case. The man, when first affected with a small inguinal hernia, had worn a truss, and continued its use for many years. The effect which this would have by its continued pressure in causing constriction of the neck of the small sac, where it lay opposite the external ring, and also in condensing and altering the struc- ture of its whole surface generally, will, I think, be readily admitted. After a time, the use of the truss was discontinued, and the result was, that a larger hernial protrusion took place, not entering into the original sac, owing to the narrowness of its opening at the contracted neck, but carrying along with it a fresh portion of peritoneum, and pushing the small sac down before it into the scrotum. So long as matters remained in this state, the patient could always reduce it himself ; but on this one unfortunate occasion, a part of the bowel had passed through the contracted part into the lower division of the sac (or into what was the sac of the original small hernia). This was the state of parts when the operation was performed. The upper part of the sac was opened, and part of the intestines returned, when a small tumour was brought into view closely connected with the scrotum ; and now came the embarrassment, for there was no appearance of continuity between this and the superior part of the sac, owing to the tightness of the contraction ; it was also totally different in appearance, and to the touch. Here, I think, it will be allowed that this was much more embarrassing than the cases of congenital hernia, where the lower part, orCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1405 tunica vaginalis, unaltered in structure, would be more easily recognised, and where, from the relative position of the testicle, further assistance in diagnosis might be gained. Indeed, I confess, that the only thing which decided my action in this case, was the practical consideration, that what- ever the thick fleshy substance surrounding the intestine might be, it was evidently strangulating it, and therefore equally evident that its constrict- ing edges must be divided to relieve the strangulation. We now consider those points in the case which may assist us in our diagnosis, and regulate our operative measures in similar cases. The dia- gnostic marks of most value, were those derived from examination of the swelling, and the feeling of it when trying to reduce it by taxis; for, although it presented at first sight the usual uniform appearance of a large scrotal hernia, yet a small " hard lump" could be felt at its lower part, distinct from the rest, and on attempting reduction, all the contents of the sac could be returned, except this " lump," which the patient, who had hitherto been in the habit of reducing the swelling himself, at once stated he had never felt there before. Attention to these points, connecting them with the history of the case already mentioned under the former head, when speaking of the position and peculiarities of the stricture on the sac, would I think lead the surgeon to discover the true character of the case, before proceeding to operate ; and then the question arises. How should such knowledge modify our plan of operation ? Should we cut down upon the small swelling at the lower part of the scrotum, divide the constricted part of the sac, and reduce the bowel, without interfering with the upper division of the sac at all ? I do not think this would be a very judicious plan ; for, in the first place, the lower part of the scrotum is not the most favourable place for incisions ; and, further, we may have obstacles to the reduction of the hernia situated higher up, and if we require to divide them also, then our incision would extend through nearly the whole length of the scrotum, up to the inguinal ring, a thing always to be avoided. I shoidd, for my own part, if I altered my mode at all, in a similar case, reduce as much as possible of the hernia, before proceeding to the operation, and this would bring the irreducible portion, or smaller division of the sac, up towards the inguinal region and upper part of the scrotum, and then the incisions might be made in the usual manner ; only we must recollect that the contents of the larger or superior division of the sac having been reduced, the smaller or lower portion would necessarily become invaginated within it, so that more than one layer of serous membrance would be divided before the strangulated intestine would be exposed. Case II.—Scrotal Hernia, apparently reduced by Taxis. Small Hernial Tumour felt at Upper Part of Canal ; Operation; Death. Mr. C, eet. 85, was seized with the symptoms of strangulated hernia on the 23d December 1853. He was seen by Dr. Cruickshank of North Berwick, who found a large scrotal hernia which the patient stated he had had for upwards of twenty years, but that it had never troubled him, as he could always reduce it. Dr. C. returned the tumour apparently by theREGIONAL SURGERY. 1406 taxis, but tlie symptoms still continuing, he asked me to meet him to exa- mine the case. I visited the patient on the afternoon of the 27th, and found him restless and suffering from hiccough. I was informed that the vomit- ing had not been so bad for some hours, and that he had had a slight motion of the bowels after an enema. The abdomen was tense and painful to the touch ; there was, however, no distinct appearance of hernial swelling, but merely a general fulness from great development of fat on both inguinal regions. On examining the left side where the large scrotal hernia had existed, by passing my finger from below upwards along the cord, I thought I could detect a small swelling at the upper part of the canal. After again examining him, and feeling more satisfied as to the existence of the small swelling, I explained to his friends the necessity of an operation to afford him the only chance of relief, although, from his exhausted state and advanced age, the case was very unfavourable. He had previously suffered from acute rheumatism and asthma, and on trying to administer chloroform it so depressed his pulse that its use could not be continued. An incision was made, beginning well over the position of the deep ring and carried down for about 2^ or 3 inches. A very great depth of fat required to be divided in order to reach the tendon of the external oblique. I then slit up the tendon from the external ring so as to expose the canal, and when this was done I brought into view a small hernial tumour, about the size of a walnut, constricted at the deep ring. The sac was cautiously opened as there was no fluid in it. The bowel was found very red and granular, but not very dark, and it presented no appearance of gangrene. The constriction was then divided directly upwards. I next gently drew down the gut to examine it immediately above the stricture, when I found a small firm band of lymph constricting it within the sac. This I also divided, then readily returned the bowel, and dressed and bandaged the wound in the usual manner. I did not see the patient again, but I learned from Dr. Cruickshank that after a temporary relief, the symptoms of vomiting and hiccough returned with abdominal tenderness, and the patient gradually sank and died on the 30th of December. Bemarhs.—In this case, the doubt as to the existence of any portion of hernia being down, together with a deceptive remission of the symptoms, rendered it much more difficult to decide as to operating. The hernia, originally a large scrotal one, had been reduced by Dr. Cruickshank, with a distinct gurgling sound, of which the patient was sensible. There was also for a day some remission of the symptoms, and a slight stool. These circumstances, taken in conjunction with the absence of any apparent swelling in the inguinal region, when compared with that of the opposite side, or by examining the surface of the abdomen with the fingers, seemed to prove that the hernia hadCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1407 been reduced, and from its large size, it could not have been reduced " en bloc." On tbe other hand, though there had been some remission of vomiting, still there was not that relief which follows complete reduction by taxis. There were the quick pulse, hiccup, clammy sweats, abdominal tenderness, tympanitis, and occasional vomiting on taking liquids ; and the mere remission of the vomiting is by no means uncommon in cases of strangulated hernia. The most deceptive symptom to my view was the charac- ter of the stool; it was scanty but liquid and bilious-looking, as if from the upper part of the intestinal canal; and this, in conjunc- tion with the statement that several distending enemata had been given, which came away without any fseculent matter, whilst the thin stool had been passed after the patient had taken some medicine by the mouth, I confess somewhat staggered my decision at first, but after several careful examinations of the dilated inguinal canal by my finger introduced along the cord, I was sure I felt a small swelling very deep, and too tense to be merely a part of the sac, and therefore, after explaining the necessity of giving the patient a chance of relief, I operated, and as it proved, the state of matters justified my decision. In a younger person, there would have been less room for hesitation, because in such a case the mere incision, even supposing no hernia had been found, would not have been dangerous. Besides the difficulties of diagnosis, there is another point of interest in Mr. C 's case, the peculiar cause of strangulation of the small knuckle of bowel. When the great mass of the hernial contents was reduced by taxis, what prevented the return of this small portion? Before operating, I thought it might depend on a double constriction in the sac, similar to that in the preceding case of P B . But on opening the sac, the true cause was explained by the presence of a band of lymph constricting the loop of bowel—in fact, an internal strangulation within the hernial sac, keeping the constricted portion distended, leading to its further strangulation by the neck of the sac at the deep ring, and so preventing reduction. The occurrence of such cases has sometimes been argued against the extra-peritonealREGIONAL SURGERY. 1408 operation for hernia, as it has been said that we cannot be certain in any case that such an internal constriction may not be present. But if we pay attention to the rule to make sure of being able to return the contents of the sac without forcible pressure, and take care not to push the sac and its contents back en masse, we may feel satisfied there is no such constriction. For although in this case not only all constriction external to the sac was divided, but even the neck of the sac itself, the knuckle of bowel still remained tense, and could only have been reduced by forcible pressure, if at all, and therefore I believe that the objection is groundless, inasmuch as division of the textures external to the sac would not permit of reduction, and thus the surgeon would be neces- sitated to open the sac, and so recognise the true nature of the case. Case III.—Femoral Hernia. Irregular Obturator Artery Constricting the Intestine. In the history of this case I have purposely been most parti- cular in detailing minutely every point connected with the operation, so that the practice resorted to, the reasons for its adoption, and the remarks which follow, may be perfectly understood. Archibald H—, set. 49, the subject of the present communication, had been under treatment in the medical wards of the Infirmary for some time, on account of severe chronic bronchitis, and skin-disease. He had suffered from femoral hernia for many years, which he had always hitherto been able to reduce by taxis, although often with considerable difliciilty. On the even- ing of the 17th of March, I was reqiiested by the resident physician to see the patient, as the hernia had come down suddenly about six hours previously, during a fit of coughing, was of larger size than usual, and had resisted the efforts made to reduce it, whilst vomiting, together with pain and tension in the swelling, had supervened. The resident physician informed me that he had tried the taxis as on former occasions, and that failing, it had also been fully tried whilst the patient was under chloroform by one of the resident surgeons, but without success ; I learnt, moreover, that the patient had been making constant but unavailing efforts to reduce it himself. I found him vomiting, complaining of pain in the abdomen, and with an anxious expression of countenance. The hernia, which was a femoral one, about the size of a large orange, was tense, and painful on pressure. I had him put under the iafluence of chloroform, and judging from the state of theCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1409 swelling and the previous efforts for reduction, that it would be better not to persist too much in the taxis, merely made a slight trial, and failing in that, proceeded to operate. I divided the integuments over the hernia, as I usually do, by a T incision, but owing to the depth of the fat, and the bulk of the tumour, converted it into a crucial incision to gain more room. The superficial fascia having been divided so as to expose the tumour, it was seen to be of a somewhat irregular form on the surface. On drawing the body of the swelling downwards, the falciform edge was seen, with the neck of the hernia very deeply situated. The fasciae immediately covering the sac were next cautiously cut through, and a small flat director was in- sinuated beneath the margin of the falciform edge, which was notched with the bistoury sufficiently to enable me to use the point of my finger to guide the knife in dividing the deeper constriction. On pressing my finger upwards, I became sensible of the indistinct pulsation of a vessel close to the constric- tion, and, therefore, only made a very slight notch upwards and inwards, and another directly upwards, so as to divide the stricture at two points of its circumference. This enabled me to get the point of niy finger so far below the crural arch as to push the vessel upwards and divide the arch to a sufficient extent to allow of the reduction of an ordinary hernia. I then scratched through a few fibres lying immediately on the neck of the sac, and attempted reduction without opening it, but unsuccessfully. I made the less efi"ort to do this, as the hernial contents, as seen through the thin sac, seemed exceedingly dark and tense. I therefore opened the sac, and gave vent to a quantity of dark bloody serum, and exposed a portion of in- testine (the coecum), tense, and almost black from ecchymosis. Anxious to avoid, as far as possible, any further pressure on the bowel, I again enlarged the division of the ring sufficiently to enable me to introduce my finger, and also to draw down and examine the portion of intestine immediately above the stricture: I now found the contents of the sac to consist of the ccecum and the lower portion of the ileum ; the latter was at once easily- reduced, but the ccEcimi, from its form and connections, could not be so readily returned, and as, on examining it, I found a small portion of its peritoneal and muscular coats had been lacerated by the attempts at taxis, I thought it safest to make a still freer opening by dividing Poupart's liga- ment completely. "With this view the cord was drawn upwards with a blunt hook, and I carefully dissected through the lower part of the tendon of the external oblique in a line corresponding to the centre of the femoral ring. Having fairly divided the superimposed textures, I found that there ■was still some constriction higher up preventing the gut being returned, and which kept it tense. On passing my finger up, I felt a tight cord-like substance encircling the hernia external to the sac, and recollecting the vessel I had felt pulsating, I at once concluded this must be the irregular obturator, whilst from the bulk, distension and state of the protruded gut, it was equally evident this constricting cord must be divided to permit safe reduction. Accordingly, keeping the finger of my left hand within the guide to the constricting vessel, I used the forefinger of my right hand so as hook it down, and brought it distinctly into view. The vessel was tied with two ligatures, and divided between them, the gut reduced, and the wound dressed and bandaged in the usiial way. I ordered an opiate to be given, and directed leeches to be applied at1410 REGIONAL SURGERY. once, in case any symptoms of peritonitis supervened. Next day the pulse had risen to 120, and there was pain in the abdomen, and vomiting. Fifteen leeches were applied, and a pill, composed of 2 grs. of calomel and J gr. of opium, was given every foivr hours. On the 20th, the abdominal tenderness and the vomiting were less, but as the bowels had not yet been moved, an assafcetida enema was administered, this produced no satisfactory evacuations ; a large distending enema on the 21st also failed to open the bowels, a dose of castor oil was therefore given on the evening of the 2 2d, and, on the morning of the 23d, after another large enema of warm water, a very considerable fseculent evacuation took place, with great relief. On the 24th his general appearance was better, the pulse had fallen to 100, and the abdominal tenderness now complained of was confined to the lower part of the abdomen, and evidently due to inflammation, and thi'eatened suppuration in the abdominal parietes. He could retain food without vomiting, and was ordered chicken soup and some port wine. He was weaker and restless on the 26th. There was considerable pain and tension at one part of the abdominal parietes, and it was thought advisable to make an incision, in case of purulent matter being confined ; but the incision, though carried deeply, did not open any purulent collection. A poultice was directed to be applied. The patient continued much the same till towards the morning of the 27th, when he became worse, sank rather suddenly, and died at 11 a.m. Post-mortem Examination.—On opening the abdomen, there were found the marks of acute peritonitis, but in a great measui-e limited to the right iliac and pelvic regions ; lymph was effused upon the surface of the in- testines, and there was a small quantity of turbid serum in the pelvis. The ccecum had regained nearly its normal position and appearance, re- taining only slight traces of ecchymosis ; the abraded part of its peritoneal and muscular coats, however, was as distinct as when first seen during the operation, and no attempts at plastic reparation seemed to have taken place ; the lower parts of the ileum were also free, except a portion about three inches in length, which was thickened, and adherent to the parietal peri- toneum in the neighbourhood of the wound. Before making any further dissection, I inserted a pipe into the right common iliac artery, and threw in some injection to distend the vessels, so as to be able to examine them more carefully afterwards. On examining the swollen parts of the abdominal parietes, the muscular tissue was found generally thickened, and of a dense brawn-like consistence ; whilst the substance of the rectus and oblique muscles was studded with niimerous small collections of pus of a dirty grey colour, and which seemed infiltrated into their texture, not escaping readily when the collections were opened. There was also a considerable diff'use abscess in the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue on the right side of the bladder, at some distance from the wound. The parts more immediately concerned in the operation were re- moved for further examination. On careful dissection, I found, as might have been expected from the lapse of time, that the parts were considerably matted by plastic efi'usion. On dissecting from without, I found the whole of the falciform process, together with the lower border of the tendon of the external oblique, fairly divided, and the spermatic cord and its investments laid bare, leaving.Plate mil HERNIA.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1411 even after the contraction consequent on the healing process, a very free opening. Dissecting from within, I found the epigastric artery of a large size, and the obturator arising from it; this latter vessel was obliterated to some ex- tent, and diminished in size, from the effects of the ligature. The ligature on its proximal end had not separated, that on the distal end had ; but the injection had entered the distal portion by the anastomosing vessels, so that the course of the artery round the opening through which the hernia passed, can be readily traced in the preparation ; a sketch of which is siibjoined (see Plate Iviii.) It arises from the epigastric before that vessel has ascended on the parietes, creeps slightly upwards on the outer side of the femoral ring, then cxirves closely around its upper border, and finally descends along its inner side to gain the obturator foramen, so as to en- circle the opening at all points available for division with the knife. I learn from Mr. Edwards, one of the demonstrators in the University, that the artery was also irregular on the opposite side,—where the epigastric arose from the common femoral, passed upwards in front of the femoral vein, and, on reaching the abdominal parietes, gave off the obturator so as to surround the upper part of the crural ring ; unfortunately, however, the dissection has not been preserved. Remarks.—This case is, I believe, unique in one respect, being, as far as I can learn, tlie only one in which the presence of the artery has been ascertained during the operation, and avoided in incising the ordinary seat of constriction ; whilst its ligature and division were ultimately necessitated, from the vessel itself being the obstacle to reduction. But I think it principally worthy of being detailed, as it seems to me to show practically, that, in cases of femoral hernia, where the irregular vessel exists, its presence may be ascertained, and the constricting portion of the crural ring may be sufficiently divided to admit of reduction, without M'ounding the irregular vessel, if certain precautions be adopted; and, secondly, when complications may necessitate or endanger its division, it shows that the vessel may be tied, and what the plan of procedure in such cases ought to be. First, then, as to the risk and chance of avoiding injury in ordinary cases of femoral hernia. I will not enter into anatomical details further than to say that there are three different positions in which we find the obturator artery placed, in relation to the femoral ring, when it arises by a common trunk with the epigastric—viz., 1st, Descend-REGIONAL SURGERY. 1412 ing closely applied upon the external iliac vein, to reach the obturator foramen, and hence lying to the outside of, or behind and to the outside of, a femoral hernia, and therefore out of all risk of injury during the operation. 2(f, Passing down from the epigastric towards the obturator foramen—further removed from the vein, so as to divide the femoral ring into two sections, in which case it might be either pushed aside, or stretched in front of a hernial protrusion, or, as in a case described by the late Mr. Allan Burns, have two small hernial protrusions, one on either side of it. 3c?, The artery arising from the epigastric passes up- wards, then curves round the upper, and descends along the inner margin of the femoral ring to gain the obturator foramen, so as to encircle a hernia passing out at the femoral opening, in all the directions available for incision. It is to this last irregularity I would at present direct attention. As regards the statistics of this form of irregularity, there is considerable discrepancy, some authorities, as Mr. Quain, stating it at nearly 1 in 10 ; Velpeau, 1 in 15 ; and Monro, 1 in 20 or 25. It is evident, however, that practically, no matter how rare or frequent such an irregularity may be, the surgeon can never predict in what case he may meet with it, and is therefore bound to act in every case with the same caution as if it were present. This arterial irregularity, as coincident with a femoral hernia, must be, of course, still more rare, yet there are several such cases on record. There is a preparation in the Barclay department of the Museum of the Edinburgh College of Surgeons, showing such a coincidence ; and the late Mr. Liston had one in his museum. In at least two cases the artery has been wounded during the operation for strangulated femoral hernia : once in a case oper- ated on by Baron Dupuytren, where its division was only dis- covered after the patient's death from other causes. The other case occurred to Mr. Skey of St. Bartholomew's ; in it the bleed- ing was profuse at the time, the lower end of the artery was tied, the upper could not be secured, but bleeding was arrested by other means, for the patient only died some days afterwards.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1413 from the effects of a drastic purgative given by mistake. Lastly, in a case which occurred to the late Dr. Eichard Mackenzie, it vi'as found, on the patient's death some weeks after the operation, that the irregular obturator had encircled the neck of the sac, but had escaped division. (See woodcut at p. 1207.) Now, these cases show that the artery has been accident- ally cut, and also accidentally avoided ; but the case I have re- corded goes a step farther, for it shows that the surgeon, by pro- ceeding cautiously, and feeling with the pulp of his finger before dividing the constriction formed by the deeper or higher portion of the crural arch, may detect the presence of the irregular vessel, and then, by cautiously notching the constriction, to a very slight extent, at two points of its circumference, he will gain room sufficient to enable him, either with his nail or the point of a small flat director, to push the artery out of the way, while he divides the stricture more fiilly. By following this plan, I was enabled to relieve the constric- tion, so far as to draw down and examine the intestines contained in the sac, and readily to reduce the portion of the ileum, so that, under ordinary circumstances, no further incision would have been necessary, and the vessel would have remained intact. Of course, if the operator holds the opinion that the whole thickness of the crural arch, including Poupart's ligament, ought to be divided in every case, then the irregular vessel runs a much greater risk than if he limits his incision to the division of that portion of the arch formed by the convergence of the abdominal fasciae, below Poupart's ligament, which immediately constricts the sac, and which is all that I have almost ever found it necessary to divide in cases of femoral hernia. Secondly. The case, however, shows that certain complications, occurring in a femoral hernia where the irregular obturator artery was present, might render it necessary to divide the surrounding textures so freely, for the purpose of reducing the protrusion, that there would be very great risk of wounding the vessel; or that, from the artery tightly surrounding the protrusion, it may ab- solutely req^uire to be divided, as itself an obstacle to reduction :REGIONAL SURGERY. 1414 And this leads us to the consideration of what these complica- tions are, and how such difficulties may be best met and overcome. Though I have mentioned the irregularity of the obturator artery as being an obvious and serious complication in the case, it was by no means that which gave rise to the greatest difficulty; —indeed, from my remarks under the first head, it may be seen, that I hold that, except for the other conditions of the hernia, the irregular vessel would not have given rise to much difficulty, or been in much danger of being wounded. The real difficulty which complicated the operation was, I think, the bulky and irregular form of the protruded ccecum ; its comparatively fixed position, by its peritoneal a,ttachments, near the site of the femoral opening; and its posterior cellular con- nections, not allowing it to slip back like a portion of the floating intestine; and last, not least, the state of the bowel, from the previous attempts at the taxis, forbidding all further pressure or manipulation that could possibly be avoided. The form and connections of the ccecum always render its reduction slow and gradual, even under more favourable circum- stances, where the bowel can safely bear moderate compression, and where the constricting textures have been very freely divided,—as I found in a case of inguinal coecal hernia, on which I operated some months ago, where there was no limitation to making the incision of the constriction very free indeed ; and I have also seen the same difficulty, though to a much less degree, in cases where the sigmoid flexure of the colon formed the con- tents of inguinal herniae. In femoral hernia, however, where our incisions must, in general, be much more limited, and, especially, when we have ascertained the presence of an irregular artery round the upper part of the ring, the causes of difficulty I have alluded to become very embarrassing, and require us to adopt great caution in dividing the constricting textures. It was the eccentric pressure of the bulky distended g-ut which brought it into contact with structures which do not ordinarily form the seat of stricture, and in this way the irregular artery, draggedCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1415 and stretched to the utmost by the distended portion of the coecum, had come to form a cord-like constriction upon it, re- quiring division before the bowel could be returned. As to the plan to be adopted in such cases of femoral hernia, requiring such free incisions to relieve the bowel, I can only say that, after much consideration of this case, I would still proceed to divide the superimposed textures by the same method—viz., by dissecting cautiously through the lower division of the tendon of the external oblique, and the other textures, down to the peri- toneum, in a line corresponding to the centre of the femoral ring, the cord being drawn aside. Thus aU danger of wounding the artery accidentally is avoided, and if it be found itself constrict- ing the swelling, it will not be found very difliciilt to bring it into view and put ligatures upon it. This plan is that which Sir Astley Cooper recommended as safest and best in all cases of large femoral hernia; and although I cannot think, after some experience in femoral hernise, that it is either necessary or advisable as a general plan, it will be found the safest in complicated cases requiring more than usually extensive incisions ; it is, in fact, a cautious dis- section down upon the upper part of the sac, or the parietal peritoneum immediately above and continuous with it, and if carefully conducted, is attended neither with difficulty nor danger. IV.—Group of Cases of Hernia. (From Clinical Eeport for 1860-1.) 1. Mary Stark, set. 43. A femoral hernia first came down ten days previous to admission. Taxis twice applied by her medical attendant ; bowels bad not been opened up to the date of her admission into hospital, when she was suffering from well-marked symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia. The operation was immediately performed, and the bowel was found perfectly black, with greyish patches, and had a distinctly gangrenous odour. The constriction being divided, the bowel was not returned into the abdominal cavity. An opiate was administered, and a poultice applied to the wound. Ordered calomel and opivmi pills every fourth hour. Bowels opened next day. Patient died on the third day after admission. 2. Janet Dalziel, set. 71. Strangulated femoral hernia. Symptoms existed for five days. Sac opened. Bowel returned. Cured.1416 REGIONAL SURGERY. 3. Catherine Reilley, set. 32. Strangulated femoral hernia. Down thirty-six hours. Sac opened. Bowel returned. Cured. 4. Mrs. Notmau. Had been troubled with an oblique inguinal hernia for six years, which, however, was always readily reduced, with the excep- tion of a small part which never could be kept up. On the day previous to admission into hospital it had again come down, and she had experienced severe twisting pain in the umbilical region, together with nausea and vomiting, which, on the following day, became stercoraceous, when she was at once sent to hospital. On examination it was found that, in addition to the hernial protrusion of left side, there existed directly over the crural canal of the right side a hard, isolated, prominent, and well-defined swell- ing, ahout the size of a walnut, which patient stated had commenced a year ago, and gradually enlarged. The protrusion on the opposite side could be easily returned within the external ring ; but doubts being entertained as to its complete reduction, it was cut down upon, and a constriction was found to exist at tlie upper part of the canal. The bowel was returned, and a distending injection given immediately after the operation, which brought away a large quantity of bilious-looking feeces. Hernial symptoms were now quite relieved ; but the patient suffered from severe bronchitis, and for some years past she had been affected with cancer of the os yteri. The hernial wound healed rapidly ; but the patient died three months afterwards from the cancer of the womb and bronchitis. 5. Janet Patterson, set. 40. Strangulated femoral hernia. Down thirty-six hours. Sac opened. Bowel claret-coloured, but not gangrenous. Cured. 6. Catherine Duncan, aet. 34, wife of gardener, Loanhead. Femoral hernia. Admitted 30th September. Hernia frequently down during the fifteen months before admission. For a month before admission almost continuously down. About 7 o'clock on 30th September bowels were moved. At 8 o'clock felt pain in lower part of abdomen. At this time the tumour had increased to the size of a pigeon's egg. She became sick and vomited phlegm. Never felt twisting sensation at umbilicus. She, along with a female friend, persevered for nearly two hours in trying to reduce the swelling. It then became as large as a small hen's egg. At 1 o'clock, Mr. Spence tried the taxis. Ordered a distending injection, and cold to be applied to tumour. No fseces came with injection. At 6.30 p.m. Mr. Spence operated. The bowel very black, but no gangrenous odour. It was returned, and the wound closed. After the operation, everything pro- ceeded favourably, except that some irritation caused by flatulence existed during the first few days. Congenital Inguinal Hernia. 7. Charles Mason, set. 19, was admitted on the 4th October last, labouring under a strangulated congenital hernia. The hernia had come down suddenly that morning ; and after its descent he had suffered from severe pain in the swelling, tenderness of abdomen, and vomiting. Previous to admission, antimonials had been given, and the taxis twice tried under chloroform. On admission, after a distending enema had been administered, and cold applied to the swelling, the patient was put under chloroform,CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1417 and the operation performed. About a foot of small intestine of a deep chocolate colour was found in the sac, and returned. A large opiate was ordered. Post-mortem appearances.—About a foot of bowel quite black and sup- purating on the serous surface. Submucous tissue highly congested. Femoral Hernia. Extra-Peritoneal Operation. 8. Helen Steele, set. 36. On admission, stated that she had been afflicted with a hernia for the last ten years, and that she always wore a truss, but neglected on Sunday morning to apply it. About 9 a.m. she suddenly felt a severe pain ui the right groin, and found that she was not able to reduce the swelling as she usually could do. A surgeon was called in, whose efforts to reduce it by taxis, without the aid of chloroform, were imavailing. She came to the Infirmary about 7.30 p.m. Mr. Spence performed the extra-peritoneal operation, and the patient made a very rapid recovery. Remarks on the Cases of Hernia.—The group of cases presented in this Report is of very considerable interest, for it furnishes, in small compass, examples of some of the most important conditions met with in strangu- lated hernia, and the plan of treatment adapted for each. The first case, that of Mary Stark, is an example of the bad effects of delay, permitting the incarceration to proceed to complete strangulation and gangrene. The case, in fact, had been treated for constipation in the first instance, and active purgatives administered before the hernia was dis- covered. Then the taxis was tried ineffectually. I was then requested to see the patient, and urged her to have the operation performed ; but both she and her friends refused, and another day was lost before she came into hospital. Her condition was then very hopeless ; her pulse was weak and intermitting, and she had stercoraceous vomiting and constant hiccup ; but as the operation was the only chance for life, I performed it. After the division of the stricture I drew down the gangrenous portion, but did not open it till after some hours, when lymph had become effused ; so as to dimiuish the risk of extravasation of fseces into the abdomen. I then opened it freely, and there were fseculent evacuations both by the wound and by the anus. The operation afforded great relief to the general symptoms, the vomiting ceased, and the pulse became firmer for a time ; but this reaction soon ceased, and she gradually sank. I believe, from the slow progress of the symptoms, that had this patient been operated on even a few days earlier, there can be little doubt the result would have been as favourable as in the case of Mrs. Dalziel; and I think medical men can hardly be too much impressed with the necessity for careful examination, in all cases of obstinate constipation, lest a hernia be overlooked. The reason I did not at once open the gangrenous part of the intestine arose from having observed that in cases where this has been done immediately, the patients often sink very rapidly, with great increase of abdominal pain; and I believe this is due to some of the thin faeculent matter oozing back through the divided constriction into the abdomen. Freely dividing the constriction, drawing down the gangrenous part, and applying warm-water dressing, or1418 REGIONAL SURGERY. a soft poultice, for a few hours before opening the gut, diminish this risk; and I have for some time adopted this in my practice as a general rule. The cases 2 and 5 were cases in both of which the strangulated intes- tine had suffered to the extent of threatened gangrene in the protruded knuckle. In the case of Mrs. Dalziel, an old woman above 70, the rupture had been down five days, but as the symptoms did not become urgent till thirty hours before admission, she had not applied for medical aid. In Patterson's case, the symptoms had proceeded rapidly, and become very urgent in less than thirty hours. In both, the small portion of intestine in the sac was tightly constricted, of a dark claret colour, and mottled with grey spots ; but the intestine above the constriction was healthy, and not distended or inflamed. In cases of this kind I adopt the practice I followed in these cases, viz., of dividing the stricture very freely, gently replacing the intestine within the margin of the ring, but leaving the dark part visible, and the woimd open, and merely placing a fold of lint soaked in warm water over the wound, retained by a single turn of a bandage. Thus, if sphacelation or ulceration of the dark portion of the gut does occur, the faeces pass out at the wound, and this gradually diminishes, and ultimately the faeculent fistula closes completely ; whilst in other cases the gut regains its vitality when the stricture has been relieved, and the case, as in the instance of Mrs. Dalziel, goes on uninterruptedly to a cure by contraction and granulation. In most cases, if a fteculent fistula is to form, it begins to show itself between the sixth and eighth day ; but in Patterson, the wound, though carefully watched and dressed, in expectation of a fistula forming, seemed to heal well, though slowly, and after eight weeks she left the hospital wearing a truss. Some weeks afterwards a small abscess formed, and then small quantities of thin fseces occasionally passed ; but now the fistula is almost entirely healed. I have never seen that condition occur so long after the operation in any other case, and I think it is most likely that the pressure of the truss not carefully applied had caused irri- tation and abscess under the cicatrix, which may have perforated the adjacent bowel. Mrs. Notman's case (4) is a very instructive one, as exhibiting the diffi- culties which often complicate our diagnosis in cases of hernia ; and as it ■was impossible in the abstract of the case to give a full idea of these, I think it well to draw attention to them. The abstract of her case states briefly the facts observed on admission, viz., that along with symptoms of strangulation, there existed in the left inguinal region a cyst-like swelling, globular, and not painful, easily pushed back witliiu the lower part of the canal, but reappearing whenever the pressure was removed. She stated that this swelling was always present, but that sometimes a larger swelling came down ; all that could be felt high up in the canal was an undefined hard- ness near the deep ring. In the right inguino-fenioral region there existed a swelling about the size of a walnut, hard, but elastic at the most prominent part, tender to the touch, and occupying exactly the position of a femoral hernia. Looking at these local conditions in conjunction with the symptoms, everything would have favoured the idea that the swelling in the femoral region was most likely to be the seat of strangulation. Fortunately, how- ever, I knew something of her case ; for about a year previously she had consulted me about the swelling in the right groin, supposing it was aCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1419 rupture. The stony hardness of the tumour at that time, and the general cachectic look of the woman, left no doubt on my mind that it was a cancer- ous gland, probably connected with malignant disease of the uterus ; which opinion was confirmed by examination with the speculum, showing decided cancerous affection of the os uteri. Hence, when I now felt the elastic swelling, I at once concluded that the elasticity was due to the progress of softening, and not to any portion of gut jDrotruded behind the swelling. But, on the other hand, there was little doubt in my mind that the round cyst- like swelling did not contain strangulated intestine, for there was no con- tinuous neck to be felt: it was quite defined and globular. The hardness and tenderness at the position of the deep inguinal ring was what appeared to me the suspicious point. I accordingly explained to the students present that I would cut down upon and lay open the inguinal canal, and expose the deep ring fully, in hopes of finding a portion of strangulated intestine there, but that if nothing was found there, then I would (liowever unwill- ing) consider it my duty to cut down upon the cancerous mass in the femoral region, in case a small hernia might have descended and be strangu- lated behind it, as the urgent symptoms were unmistakably those of strangulation. On laying ojjen the left inguinal canal, I found, as I suspected, a very small knuckle of intestine, tightly constricted by the neck of the sac, the constriction appearing to proceed upwards within the deep ring; this was cautiously divided, and the gut gently examined and returned. I now found the globular cyst lying loose in the lower part of the canal, and on tracing the opened sac downwards, I found it had evidently at one time formed a part of it, as, though I could not press out the contents of the cyst, there was a minute opening of communication which admitted an Anel's probe. I laid the cyst freely open and evacu- ated its serous contents, and then dressed the patient in the usual manner. The line of practice followed in this case seems to me the proper treat- ment under similar circumstances. I think it important always to bear in mind, that although we may from previous knowledge be sure that a tumour (such as that in the right groin in this case) occupying the position of hernia is really glandular or cystic, yet, if at any time symptoms of strangulation occur, we should recollect the possibility of hernial descent taking place behind it, and act accordingly. The case of the lad Mason is valuable as illustrative of the dangers peculiar to the congenital form of inguinal hernia, and also as it serves to direct attention to some dangers connected with the treatment resorted to, to facilitate reduction by taxis. The cases of Reilley, Duncan, and Steele (3, 6, and 8) were ordinary cases of strangulated femoral hernia, where the strangulation had not existed very long. In the first two the sac was opened, because from the one hernia having been down thirty-six hours, and the other having been sub- jected to violent attempts at reduction by the patient and her neighbours, I had doubts as to the state of the contents of the sac. Whilst in the last case, that of Mi s. Steele, the hernia being quite recent, no imdue violence having been used, and the constriction evidently caused by the textures external to the sac, there was no reason for doing more than dividinglhese, emptying the sac of its contents, and then invaginating it. 4 z1420 REGIONAL SURGERY. DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Case of Intestinal Obstruction—Gastrotomy. Margaret Nicholson, set. 66, single, stocking-worker. Admitted into Bed 1, Ward XI. (medical), Royal Infirmary, March 22d, 1871. Jlistorxj of Present Illness.—About seven weeks ago patient got a mix- ture for her cough, which had the effect of causing constipation. Her bowels gradually became so torjjid that they were never moved above once a-week, and then only by the use of laxatives. A fortnight previous to her admission aperients failed to relieve the bowels, and the patient began to get sick and vomit. Three days ago her abdomen began to swell, and the vomiting became constant. Vomitings were not faecal. During this fortnight she has had constant desire to empty the bowel, biit nothing came away but a slimy mucus. The patient had previously suffered from prolapsus uteri, for which an operation was performed by Dr. Keiller. Before the swelling of abdomen commenced, patient says she had a bulging out of the abdomen about the size of her two fists, just below and to the left of tlie lunbilicus. Condition.—On admission, March 2 2d, patient has not an anxious expression nor a cachectic look. Abdomen is swollen, especially below umbilicus, and in both inguinal and lumbar regions of both sides, slightly more in right than in left. Tenderness in right hypochondrium. No hard lump or tumour can be felt. The whole of the swelling is tympanitic, only the note is impaired in a space 1^ inch square, just below and to the left of the umbilicus. Treatment.—Enema of castor-oil, etc., was tried, but without effect. March 23c?.—Abdomen as above. Examination per rectum discovered a rounded firm mass projecting into the canal 2^ inches from the anus. Canal not blocked up ; finger can be passed beyond the tumour. Nothing felt higher up the rectum. Per vaginam, same tumour felt, but relations to uterus not determined upon. Uterus seemed displaced. March '24th.—Abdomen more distended in ccecal region, forming a pro- jection about size of cocoa-nut, which becomes difl'used into general swell- ing. Still tympanitic note, especially clear in course of large intestine, except in left lumbar region, which is not so markedly distended. Friction can be felt and heard in upper part of right lumber region. Great tender- ness there. Injection of water tried, but only 10 oz. could be thrown up. Repeated several times, but brought nothing away. Rectal bougie could only be passed for 4| inches. When entered 2| inches, it met with an obstacle, but this was passed by inclining its point backwards. March ■'Hbth.—Abdomen more distended. Ccecal swelling continues. Course of transverse colon distinct. Descending colon not so marked, and tliere is an absence of swelling both anteriorly and posteriorly at the site of splenic flexure of colon. Sigmoid flexure swollen and tjanpanitic.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1421 Professor Spence was called in. Examined the case, and confirmed previ- ous observations. Tried to pass a tube and inject water, but results ob- tained similar to those of former attempts. Recommended injections to be again tried, which M'as done, but without effect. March 26</i.—Professor Spence, Professor Sanders, and Dr. Watson consulted over the case. Colotomy in the left lumbar region posteriorly was suggested, but rejected on the ground of the absence of swelling at the splenic flexure, this raising the suspicion of an obstruction being at this point, or in the small intestine. Gastrotomy was determined upon, and performed by Professor Spence, with the assistance of Dr. Watson. Operation.—A clotli having been bound round the abdomen, with an opening in the central line, Mr. Spence made a longitudinal incision through the integuments in the line of the linea alba, beginning about an inch below the umbilicus, and continued downwards for about i\ inches. The textures were carefully divided down to the peritoneum, and, after the bleeding points had been secured, the peritoneum was opened along the line of the incision. On this being done there appeared a coil of convolutions of the small intestines, some of them distended and congested, others quite flaccid. Partly overlaj^jMng and pressing on this mass there appeared an ovarian cyst about the size of a small melon. The convolutions of intestine, on being relieved and drawn up from under the tumour, presented at several points the appearance as of recent adhesions, and one jjortion was dark, thickened, and granular on its peritoneal surface, similar to what we see in some cases of strangulated hernia. The flaccid convolutions were above this part. The ovarian cyst was punctured with a trocar and india-rubber tube, and the fluid drawn off, the pedicle transfixed and tied with double ligatures, and the tumour removed. On its removal, a cystic and partly solid tumour of the left ovary was felt in the pelvis, the solid portion in close relation to the upper part of the rectum, and having connections by old adhesions. It was now thought advisable to extend the incision upwards to ascertain fully the state of the colon, and, on this, being done, it was seen to be con- tracted, but not constricted beyond its splenic curve. The ovarian tumour on the left side was now gently drawn upwards, and its adhesions sepa- rated as carefully as possible, and the pedicle secured and divided. On removing the tumour, it was now found that the lower part of the colon, at its junction with the rectum, had been closely connected to the left ovarian tumour, and that there was a small aperture in its coats at the point where the adhesion had existed. The rectum was firmly tied below this aperture, and the gut divided and its open end brought to the surface. At first little or no fseculent matter came away, until, by uncoiling the small intestine and pressing the cCECum and transverse colon, the fteculent con- tents of the intestines began to pass along the gut. The cavity of the pelvis was then carefully washed out, the viscera replaced, and the wound closed, with the exception of the lower part, at which the divided colon was brought and its edges carefiilly secured to the integuments by continuous suture. A piece of oiled lint was placed around the opening, and the patient placed in a position to favour the escape of the faeculent matter. The woman, who was in a very exhausted state before the operation, rallied somewhat, but ultimafely sank about midnight.1422 REGIONAL SURGERY. Remarks.—This case exemplifies tlie difficulties of diagnosis, and the complications which occur in cases of internal intestinal obstruction, and which render gastrotomy such a doubtful pro- cedure. In this instance, whilst there were obvious causes of obstruction in the rectum, the principal obstruction was situated in the small intestines, and was caused by the coil of gut which had descended into the pelvis being so compressed between the two ovarian tumours, that irritation had been excited, and recent adhesions had occurred. Case of Rupture of the Urinary Bladder. (Eead before the Edinburgh Medico-Chh-urgical Society, 1860.) The following case of ruptured bladder seemed to me of suffi- cient interest for publication, as a contribution towards the illustration of a class of injuries in "which, as in the present instance, post-mortem examination not unfrequently reveals con- ditions which could scarcely have been predicted from the symptoms during life :— On tlie niglit of the lOtli December last, J. J., a healthy man, aged 32, had been supping with some friends, and, feeling his bladder much dis- tended, left for the purpose of making water. On going hurriedly down stairs, he slipped his foot and fell backwards with considerable force, the back of his head striking against one of the steps. He was found lying insensible, and was carried upstairs to the house he had just left, and laid on a bed. In the course of an hour, the effects of the concussion dimi- nished ; he became more conscious, was restless, and somewhat incoherent, constantly crying out he wanted to make water, and vainly attempting to do so. As this state continued, he was put into a cab and driven home to his own house ; and next morning (the 11th December 1859), his wife sent for Dr. Menzies, who visited him at 10 a.m. He was then quite sensible, but still unable to empty his bladder. Dr. Menzies passed a full- sized catheter easily, and drew otf nearly a chamber-potful of bloody urine, with great relief. He, however, complained of severe pain over the abdo- men, increased on pressure ; his pulse was hard and wiry ; and there was tj'mpanitic distension. Dr. Menzies bled him, to a slight extent, with considerable relief to the pain ; and as it appeared his bowels had been constipated for some days previously, an enema was ordered to be given. In the evening, Dr. Menzies again drew off a large quantity of iirine, much less bloody ; his bowels, however, had not acted, the tympanitis was in- creased, and he had occasional vomiting.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1423 I saw him on the morning of the 12th December, at Dr. Menzies's request. At that time the anxiolfs expression of his face, shrunk features, and sharp, irregular pulse, together with restlessness, frequent vomiting of greenish fluid, and hiccup, taken in connection with the history of his case, left no doubt on my mind that rujjture of the bladder had taken place. I introduced a No. 12 catheter easily; but as Dr. Menzies had shortly before drawn off his urine, there was very little in the bladder, and it was slightly bloody. As he suffered greatly from the distension of the bowels, another enema and a purgative by the mouth had been admin- istered ; and I recommended that, after the bowels had acted, the use of opiates should be commenced, and directed a sinapism to be applied over the epigastrium to relieve the vomiting. Next day I found him easier ; the bowels had acted freely, with complete relief to the pain and tym- panitis, so that he could bear pressure over any part of the belly. There was still small, quick pulse, the anxiety of countenance remained, and vomiting and hiccup continued, although much less frequent than before. The urine which had been drawn off was in large quantity, perfectly clear, and free from the slightest sediment or muddiuess. The opiates were ordered to be continued ; and he was directed to have a little wine, and some essence of beef for diet. On the 14th, I found he had passed a very restless night, and he seemed much weaker ; the pain, vomiting, and hiccup had diminished, but the expression of the face was very anxious. Tlie urine which had been drawn ofl' was copious in quantity, and quite clear. The treatment was continued, with the exception of a little brandy in place of wine, as the latter turned acid on his stomach. During the 15th he became rapidly worse, the vomiting and hiccup recurred with increased intensity, and he gradually sank, and died at half-past seven p.m. of that day. Post-mortem Examination.—On opening the abdomen, the large intes- tine was found contracted, the small intestines and omentum were rather more congested than naturally ; but the peritoneal surfaces presented the usual smooth, glistening appearance. Tliere was no marked vascularity either of the parietal or visceral peritoneum ; its surfaces seemed more bedewed with serous secretion tlian usual, although this did not amount to serous effusion. There were no adhesions, and only a very few minute flakes of lymph towards the epigastric region. On looking at the hypo- gastric region, the bladder was seen to be contracted (the urine having been drawn oft' shortly before the patient's death) ; and, on observing the- viscus as it lay in situ, it presented the apj)earance of a rent at the posterior aspect of its superior fundus, apparently not larger than half an inch in length, its peritoneal investment, as well as its proper coats, having given way ; the margins of the rent were in close contact, so that it looked like a mere fissure. A little turbid urinous fluid, and some folds of small intestine, occupied the inferior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum ; but no fluctuation or distension could be detected on examination by the finger in the rectum. On removing the bladder and examining it carefully, I found the rent of its coats to be much more extensive than it seemed to be when seen in position in the body, as it was now found to measure about two iilches in length, as seen in the preparation.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1424 Remarks.—The features of this case which seem to me most suggestive of remark are: 1st, The small amomit,^ almost entire absence of those morbid appearances which generally result from an inflammation of the peritoneum characterised by such urgent symptoms, and such an extremely irritant exciting cause. When we recollect the amount of organic changes —such as extreme and general vascularity of the serous surface, the eifusion of turbid serum and masses of lymph, and the matting together of the viscera—which usually follow the escape of even a small quantity of the con- tents of the intestines in cases of minute perforation ; or in cases where a comparatively small quantity of urine is extravasated into the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue ; it seems to me that the absence of such appearances in this, and some other similar cases recorded, can only be accounted for on the supposition that the extremely destructive character of the extravasated urine in large quantity, and in immediate contact with the peritoneal surface, may so depress the vital powers as to prevent the formation of the ordinary inflammatory products ; a supposition, however, somewhat difficult to reconcile with the acute nature of the symptoms during life, and the period intervening between the receipt of the injury and its fatal ter- mination. The next remarkable feature of this case, and that which is most diffi- cult of satisfactory explanation, is, the occurrence of retention of urine requiring to be relieved by the use of the catheter whilst there existed a rent in the bladder, through which we might have expected the urine to have escaped freely into the abdominal cavity. I know that it has been suggested that in such cases the urine does escape from the bladder, and that it is drawn off from the peritoneal cavity by the catheter passing through the wound of the bladder. The reasons assigned for this opinion are, first, the large qirantity of urine drawn off in some of the cases, being in amount beyond the capacity of the bladder ; and, secondly, the appar- ently physical impossibility of any considerable quantity of urine being retained in the bladder when such a wound exists in its coats. In regard to the former of these reasons, I do not consider it of much weight ; because, in common with every surgeon who has had much experience in urinary cases, I know that, not unfrequently, cases of retention are met with where the quantity of urine drawn oft" is so enormous as to show it to be very difficult to calculate the capacity of the bladder, under certain circumstances. As to the second reason alluded to, whilst I grant the great difficulty of affording a satisfactory explanation of the retention of urine co-existing with such a wound of the bladder, yet the opposite hypo- thesis presents physical conditions eqiially difficult of explanation ; and it will not do to reject all the phenomena observed during the progress of a case, merely because we have great difficulty in explaining the co-existence of certain apparently opposed physical conditions. In the present case, the symptoms, both objective and subjective, noted during life, appear to me to amount to a demonstration that the urine evacuated by the catheter was contained in the bladder, and not diffused through the peritoneal cavity. A tumour corresponding to the distended bladder could be felt above the pubis, and disappeared when the urine was drawn off. The quantity on each occasion was not beyond the average amount in retention, and after the first thirty-six hours it was clear andCLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1425 natural in appearance, and it flowed off through the catheter in a full even stream. Then, as regards the subjective symptoms, the sense of distension felt by the patient was unequivocal ; not the mere sensation arising from irritation, wlaicli frequently does occur in cases where the wounded bladder contains little or no water, but a sensation arising and increasing as the urine accumulated, and relieved when it was evacuated by the catheter. I consider this symjitom as of importance ; for we know that when the urethra gives way, and extravasation occurs in a case of retention from stricture, the patient feels immediate relief from the sense of distension, and often thinlcs he is passing water naturally ; and we would expect the same to be the case if the fluid Iiad escaped from the bladder into tlie abdomen. On the other supposition, that tlie urine had been diffused into the peritoneal cavity, how can we reconcile tliis with the symptoms observed ? In cases where the urine has become diffused into tlie cavity of the abdo- men—as in two cases mentioned by Dr. Innes, C.B., when this case was read to the Society—only a very small quantity of urine can be drawn off by the catheter. Nor, supposing the catheter to pass through the wound of the bladder, and reach the fluid, woidd it be likely to flow oft' in a conti- nuous even stream, diffused as it must necessarily be amongst the viscera ; and as a considerable quantity must gravitate towards the pelvic cul de sac of the peritoneum, that could not have been drawn off, and would have been found there on the ^wst-mortem examination. I believe the best explanation of the case is, that the rupture being longitudinal, the contraction of the fibres of the muscular coat of the bladder, from their arrangement, would render it a mere fissiire during life ; and the projection of the looser mucous lining might have a valvular action, preventing the urine flowing out by the wound, except very slowly and in small quantities, and only after a considerable distension had occurred. In conclusion, I would advert to the bearings which this case has on the treatment of such injuries. Whilst, for my own part, I expect but little benefit from any treatment, inasmuch as I consider that the urine extravasated at first into the abdomen is in itself sufficient to induce the fatal effects, still, the length of time and the temporary amelioration of symptoms which occurred in this, and which have been noticed in similar cases, afl'ord some glimmerings of hope as to more favourable results, could we but procure such a continuous drain of the urine from the bladder as to prevent it accumulating, and so obviate any further escape into the abdo- men, and permit the wound in the bladder to heal. To introduce and secure an ordinary catheter in the bladder would be dangerous, as its point would be ajst to pass through the ruptured part; but I think a very short pointed catheter, similar to what is used in cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, and with the part corresponding to the anterior portion of the urethra, bent so as to droop, might answer the purpose ; or the operation of puncturing the bladder from the rectum, and leaving the canula or gum elastic tube for some days, would afford a still surer and more efficient drain. The objection to the latter operation, however, would be, that there is generally no absolute certainty as to the nature of the injury; and we would naturally hesitate to perform an operation which might possibly be unnecessary.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1426 The state of parts in this case showed me that tlie operation of punc- turing tlie inferior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, to evacuate urine suj^posed to he lodged in the peritoneal cavity, must always be uncertain, and often dangerous ; whilst, as the fluid is diffused, it would not be fully drawn off, and can only be possible in those very rare cases where the urine has accumulated, and is limited by adhesions—a condition, of the existence of which I am very sceptical. Case of Retention of Urine in a Post-Vesical Cyst, REQUIRING to BE PUNCTURED FROM THE EeCTUM. (From Clinical Report, 1863-4.) J. W., set. 29. Had experienced some difficulty in micturition for some months previous to admission, but never amounting to complete re- tention until two days previously. Complete inability to micturate came on somewhat rapidly after his having been exj)osed to cold and wet. He was seen by a medical gentleman, who passed a catheter and emptied the bladder ; but on the following day he failed to get anything but blood through the instrument. When brought to the Infirmary the patient was in great agony from the accumulation of urine. Mr. Spence had some difficulty in passing a catheter, owing to the previous formation of a false passage ; but when he succeeded in passing a No. 8 catheter, and drawing off the urine froni the bladder, he fouiad that there still remained a consi- derable swelling in the hypogastric region. On examining per rectum he detected a fluctuating swelling behind the prostate, which he at once pro- nounced to be cystic, and proposed to puncture it when the urine had re- accumulated in the bladder. There was no stricture of the urethra, but the tilting forwards of the prostate by the swelling behind had evidently given rise to the difficulty in passing an instrument. In the evening Mr. Spence punctured the cyst per rectum, and drew off twelve ounces of a pale, slightly albuminous fluid. Thereafter the patient passed urine with- out assistance, and the swelling and dulness on percussion disappeared from the hypogastrium. Inflammation of the post-vesical cyst supervened ; the latter was at the end of a fortnight again punctured, and a large quantity of purulent fluid evacuated ; the canida Avas left in to act as a drainage tube, but happening to become displaced had to be withdrawn, and, of course, could not again be passed until the fluid re-accumulated. Seda- tives and diluents were frequently administered. Hot hip-baths were re- peatedly used, and poultices or hot fomentations continually applied to the hypogastrium ; but the patient became hectic and ultimately died. At the autopsy there were found—a suppurating cavity behind the bladder, with well-defined, rather thin walls, containing a few ounces of purulent fluid ; great enlargement of the prostate, with a suppurating cavity communicating with the floor of the urethra ; inflammation of the bladder, with several patches of diphtheritic-looking exudation on its mucous surface ; catarrhal nephritis.CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1427 The above instance of this rare affection is the second * which Mr. Spence has met with in his practice. Tlie fatal result must, unfortunately, be attributed to the false passage in the prostate and distension of the bladder giving rise to general inflammation of the urinary organs, and apparently to suppuration of the cyst : for it is probable that, had the urinary organs been in a quiescent state, simple puncture of the cyst would not have in- duced suppuration ; and, had it done so, the chances of a favourable result would, notwithstanding, have been infinitely greater than they otherwise were. Case of Hydatid Cyst between the Bladder and Rectum. (From Clinical Report, 1862-3.) J. F., set. 55, a native of Yorkshire, was admitted August 23, suffering from retention of urine, to fits of which he had been liable for the previous eight months. On this occasion, several unsuccessful attempts had been made to relieve him before sending him to Mr. Spence, who, on examina- tion per rectimi, detected a large fluctuating cyst in the recto-vesical space, and as the curvature of the urethra was thus increased, he selected a pros- tatic catheter, and introduced it without much difliculty. A large quantity of water was drawn ofl', but the cyst, which at first was thought to be a dilated portion of the bladder, underwent no diminution in size. This proved its independent origin, and as the man was in apparently good health, and had never suffered from inflammatory symptoms in the pelvis, and as there was an indistinct feeling of a tumour deep in the right hypo- chondrium, it was thought probable that this was an instance of a hydatid cyst in a very uncommon situation. The patient was kept under observa- tion, and the water regularly drawn off. At the end of a fortnight, the cyst was tapped by a curved trocar introduced per rectum. A consider- able quantity of clear fluid escaped, in which, both on ordinary visiial, and on microscopic examination, numerous hydatids were detected. The discharge from the rectum continued for a few days and then ceased. The cyst refilled, but while the patient was making efforts at stool, it burst ; the fluid was again submitted to the microscope, and was found to contain the shreds of broken down acephalocysts. For a short time discharge con- tinued to be passed of a purulent character, but this gradually diminished, and ultimately disappeared, leaving only a degree of hardness in the posi- tion formerly occupied by the cyst. At the date of dismissal (10th October), the deep-seated swelling in the hypochondrium had become much more perceptible to the touch. It could then be defined as a small tumour, about the size of an orange. On his returning about a month afterwards, it had attained the size of a melon, and on his again presenting himself, at the end of two months, it filled nearly the whole of one-half of the abdomen.t * This is a mistake. The other case was that of hydatid cyst, which follows, f I learned some years ago that this ultimately burst into the bowel, and the patient, when I heard of him last, was quite well.REGIONAL SURGERY. 1428 The case of hydatids is interesting from the rarity of this affection in Scotland; from the symptoms leading to a correct diagnosis of its nature ; and from the effective treatment without any tendency of the inflammatiop. of the cyst to spread to ad- joining organs.INDEX. ABDOMEN, wounds of, 1128. Abdominal hernia, 1140. Abernethy, Mr., opinions on abscess, 28 ; mode of tying external iliac, 681. Abscess, 23 ; circumscribed acute, 23 ; diffuse acute, 25; treatment of, 26 ; cold, 27 ; chronic, 27, 1202 ; diagnosis of, 27 ; treat- ment of, 28 ; by free opening, 29 ; perineal, 36 ; artery opening within, 37 ; barriers to treat- ment of, 40 ; in ischio- rectal space, 40 ; chronic perio.steal, 251 ; of the antrum, 975 ; in the lower jaw, 976 ; pharyngeal, 1055 ; posterior or retro- pharyngeal, 1056 ; acute and chronic mammary, 1108 ; iliac, 1137; psoas, 1138, 1202 ; lumbar, 1138 ; multilocular, 1301; anal, 1391. Acupressure, 527, 528,1363, 1365. Air passages, injuries of the, 1010 ; diseases of the, 1010. AUarton's, Mr., operation, 1267. Amputation, objects of, 738 ; general methods of, 739 ; atrophy of stump after, 740 ; growth of bone after, 741 ; advantages of flap operation, 742; method of Liston, 743; ofSyme, 745; of Teale, 747 ; of O'Hal- loran, 748 ; of Author, 749; of Garden, 751; arrest- mtnt of haemorrhage in, 754 ; treatment of stumps, 757 ; statistics of, 760 ; shock in, 766; effect of mental depression in, 774 ; influence of previous dis- ease in, 776 ; causes of mortality in, 767 ; causes of death in, 779 ; compa- rative mortality of, 709, 779 ; for malignant tu- mours, 779, 780 ; errors in statistics of, 781 ; spe- cial, 783 ; in gangrene, 78, 83, 85 ; of distal phalanx of finger, 783 ; of fingers, 784; of thumb, 787 ; partial, of hand, 789 ; at wrist, 789 ; forearm, 791 ; elbow joint, 794; upper arm, 794 ; by Teale's method, 796 ; shoulder joint, 797 ; by Author's method, 800 ; scapula, 802 ; toes, 804 ; great toe, 805 ; great toe, metatar- sal bone of, 806. Partial, of foot, 807 ; by Key's method, 808 ; by Chou- part's method, 809. Ankle joint, 811; by large internal flap, 812 ; of leg, 814 ; knee joint, 816 ; thigh, 816 ; causes of death in, 717 ; hip joint, 819 ; pri- mary, at hip joint, suc- cessful case of, 822 ; for injury, cases of, 822, 839 : comments on, 847, 848 ; of the penis, 1373. Anesthetics, use of, 635, 640. Anal abscess, 1391. Anastomoses after ligature, 519 ; of cojnmon carotid, 657. Anatomy of inguinal hernia, 1181. Anchylosis, fibrous, 297 ; osseous, 298 ; treatment of, 299. Aneurism, 541 ; dissecting, 542 ; fusiform, 542, 543 ; sacculated, 542, 543 ; treatment of, 549 ; Hun- ter's treatment of, 550 ; Brasdor's operation, 553 ; traumatic, 559 ; false, 559; varicose, 560, 562 ; arterio venous, 563 ; of innomi- nate, 566 ; of carotid, 567 ; treatment of, 569 ; of subclavian, 571 ; of ax- illary artery, 574 ; Hun- terian method of treat- ment, 576 ; of brachial artery, 578 ; inguinal, 580; of common iliac artery, 582 ; femoral, 583 ; pop- liteal, 585 ; of aorta, death from, after amputation, 781 ; thoracic, 1040. Aneurismal varix, 561. Ankle joint, excision of, 706, 735 ; amputation at the, 811. Anterior tibial artery, liga- ture of, 690 ; operation for ligature of, 691. Anthrax, 102 ; pathology of, 104 ; treatment of, 104. Antimony, 869. Antrum, abscess of, 975. Anus, artificial, 1173 ; fis- sure of the, 1389; imper- forate, 1398 ; operation for imperforate, 1399. Apparatus for excision of knee, 730. Arm, amputation of the, 794; double primary amputa- tion of, 846 ; secondary amputation of, 846. Arterial varix, 911. Arterio tomy, 18. Arterio-venous aneurism, 563. Arteritis, acute, 538. Artery, perforation of, 36;INDEX. 1430 anatomy and functions of, 457 ; wounded, treatment of, 477 ; diseases of, 538 ; degenerations of, 539 ; ligature of, 650 ; ligature of common carotid, 654 ; ligature of subclavian, 661 ; ligature of axillary, 670 ; ligature of bracJiial, 671 ; ligature of ulnar, 674 ; ligature of iliac, 676 ; ligature of femoral, 685 ; anterior tibial, ligature of, 690 ; jjosterior tibial, ligature of, 692 ; pudic, 1149 ; relations of deep Epigastric, 1183 ; irregu- lar obturator, 1207 ; of the bulb, 1250 ; arthritic diatliesis, 1284. Articular inflammation, 290. Artificial limbs, 821. Author, method of amputa- tion, 749. Axillary artery, ligature of, 670. BALLINGALL, Sir J., on natural causes of pytemia, 774. Baudens on excision, 218. Bell, John, on ligature, 483. Bell, Sir Charles, on lisrature, 496. Bilateral lithotomy, 1262. Bladder, injuries of the, 1215; rupture of the, 1217 ; stone in the, 1218 ; inflam- mation of the neck of the, 1274 ; paralysis of the, 1281 ; fasciculated, 1303; puncture of the, 1329 ; atony of the, 1341 ; irrit- able, 1349 ; case of rup- ture of the urinary, 1422. Bleeding from the nose, 943. Blood, composition of, 3. Blood-clot, organisation of, 615. Blood-vessels, 457 ; injuries and diseases of, 457. Boil, 99 ; carbuncular, 101. Boiling fluids, 1018. Bougies, whalebone, 1313. Bowel, state of the stran- gulated, 1167 ; precautions in returning the, 1179. Bones, diseases of, 237, 338 ; scirrhus of, 114 ; tumours of, 141 ; malignant tum- ours of, 145 ; anatomy of. 237 ; inflammation of, 240 ; inflammation of, causes, 240 ; inflammation of, erysipelatous, 242 ; suppuration of, 245 ; ab- cess of, 246 ; cystic tumour of, 247; ulceration of, 252; death of, 263 ; con- tusion of the cranial, 877. Brachial artery, ligature of, 671 ; operation for liga- ture of, 672. Brain, concussion of the, 862 ; inflammation of the, 870. Brasdor, operation for aneu- rism, 653, 672, 573. Bridle stricture, 1301. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, on joint disease, 307, 317, 329. Bromide of potassium, 1289. Bronchocele, 1004. Bruises, 188. Bubo, 159. Buchanan's rectangular staff, 1259. Bullet, deflection of, 201. Bullet wound, characters of, 200 ; prognosis of, 212 ; treatment of, 213. Burns, Allan, on aneurism, 571. Burns and scalds, 223 ; treatment of, 227 ; local applications in, 228. Burns from heated metal, 225. BursiB mucosfe, diseases of, 331 ; various forms of, 331 ; adventitious, 337 ; adventitious treatment of, 337. Bursitis, acute, 332 ; treat- ment of, 333 ; thecal, 336. CALCULI, urinary, 1221 ; phosphatic, 1227. Calculous diseases, 1219. Calculus, salivary, 968 ; diagnosis of, 1223, 1236. Callus, provisional, 341. Canal, Hunter's, aneurism in 584. Cancer, hard, 114, 128 ; colloid, 127 ; epithelial, 127 ; soft, 132 ; soft, diagnosis of, 134 ; black, 135 ; soft, treatment of, 136 ; cerebriform osseous, 145 ; osteoid, 148; of the lip, 956; of the tongue, 973. Carbolic acid, 30. Carbuncle, 102. Carcinoma, 127 ; varieties of, 127 ; aspect of patient in, 128 ; symptoms of, 129 ; of mamma, 129 ; of testicle, 129 ; of uterus, 129 ; treatment of, 130 ; subcutaneous injection in, 131. Carden, Mr. method of am- putation, 75. Caries, 253 ; moist and dry, 253 ; pathology of, 255 ; treatment of, 257 ; pro- gnosis of, 256 ; of bodies of vertebrse, 259 ; cura- bility of, 272. Carlo, necrosis, 911. Carotid, artery, ligature of, 654. Cases, clinical, of tumour, 137, 142, 147; gunshot injuries, 212, 213 ; fractures and dislocations, 431 ; wounds of arteries, 590, 633 ; and comments, 822, 824, 914, 1059 ; amputation, 846, 847, 848, 849, 850, 851, 852 ; injuries of the scalp, 913 ; disarticulation of the clavicle, 1123 ; scrotal hernia, 1402, 1405; femo- ral do., 1408, 1415, 1417 ; congenital inguinal do., 1416 ; intestinal obstruc- tion, 1420 ; rupture of bladder, 1422 ; retention of urine, 1426 ; hydatid cyst, 1427. Castration, 1364. Catheter, vulcanised india- rubber, 1288. Catheterism in the female, 1341. Caustics, use of, 1317. Cautery, effect of, 261, 479. Celsian operation, 1253, 1263. Cerebriform tiimour, 132. Cervical tumours, 1000. Chancre, Hunterian, 151 ; soft, 151 ; soft, treat- ment of, 153 ; indurated, treatment of, 154. Chemosis, 3. Chest, injuries of the, 1110, 1117; wounds of the, 1115. Children, lateral lithotomy in, 1261.INDEX. 1431 Chimney - sweeper's cancer, 1371. Chloroform, administration of, 641 ; clangers of, 643 ; after-effects of, 644 ; in ligature of arteries, 652. Chordee, 1346. Clavicle, fractures of, 365 ; dislocations of, 369 ; ex- cision of operation, 1106 ; disarticulation of the sternal half of the, 1123. Cleft palate, 962. Circulation, collateral, 518. Cirsocele, 1186, 1362. Cirsoid aneurism, 911. Clinical cases. See Cases. Clove-hitch, the, 363. Clubfoot, 449. Cold, affusion, 236. Collapse, 226. Common carotid, anatomi- cal relations of, 655, 656. Concussion, 859 ; of the brain, 862 ; of the spine, 903 ; results of spinal, 905. Condyloma, 168. Condy's fluid, 1362. Congenital hernia, 1191 ; syphilis, 174. Congestion, active, 2, 4 ; passive, 5. Contracted tendons, division of, 448. Constriction, acute, 1154. Contusion of the cranial bones, 877 ; of the face, 934. Cooper, Sir Astley, ligament of, 387 ; on ligature, 494 ; method of tying external iliac, 681. Cranium, fracture of the, 878; fractures of the base of the, 886 ; case of fracture of the, 919 ; cases of com- pound comminuted frac- ture of the, 919 ; gunshot fracture of, 922 ; cases of simple fractures of, 925 ; cases of fractures of the base of the, 929. Croup, 1020 ; cases of, 1099; diphtheritic, 1028. Crural arch, 1204. Cupping, 19 ; dry, 636. Curvature, spinal acute, 259 ; treatment of, 261. Cutaneous transpiration, in- terruption of, 226. Cystic bronchocele, 1006 ; oxide, 1220. DEFORMITIES, operations for, 230, 231 ; from con- traction of muscles and tendons, 443 ; special, and treatment, 443. , Degeneration, gelatinous, 304 ; gelatinous, atrophy of muscles in, 307 ; treat- ment, 308 ; complications in, 311. Demarcation, line of, in gan- grene, 75. Deobstruents, 12. Depletion, local, 10 ; gene- ral, 15. Dexterity in operating, 635. Diaphoretics, 11. Diastasis, 373. Diphtheritic croup, 1028. Diphtheria, blood-poison of, 1031. Dislocation, 339, 361 ; com- pound, 364 ; of shoulder, 375 ; reduction of, 377 ; of radius and ulna, 385 ; of wrist, 394 ; of thumb, 395 ; of hip joint, 397 ; withfracture of pelvis, 403 ; of knee joint, 418 ; of ankle, 427 ; compound, 428 ; of astragalus, 429 ; of tarsus, 429 ; of lower jaw, 989. Diuretics, 11. Dorsey's, Dr., c"se of varicose aneurism, 565. Drainage tubing, 29, 721. Dupuytren, opinion on gun- shot wounds, 217 ; splint, the, 425 ; plan of vital dilatation, 1316. EAR, injuries and diseases of, 990 ; inflammation of the, 993 ; chronic puru- lent discharge from the, 994 ; polypi in the exter- nal passage of the, 996. Earle's double staff, 1259. Ecchymosis, 3. Ecrasement, 884. Ecthyma syphiliticum, 164, 174. Ectropion, 937. Ectrotic treatment of gonor- rhoea, 1348. Eczema syphiliticum, 165, 174. Elbow, dislocation of, 384. Elbow-joint, excision of, 722 ; amputation at the, 794. Elephantiasis of the scrotum, 1369. Emphysema, 1112; treat- ment of, 1113. Emphysema and pneumo- thorax following fractured ribs, 1126. Epiphora, 939. Epistaxis, 943. Epithelioma of the tongue, 972 ; prepuce and penis, 1372. Epulis, 977. Erysipelas, 87 ; idiopathic, 88; traumatic, 88 ; bilious, 89; phlegmonous,89; oede- matous, 90 ; of head, 90 ; causes of, 91 ; tenni- nations of, 91 ; epidemic character of, 91 ; progno- sis of, 92 ; treatment of, 93 ; by free incisions, 97. Erythema, 89 ; erratica, 89. Erectile tumours and cirsoid aneurism, 911. Eschmarck on excision, 218. Eustachian tube, obstruction of, 996. Excision, primary, 218 ; sta- tistics of, 218 ; of joints, 696 ; objects of, 698 ; of hip joint, 705, 729 ; of ankle joint, 706, 735 ; comparative mortality of, 709 ; causes of death in, 712 ; statistics of, 710, 711; instruments for, 717 ; of shoulder joint, 719 ; oper- ation for, 720 ; of elbow joint, 722 ; of wrist joint, 725 ; of knee joint, 730 ; apparatus for, 730 ; of upper jaw, 980 ; of lower jaw, 981 ; of clavicle, 1105 ; of mamma, 1109 ; of scapula, 1107. Exostosis, 141. Extravasation, intra-cranial, 864 ; passive, 866 ; of urine, 1331. Eye, inflammation of, 2; removal of, 938. FACE, contusions of, 934 ; injuries of, 934 ; wounds of, 934. False aneurism of carotid, 571 ; of brachial artery, 678 ; of radial^ artery, 579 ; of ulnar artery, 579. Fasciculated bladder, 1303. Female, catheterism in the,1432 INDEX. 1341 ; gonorrhoea in tlie, 1350. Femoral artery, ligatiire of, 651, 685 ; ligature in Hunter's canal, 688 ; ana- tomy of, 684; anastomoses of, 690. Femoral hernia, 1197 ; oases of, 1408, 1415, 1417. Fergii.sson, Sir William, on aneurism, 573 ; on excision of knee, 705. Fever, hectic, 32 ; irritative, 28, 242. Fibrous jiolypus, 948. Fingers, amputation of, 784 ; distal phalanx of, 783. Fissure of the anus, 1389. Fistula in ano, 41, 1391 ; treatment of, 42 ; in perineo, 41, 1303, 1337 ; salivar}', 935 ; parotid, 936 ; lachrymalis, 941. Foot amputation, partial, of the, 807. Forearm, amputation through the, 791. Foreign bodies in nostrils, 94 ; in larynx, 1012 ; in pharynx, 1050. Fracture, 338, 339 ; varieties of, 340 ; simple, 340 ; re- duction of, 343 ; displac- ing, causes in, 343; oblitpie, 346 ; comminuted, 346 ; treatment of, 347 ; ampu- tation in, 351 ; compound, secondary amjiutation in, 352 ; when consolidated, 354 ; non-union of, 355 ; reduction by manipulation, 363 ; of bones of forearm, 387 ; of olecranon, 387 ; of coronoid j)rocess, 389 ; of shaft of ulna, 390 ; of radius and ulna, 390 ; of radius, 391 ; of radius, treatment of, by Sir Astley Cooper, 393 ; of meta- carpal bones, 396 ; of neck of femur, 404 ; of shaft of femur, 409 ; of con- dyloid extremity of femur, 413 ; of patella, 416 ; of leg, 419 ; of iibula, 423 ; of OS calcis, 430 ; of cran- ium, 878 ; treatment of, 884 ; simple, 881 ; com- pound, 881 ; punctured of cranium, 882 ; of the base of cranium, 886 ; trepan in punctured, 899 ; and dislocation of spine, 906 ; compound com- minuted, of cranium, 921 ; of the bones of nose, 942 ; of lower jaw, 987 ; of upper jaw, 987 ; of ribs, 1110 ; treatment of, 1111. " Frog-face," 946. Fragilitas ossium, 284. Fungusarticuli, 304 ; cerebris, 890. Furunculus or boil, 99. GALVANO - PUNCTURE, 126. Ganglia, thecal, 337. Gangrene, hospital, 67. Gangrene, 74 ; varieties of, 74 ; acute, 75 ; humid, 75 ; traumatic, 75, 85 ; spreading, 75, 85 ; treat- ment of, 77, 81 ; dry, 80 ; chronic, 80 ; amputation in, 81 ; senile, 82; sub- acute, 84 ; rules for am- putation in, 85,86 ; senilis, 539 ; of .stumps, 771 ; of the intestine, 1157 ; Gim- bernat's ligament, 1198. Gland, prostate, diseases of, 1283; enlargementof,1285. Gleet, 1346. Glossitis, 969. Goitre, 1004. Gonorrhoea, results of, 1292, 1305 ; simple, 1343; viru- lenta, 1343, 1345 ; treat- ment of, 1348; in the female, 1350; prreputialis, 1252. Gonorrhceal ophthalmia. 1351 ; warts, 1352. Granulation, healing by, 45. Gross, Di-., treatment of an- chylosis, 299. Growths, simple, 112 ; ma- lignant, 113. Gunshot wounds from small shot, 203 ; from wadding, 204 ; from bursting of tire- arms, 207 ; general treat- ment, 209 ; (juestion of amputation in, 211 ; se- condary ha;morrhage in, 211 ; injuries of bones, 214 ; injuries of joints, 215, 217 ; injuries of bone, varieties of, 216 ; of joints, primary excision for, 218 ; conversion into incised, 219 ; amputation in, 220 ; general rules for, 221. Gunshot fracture of parietal bone, 890 ; of cranium, 922. Guthrie, Mr , on gunshot wounds, 205 ; operation for posterior tibial, 693 ; on wounds of the chest, 1120. H^MATOTHORAX, 1119. Hajmatocele, 1186, 1361 ; treatment of, 1361. Hainiorrhage, consecutive, 532 ; reactionary, 532 ; secondary, 533 ; arrest- ment of, 754 ; secondary,, death from, 843. Haemorrhoids, 1382 ; treat- ment of, 1384. Hemostatics, natural, 475 ; artificial, 480. Hand, partial amputation of the, 789. Harelip, 959 ; operation for, 960. Haversian canals, inflamma- tion of, 245. Head, injuries of, 853. Healing process, steps of, 44. Hectic, 635. Hernia cerebri, 890 ; ab- dominal, 1140; congenital, 1142, 1191; diagnostic symptoms of, 1145 ; re- ducible, 1146 ; exciting causes of, 1147 ; treatment of reducible, 1148 ; radical cure of, 1210 ; irreducible, 1152 ; strangulated, 1154 ; incarceration in, 1154 ; causes of death in, 1163 ; operation for, 1164 ; sta- tistics of operation for, 1213 ; complicated cases of, 1174 ; cases of old ir- reducible, 1174 ; reduced en bloc by taxis, 1176 ; inguinal, 1180 ; operation for inguinal, 1188 ; special forms of, 1180 ; direct or ventro-inguinal, 1182 ; diagnosisof inguinal,1183 ; dangers of congenital, 1193 ; operation for con- genital, 1195 ; case of, 1416 ; infantile, 1196 ; femoral, 1197 ; diagnosis of, 1201 ; operation i'or, 1205 ; cases of, 1408, 1415, 1417 ; umbilical, 1207, 1209; ventral, 1207; operation for, 1209 ; humo-1433 INDEX. ralis, 1347, 1366 ; scrotal, cases of, 1402, 1405. Hernial sac, 1142. High operation for stone, 1241. Hip joint, excision of,' 705, 729 ; amputation at the, 822 ; cases of, 828, 833. Holt's treatment of stricture, 1314, 1319. Hospital wards, ventilation of, 71 ; fumigation of, 72. Humerus, fracture of, 372, 381 ; diagnosis, 382. Hunter, operation for aneur- ism, 484. Hydatids, case of, 1427. Hydrocele, 1186, 1357; dia- gnostics of, 1358 ; opera- tion for cure of, 1360. Hydrocele of the thyroid gland, 1080. Hydrophobia, 197. Hydrops articuli, 300. Hygiene, 71. Hypertrophy of mammary gland, 1108. Hypertrophy, 1369 ; chronic, of tongue, 970. ILIAC artery, ligature of 676 ; ligature, operation for, 679 ; anatomical re- lations of, 678 ; anas- tomoses of, 682. Iliac abscess, 1137. Imperforate anus, 1398. Incarceration in hernia, 1154. Infantile hernia, 1196. Infiltration of urine after lithotomy, 1272. Inflammation, 1 ; local signs of, 1 ; pulse in, 1 ; microscopic appearances in, 3 ; proximate causes of, 5; acute, 8 ; termi- nations of, 8 ; treatment of, 9, 873 ; chronic, 13 ; treat- ment of, 14; of the eye, 2 ; of the brain, 870 ; of the tongue, 969 ; of the ear, 993 ; of neck of the bladder, 1274. Inguinal herniae, 1180. Innominate artery, aneurism of, 566 ; ligature of, 653. Intestine, wounded, 1130. Intestinal obstruction, case of, 1420. Int-a-cranial extravasation, 864 ; suppuration, 871. Irreducible herniee, 1152. Irritable bladder, 1349 ; mamma, 1109. JAW, abscess in the lower, ^76 ; cystic tumours of, 977 ; excision of upper, 980 ; of the lower, 981 ; cases, 1059 ; fracture of upper, 987; disloca- tions of lower, 989. Joints, diseases of, 237, 287; inflammation of, 289 ; inflammation, traumatic, 293 ; ice - treatment in, 294 ; anchylosis of, 297; resection of, 298 ; move- able cartilages in, 301 ; hysterical affections of, 329 ; false, 357 ; setons ; in, 358 ; subcutaneous section in, 358 ; excision of, 696, 730. Jones, Dr. experiments on arteries, 484, 486. KEY'S, ASTON, straight stafl", 1259. Kidneys, disease of, 636. Knee joint, excision of, 730; amputation at, 816. LACERATED scalp wounds, 875. Lachrymarum, stillicidium, 939. Lallemand's cautery, 1369. Langenbeck on excision, 218. Laryngitis, 1022 ; chronic, 1037. Laryngoscope, 1041. Laryngotomy, 1044. Larynx, injuries of, 1010 ; foreign bodies in, 1012 : inflammatory affections of, 1020. Lawrence, Sir William, on ligature, 495 ; on fungoid testicle, 1368. Leeching, 18. Leg, amputation of, 814. Leg and thigh, primary am- putations of, 846. Lichen syphiliticus, 164. Ligature, 481. Ligature of arteries, his- torical sketch of, 491 ; Author's experiments on, 504, 511 ; effects of, 525 ; operation for, 649, 650 ; apparatus for, 651 ; com- pression in, 652 ; in- nominate, 653 ; carotid, 654 ; subclavian, 661, 667, 669 ; axillary, 670 ; brachial, 671; radial, 673; ulnar, 674 ; arteries, iliac, 676; anterior tibial, 690; posterior tibial, 692. Lip, cancer of the, 956. Listen, Mr., treatment of burns, 228 ; splint, 347, 415 ; amputation by flaps 743, 744, 817. Liston's knife, 1256. Lithotome cache, 1259. Lithotomy, 1226, 1259 ; supra-pubic, 1239 ; high operation, 1239 ; perineal, 1252 ; lateral, 1266 ; la- teral in children, 1261 ; bilateral, 1262 ; mesial operation, 1266 ; infiltra- tion of urine after, 1272 ; statistics, 1277 ; in the fe- male, 1278. Lithotrity, 1233. Lithotrite, 1231 ; Sir Henry Thomson's, 1233. Lumbar abscesses, 1138. Lupus, 61 ; tubercular, 61 ; herpetic, 61. Luxation unreduced, 363 ; treatment of, 362. MACHINERY, injuriesfrom, 843. Mamma, excision of the, 1109 ; irritable, 1109. Manec, M., on arteries, 498, 603. Manipulation, operative, 650. Measurements of urethra, 1296. Medulla spinalis, 1307. Medullary sarcoma, 132. Melano.sis, 135. Membrane, pyogenic, 27 ; of tym.panum, 997.' Meningeal inflammation, 873. Mercury, uses of, 155, 156. MoUities ossium, 283. Morbus coxarius, 319 ; treat- ment of, 322 ; excision in, 324. Mortality, causes of, 767. Mortification, 44. Mulberry calculus, 1221. Muscles and tendons, injuries and diseases of, 438. Muscular fibre, iliptui'e of, 438. N^VUS, 124.1434 INDEX. Nasal polypi, 947 ; duct ob- struction of, 939. Neck, surgery of the, 999. Necrosis, 241, 263, 911 ; chronic, 264 ; constitu- tional appearance in, 268 ; patchy, 269 ; scrofulous, 269 ; treatment of, 275 ; operations for, 275 ; am- putation in, 279. Needle, aneurism, 652. Neuralgia of the testicle, 1369. Nodes, 245. Nose, bleeding from, 943 ; fractures of the bones of, 942 ; foreign bodies in, 942. Nostril, polypus of, 945. OBSTRUCTION of nasal duct, 939 ; of eustachian tube, 996. (Edema glottidis, 1019. ffisophagotomy, 1054. (Esophagus, foreign bodies in, 1051 ; stricture of, 1056. O'Halloran, Mr., method of amputation, 748. Oilier, researches of, 239. Omentum, treatment of stran- gulated, 1171. Operations, general prin- ciples, 635 ; rules for per- forming, 635 ; arrange- ments for, 635, 637 ; pre- paratory treatment for, 635 ; after treatment, 635, 647 ; appliances for, 637 ; method of, 645 ; for ne- crosis, 274 ; for ligature of arteries, 650 ; for liga- ture of common carotid, 657 ; for innominate, 653; for ligature of subclavian, 662, 667, 669 ; for liga- ture of femoral, 686 ; for tying posterior tibial, 694 ; for excision of elbow, 723 ; for excision of wrist joint, 726 ; for excision of hip joint, 729 ; for excision of knee joint, 730 ; for ex- cision of ankle, 735 ; of trepan, 893, 928 ; para- centesis thoracis, 1120 ; for hernia, 1164 ; danger of delay in, 1161 ; for hernia, extra-peritoneal, 1165 ; for inguinal hernia, 1188 ; for congenital her- nia, 1195 ; for femoral hernia, 1205 ; for ventral hernia, 1209 ; for perineal lithotomy, 1252 ; recto- vesical, 1267 ; for cure of hydrocele, 1360. Orbit, wounds of and near the, 936 ; injuries of, 937; extirpation of the con- tents of, 939. Orchitis, 1347, 1356. Otitis, 993. Otorrhcea, 994. Ostitis, acute, 241 ; chronic, 244 ; treatment of, 247. Osteosarcoma, 142. Osteocephaloma, 145. Osteocystoma, 143. Osteoid cancer, 148. Osteoma, 144. Ovarian disease, 1374. Ovariotomy, 1374. Ozcena, 948. PALATE, cleft, 962; opera- tion for, 963. Paracentesis thoracis, 1120 ; abdominis, 1135. Paralysisof thebladder,1281. Paraphymosis, 1355. Pare, Ambrose, 481. Parotid fistula, 936. Patella, evulsion of, 417. Passive extravasation, 866. Penis, amputation of, 1373. Pericarditis, rheumatic, 245. Perineal lithotomy, 1242 ; section, 1322. Perineo, fistula in, 1337. Periosteum, experiments on, 239 ; inflammation of,240. Periostitis, acute, 242 ; chro- nic, 244; treatment of, 247. Peritoneum, the, 1129,1240. Peritonitis, 1132 ; treatment of, 1333. Perityphlitis, 1137. Phagedfena, sloughing, 67 ; black, 67 ; grey or pul- taceous, 68 ; treatment of, 73 ; epidemic, causes of, 70 ; endemic, causes of, 70 ; venereal sore, 157. Pharyngeal abscesses, 1055. Pharynx, injuries of the, 1049. Phlebitis, acute, 460 ; sub- acute, 462. Phlyctense, 75. Phthisis laryngea, 1012. Phymosis, 170, 1354 ; con- genital, 1355. Piles, 1382 ; external, 1385. Perigoff"s amputation, 812. Pneumothorax, 1118. Polypi in the ear, 996; nasal, 947. Polypus, mucous, 116 ; of nostril, 945; fibrous, 946; malignant, 948; of rectum, 1388. Pott, Mr. curvature of spine, 259 ; fracture, 424. Post-mortem examination, 867. Posterior tibial artery, liga- ture of, 692. Pouteau's canula, 1330. Prepuce, phagedsenic chancre of, 68. Primary amputation of the thigh and leg, case of, 846; of thigh, case of, 850. Prolapsus ani, 1385 ; of rec- tum, 1386. Prostate gland, 1283 ; en- larged, 1284. Protrusion, hernial, 1141. Psoriasis, 173 ; syphilitica, 165. Ptosis, 937. Ptyriasis, 173. Pulfy tumour, 872. Pulse, 635, 648. Punctured fractures, 882. Puncture of the bladder, 1329 ; by rectum, 1330. Pus corpuscles, theories re- garding, 22. Pyaemia, 32, 645, 772, 1275 ; acute, 293; pro- phylactic treatment of, 34, 637; risks of, 637, 781 ; predisposing causes of, 779. RADIUS, dislocation of, 385. Rachitis, 280. Ranula, 967. Reade's injection syringe, 1253. Recto-vesical operation, 1267. Rectum, wound of, 1251 ; diseases of, 1382 ; prolap- sus of, 1386 ; polypus of, 1388 ; ulcers of, 1388 ; stricture of, 1395. Reed, Dr., treatment of frac- tures, 363. Resection, 359. Retention of urine, 1280 ; in female, 1340. Rheumatic arthritis, chronic, 326.INDEX. 1435 Rhinoplasties, 950. Ribes, M., on fissure of anus, 1390 Ribs, fractures of, 1110. Rickets, 280 ; treatment of, 282. Romanisde, Joannes, mode of opening into bladder, 1254. Roonliuysen, Hendrick van, 1377. Rupia crustata, 173. Rupture, 1141 ; of bladder, 1217. SAC, hernial, 1142 ; treat- ment of, 1189. Salivary calculus, 968; fistula, 935. Sarcoma, medullary, dia- gnosis of, 27 ; simple cutaneous, 116 ; simple vascular, 116; pancreatic, 119 ; cystic, 122 ; medul- lary, 132. Scalds, 223. Scalp, injuries of, 853 : wounds of, 855 ; diseases of, 910 ; tumours of, 908. Scapula, fractures of, 370 ; amputation of, 802 ; ex- cision of, 1107. Scarpa, broad ligature of, 487 ; fascia of, 1204. Scirrhus, 114, 128 ; of bone, 114. Scrofulous fungoid testicle, 1267. Secondary amputation of arm, case of, 846; of thigh, for injury, case of, 851. Secondary haemorrhage, death from, 843. Sequestrum, 266 ; removal of, 270. Setons, 358. Shock, 226, 769, 766. Shoulder, dislocations of, 375. Shoulder joint, excision of, 719 ; amputation at the, 797 ; case of, 839. Skull, fractures of the, 878. Simpson, Sir James, on acu- pressure, 528. Sinus or fistula, 36, 38, 39 ; causes of, 39 ; treatment of, 41. Sinuses, wotmd of the venous, 888 Sinuses, 1367. Srake-bites, 199. Soft malignant tumours, 910. Soot-wart, 1371: Sore, constitutional, 59 ; hospital, 67. Sore throat, syphilitic acute, 163 ; syphUitic, chronic, ■ 163. Special hernia, 1180. Spermatocele, 1359. Spina ventosa, 144, 247. Spine, injuries of the, 902 ; concussion of, 903 ; cases of injury of, 931. Splint, long, 413 ; stirrup, 422 ; Dupuytren's, 425 Statistics of amputation, 760 ; general deductions from, 781 ; of hernial operations, 1213 ; of litho- tomy, 1277. Stellate fracture, 882. Stillicidium lachrymarum, 939. Stone in the bladder, 1218 ; extraction of the, 1269. Strangulated, hernia, 1154 ; how a hernia becomes, 1155 ; bowel, 1167. Strangulation, symptoms of, 1156. Stricture,of oesophagus, 1056; of urethra, 1292 ; organic, 1294 ; pathology of ure- thral, 1298 ; bridle, 1300 ; elastic, 1301 ; irritable, 1302 ; causes of urethral, 1305 ; positive diagnosis of organic, 1308 ; treat- ment of, 1309 ; tight, 1311 ; old tight, 1312 ; tight indurated, 1332 ; of female urethra, 1341 ; of rectum, 1395. Stumps, treatment of, 757 ; gangrene of, 771 ; death from mortification of, 850. Styptics, 478. Subclavian artery, ligature of, 661 ; anatomical relations of, 661, 663, 664 ; opera- tion for ligatm-e of, 662, 667 ; anastomosis of, 666. Supra-pubic operation, 1239. Suicidal woimds, 1008. Suppression of urine, 1273. Sujipuration, 21 ; superficial, 22 ; interstitial, 23 ; in- filtrated, 25 ; treatment of infiltrated, 26 ; chronic interstitial, 27 ; constitu- tional dangers of, 32 ; local dangers of, 35 ; sub- periosteal, 245 ; intra- cranial, 871 ; treatment of 5 A intra-cranial, 875 ; case of intra-cranial, 917. Suture of the female peri- neum, 1379. Swelling, inflammatory, v. tumour - growth, 110 ; white, 304. Syme on excision of joints, 697, 703 ; modified circu- lar amputation, 745 ; am- putation at anlde joint, 811. Synovitis, 289. Syphilis, 150 ; primary, 151 ; secondary, 159. Syphilitic skin eruptions, 164; hydro-sarcocele, 1367. TALIPES equinus, 450 ; calcaneus, 452 ; varus, 452 ; valgus, 456. Taxis, the, 1159 ; in oblique inguinal hernia, 1187. Teale, Mr., method of am- putation, 747. Tendons, rapture of, 440. Tendo AcliiUis, injury of, 441. Tertiary syphilis, 171. Testicle, the, 1364 ; in- flamed, 1356 ; scrofulous fungoid, 1367 ; irritable, 1369. Tetanus, 232 ; traumatic, 232 ; treatment of, 234. Thigh, amputation of, 816 ; primary ampiitations of, 850. Thomson, Sir Henry, on lithotrity, 1233. Thoracic aneurism, 1040. Thorax, injuries and diseases of, 1003 ; wounds of, 1104. Thumb, amputation of, 787.' Toe, amputation of, 804 ; great, 805 ; Of all the, 807. Tongue, inflammation of the, 969 ; chronic hyper- trophy of, 970 ; ulceration of, 971 ; epithelioma of, 972 ; cancer of, 973. Tonsils, the, 965 ; chronic diseases of, 966 ; torsion, 527 ; of arteries, 478. Tracheotomy, 1044 ; for re- moval of foreign bodies, 1014, 1081 ; - in croup, 1025, 1092 ; in diph- theritic croup, 1102. Traumatic aneurism of glu-INDEX. 1436 Printed by R. Clark, Edmhcrgh. teal artery, 581; of femoral artery, 584. Trocar and canula, 1120. Trepan, operation of, 893, 928; in punctured fracture, 899 ; cases for, 900. Trephining, operation of, 893. Trusses, application of, 1149 ; Salmon and Ody's, 1150 ; in children, 1151, 1188. Tumours, 107, v. hypertro- phies, 107; characteristics of, 108 ; classification of, 111 ; nomenclature of, 111 ; simple. 111 ; ma- lignant, 113 ; malignant, characteristics of, 114 ; adipose or fatty, 118 ; fibrous, 119; adenoid, 119; fibrous, tendency to ossifi- cation in, 120 ; encysted, 123 ; erectile, 124; re- current, 137; fibro-plastic, 137; of bone, 141; of bone treatment, 141 ; of scalp, 908 ; treatment of encyst- ed, 909 ; soft malignant, 910; vascular erectile, 911; of the jaws, 978 ; cervical, 1001; fatty, 1002; parotid, 1002 ; cystic, 1003 ; ma- lignant, of right superior maxdla, 1062 ; of face and neck, case of, 1063 ; large cervical, 1067, 1074; thyroid, 1080 ; of testicle, 1187. Tumour-growth, peculiarities of, 108. Tumour-growth v. inflam- matory swelling, 109. Tympanum, membrane of, 997. ULCER, phagedenic, 44 ; classification of, 47; weak, 48 ; arising from bums or scalds, 48 ; callous, 50 ; chronic, 50 ; indolent, 50 ; indolent, treatment of, 51; inflamed, 53 ; irritable, 56 ; specific, 57; cancer- ous, 58 ; scrofulous, 58 ; cellular tissue, 59, 172 ; serpiginous, 60 ; scorbutic, 63 ; varicose, 65 ; phage- denic or sloughing, 67; of rectum, 1388. Ulceration, 43 ; of bone, 252 ; of cartilage, 315 ; of sep- tum nasi, 949 ; of tongue, 971. Ulna, dislocation of, 385. Ulnar artery, ligatui-e of, 674. Umbilical hernia, 1207,1209. Uraemia, 1289. Urethra, injuries of, 1215 ; stricture of, 1292 ; mea- surements of, 1296. Urethritis, 1343 ; uric acid calculi in bladder, 1220, 1227. Urinary calciili, 1219 ; or- gans, 1280. Urine, suppression of, 1273 ; retention of, 1280 ; in the female, 1340 ; extravasa- tion of, 1331 ; case of re- tention of, 1426. VARICOCELE, 1362. Varicose aneurism, 560, 562. Varix, 464 ; palliative treat- ment of, 466 ; radical treatment of, 468 ; aneu- rismal, 561 ; of femoral vein, 1203. Vascular erectile tumoui-s, 911. Veins, anatomy and physio- logy of, 457 ; wounds of, 459 ; diseases of, 460 ; in- flammation of, 460. Venesection, 15 ; at bend of arm, 16 ; of external jug- ular, 16. Ventral hernias, 1207. Vertebrse, caries of, 259. Vesico-vaginal fistula, 1377. Vincent's surgical practice, 1147. Virus, syphilitic, 152. Vital dilatation in stricture, 1314. WARDROP on aneurism, 553. Warty condylomata, 169; disease, 1039. Watson's Dr., catheter, 1311. Wens, 123. Whately's use of potassa fusa in stricture, 1318. White salts, calculi in bladder, 1220. Whitlow, 38. Wood, Professor, on opera- tions for hernia, 1212. Wounds, 177 ; incised, 177; punctured, 184; punctured treatment, 186 ; contused, 188; lacerated, 190 ; gun- shot, 200 ; lacerated treat- ment of, 192 ; dissecting, 195 ; poisoned, 195 ; of scalp, 855 ; lacerated scalp, 857 ; of venous sinuses, 888 ; of face, 934 ; of and near orbit, 936; in cervical region, 1007 ; suicidal, 1008 ; of thorax, 1114 ; of chest, 1115 ; of abdomen, 1128. Wounded intestine, 1130. Wiirtzer's plan for radical cure of hernia, 1211. Wrist joint, amputation at, 778 ; excision of, 259. Wry neck, 446. FINIS.LECTURES ON SURGERYLECTURES ON SURGERY BY JAMES SPENCE, F.R.S.E. SURGEON TO THE QUKEN IN SCOTLAND ; PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH ; LATE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, EDINBURGH ; SURGEON TO THE ROVAL INFIRMARY AND LOCK. HOSPITAL ; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN, EDINBURGH, ETC. ETC. VOL. I. ADAM EDINBURGH AND CHARLES 1871 BLACKPrinted hy R. Clark, Edinburgh.PKEFACE. The publication of these Lectures on Surgery was undertaken with the view of placing in the hands of my Students a Text-book for the Class, and also in conse- quence of a desire, often expressed by many of my old Pupils, that I should enable them to possess in a published form the Principles and Practice which I had orally taught them. Another inducement to undertake the task was the consideration that, when I had placed in the hands of my Students a general view of the Principles and Practice of Surgery, I would be left at greater freedom to vary the method of teaching, and to devote more time to particular departments, more especially to Eegional Surgery, and to teaching the Student the method of applying his knowledge of healthy and morbid anatomy to the investigation and diagnosis of surgical disease, as well as to its treatment—a kind of instruction which my experience as a Surgical Teacher and Hospital Surgeon has shown me to be much required. The arrangement of the subjects treated of is that which I have hitherto adopted as being best suited for giving a view of Surgery as a whole. The First Division consists in a general view of different forms of Diseased Action, Inflammation and its results, Tumour Growth and the different forms of Tumours, Syphilis, and External Injuries and their consequences. The Second Division treats of Diseases and Injuries of Specialvi PREFACE. Structures ; the Diseases and Injuries of the Osseous, Articular, Muscular, and Vascular systems. The Third Division is devoted to the consideration of Kegional and Operative Surgery ; that is, the special diseases and injuries occurring in the different regions of the body, and the operations required for their relief. In con- nection with the Second and Third Divisions of the course. Clinical Cases are given, illustrative of the doctrine taught and. the treatment advised in the Lectures. In regard to Ophthalmic Surgery, the time which can be devoted to it in a Course of Lectures on General Surgery is so limited, as to be quite inadequate for doing justice to such an important subject, and I therefore determined to omit it altogether from my published Lectures. The number of these Lectures will be enough to show that they were not all delivered during any single course ; the period now allotted for the winter session necessitating the omission of particular subjects, or parts of the course, in different years. The short-hand notes taken by my former pupil Dr. Ballingall Stewart, during the session 1866-7, have been used as the basis; and these, together with class notes kindly furnished me by former pupils, together with my own heads of Lectures and published and unpublished papers on special departments of Sur- gery, have been used in preparing the Work as now issued. The publication of the subjects taught, in the original Lecture form, may seem of doubtful pro- priety. The style used in oral instruction is, in a literary point of view, essentially faulty, owing to the colloquial expressions and the tendency to tautology almost inseparable from it, when speaking of mattersPREFACE. vii such as those discussed in a course of Surgery; but what- ever such a practical subject loses in elegance of style, seems to me to be more than counterbalanced by the directness and individuality of the teaching. For my own part, I confess that I have always found more interest in, and more direct instruction from, discourses or lectures on Surgery, than from the systematic treatises, however elegant the composition of the latter. In teaching, I have adopted what may by many be considered too dogmatic a method ; but the necessity for this has been long impressed on me by experience as a Teacher and as an Examiner at different Medical Boards. The multiplicity of subjects which engage a Student's attention leaves him but little time to weigh and decide controverted points, even supposing him to possess the knowledge requisite for such decision, and hence I think he has a right to look to the Lecturer for distinct definite instruction, founded on a fair and truthful digest of his own experience. Consequently, wherever I have to discuss different methods of treatment, I feel myself bound to tell my pupils precisely how I should act under the circumstances. After thirty-five years' Surgical practice, twenty-two of them spent Lecturer on Surgery and an Hospital Surgeon, I feel that I may claim some right to state decidedly the opinions which I hold, and the practice which I have found from experience to be most successful. It may be thought that I have in some instances entered more fully on anatomical details than neces- sary, now that so much attention is given to the study of Anatomy. But, practically, I know that it is quiteviii PREFACE. possible for a Student to have a good knowledge of Anatomy, and yet not be versed in applying that knowledge to the practice of Surgery. Surgical Anatomy, properly understood, implies not merely relation of parts, but such an acquaintance with the position, functions, and relations of the structures entering into the formation of any region, as may assist in the diagnosis and treat- ment of the injuries and diseases occurring in it; or in certain cases to judge how far operative interference is warrantable, and guide us if it be, in planning and per- forming the operation. Hence, I only regret that the nature of the course limited the amount of such teaching to little more than suo-gestive hints. The range of subjects treated of in these Lectures is so large as to render it quite impossible to enter fully upon all. I have therefore devoted more space to the important subjects, in which, from various circumstances, I have had an exceptionally large experience, such as Tumours, Diseases of the Vascular System, Excisions of Joints, Amputation, Injuries of the Head, Diseases and Injuries of the Air Passages, Hernia, and Diseases of the Urinary Organs. Even in regard to these the Lectures are necessarily suggestive, not exhaustive as in the case of monographs; the other parts of the work, again, though more briefly treated, will be found to contain all that is essential or of practical interest. In conclusion, I have to acknowledge the assistance aff"orded me by my friend Dr. Taylor, in preparing for the press and compiling the Index, and to Dr. Thomas Balfour, for his assistance in the revision of the later portion of the work. In regard to the artistic department, I am specially indebted to the kind offices of my friend JPREFACE. ix Dr. John Smith. And here I would draw attention to the mode of illustration adopted, as preferable to the ordinary woodcuts, both in respect to the perspicuity afforded by colour, as well as enabling me to give faithful transcripts from photographs, or from original sketches made by various artistic friends, of actual cases or dissections, and used by me as class illustrations in my Lectures at the University. A'pril 1871.4 LECTURES ON SURGERY.Printed by R. Clark, Edinburgh.CONTENTS OF VOLUME 11. —♦— LECTURE LXXIV. Operations : necessary Precautions regarding them—Preparatory Examination and Treatment of Patient—Points of Detail in reference to collateral Arrange- ments—Use of Anesthetics : Hints and Cautions with regard to their safe Administration—Plans for the Operations—Assistants—After-Treatment of Patient ....... Pages 635-648 LECTURE LXXV. Operation for the Ligature of Arteries—Importance of a Knowledge of the Rela- tive Anatomy of the Part to be operated on—Nature of the Incisions re- quired—Exposure of Artery : Opening of Sheath—Passing of Needle— Apparatus required. Ligature of Innominate Artery—Ligature of the common Carotid Artery—Liga- ture of the First Part of the Subclavian Artery . . 649-662 LECTURE LXXVL Ligature of the Middle and Third Portions of the Subclavian Artery—Ligature of the Axillary Artery in First, Second, and Third Portions—Ligature of the Radial Artery at Superior and inferior Parts—Ligature of the Ulnar Artery. 663-675 LECTURE LXXVIL Surgical Anatomy of the Iliac Arteries—Steps of the operation for tying them —Modes in which the Circulation is subsequently re-established—Direct Ligature of the Iliac Arteries for Aneurism . . . 676-683 LECTURE LXXVm. Ligature of the Femoral Artery : in Lower Part of Scarpa's Triangle ; in Hunter's Canal—Anastomoses by which the Circulation is restored—Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery : of the Posterior Tibial Artery . . 684-695CONTENTS. vi LECTURE LXXIX. Excision of Joints—History of the Operation—Its benefits as compared with those of Amputation—The Objects sought to be attained by the Operation— How these are Modified by Circumstances—Considerations for our Guidance in the Selection of suitable Cases for operation : as regards the Patient, and the Extremity and Articulation affected . . Pages 696-708 - LECTUEE LXXX. Comparative Mortality following Excision and Amputation in Upper and Lower Limbs, as seen from Statistics—Causes of the Mortality exemplified by niustrative Cases—Instruments and Apparatus required for the Operation and After-treatment of Excision of Joints .... 709-718 LECTURE LXXXI. Excision of Shoulder-Joint : Steps of the Operation : After-treatment—Excision of Elbow-Joint by Longitudinal, H and T incisions—Circumstances under which one or other should be preferred—Operation—Excision of Wrist-Joint —Instruments used and Operative Procedure . . . 719-728 LECTURE LXXXIL Excision of Hip-Joint : Objections to the Operation : Mode of jierforming it when required—Excision of Knee-Joint by Longitudinal, Transverse, and Semi- lunar Incisions : Operation : Rules for the Permanent Adjustment and After-treatment of the Limb : Dr. Watson's Apparatus—Excision of the Ankle-Joint : Best Method of performing it . . . 729-737 LECTURE LXXXIIL Amputation : Ends sought to be attained by it : best Modes of fulfilling these— Anatomy of Stumps—Growth of Bone after Amputation—Advantages and Disadvantages of various Forms of Flaps, as advocated by Liston, Syme, and others ........ 738-746 LECTURE LXXXIV. Amputation continued—Mr. Teale's Method, by a Long Anterior and short Pos- terior Flap : its Advantages and Disadvantages—The Author's Method, by Long Anterior Flap—Mr. Garden's Method . . . 747-753 LECTURE LXXXV. Amputation continued—Prevention of Hremon-hage during the Operation, and its arrestment afterwards—Immediate and After-treatment of Stumps 754-759vii CONTENTS. LECTUEE LXXXVI. Amputation continued—Caiises of Mortality—Statistics—Circumstances modify- ing the Value of the Information derived from them—Table exhibiting the Eesults of Author's Practice—Comments on and Deductions made from them Pages 760-782 LECTUEE LXXXVII. Special Amputations—The Upper Extremity—Amputation of the Distal Phalanx of Finger ; of the whole Finger ; of Fingers and their Metacarpal Bones ; of the Thumb—Partial Amputation of the Hand—Amputation at the Wrist- Joint—Lines of Incision and Form of Flaps—Amputation of the Forearm— By Double Flap—Teale's Method by transfixion . . . 783-793 LECTUEE LXXXVIIL Amputations in the Upper Extremity continued—At the Elbow-Joint—Amputa- tion of the Upper Arm by the Circular Method : by the Antero-Posterior and Lateral Flap Methods—Teale's Method—Amputation at the Shoulder- Joint : by a large Deltoid Flap ; by Double-Flap Method—Advantages and Disadvantages of each — The Author's own Method : its Advantages— Details of his mode of conducting the Operation—Amputation of Arm and Scapula . ....... 794-803 LECTUEE LXXXIX. Special Amputations continued—Lower Extremity—Amputation of the Phalanges of the Toes : of the Phalanges of the great Toe with or without its Meta- tarsal Bone — Partial Amputations of the Foot; of all the Toes : Hey's Operation ; Chopart's Operation—Amputation at the Ankle : by Syme's Method ; by a large Internal Flap—Other Modifications . 804-813 LECTUEE XC. Amputation of the Leg : Primary and Secondary ; by the Circular Method ; by long Posterior Flap ; by Teale's Method—Amputation at the Knee-Joint—■ Amputation at the Thigh by transfixion : by long Anterior Flap ; Author's Method ; by Circular Method—Amputation at the Hip-Joint : Advantages ; Steps of the Operation—Artificial Limbs . . . 814-852 LECTUEE XCL Injuries of the Head—Anatomy of the Textures involved, viewed in its Normal and Pathological Aspects—Primary and Secondary Effects of Injuries— "Wounds and Bruises of Scalp : their Varieties, Phenomena, Complications,- viii CONTENTS. and Treatment—Compression and Concussion of the Brain—Symptoms of Concussion: its General Treatment . . . Pages 853-863 LECTURE XCII. Rationale of Treatment of Head Injuries founded upon the Pathological Conditions attending them—The immediate and more remote Dangers following Reaction in Concussion : Symptoms attending them ; Indications to be derived from these—Active and Passive Extravasation : Diagnosis of its Site—-Inflammation of the Brain and its membranes—Suppuration within the Cranium—Evacua- tion of the Pus by Perforation . . . . . 864-876 LECTUEE XCIII. Injuries of the Cranial Bones—Contusions—Fractures—Ecrasement or Smash— Fractures with and without Depression, as Fissures, and Simple, Compound, Compound Comminuted, and Punctured Fractures — Fractures of Base of SkuU—General Symptoms and Treatment exemplified by Cases . 877-889 LECTURE XCIV. Hernia Cerebri; its Nature, Causes, and Treatment—The Operation of Trepan : Instruments required for, and Mode of performing it; how modified by the Nature of the Injury—General After-treatment—Brief Statement of the Cases where Trepan should be performed .... 890-901 LECTURE XCV. Injuries of the Spine : their similarity to those of the Brain—Concussion of the Spine : Objective and Subjective Symptoms which characterise and accom- pany it; Indications of Treatment—Fractures and Dislocations of the Spine : their Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment—Tumours of the Scalp : Cystic, Fibro-Plastic, Malignant, Vascular-Erectile ; the Diagnosis and Treatment of each—Cirsoid Aneurism or Arterial Varix—Necrosis of the Cranial Bones 902-933 LECTURE XCVL Injuries of Face—Contusions—"Wounds—Wounds implicating the Portio Dura— Wounds implicating the Parotid Duct, and leading to Salivary Fistula— Treatment of Salivary Fistula—Wounds of or near the Orbit—Ectropion— Ptosis—Removal of Eye—Extirpation of the whole Contents of Orbit—Ob- struction of Nasal Duct—Fistula Laclu'ymalis : Bowman's Operation for its Prevention ; old Operation—Fracture of Bones of Nose—Foreign Bodies in Nostril—Epistaxis and its Treatment .... 934-944CONTENTS. ix LECTUEE XCVII. Polypus of tlie Nostril : Simple ; Fibrous and Malignant ; their Symptoms and Treatment—Ozoena and its Treatment—Ulceration of the Septum Nasi— Ehittoplastic Operations : by Flaps from the Forehead or Cheeks—Liston's Operation for restoring the Columna Nasi—Partial Restoration of the Nose by Flap from the Arm ..... Pages 945-955 LECTURE XCVIII. Ulcers of the Lips—Epithelial Cancer of Lip : Operations for its removal; CheUo- plastic Operations—Harelip and Cleft Palate : Operations for the remedy of these Congenital Deformities ..... 956-964 LECTURE XCIX. Inflammation and Abscess of the Tonsils—Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsils— Excision of Tonsils—Eanula and other Sublingual Tumours—Salivary Con- cretions : their Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment—Glossitis—Chronic Hypertrophy of the Tongue—Ulcers of the Tongue—Epithelial Cancer of the Tongue : Operations for its Eemoval—Tumours of Palate . 965-974 LECTURE C. Diseases of the Jaws—Abscess of the Antrum of Highinore : its Symptoms and Treatment—Abscess in Lower Jaw—Epulus—Cystic Tumours of Upper and Lower Jaws—Simple and Malignant Tumours of the Jaws—Excision of the Upper Jaw—Various Methods of performing the Operation—Excision of the Lower Jaw—Partial Eesections—Disarticulation of the Lower Jaw—Excision of the Central Portion of the Lower Jaw . . . 975-986 LECTURE CI Fracture of the Upper Jaw—Fractures of the Lower Jaw at different points : Causes of Displacement; Treatment—Dislocations of Lower Jaw : Method of Seduction—Injuries of Ear—Foreign Bodies in the Ear, and Modes of re- moving them—Obstruction of External Passage by Inspissated Cerumen— Eczematous Affection of Auricle and Passage—Otitis—Otorrhoea—Polypi and Polypoid Growths in the External Passage—Affections of the Eustachian Tube — Eustachian Catheterism — Use of Toynbee's Artificial Membrana Tympani ......... 987-998 LECTURE CIL Surgery of the Neck—Cervical Tumours : Simple and Malignant—Cervical Hy- pertrophies, as those of the Thyroid Body : Importance of careful DiagnosisCONTENTS. in dealing witli them—Adenoid and Fibro-Cystic Parotid Tumours—Fattj' Tumours of the Submaxillary Region—Diagnosis and Treatment of the different Forms of Broncliocele—M. Porta's Views. Accidental and Suicidal Wounds in the Cervical Region : their Treatment Pages 999-1009 LECTURE cm. Injuries of the Larynx—Circumstances which regulate their Severity—Primary and Secondary Dangers—Foreign Bodies in Larynx—Variety and Intensity of accompanying S}Tnptoms, as regulated by character of Impacted Body— Sensibility of different parts of the Mucous Surface—Illustrative Cases—■ Tracheotomy—Special Hints regarding the Administration of Chloroform in the Operation—After-Treatment of Wound—Other Methods of causing the Ejection of Foreign Bodies—Accidents arising from the swallowing of Boil - ing or Acrid Fluids ...... 1010-1018 LECTUEE CIV. (Edema Glottidis : its Nature and Treatment—Croup and Acute Laryngitis : Similarity of their Symjjtoms—Pathological Changes in the different Stages of Croup — The Physical Manifestations which accompany them — Treat- ment, Medical and Surgical—Indications and Arguments for and against Tracheotomy—The Proper Time for performing it . . 1019-1027 LECTUEE CV. Diphtheritic Croup : its nature as compared with Simple Croup—Duration of Disease and modes of Death, illustrated by Examples — Complications arising from previous Disease and jJi'esent Contingencies—Indications for performing the Operation of Tracheotomy, and Cases best suited for it— Contra-indications—The stage of the Disease when it is most likely to he successful—Local and Constitutional After-treatment. . 1028-1036 LECTUEE CVL Chronic Laryngitis : Causes ; Symptoms ; Diagnosis ; Treatment—Warty Disease of the Larynx—Secondary and Anomalous Affections causing Laryngeal Symptoms, as Tumours of the Thyroid, and Thoracic Aneurism—Symptoms common to both conditions—Value of the Laryngoscope as an aid to Dia- gnosis : Directions for using it—Operations of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy in the Child and Adult: After-treatment . . . 1037-1048 LECTUEE CVIL - Injuries of the Pharynx arising from the Lodgment and Impaction of Foreign Bodies : Modes of detecting and extracting them by Manual and Instru-xi CONTENTS. mental means—After-Treatment wlien they have entered the Stomach—Dis- eases of the Pharynx—Lateral and Posterior Pharyngeal Abscess—Strictm-e of the (Esophagus : Spasmodic and Organic ; Simple and Malignant Pages 1049-1103 LECTURE CVIII. Injuries and Diseases of the Thorax: superficial and deep-seated—Diseases of the Clavicle—Excision of Clavicle—Excision of Scapula—Diseases of the Mammae : Abscess ; Hypertrophy ; Tumour—Excision of Mamma. Fracture of the Ribs : Diagnosis ; Treatment—Emphysema—"Wounds of Thorax : method of examining them ; Dangers and Complications attending them— Pneumothorax, Hjematothorax, Hydrothorax, and Emphysema : their Symp- toms ; Treatment. ...... 1104-1127 LECTURE CIX. Abdominal Wounds: their Nature, Variety, Risks, Complications, and Treat- ment, General and Special—Traumatic Peritonitis : its Symptoms, Patho- logy, Prognosis, and Treatment—The Operation of Paracentesis Abdominis : when and how to perform it—Chronic Abdominal Abscess, diffuse and cu'cuniscribed—Perityphlitis—Iliac, Lumbar, and Psoas Abscess : Diagnosis and Treatment ....... 1128-1139 LECTURE ex. Hernia : definition of the term—Mechanism of Abdominal Hernia, and Nature of the Protrusion—Formation of the Hernial Sac, and its relations to the Visceral Peritoneum—Structural Changes which the Sac and its contents undergo—the Fascia Propria : whenee derived and how distinguished—Con- tents of the Sac — Enterocele—Epiphlocele—Entero-epiphlocele—General Diagnostics and Classification of Herniae : its Symptoms and predisposing and exciting Causes—Mr. Vincent's views on the Action of the Diaphragm —Treatment of Reducible Hernia—Application and Adaptation of Trusses 1140-1151 LECTURE CXI In-educible Hernia—Causes which lead to the Chronic Condition—General Symp- toms and Treatment—Acute Incarceration and Strangulation—Explanation of the Mechanical Causes leading to Constriction—Pathological Changes, and the Symptoms which attend them—Taxis : Principles and Methods to be followed in using it—Cautions regarding it—Dangers of Delay when the Taxis fails, or in waiting for urgent Symptoms to warrant the Operation— Causes of Death in twenty-six Fatal Cases . . . 1152-1163CONTENTS. xii LECTURE CXII. Treatment of Hernia Ly Operation—Results—Tlie Extra-Peritoneal Operation— Tlie Ordinary Operation—After-Treatment: Local and General Pages 1164-1173 LECTURE CXIIL Complications met witli in cases of Hernia before and after Eeduction—Illustra- tive Cases—Precautions in operating which they suggest—Special Hernia',, and their Treatment—Inguinal Herniae: Direct and Oblique—Differential Diagnosis ..... . . 1174-1184 LECTURE CXIV. Differential Diagnosis of HernioB continued—Diagnosis between Hernia and In- flammation of the Descending Testicle in Children or Adolescents: between Hernia and Hydrocele, Haematocele, Cirsocele, and Special Tumours of the Cord and Testis—Eeduction of Oblique and Direct Inguinal Hernia by Taxis and by Operation in Adults and in ChUdi'en—Modifications of Oblique Inguinal Hernia—Congenital—InfantUe . . . 1185-1196 LECTURE CXV. Femoral Hernia—Anatomy of the region in both Sexes — Comparative Fre- quency of Femoral Hernia in Males and Females—Difficulties in Diagnosis, and how to meet them—Eeasons for operating early—Mode of operating— Ventral Hernia : its Nature and Treatment—Eadical Cure of Hernia—Con- sideration of the various methods for effecting it—Statistics of Operations for Strangulated Hernia ...... 1197-1214 LECTURE CXVL Injuries of the Bladder and Urethi-a : their Dangers; Treatment—Stone in the Bladder: Causes; Symptoms—Diagnosis between it and other Diseases— Prognosis as to result of Operations, according to the Nature of the Concre- tion . ....... 1215-1225 LECTURE CXVIL Operations for the Eemoval of Vesical Calculi—Lithotrity and Lithotomy: the Cases most suitable for these Operations—Preliminaiy Exploration of the Bladder, or Sounding—Lithotrity .... 1226-1238 LECTURE CXVIIL Lithotomy—Supra-pubic, or High Operation—its Dangers, and Proposals for diminishing them—Steps of the Operation—After-Treatment—Sub-pubic or Perineal Lithotomy—Different Methods—Anatomy of the Male Perineum with reference to Lithotomy ..... 1239-1251CONTENTS. xiii LECTURE CXIX. Perineal Lithotomy, continued—Preliminary arrangements—Celsian Operation " on the Gripe "—Operation by the " Apparatus Major "—Lateral Operation as introduced by Frfere Jacques—Description of the Modern Lateral Opera- tion—Modifications of the Operation—Lateral Lithotomy in Children— Lithotomy in Patients who have been previously operated on—Bilateral Lithotomy : Advantages iu certain cases . . Pages 1252-1265 LECTUEE CXX. Lithotomy, continued—Mesial Operation—Eecto-vesical Operation—Points to be attended to ia regard to Extraction of the Stone—General After-Treatment— Haemorrhage—Infiltration of Urine after Lithotomy—Suppression of Urine— Inflammation of the Neck of the Bladder—Pyaemia—The Author's experience of the results of Lithotomy Cases — Kemarks on Statistics of Lithotomy— Lithotomy in the Female ..... 1266-1279 LECTURE CXXL Diseases of the Urinary Organs—Eetention of Urine from a Calculus in the Urethra : from Injuries ; from Paralysis or Atony of the Bladder—Disease of the Prostate Gland—Catheterism in cases of Enlarged Prostate—Methods of relieving Eetention when the Catheter cannot be passed . 1280-1291 LECTURE CXXIL Eetention of Urine from Stricture of the Urethra—Spasmodic or Congested Stric- ture : Treatment—Organic Stricture—Anatomy of the male Urethra—Patho- logy of Urethral Stricture—Morbid Changes in other parts of the Genito- urinary Organs arising from Stricture—Fistula in Perineo . 1292-1304 LECTURE CXXIIL Symptoms of Urethral Stricture—Secondary effects on the Digestive Functions and on the Nervous centres—Positive Diagnosis of Organic Stricture—Treat- ment of Eetention of Urine, arising from Tight Stricture—Curative Treat- ment by Vital Dilatation—Dupuytren's plan of Vital Dilatation 1305-1316 LECTURE CXXIV. Treatment of Urethral Stricture, continued—Use of Caustics : their Dangers— Holt's Method of Immediate Dilatation^—Precautions after Treatment—Section of the Stricture from within by Lancetted Catheters—Perineal Section—Old Operation in Impermeable Contractions—Syme's Method : description of the Operation—Special points to be attended to in Operating, and in the After- Treatment ....... 1317-1328CONTENTS. LECTURE CXXV. Puncture of the Bladder for Eetention of LTrine in cases of Stricture—Punctm'e by the Eectum : by Incision from the Perineum—Extravasation of Urine—Symp toms of rapid Extravasation from yielding of the Urethra behind the Stric- tm-e—Treatment—Extravasation resulting from neglected Urinary Abscess— Fistula in Perineo—Different forms of Perineal Fistulae, and their Treatment —Retention of Urine and Catheterism in the Female . Pages 1329-1342 LECTURE CXXVI Urethritis — Gonorrhoea Virulenta : its Progressive Symptoms—Gleet — Retro- cedent Stage—Complications—Prostatitis and Irritable Bladder—Inflam- mation of the Testicle—Treatment of Gonorrhoea and Gleet—Gonorrhoea in the Female—Constitutional or Secondary Effects of Gonorrhoea Virulenta— Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia—Gonorrhoeal Warts—Gonorrhoea PrseputiaHs 1343-1353 LECTURE CXXVIL Phymosis and Paraphymosis : Treatment—Orchitis or Inflamed Testicle : Treat- ment — Hydrocele : Diagnosis and Treatment; Operation — Hematocele : Difficulties in Diagnosis ; Treatment—Cirsocele and Varicocele ; Diagnosis and Treatment—Tumours of Testicle—Castration : Steps of the Operation, and points to be specially attended to . . . . 1354-1366 LECTURE CXXVIIL Syphilitic Hydro-Sarcocele : Dangers of Operation in such Cases — Scrofulous Testicle—Sinuses and Abscesses—Fungoid Scrofulous Testicle : its True Nature : Methods of Treatment—Irritable or Neuralgic Testicle—Elephanti- asis Scroti : Operations for its Removal—Soot-Wart, or Chimney-Sweep's Cancer : Treatment—Epithelioma of Prepuce and Penis—Amputation of the Penis—Diseases of Genito-Uriuai-y Organs in the Female—Ovarian Disease— Ovariotomy—-Vesico-Vaginal Fistula, and Operation for its Cure—Suture of the Female Perineum ...... 1367-1381 LECTURE CXXIX. Diseases of the Rectum—Haemorrhoids—External and Internal Piles : their Pathology : Constitutional Symptoms arising from Loss of Blood ; Treat- ment—Prolapsus Ani—Polypus of the Rectum—Anal Ulcers—Fissure of the Anus : Symptoms and Treatment—Anal Abscess—Fistula in Ano: Different Forms; Treatment—Stricture of the Rectum: Sim2ile and Malignant; Treatment—Amussat's Operation for Artificial Anus—Imperforate Anus Operations for that Condition . . . . . 1382-1401XV CONTENTS. Clinical Cases illustrating the subject of Amputation. Page Successful Case of Primaiy Amputation at the Hip-Joint . . . 822 Amputation at tlie Hi2i-Joint ...... 828 Amputation at the Hip-Joint ...... 833 Primary and Secondary Amputations for Injury .... 839 Injury by Machinery—Death from Secondary Haemorrhage . . 843 Double Primary Amputation of Arm ..... 846 Secondary Amputation of Arm ...... 846 Primary Amputations of the Thigh and Leg .... 846 Primary Amputation of Thigh ; Death from Mortification of Stump.— {Cases referred to in Lecture Ixxxvi. pp. 771, 772) . . . 850 Secondary Amputations of Thigh for Injury .... 851 Clinical Cases illustrating Injuries of Head. Injuries of the Scalp ....... 913 Passive Intracranial Hsemorrhage following Concussion . . .914 Intracranial Suppuration . . . . . , .917 Fracture of the Cranium . . . . . . .919 Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Cranium . . . .919 Compound Comminuted Fractiu'e of Cranium, with Wound of the Longi- tudinal Sinus ........ 921 Gunshot Fracture of Cranium ...... 922 Simple Fractures of Cranium complicated with Active Intracranial Hsemor- rhage . . ....... 925 Operation of Trepan ....... 928 Fractures of the Base of Cranium ...... 929 Injury of the Spine.—(From Clinical Reports, Session 1859-60) . . 931 Clinical Cases illustrative of the Treatment of Facial AND Cervical Regions. Excision of the Lower Jaw, in which both Lateral Portions of the Bone have been removed, leaving merely a Small Portion at the Sjrraphysis.—Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1843 ..... 1059 Malignant Tumour of Right Superior Maxilla .... 1062 Enormous deep-Seated Tumour of the Face and Neck, successfully re- moved by Operation . . . . . . .1063 Large Cervical Tumour successfully removed .... 1074 (2) hCONTENTS. xvi Clinical Oases illustrative of the Treatment of Thyroid Tumours. Page. Hydrocele of the Thyroid Gland. Laryngo Tracheotomy , . 1080 Haematocele of the Thyroid Gland ..... 1081 Tracheotomy for removal of Foreign Bodies .... 1081 Portion of Tracheotomy Tube in Bronchus—Extraction . . . 1091 Tracheotomy in Croup ....... 1092 Second Series ..... 1099 Tracheotomy in Diphtheritic Croup ..... 1102 Clinical Cases illustrative of the Treatment of Diseases of the Thoracic Eegion. Disarticulation of the Sternal Half of the Clavicle . . .1123 Emphysema and Pneumothorax following Fractured Eibs . . 1126 Clinical Cases illustrative op the Treatment of Hernia. Scrotal Hernia, Peculiarity in the Constriction .... 1402 Scrotal Hernia, apparently reduced by Taxis. Small Hernial Tumour felt at Upper Part of Canal ; Operation ; Death .... 1405 Femoral Hernia. Irregular Obturator Artery Constricting the Intestine 1408 Group of Cases of Hernia :— Femoral Hernia ....... 1415 Congenital Inguinal Hernia . . . . .1416 Femoral Hernia. Extra-Peritoneal operation . . . 1417 Clinical Cases illustrative of Diseases of Urinary Organs. Intestinal Obstruction—Gastrotomy ..... 1420 Rupture of the Urinary Bladder ...... 1422 Retention of Urine in a Post-Vesical Cyst, requiring to be punctured from the Rectum ....... 1426 Hydatid Cyst between the Bladder and Rectum . . . . 1427EXPLANATION OF PLATES. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES.—Plate XXVIL—Page 649. Fig. 1. Outline figure, showing the lines of incision for exposing the arteries of the arm and forearm. Fig. 2. Lines of incision for exposing the common carotid, third portion of the subclavian, and upper third of the axillary artery. Fig. 3. Incision for exposing the femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa's triangle. Fig. 4. Form of aneurism-needle recommended. Plate XXVIIL—Page 660. Fig. 1. Sketch from nature, showing the parts as seen after performing ligature of the right common carotid artery above the omo- hyoid muscle. Fig. 2. Sketch after ligature of the left common carotid below the omo- hyoid muscle. Fig. 3. Dissected view of the parts concerned in ligature of the carotid, showing the relative anatomy of the artery, vagus nerve and internal jugular vein, when the sheath is removed in front. The small nerve, the descendens noni, is also seen in front, or superficial to the sheath. Fig. 4 shows the incision for exposing the third portion of the subclavian artery. The outer margin of the stemo-mastoid is divided more largely than usual, to exhibit the relative anatomy of scalenus anticus muscle to the artery. The position of the external jugular vein ; posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, trans- versalis colli artery and the brachial plexus of nerves are also seen, the cellular tissue having been dissected away to expose these parts. Plate XXIX.—Page 686. Fig. 1, Incision for ligature of the external iliac artery (after Manec). The peritoneal sac is separated from the iliac fossa, and heldxviii EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. aside, so as to expose the external iliac artery and vein, and some of the ilio-lunibar nerves. Fig. 2. Sketch from Nature, representing ligature of the femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa's triangle. The edge of the sartorius muscle is seen held aside, exposing the sheath of the vessels, which has been opened over the artery. The edge of the open- ing in the sheath is shown, held aside by artery-forceps, as described in the Lecture. Fig. 3 is a dissected view of the same parts, to exhibit the relations of the artery and vein and saphenus nerve to each other at the point of ligature. Fig. 4 shows the appearance of the wound required for ligature of posterior tibial or the peroneal by the method recommended in the Lecture. The heads of the gastrocnemius are separated, together with the cut edges of the soleus, are held apart and expose the pos- terior tibial nerve in the centre ; and on either side of the nerve the posterior tibial and fibular arteries are seen. Plate XXX.—To face Page 691. Fig. 1. Ligature of the superior part of radial artery. The supinator longus muscle is slightly drawn aside, and along its inner side the radial nerve is exposed, and internally to the nerve the radial artery and its " venae comites " are seen, the ligature is placed imder the artery. Fig. 2. Ligature of the lower part of radial. The fascia of the forearm has been divided, and the vessels and its accompanying veins are exposed close to the outer side of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. Fig. 3. Ligature of the upper part of the ulnar artery. The intermuscu- lar fascia between the flexor subliniis digitorium and the flexor carpi ulnaris has been divided, and these muscles drawn aside, exposing the ulnar artery and its satellite veins deeply seated in the wound. A part of the ulnar nerve is seen towards the inner side of the incision partially overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris. Fig. 4. Ligature of the ulnar artery near the wrist. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which forms the guide to the vessel at this point, has been slightly drawn inM'ards to show the relations of ulnar artery and nerve. Fig. 5. Ligature of the anterior tibial artery in the upper part of the leg. The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn inwards by a hook, to expose the artery and the accompanying veins and nerve. EXCISION OF JOINTS.—Plate X5:XI.—Page 722. Fig. 1. Excision of the head of the humerus, by the method recommended in the Lecture, pp. 719-20. The saw is shown in the plate asEXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xix applied from behind, as it should be in operating on the left arm. In operating on the right arm, the surgeon grasps the projected head of the bone with his left hand, and saws the bone from before backwards. Fig. 2. Outline figure, showing the lines of incision used for excision of the elbow-joint. Page 722. The dotted lines represent the positions of the single, longitudinal, and H incisions. Fig. 3. Excision of the elbow by the single longitudinal incision. The position of the narrow saw is shown as applied for removal of articular ends of the ulna and radius. Fig. 4. Excision of wrist-joint, by the two lateral incisions, (reduced from a plate in Bourgery and Jacob's Operative Surgery). The only difference between this and the modern operation is, that in the latter the bone-pliers and narrow saw are used instead of the chain-saw represented in the plate. See page 725. Fig. 5. Excision of the knee-joint by lunated incision. The condyles of the femur have been" removed, and the narrow saw is shown as applied for removing a thin slice from the articular surface of the tibia. Pages 731-32. Figs. 6, 7, 8, and 9. Dr. "Watson's apparatus for the purposes of after- treatment in cases of excision of the knee-joint. Pages 733-34. Plate XXXII.—Page 730. Fig. 1. Sketch from a photograph of a patient, showing the result of excision of the knee-joint. Fig. 2. Sketch from a photograph of a patient after excision of the shoulder-joint by single incision. Showing the appearance of the shoulder, and the power which the arm retains. AMPUTATION—DISSECTIONS OF STUMPS.— Plate XXXIIL—Page 740. Dissection of a double-flap stump of the forearm, showing the muscularity retained, and the neuromata resulting from section of the great nerves. It will be observed that the ends of the median and ulnar nerves, although far from the cicatrix, and deeply covered, present neuromatous enlargement, yet the stump was not a painful one. Dissection of an old stump of the thigh, formed by circular amputation. The femur projects the cicatrix, there are numerous neuromata, one nerve is stretched over the end of the bone. Fig. 3. Stump of the thigh formed by anterior' and posterior flaps, by Liston's method. The end of the bone, though not projecting, corresponds to the cicatrix. The sartorius and other muscles areXX EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. seen to retain their bulk and muscular character. The amputation had been performed in early life, and the head, neck, and trochanters of the femur, are seen to be remarkably altered in form and relation. Stump of leg, formed by long posterior flap method, thirteen years before the patient's death. The fibres of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, folded over the end of the bone, present all their muscular character, and very considerable thickness. See page 740. Drawn from a sketch taken by the late Sir Charles Bell, from an operation in the Eoyal Infirmary, To show the redundancy of muscle in the flap method by transfixion. The case was one of primary amputation. AMPUTATION.—Plate XXXIV.—Page 750. Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, represent the method of amputation of the thigh by a long anterior flap, on the principles recommended by the author. Pages 749-50. Fig. 1. The dotted lines mark the incisions and extent of the long anterior and short posterior flap. Fig. 2 shows the cut surface of the flaps, and the section of the condyloid end of the femiir, after the operation is completed. Figs. 3 and 4 are reduced copies of sketches from nature of a stump formed by the above procedure, twenty-one days after the operation. Fig. 3 gives a lateral, and Fig. 4 a front view of the stump. Sketched by Dr. Caton. Fig. 5 represents the result of the operation, aboiit a year after the opera- tion. The anterior flap is firndy consolidated over the end of the bone, and the cicatrix is seen to be retracted on the posterior aspect of the limb. By Mr. Livesay. Fig. 6 is an outline sketch from a stump, formed by double flap after Liston's method, of equal anterior and posterior flaps. The line of the cicatrix is seen in the centre of the surface of the stump, corresponding to the end of the bone. Fig. 7. Outline sketch of the author's modification of Liston's method, described at page 744. Plate XXXV.—Page 784. Amputation of a finger, by the method described at page 785. Amputation of forefinger. The distal end of the metacarpal bone is being removed obliquely by the angular cutting-pliers. Removal of middle finger and a portion of the metacarpal bone. The sketch shows the method of applying the straight cutting-pliers for section of the metacarpal bone. Fig. 4. Fig. 5.EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xxi Figs. 4, 5, and 6, represent amputation of the thumb and its metacarpal bone, by the method described at page 788. Fig. 4. The dotted lines mark the incisions, and the thumb as pushed inwards, to relax the muscles and facilitate transfixion. Fig. 5. The thumb stretched, to render the parts tense as the knife cuts out to the surface. Fig. 6. The wound resulting from the operation. Partial amputation of the hand, all the fingers removed, leaving the thumb. The flap in this case formed from the palmar aspect of the hand. Amputation of the wrist, as described at page 790. Plate XXXVI.—Page 794. Amputation of the forearm by a long posterior and shorter anterior flap. Figs. 2 and 3 represent the performance of amputation at the elbow-joiat> and the cut surface after disarticulation has been accomplished. Figs. 4 and 5 show the lines of incision and the flaps as formed in ampu- tation of the upper arm by Mr. Teale's method of rectangular flaps. (From Teale..) Figs. 6 and 7 represent amputation of the arm by the circular method. In Fig. 7 the edge of the knife is directed obliquely upwards in clearing the bone as recommended by Alanson. Fig. 8. Amputation of the arm by anterior posterior flaps cut by transfixion. Plate XXXVII.—Page 796. Amputations at the shoulder-joint by the deltoid and double lateral flap methods. Figs. 1 and 2. Amputation at shoulder by deltoid flap. Fig. 1 represents the formation of the deltoid flap, and exposure of head of the humerus. Fig. 2. Disarticulation. The assistant grasping the vessels previous to cutting the axillary flap. (After Sir Charles Bell.) Figs. 3 and 4. Method of amputation by two lateral flaps. Fig. 3 represents the method of transfixion in case of the left arm, and the form and extent of the flap. Fig. 4. The posterior lateral flap formed and reflected. The head of the bone has been disarticulated. The knife is about to cut the axillary flap. Plate XXXVIII.—Page 800. Fig. 1. Sketch from a dissection made to exhibit the surgical anatomy of the parts in reference to excision and amputation at the shoulder- joint, as recommended in the Lectures. See pages 719 and 720. Figs. 2 and 3. Amputation at the shoulder-joint by single flapv, by the Author's method.xxii EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Fig. 2 shows the cnt surface after disarticulation. The flap is thrown back, exposing the glenoid cavity and the axilla. The posterior cir- cumflex artery has been dissected on the surface of the flap, to show that its trunk is intact, and only its extreme twigs divided. Fig. 3 shows the flap brought into position. Fig. 4 sketched from a patient about a year after the operation had been performed ; and Fig. 5 is from a patient in whom ampixtation by the double lateral flap .method had been performed. The results of the two methods are contrasted. AMPUTATIONS.—LOWER EXTREMITY.—Plate XXXIX.—Page 806. Figs 1 and 2 show the lines of incision in amputation of the toes, and in partial amputations of the foot. Fig. 3. Amputation of the phalanges of the great toe. The internal incision is prolonged far down, so as to obtain sufficient covering for the large head of the metatarsal bone. Fig. 4. Method of amputating the toe by V-shaped incision. Fig. 5. Amputation of all the toes at their junction with the metatarsus. Figs. 6 and 7 represent the formation of the plantar flap in Hey's or Lisfranc's amputation, by transfixion or by cutting the flap after disarticulatmg. Fig. 8 shows the cut surface resulting from the operation. Figs. 9, 10, and 11, represent amputation at the ankle by Syme's method. 9 shows the dissection of the heel-flap from the os calcis ; 10, the cut-surface of the stump after completion of the operation ; 11 gives the result of such amputation some years after the operation. Page 811. Figs. 12 and 13 show the lines of incision in Mackenzie's amputation by internal calcaneal flap. Page 812. Plate XL.—Page 814. Figs. 14 and 15 represent amptitation of the leg by a long posterior flap, by the method described at page 814; and Fig. 16 represents the result of the operation, from sketches taken from nature. Figs. 17 and 18 are outline sketches of stumps formed by the above method. Figs. 19 and 20. Amputation of the thigh by double flap. The lower dotted line in Fig. 19 indicates the long posterior flap as recom- mended by Liston ; the upper is the extent of the posterior flap as recommended in the author's modification of the double-flap operation. Page 744. Figs. 21 and 22 exhibit the steps of "transfixion and disarticulation in am- putation at the hip-joint as described at page 820.xxiii EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Plate XLI.—Page 824.—The patient Robert Davidson. After primary amputation at the hip-joint for injury.—See Clinical Cases. Plate XLII.—Page 838.—The patient M. W. Showing result of am- putation at the hip by double flaps (as recommended at p. 820).—See Clinical Cases. INJURIES OF THE HEAD.—Plate XLIII.—Page 866. Fig. 1. Intra-cranial extravasation of blood from injury of the middle meningeal artery, in a case of fissure of the cranium. The symptoms were at first those of concussion : the symptoms of compression came on rapidly after reaction set in. From original sketch by Dr. James Moore. Fig. 2. Fungus cerebri following a compound comminuted fracture of the cranium caused by gunshot. (Case of A. BosweU. See Clinical Cases, page 922.) Fig. 3 is a sketch of the brain from the same case. A section has been made which exhibits the relations of the fungous protrusion, and the cavity of an abscess, filled with broken-down clots and pus, in the brain-substance at the base of the fungus. (Sketched by Dr Lauder). Fig. 4 shows intra-cranial suppuration arising from a blow on the cranium. The purulent collection is placed between the bone and dura mater, whilst a collection of unhealthy sanious pus corresponding to the internal suppuration is situated externally between the bone and pericranium, constituting Pott's Pufi'y Tumour. Dr. Caton. INJURIES OF HEAD, FRACTURES OF THE CRANIUM, AND OPERATION OF TREPAN.—Plate XLIV.—Page 896. Fig. 1. Diagram to explain the views of Mr. Vincent as to the direction of the impulses on the contents of the cranium from blows inflicted at different parts of the skull. See page 862. Figs. 2 and 3 are views of the interior and exterior of a sharply-depressed fracture, supposed to be caused by a blow with a hammer such as is used for breaking stones. The faint dotted line in Fig. 2 indicates the position where the base of the depressed fragment should be sawn across, to enable the surgeon to remove it with- out using the trephine. See Lecture zciv, page 898. Fig. 4. Sketch from John Bell's Surgei-y, illustrating the advantage of iTsing the cranial saw instead of the trephine in certain cases. See Clinical Cases, page 928. Fig. 5. Sketch from Sir Charles Bell, showing the result of the operation of trepan. The plan in this figure shows the fracture from the interior, and its relation to the circle of bone removed to allow of the fragments being removed or elevated.EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xxiv Figs. 6 and 7 are portions of cranial bones removed by the trephine to ex- hibit the varying tliickness of the cranium in different indi- viduals and in different parts of the same skull. Fig. 8. Necrosed bone thrown off from the circular opening made with the trepan. Fig. 9. The instrument termed the trephine. Fig. 10. The trepan. TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW.—Plate XLV.—Page 980. Fig. 1. Malignant fibro-plastic tumour of the upper jaw, implicating the textures of the cheek. The npper jaw of the right side and a portion of palatine plate of the left side, together with soft textures of the cheek, were removed by operation. A flap was dissected from the neck to fill up the gap, as shown in Fig. 2. The wound healed well, and the patient was dismissed in good health, with wonderfully little deformity of the face. But a similar growth, I understand, appeared in the left antrum about a year afterwards, in consequence of which she died. (Sketched from nature by Dr. Caton. See Clinical Cases.) Fig. 5. Very large firm fibroid tumour of the upper jaw. The tumour, as shown in the sketch, projected very largely into the mouth. The whole jaw was removed, and the patient made an excellent recovery. The result is shown in Fig. 2, Plate XLVI. From original sketch by Dr. John Smith. EXCISIONS OF THE JAWS.—Plate XLVI.—Page 984. Fig. 1. Sketch of Elizabeth Fitzpatrick, in whom both sides of the jaw were removed, leaving only the symphysis. See Clinical Case, page 1059. Fig. 2. From a jjhotograph showing the result in the case represented in Plate XLV., Fig. 3. The contraction of the features and the deep shadows caused by the light during the photographic process give an unfavourable view of the actual result. Fig. 3. From a photograph. Result in the case of Mrs. H , in whom one-half of the lower jaw was removed by disarticulation and resection. In this case also the shadows might mislead as to the extent of the incision, as a deep line extends completely under the chin. The incision terminates considerably to the right of the chin. In other respects the sketch gives a good idea of the result. TUMOURS OF THE NECK.—Plate XLVIL—Page 1002. Fig. 1. A tumour situated in the superior anterior angle of the neck, pressing aside the stemo-mastoid. The tumour really occupied a very deep position, being an outgrowth from the thyroid body. This is one of the cases referred to at page 1004.XXV EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Figs. 2 and 3. Enormous deep-seated tumour of the face and neck. Case of Mr. Jepson. See Clinical Cases. A lateral sketch of the same case is given as a contrast with a malignant cervical tumour at page 112. Plate XLVIIL—Page 1074. Figs. 1, 2, and 3. Engraved from photographs of the lad Manson, showing the position of the deep cervical growth and the result of the operation. See Clinical Cases. DISEASES OF AIR-PASSAGES.—Plate XLIX.—Page 1010. Surgical anatomy of the parts concerned in tracheotomy in the child. Fig. 1. The skin, platysma, and fascia have been reflected, exposing the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and the intermuscular line, on either side of which the central jugular veins pass down to con- verge in the supra-sternal fossa. Fig. 2. Deeper view of the same region. The intermuscular tissue has been divided, and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles are held aside by hooks. At the upper part of the dissection the thyroid cartilage is exposed, less angular and prominent than in the adult. .Below it we see the thyroid body, connected with which, on each side, we see the lateral prolongations of the thymus gland. The deep thyroid veins are seen partly over- lapped by the thymus gland, and immediately below the isthmus of the thyroid body, and between the veins, the trachea is seen bare at the point where it should be opened in tracheo- tomy. Externally to the prolongations of the thymus gland portions of the common carotid arteries are exposed to show the close relation of these vessels to the trachea. (Drawn from nature by J. Noble. See pages 1045 and 1046.) TRACHEOTOMY.—Plate L.—Page 1046. Fig. 1. Sketch from nature, showing a plum-stone firmly impacted in left bronchus. Lecture, page 1046 ; also Clinical Cases, page 1085. Fig. 2. Sketch from nature, showing occlusion of larynx and upper part of trachea by false membrane. Tracheotomy was performed with marked relief, but the disease extended to the trachea and bronchi below the opening, and proved fatal. See case of D. R., in Clinical Cases, page 1090. Figs. 3 and 4. The form of trachea-tube recommended. Figs. 5 and 6. The double spring hook for keeping the incision open to facilitate the introduction of the tube, or to allow the child to cough up portions of false membrane before the tube is intro- duced. The instrument is figured closed, and also with the blades expanded.EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xxvi HERNIA—HEMORRHOIDS.—Plate LL—Page 1168. Fig. 1 exMbits the appearance of parts, in a case of gangrenous hernia, after removal of the mortified portion of bowel. The upper and lower orifices of the intestinal tube are seen, and the valve-like fold of the mucous surface between them. (Case referred to at page 1117.) Fig. 2. Portion of gangrenous intestine. A large ulcerated opening is seen at one part below the constriction. Fig. 3. Portion of gut with numerous small perforations, resulting from a slower form of gangrene. In this case, the patient, an old woman, went on very favourably for some days, when she was suddenly seized with acute peritonitis, which had been caused by the escape of the feculent matter by the minute perforations. Page 1158. Fig. 4. Hsemorrhoidal protrusion of congested folds of mucous membrane at the anus. This form of disease has sometimes been con- founded with prolapsus ani. See page 1387. HERNIA.—Plate LIL—Page 1190. Sketches after Sir Charles Bell, showing the steps of the operation in oblique inguinal and in femoral hernia in the female. Fig. 3 shows very well the appearance presented by a femoral hernia, when the skin and superficial fascia are freely divided. Fig. 1. A view of the operation for hernia, descending into the labium From being an inguinal hernia, the intestine liad descended to become a hernia resembling the scrotal hernia of the male, only that it is contained in the labium. A B, The extent of the herniary tumour. C, From this to B, is the course of the first incision, which cuts through the skin and cellular membrane, and exposes the fascia. D, The fascia which covers the proper sac of the hernia. After dissecting off some lamina from it, it is pinched up by the forceps, and the knife being carried horizontally on the surface of the tumour, this layer is cut through; then the director is pushed under it. E, The director pushed under the fascia, to ascertain its nature. Along this the knife is run, laying open the proper peritoneal sac. F, The peritoneal sac, smooth ; and so transparent that the intestine gives it a darker hue. Fig. 2. In this plate we have a view of the second stage of the same opera- tion. The peritoneal sac has been cut up, and now the intestine appears. A, A portion of the small intestine, which seems to have been the original contents of the herniary sac, and which had here sufl'ered less by the incarceration. B, A portion of the great intestine, which had descended more lately, and had been the cause of strangulation. It is known to be a portion of the great intestine, from the greater size, the cellular form, and theEXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xxvii fatty appendages which hang from it. The manner in which these portions of the intestines rise and cover the ring, may give the surgeon an idea of the difficulty which sometimes occurs in cutting the stricture. This plate represents the manner in which the femoral hernia will sometimes rise from the depth of the groin, when freed of the integuments and the binding of the fascia. A B, The extent of the incision of the integuments. C C, An aponeurosis dissected off the proper sac. D, The hernia covered by the proper sac. The tumour is of a pyramidal form. E, A cut through the sac. LITHOTOMY.—Plate LIII.—Page 1256. Patient secured in the position for the operation. The dotted line marks the course and extent of the lateral incision. Lateral view of the perineum and pelvis, showing the position of the knife in cutting into the groove of tlie staff. The dotted lines indicate the staff and the extent of the prostatic incision. These sketches are reduced from original drawings from nature, by Dr. John Smith. Staff, knife, and forceps used in the operation. The loop-bandage for securing the wrists to the middle of the foot, as in Fig. 1. Plate LIV.—Page 1258. Fig. 1 shows the direction in which the forceps should be introduced to seize the stone. Fig. 2. Direction in which extraction should be effected. Fig. 3. Use of the scoop in removing small calculi or fragments of a stone. Fig. 4. Position of the lithotomy tube. When the tubes are secured the external orifice of the tube should be raised so as to depress the point into the ' bas-fond' of the bladder. Figs. 5, 6, and 7 indicate the position of the knife and finger in the method recommended for facilitating the entrance of the knife into the groove of the staff at proper points. See page 1260. Fig. 8. The bulbous searcher. Fig. 9. Scoop and lever. Plate LV.—Page 1259. (To follow immediately the preceding Plate.) Fig. 1. Dissection of the parts in a case in which the lateral operation had been performed. The track of the incision is seen gradually narrow- ing from the external wound to that in the prostate ; the staff is seen bare where it had been cut into just in front of the prostate. The lateral lobe of the prostate gland covered by the prostatic Fig. 3. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4.EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xxviii fascia is shown in relation to the reflexion of the ileo-vesical fascia, which is seen to be entire. The dark dotted line marks the upper line of the track of the incision; above that line the parts have been dissected to show the re- lation of the bulb and Cowper's gland to the incision. In the track of the wound the contour of the rectum is shown—the gut being somewhat distended with tow. Plate LVI. gives a view of the same parts in the child, and the letters of reference there given will serve to indicate the points in this plate. Fig. 2. The prostatic incision as seen from within after the extraction of the stone. In this instance the stone was considerably above the average size. These sketches are reduced to about two-thirds of the natural size. Fig. 3 shows the incision of the prostate after extraction of the stone, when all the fascial textures have been removed. This view was obtained by operating on the dead subject, an adult, and dissect- ing the fascia from off the gland. It shows that the texture of the gland splits up in the line of the incision under the action of the finger. Plate LVI.—To face Page 1261. Dissection of the parts in a child; this outline sketch is of the full natural size, and shows the high position of the bladder in the child. a a. Section of the pelvic bones ; 6, the portion of the penis and urethra ; c, the urinary bladder ; d, section of the soft tissues of the perineum and hip ; e, the track of the wound ; /, the prostate gland, showing the opening made in it, and in the membranous portion of the urethra ; h h, the rectum : the general course of that intestine can be traced, and a dark outline marks its position in relation to the wound made in lateral lithotomy. PUNCTURE OF BLADDER—IMPERFORATE ANUS.— Plate LVIL—Page 1330. Method of opening the membranous part of the urethra described at page 1331. The forefinger of the left hand is seen projecting the anterior wall of the rectum, and so as to feel the anterior part of the prostate, and the knife is being entered into the membran- ous urethra just in front of the finger of the left hand. The line marked A indicates the point for puncturing the bladder from the rectum. B indicates the line and point for punctiiring from above the pubes. Operation of puncturing the bladder from the rectum, as described at pages 1329 and 1330. Operation for imperforate anus. See page 1398EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. HERNIA.—Clinical Case.—Plate LVIII.—Page 1410. View of the parts in a case of femoral hernia, in which the irregular obturator artery constricted the hernial protrusion, and required to be tied and divided to relieve the constriction. The distal end of the obturator artery is obliterated, and the ligature has sepa- rated. The ligature still remains on the proximal end of the artery, which is much diminished in size, whilst the epigastric is proportionately enlarged. See Clinical Cases.J1 f