138 I do not think that this species of aneurism is likely to terminate unfavorably. 483 An aneurism in the splenic artery, which had undergone spontaneous cure. From a woman, 64 years of age; she died suddenly in a fit of apoplexy ; most of the main arteries were ossified. 484 A portion of the brachial artery and vein. The artery obliterated by coagulated blood, the vein thickly coated with coagulated blood, consequent on phlebo- tomy. Phlebitis extended from the vein to the right auricle and ventricle of the heart ; which caused irritative fever, and produced the death of the patient. I have seen two similar cases. It would be a difficult point to decide, whether phlebitis, in those cases, was produced by a blunt, or unclean lancet, or caused by idiosyncracy. 485 A small aneurism in the inferior portion of the radial artery; it occupies only one half of the caliber of the vessel; the aperture of the aneurism is large; the sac about the size of a large pea, and completely filled with densely coagulated blood. The last preparation shows beautifully a small aneurism cured spontaneously. An engraving of this preparation will be found in Mr. Hodgson's Work on Aneurisms. 486 A portion of the femoral artery, showing an incipient aneurism by dilatation of all the coats, at the origin of the profunda. The internal coat opaque. 487 A popliteal aneurism of considerable size. The sac is nearly filled with fibrine and coagulated blood : the femoral artery was tied; the man died a few days after the operation, from the giving way of the artery where the ligature was applied; the coats of the vessel being diseased. 488 A small aneurism of the anterior artery of the cerebrum, which had undergone spontaneous cure by a firm coagulum of blood. The patient, a man 57 years of age, was an incurable maniac in oldBethlem Hospital. The arachnoid membrane and pia mater were greatly thickened; and there was a considerable effusion of milky fluid between them. The substance of the brain was very firm, and there were nearly four