130 Professor Scarpa imagined that all aneurisms were occasioned by laceration of the internal coat; this statement I find to be incorrect, from having ex- amined a great number of aneurisms ; yet in some instances I have found the internal coat ruptured. 466 An aneurism at the ascending part of the aorta and its arch ; the thoracic and abdominal portions and iliac arteries are preserved in the preparation. The patient, a man 70 years of age ; all the symptoms denoting aneurism were evident; the carotid ar- teries pulsated violently; but in consequence of the radial and ulnar arteries being ossified, the pulse could not be felt. There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest; the lungs were healthy, but gorged with blood. The pericardium contained six ounces of serum : the heart was large, the left ven- tricle thickened, cavity capacious, and the aperture and mitral valve thickened. The aortic valves were ossified, and shortened; the ascending part of the aorta and arch were greatly dilated, the coats very thick, the internal one converted into bone of great density, and cartilage, particularly near its origin. These appearances are well shown in the preparation. The arteries at the arch are remarkably large, especially the innominata ; the right carotid, and the subclavian are also enlarged : this was pro- duced by an aneurismal state of the arteria innomi- nata. The internal coat of the thoracic, abdominal, and iliacs, presents the same morbid changes as in the other portion of the aorta. There was a consi- derable quantity of water in the abdomen. The liver was very dense in structure, and nodulated; the gall-bladder distended with viscid green-colored secretion ; the spleen very large and dense. 467 An immense aneurism at the arch of the aorta, which produced partial absorption of a portion of the sternum and some of the ribs. The patient was a woman 37 years of age ; the disease had proceeded gradually for nearly sixteen months. About a fortnight pre- vious to her death, the integuments covering the enlargement became inflamed, sphacelation ensued, and the aneurism burst ; the haemorrhage was tremendous.