325 stone in the bladder for nearly 10 years, but would not submit to an operation; he committed suicide ; and a few years previous to his death lost the sight of both eyes. The history of the case is given in the Section on Morbid Bladders, and the other half of the calculus is shown in the preparation. 1357 Section of a calculus, removed from the bladder. There was considerable haemorrhage after the ope- ration, which was checked by filling the wound with lint, and applying cloths with vinegar and water. The prostate gland in this case was diseased, and a considerable quantity of blood was mixed in the urine for some time previous to the operation. The patient soon recovered. The following is the chy- mical analysis of the calculus. " The nucleus contains lithic acid and oxalate of lime, intermixed withalittle phosphate andanimal matter. The whole of the external part consists of the mixed phosphates, phosphate of lime, and triple phosphate of magnesia, and ammonia." 1358 A vesical calculus. From a man, 46 years of age, who had a stricture in the urethra, and was tapped above the pubes. The history of this case is re- lated in the Section on Diseased Prostate Glands, &c. 1359 A very solid and large calculus, which I removed from a boy 19 years of age. The patient, at a very early period after his birth, had symptoms denoting stone in the bladder. His sufferings were, for several months previous to the operation, so distressing as to induce him to request lithotomy to be performed. There was conside- rable haemorrhage, which was subdued by the ap- plication of cold water, and the patient soon re- covered. 1360 A large oval urinary calculus, weighing eighteen drachms 1361 Small calculi, voided with urine at different times. 1362 Calculi, of various figures, which were discharged from the bladder at different times. From a man, who had long been afflicted with a renal complaint, and frequently voided similar calculi. The passage of the calculi through the urethra occasioned dis-