67 the necessity of amputation. This I have done in three cases with success, the joint uniting in a straight line. On examining capsular ligaments which had been greatly distended by pus or synovia, I have noticed that the natural internal structure was greatly changed ; which may probably account for its being less sensitive than in the healthy state; consequently an opening into it in such cases, is not so likely to be followed by any bad effects. 249 A portion of bone snowing necrosis. 250 The knee-joint of a bullock. The whole of the soft parts, and the cartilaginous coverings, &c. had been completely destroyed, and perfect anchylosis has been effected, in a bent position. The external surface of the joint is thickly surrounded by very solid processes of bone, presenting a rocky appear- ance. A section of the bone is made to exhibit the perfect state of anchylosis. This is the best specimen of the kind I ever examined. 251 Knee-joint of a bullock. The whole of the natural internal structure of the joint had been destroyed. Anchylosis has taken place in a bent position; but the osseous union is not complete. This would have been effected in time, as an immense quantity of very solid bony matter has been formed round the joint. The two last preparations exhibit beautifully the wise provision adopted by nature to effect a cure, even in the brute creation. 252 Dislocation of the ankle-joint. From a man; attempts had been made to save the limb for a fortnight after the accident, but without success. Inflammation in the joint came on, accompanied with great pain, and swelling of the foot and leg; and there was a considerable discharge of pus; fever supervened, and the leg was amputated. The whole of the soft parts, cartilages, and ligaments, were absorbed. 253 The inferior portion of a tibia. The joint had been affected with chronic inflammation for a considerable time, which caused absorption of the soft parts of the joints, and the cartilages. In consequence of the approximation of the surface of this bone with