170 for which he was severely salivated, and was of a strumous habit. Inflammation of the tonsils, and velum pendulum palati came on, which terminated in sloughing phagedena, and extended into the fauces and the larynx; the patient lost his voice, and his life was in great danger. He was discharged from the Hospital he had been in, and was afterwards put under a course of sarsapa- rilla, with tonics and acids: his health gradually improved, but he never regained his voice, and he dreaded taking either solids or fluids, lest he should be suffocated. In the course of two years from his leaving the Hospital, symptoms of phthisis pulmo- Halis came on, which caused his death. The lungs contained a great number of scrofulous tubercles, and there were several large vomicae ; the bronchial tubes were loaded with mucus and pus. The base of the tongue, tonsils, the epiglottis, and the covering of the rima glottidis had been partly destroyed. The liver was extremely large, very pale-colored, and there were a great number of disseminated tubercles in its substance ; the gall-bladder contained a large quantity of green bile. The destruction of the epiglottis, and the imperfection of the rima glottis, satisfactorily accounts for the difficulty he experienced in deglutition. In 1808, I related this case at the Medical Society, of Bartholomew's Hospital. Mr. Barnes,* the House Surgeon, described a case of venereal sore throat, where there had been extensive sloughing of the tonsils, the velum pendulum palati, and epiglottis ; in a violent fit of coughing, the latter was ejected, and the man died. Mr. Abernethy also mentioned a case where the epiglottis was found in the stomach; he said such cases were rarely seen. 705 Pharynx, larynx, and trachea. The patient 6 years of age, was attacked rather suddenly with symptoms of influenza (which in 1838 was very prevalent, and proved fatal to many), the febrile action was violent; inflammation of the throat came on, which increased rapidly, and terminated in sloughing of the * Now one of the Surgeons to the Exeter Hospital.