243 complained of in the abdomen, accompanied with vomiting ; and the most active purgatives or clysters hardly produced any effect. These symptoms gra- dually increased in violence, the pain in the abdomen became agonizing, her bowels could not be acted on; the abdomen was greatly distended, stercoraceous vomiting and singultus came on, and all the symp- toms of a strangulated internal hernia, which caused death. 1011 Mal-formation of the intestinum rectum, with the external and internal organs of generation, and the urinary bladder. A female infant; it lived five days from the time of its birth ; it sucked freely, but frequently, and the mot her noticed that the child had no evacuations from the bowels, although it made straining efforts to relieve them. Aperients had been given, and clysters were attempted to be administered, when it was found they could not be passed into the rectum. A surgeon was consulted; onexaminingthe rectum with a bougie, it was ascertained that there was mal-formation of this intestine, and the only chance of saving the child, was by endeavouring to form an artificial anus, and he also properly stated, that the success of the operation greatly depended on the nature and seat of the mal-formation. An armed trocar was introduced; on withdrawing the canula, only a small quantity of fluid escaped, tinged with a little blood, without any meconium. There was no discharge from the bowels ; the child continued to vomit, and died on the fourth day after the operation. The rectum was dilated into an immense cul de sac, and terminated where the peri- toneum covers the posterior and inferior part of the uterus, and is reflected over the anterior part of the intestinum rectum, so that the inferior part of this bowel, instead of ending in the natural way, at the anus, was situated at the brim of the pelvis. The large intestines were greatly dilated with meco- nium. On carefully examining the parts, it was seen that the verge of the anus entered the vagina, and on cutting open this tube and the bladder, an opening of communication was detected in the vagina, close to the cervix uteri, and into the bladder,