60 organised, and ultimately formed a ligamentous union, or imperfect anchylosis. This is another proof of want of osseous union in a scrofulous joint. If the leg had heen placed in a straight position, the limb might have been useful, or certainly more sightly. 232 A remarkable specimen of osseous anchylosis of the knee-joint of a man. The structure of the femur and tibia, is extremely dense and solid ; the linea aspera, and spine of the tibia, are greatly deve- loped and as dense as ivory. The anchylosed state of the joint is most complete in the situation of the ham, a very long solid process of bone having been formed between the under and inner surface of the femur, commencing about half an inch from the ter- mination of the linea aspera, and extending down- wards to the inner and under part of the head of the tibia near the ham; these appearances are seen in the preparation. The anchylosis is not so complete in the joint. The patella is united by bone to the under surface of the external condyle. If mechanical aid had been employed to keep the leg in a proper position, it would have been more useful to the patient. The history of this case is not known. 233 The left femur, with the tibia, and a part of the fibula. The thigh-bone had been fractured at about eight inches from the extremity of the condyles, and has been firmly united by bone. The knee-joint is completely anchylosed by bone, in a bent position ; the internal surface of the patella is adherent by bone to the under surface of ths condyles of the femur. About six inches from the head of the tibia, there is an oblique fracture, which has united, and has caused considerable shortening of the bone, and great deformity. The fibula has likewise been fractured; osseous matter has been deposited on the interosseous ligament, and bony union has been effected between this bone and the tibia. This is a most singular specimen of deformity. The history of the case is not known. One can scarcely believe that any surgeon could have seen the person. 234 A diseased knee-joint; from a young boy. The leg