477 sorbed,—the effects of chronic inflammation. The disease was occasioned by a violent sprain of the joint; the most active means had been adopted to check the progress of the disease, but ineffectually. Ulcerative openings of communication between the joint and skin covering it took place, from which there was a profuse discharge, which affected the man's health; and as there was no probability of saving the limb, it was considered advisable to per- form amputation. From a man 34 years of age ; the stump healed favorably, and he soon recovered his health. The bones did not appear affected with scrofula. 1802 Mortification of the internal surface of the cheek and integuments, the effect of mercury. From a patient, 19 years of age, of a strumous dia- thesis. She was attacked with symptoms of icterus. Mercury was prescribed, which soon produced sali- vation ; it could not be checked; sloughing of the gums and of the lining of the cheek commenced on the right side near -the parotid gland and duct, and extended to the integuments of the cheek. Febrile symptoms supervened, accompanied with violent vomiting, and the patient died on the 6th day from the commencement of the ptyalism. The peritoneum was thickly coated with coagulated lymph, and the intestines were agglutinated ; the omentum was inflamed, and in some portions spha- celation had commenced. Feculent matter was seen in the abdomen, this was found to have been occasioned by the laceratim of a portion of the transverse arch of the colon, from over distention. The liver was extremely large, and pale-colored, as if deprived of blood; the peritoneal surface was covered with organised lymph, which adhered firmly, proving the effects of chronic inflammation. The gall-bladder contained only a small quantity of viscid dark colored secretion. The spleen was large. The mesenteric glands were converted into caseous matter, and the lumbar glands were affected in a similar manner. The mucous glands in the ileum were greatly enlarged,