mr. churchill's publications. 9 DR. RAMSBOTHAM, Physician to the Royal Maternity Charity, and Lectiuer on Midwifery at the London Hospital, &c. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OBSTETRIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY, IN REFERENCE TO THE PROCESS OF PARTURITION. Illustrated with Eighty-four Plates on Steel, and Twenty on Wood; forming one handsome thick octavo volume, cloth, 22s. " This is one of the most beautiful works which have lately issued from the medical press j and is alike creditable to the talents of the Author and the euterprise of the Publisher. It is a good and thoroughly practical treatise ; the different subjects are laid down in a clear and perspicuous form, and whatever is of importance is illustrated by first-rate engravings. A remarkable feature of this work, which ought to be mentioned, is its extraordinary cheapness. As a work convey- ing good, sound, practical precepts, and clearly demonstrating the doctrines of obstetrical science, we can confidently recommend it either to the student or practitioner."—Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science. " This work forms a very handsome volume. Dr. Ramsbotham has treated the subject in a manner worthy of the reputation he possesses, and has succeeded in forming a book of reference for practitioners, and a solid and easy guide for Students. Looking at the contents of the volume, and its remarkably low price, we have no hesitation in saying that it has no parallel in the history of publishing."—Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal. " It is the book on Midwifery for students : clear, but not too minute in its details, and sound in its practical instructions. It is so completely illustrated by plates (admirably chosen and executed) that the student must be stupid indeed who does not understand the details of this branch of the science, so far at least as description can make them intelligible."—Dublin Journal of Medical Science. "There is so much in the practice of Midwifery which cannot be understood without pictorial illustrations, that they become almost essential to the student; but hitherto the expense has proved an impediment to their being employed so much as desirable. The work has only to be known to make the demand for it very extensive."—Medical Gazette. " We strongly recommend this work ; it is a useful contribution to medical literature, and de- cidedly the cheapest work which has ever issued from the medical press of this country."—Lancet. " We can speak very favourably both of the letter-press and of the plates, and as a large sale can only remunerate the Publisher, we wish him that large sale which he deserves."—Dr. John- son's Review. " We strongly recommend the work of Dr. Ramsbotham to all our obstetrical readers, espe- cially to those who are entering upon practice. It is not only one of the cheapest, but one of the most beautiful works in Midwifery."—British and Foreign Medical Review. " We feel much pleasure in recommending to the notice of the profession one of the cheapest and most elegant productions of the medical press of the present day. The text is written in a clear, concise, and simple style. We offer our most sincere wishes that the undertaking may enjoy all the success which it so well merits."—Dublin Medical Press. DR. ROE, Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, and Physician to the Westminster Hospital. A TREATISE ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF HOOPING-COUGH, and its COMPLICATIONS ; illustrated by Cases, with an Appendix, containing Hints on the Management of Children, with a view to render them less susceptible of this and other Diseases of Childhood, in an aggravated form. 8vo, cloth, 8s. " The present volume is a well-timed and valuable addition to the literature of juvenile disease, and is highly creditable to its author, as a practical physician."—Medical Gazette. DR. RYAN, Member of the Royal College of Physicians. THE UNIVERSAL PHARMACOPEIA; OR, A PRACTICAL FORMULARY of HOSPITALS, both BRITISH and FOREIGN. Third edition, considerably enlarged. 32mo, cloth, 5s. 6d. " This work is a conspectus of the best prescriptions of the most celebrated physicians and surgeons throughout the civilized world. It includes every medicine described in the Pharma- copoeias, with the doses and uses, the rules for prescribing, the actions of medicines on the economy, the various modes of administering them, and the principles on which they are com- pounded." " A vast mass of information in this little work."—Dr. Johnson's Review.