482 1816 Phlebolites, from the uterine veins. 1817 A calculous concretion found in the substance of the lung. 1818 A portion of the parietes of the abdomen, from a woman who died some time after the operation of paracentesis. The operation was performed with a flat or lancet-shaped trocar. A portion of the omen- tum got into the canula, which obstructed the flowing of the fluid. A small portion of the omentum (after withdrawing the canula) entered the opening, and became organised, as seen in the preparation. This preparation was preserved to show that the lancet- formed instrument does not prevent this occurrence any more than the trocar of an angular shape. The imperfections of both show the propriety of having a well constructed double canula, the in- ternal one having a catheter formed point with apertures, which should be introduced after with- drawing the trocar. 1819 A portion of the abdominal parietes, from a woman, who had been tapped with a lancet-shaped trocar. 1820 A portion of diaphragm. A part of the tendinous structure, converted into roundish cartilaginous bodies, which I believe to be the antecedent step to the deposition of bone, and which I have other specimens to show. 1821 A portion of diaphragm, partly converted into bone, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. From a man, 74 years of age, who had been subject to fre- quent vomiting and palpitation of the heart for nearly two years previous to his death. The aortic and the mitral valves were ossified, as were most of the large arteries of the body. 1822 Aortic valves of an ox. 1823 Brachial vein nearly obliterated by coagulated lymph, the effect of inflammation, consequent on vene- section. The inflammatory action extended to the internal surface of the right auricle ; irritative fever ensued, and produced the death of the patient. 1824 A portion of the vena cava of a camel, everted to show the muscular structure. 1825 A portion of the external jugular vein of a camel; to show the delicate structure of the semilunar valves. 1826 Inflamed blood, taken from a patient who had acute rheumatism, cured by bleeding and colchicum.