179 730 Pleura pulmonalis, thickly coated with organised lymph • there were large vomicas and a great number of scro- fulous tubercles in the lungs. The mesenteric glands were caseous ; the mucous glands of the ileum were enlarged, some of them ulcerated. 731 I he lungs and heart, and the trachea of a child ; the lungs minutely injected. There was a considerable quantity of pus in both sides of the chest. The pleura were thickly covered with organised coagula- ble lymph particularly the pleura of the lung in the left side of the chest, and the surfaces were so agglutinated as to obscure the division of the two lobes. On the right side, an adventitious membrane has formed; the lung was greatly flattened, and hepatised; the effect of acute inflammation. 1 he history of the case not known. I have seen similar morbid appearances in patients who died from the effects of cynanche trachealis, or pneumonia. tqo 3>ihis is a Very interesti"g preparation. 732 Pleura costalis, immensely thickened by chronic inflammation. J 733 Pleura costalis dried, showing ossific deposits. 734 A portion of lung and liver, from a man who had for many years been afflicted with asthma ; in a sudden paroxysm of coughing, a portion of the pleura pul- monalis of one of the lobes in the left side was acerated, which allowed the air to escape from the ung into the cavity of the chest, producing pneumo- thorax, which occasioned sudden death I inspected the body of the late Mr. Fuller, Dentist who died suddenly from the same cause. In both these cases, the lungs were completely collapsed, as might be expected to be the case, where the air had escaped into the chest. The lungs on the right side were emphysematous, and many of the cells were greatly enlarged. The structure of the lungs remarkably soft, and easily broken down by the pressure of the fingers • thev were lnfiltrated with a black fluid, as in melanosis7 735 A SSTn' l6Veral °ther viscera diseased. 735 A portion of lung, with carcinomatous tumors on the pleura ot considerable magnitude • the latter immensely thickened. There was also a fungoid