135 of three of the bodies absorbed, occasioned by the cyst of a large aneurism. 476 An aneurism of immense magnitude, at the descending portion of the aorta, where it passes through the crura of the diaphragm. From a man, 49 years of age, who had lived freely, and was of a very plethoric habit of body : he died suddenly. There was a considerable quantity of water in the peri- cardium ; the heart very large, structure extremely soft; parietes of the left ventricle extremely thin, cavity capacious (the passive aneurism of Corvisart.) The right auricle capacious, and the foramen ovale widely open ; which is shown, by a piece of colored glass, in the preparation. The aorta greatly dilated ; the internal coat thickened with coagulated lymph, cartilage and osseous deposits; and the vasa vasorum were very conspicuous in the cellular, or external coat. The coronary arteries large. The right cavity of the thorax was nearly filled with coagulated blood. The sac of the aneurism was ex- tremely large, and nearly filled with coagulated blood and fibrine, which in some parts adhered firmly ; the anterior portions of three of the dorsal vertebrae, and one of the lumbar had been partly absorbed, leaving the articular cartilages entire. The liver was granulated; the spleen nearly double the natural size. He had suffered for a considerable length of time from palpitation of the heart, and dyspnoea; the pulse generally full, and hard; for some months previous to his death he had symptoms of icterus. 477 An aneurism of the descending portion of the aorta, the sac ulcerated. A man, 30 years of age, of a very plethoric temperament, had been troubled with pal- pitation of the heart for nearly eight months, accompanied frequently with violent pain in the head, and dyspepsia. He had consulted several physicians ; some imagined he had organic disease of the heart, others thought the symptoms were occa- sioned by a disordered state of the digestive organs, and various modes of treatment had been employed without benefit. For nearly three months previous to his death, he was