Ill the heart large, its structure healthy. All the ab- dominal viscera natural in structure. 399 A portion of the right arteria carotis interna obliterated by organised coagulable lymph. A man 50 years of age ; he died of apoplexy. The arachnoid membrane and pia mater greatly thickened, and there was an effusion of milky looking fluid between them; blood was effused in the middle lobe of the cerebrum. The ventricles contained about six ounces of water : the arteries at the base of the brain were ossified. There were scrofulous tubercles in the lungs and liver. 400 Aorta inflamed, the internal coat thickened by lymph. 401 Aorta, the internal coat immensely thickened by orga- nised lymph, one portion partially detached by disease. The cellular coat removed to show the fibrous. 402 The internal coat of the aorta considerably thickened by lymph and cartilage; the external and fibrous coats were dissected off. Many of the main arteries in this subject were affected in a similar manner, some of them highly inflamed. 403 Arteries, showing the effects of arteritis, taken from a patient who died of typhus fever. The membranes of the brain highly inflamed ; the mucous surface of the intestines, and the glandular aggregate greatly hypertrophied. On inspecting the bodies of patients who have died at an early stage of typhus fever, I have generally found the membranes, and substance of the brain highly inflamed. In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, there are two preparations from my collec- tion, showing portions of a brain minutely injected; from a patient who died of typhus fever. 404 Aorta, pulmonary artery, and a portion of trachea highly inflamed, taken from a patient who died of typhus fever, in the fever hospital. The membranes and substance of the brain inflamed. 405 Iliac arteries. The arteries are greatly diminished in their caliber by the internal coat having been thickened, the effects of chronic inflammation ; pus had also been formed between the fibrous and the internal coat; which had separated their cellular connection.