161 The arachnoid and pia mater were thickened, the sub- stance of the brain was soft, and the lateral ventricles contained four ounces of serum. The fungus and contents of the orbit formed one mass of medullary structure, in which nothing could be seen of the normal parts, except a trace of one or two muscles, the sclerotica, and the optic nerve. The latter was enlarged, and converted into medullary substance. The enlargement increased as it proceeded towards the thalamus. The thalami, corpora striata, pons Varolii, and adjacent parts, were so softened by me- dullary degeneration, that no detailed description of them can be given. The right optic nerve was not diseased, it was quite separate from the left. The membranes at the base of the brain were inflamed, with partial purulent in- filtration. The absorbent glands in the course of the internal mammary vessels, on both sides, were converted into medullary substance. The pleura lining the fourth, fifth, and sixth true ribs on the right side was thickened, highly vascular, and raised into a small swelling, which was found to consist of a reddish grey soft medullary deposit. This growth, arising from the substance of the rib, which was much diminished in size, had made its way through the periosteum. The interior of the other ribs was unnaturally red. The liver was of a pale yellow color ; the other viscera were healthy. The history of this case is related in Mr. Lawrence's Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, Section 10, on Fungus Haematodes. See the diseased rib. 681 Section of an eye, affected with melanosis. All the tunics, except the sclerotica, destroyed ; the cornea thickened. 682 Eye, affected with melanosis, as was the brain. The whole of the tunics, except the sclerotica, were des- troyed. The melanoid matter within the eye is of immense magnitude, and projects through the cornea, and palpebrae, and rested on the cheek and side of the nose. The globe and other orbital contents were converted into an uniform mass, of sooty blackness, from which a thick black fluid could be scraped and squeezed out, M