36.5 paracentesis was then performed, and nearly two pints of fluid were evacuated. In the course of three months the hydrocele increased to a considerable size, and the operation was re- quired to be repeated every four months for nearly three years. The patient having become dissatis- fied with the incumbrance which the enlargement occasioned, and the necessity of submitting to so many operations, felt anxious to have something done to produce a permanent cure. I described to him the uncertainty of effecting a cure by injec- tion in a chronic hydrocele, and likewise stated to him the dangerous consequences resulting from this plan of treatment at an advanced period of life; he was still anxious to have the trial made. I tapped the hydrocele, and drew off"nearly a pint and a half of transparent fluid, and afterwards injected the same quantity of a solution of the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of a drachm to two pints of water. A few hours after the operation, the patient began to complain of pain in the testicle and sper- matic cord ; the testicle appeared to enlarge, as in hernia humoralis in a severe case of gonorrhoea. Leeches were frequently applied with cataplasms, and medicines were given to subdue the inflammatory action; but without effect. The pain in the testicle was very distressing ; the swelling more consider- able ; the integuments of the scrotum and spermatic cord greatly increased in temperature, and the febrile symptoms most distressing. These symptoms in spite of active treatment, continued nearly a week ; the integuments of the scrotum became very red ; the cutaneous veins were greatly dilated, and a sense of fluctuation was detected, which seemed to be the effects of secretion into the tunica vaginalis. The symptoms becoming more alarming, similar to such as I have seen in irritative fever; J did not hesitate to make an opening with a double edged scalpel into the tunica vaginalis, which was fol- lowed by the discharge of four ounces of pure pus. The result was, that the symptoms gradually sub- sided after this operation, and by proper attention to his health, he soon recovered. And it was most gratifying to my feelings, that a perfect union of the tunica vaginalis and albuginea had been pro-