238 In consequence of the presence of the mother at the post mortem examination, who was desirous that no part should be taken away, the whole of the disease was not removed ; there is however quite sufficient to illustrate its character. A paper on this case, with a plate, is published in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No, 11, 1807, and Mr. Samuel Cooper has quoted it in his invaluable Dictionary on Surgery. 998 A splendid specimen of introsusception of the intesti- num rectum, produced by the growth of a malignant tumor. The man had for a considerable length of time been troubled with a costive state of bowels, which required active medicine to relieve them. About eight months previous to his death, symptoms denoting disease of the intestines came on ; he com- plained of pain in the lower part of the abdomen, and it required active purgatives and enemata to keep them in tolerable order. He also experienced great pain in voiding the feces, (tormina and tenesmus), and they were generally formed into scybafe, and presented appearances like lumbricoides, mixed with blood and pus; he was likewise annoyed with haemorrhoids, and prolapsus ani. The patient's health declined, ascites came on, and he died. The patient had been seen by several Surgeons, all were of opinion that the disease was a stricture in the rectum, and several modes of treatment were adopted to relieve his dreadful sufferings, but without effect. The abdomen contained nearly two gallons of yellow- colored fluid; the liver was very small, extremely dense in structure, and presented that granulated appearance generally seen in dram-drinkers. The gall-bladder was distended with viscid dark-colored fluid; spleen small, capsule dense. The peritoneal covering of the intestines was free from inflammation, the large bowels were immensely dilated with feces, formed into large hard scybalse, and the mucous surface highly inflamed, particularly in the rectum. On examining this intestine, a fungus growth was seen projecting into its cavity about five inches from the verge of anus. The tumor is fungoid and carcino-