302 1267 Two gall-bladders, united at their necks, with only one cystic duct; one of the bladders rather larger than the other—from a Bullock. 1268 A portion of liver, with the gall-bladder of a Bullock. The liver was greatly diseased, the gall-bladder im- mensely large, and all its coats greatly thickened; it was distended by albuminous fluid, which must have been secreted by the capillaries of the inter- nal coat, as there was no sign of the existence of a cystic duct; it is very remarkable that the internal coat is formed into various sized sacculi, similar to what I have seen in the human bladder, where there had been suppression of urine, occasioned by a dis- eased prostate gland, stricture in the urethra, or from urinary calculi. Is it not likely that the pouches seen in this gall- bladder were produced by the difficulty in expelling its contents ? This is a singular specimen. 1269 A portion of the liver of a Sheep ; the natural structure completely destroyed by chronic inflammation and depositions of lymph, occasioned by fasciolce, or flukes, filling and greatly dilating the biliary ducts, and the gall-bladder. Several of the fasciolce are shown in the preparation. They generally cause ascites and jaundice. 1270 A portion of the liver of a Sheep, consolidated by fas- ciolce or flukes in the gall-ducts. The arteries were injected with size and Vermillion ; but on making sections of the liver, no signs of vascularity were observable. 1271 A portion of the liver of a Sheep, showing the effects of fasciolae or flukes on the biliary ducts. The liver was injected with size and vermillion ; on cutting through the liver, scarcely any signs of vascularity were observable, except on the internal surface of the biliary tubes; they were greatly dilated by fasciolce, as was the gall-bladder ; and the structure of the liver was nearly destroyed. Several of the flukes shown. 1272 Liver of a Sheep, injected with size and vermillion; the gall-bladder shown. On making sections of the liver, the biliary ducts were found to be greatly dilated, and filled with flukes,