389 1545 Uterus, with the vagina, &c. There were scirrhous tumors in the uterus; the mu- cous surface of the vagina was greatly thickened, and partly ulcerated; the ovaria very dense, and small. 1546 Uterus; it was about the size of one between the second and third month of pregnancy. On cutting through its parietes, the cavity was found filled with a putrid kind of pus, and the mucous surface was in a sloughy state ; the os uteri was very dense. There were several large fibrous tumors beneath the peritoneal surface of the uterus at its posterior sur- face, the largest did not exceed the size of a walnut. The fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes adhered to the peritoneum, and the canals were obliterated by small carcinomatous tumors. The peritoneum and its reflections were considerably thickened by coagulated lymph, the effect of chronic inflammation. There were several can- cerous tumors in the lungs ; the liver was firm in structure, but did not contain any malignant tu- mors. The patient, 69 years of age, died of carci- noma in the mamma. There were a great number of small cancerous tumors beneath the integuments covering the chest. She had suffered for nearly three years from this dis- ease, and six months previous to her death she com- plained of pain in the uterus ; there was a very profuse discharge of offensive matter. 1547 Uterus, with the urinary bladder. The uterus was very large, the parietes very thick, the mucous surface was completely destroyed by cancerous ulceration ; the Fallopian tubes were con- siderably shortened and thickened, their canals ob- literated, and the ovaria were converted into carci- nomatous tumors. The peritoneum and its reflec- tions over the abdominal and pelvic viscera were thickly coated with organised lymph, which ap- peared of a brownish color ; and the anterior sur- face of the uterus adhered firmly to the posterior part of the fundus of the bladder. The mucous coat of the bladder was in a sphacelated state. The neck of the uterus presented a rounded ap- pearance, and projected more than natural into the vagina ; the os uteri was very small.