214 Small Intestines.—Healthy and Morbid. 899 A portion of the pylorus, with part of the duodenum and pancreas. The valvules conniventes greatly developed; they commenced much nearer the pylorus than usual. 900 A portion of duodenum, inverted ; the valvular conni- ventes remarkably large, the villi shown, the mucous surface thickened. 901 Duodenum of a foetus, injected. 902 The cardiac orifice of the stomach, with a part of the duodenum and pancreas ; the hepatic and pancreatic ducts shown. The cardiac orifice thickened by depositions of lymph between the coats; the mucous coat, and the surface of the duodenum are also affected. 903 Stomach, spleen, pancreas, and a portion of the duode- num of a child. It was born at the eighth month ; and was well developed for its age. About the second day from its birth it became jaundiced; it sucked scantily, but did not retain the milk in its stomach long; the discharge of meconium was copious. On the fourth day of its life it began to vomit a dark-colored fluid, of the consistence of mucus, and took the breast reluctantly. In this way it lived till the eleventh day, vomiting a dark-colored fluid, like coffee grounds, and its evacuations were of a dark color, scanty in quantity, and few in number. The stomach was greatly distended with a colored fluid, which seemed to be a morbid secretion from the mucous surface; this coat was of a blackish color, as in melcena. The pylorus was widely dilated, and from this part, the duodenum was distended into a large pouch, to as far as where the ductus communis choledochus, and the pancreatic duct enter, and here the bowel was found completely impervious, as seen in the preparation. The gall-bladder was empty and all the biliary ducts impervious ; the small and large intestines were much contracted and empty; all the other viscera healthy. This is a very singular mal-formation, and from the biliary ducts being impervious, it proves satisfacto- rily that bile does not produce the dark matter found