222 o . aggregates and solitaries ; there are also an immense number of elevations, similar to those seen in the duodenum. 945 A portion of ileum, the glandulae aggregatae and solita- rice greatly enlarged. A child, who died of intro- susception ; the history of the case and dissection are published in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. 3rd, with a plate. 946 A portion of the mucous coat of the ileum. From a patient who died of phthisis pulmonalis ; the glan- dulas aggregatae were greatly enlarged,but the mucous coat not ulcerated. The intestine was macerated for some time, and the morbid glandular structure pressed out; the cellular and muscular coats were then removed, to show that the mucous coat had not been ulcerated, where the glands were situated. 947 Ileum, inverted, showing the effects of inflammation, ulceration, and sloughing of the mucous surface near the glands. From a patient who died of typhus fever. 948 A portion of ileum, the mucous coat destroyed by ulceration, and there is a large ulcerated opening. The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. 949 A portion of ileum, the mucous coat destroyed by ulceration. 950 A portion of ileum, thickened by organised lymph; some of the valvulse conniventes agglutinated, some portions ulcerated, and there are a great number of scrofulous tubercles between the mucous and muscular coats, which are seen in the preparation. The patient, a man, died of phthisis pulmonalis. 951 A portion of ileum, the serous coat greatly thickened by organised lymph, as was the mesentery; the effects of chronic inflammation; the valvulas conniventes thickened. 952 A portion of ileum, with fleshy tumors of various sizes beneath the peritoneal surface ; there were similar growths in some of the other intestines, and what is very remarkable, analogous appearances were seen on the skin in many parts of the body. The spleen of an infant in the same bottle. 953 Ileum, inverted; villi and minute tubercles shown. 954 Ileum and mesenteric glands of a child. The child died of phthisis pulmonalis.