403 fever of a typhoid character, on the 7th day after parturition. The labor was very lingering, the child was remark- ably large, and it had been allowed to remain im- pacted in the pelvis too long. If the forceps had been employed in good time, the life of the child might have been saved, and the injury to the vagina prevented. 5 1581 An uterus, the internal surface sphacelated, the corpus luteum shown. The patient a very delicate person, 21 years of age and very diminutive in stature, was delivered of a child; there was considerable haemorrhage during and alter labor, which became very alarming ac- companied with syncope; by stimuli and other remedies, and the application of a bandage round the abdomen, the haemorrhagic action lessened 1 he patient was greatly weakened by the loss of blood; she was very nervous, and had for many years been troubled with palpitation of the heart A nutritious regimen was ordered, and tonic medi- cines, such as sulphate of quinine, with acids, &c but her strength did not improve. There was con- siderable discharge from the uterus, tinged with blood, and pain was felt in the situation of the ute- rus ; the discharge ultimately became very foetid ■ she gradually sank, and expired on the 14th day after her confinement. There were two quarts of water in the abdomen, but not the slightest blush of inflammation in the peritoneum. The abdominal viscera were natural but remarkably soft in .structure, and appeared bloodless There were about six ounces of water m the left side of the thorax, and four in the right ■ the lungs were healthy. There was an ounce of fluid in the pericardium The heart was extremely small; the parietes of the ven- tricles were very thin, the muscular structure flaccid and the valves all healthy. The uterus had contracted wil hin the pelvis, but it had not acquired its natural figure, it appeared dark colored; the parietes were extremely thin, and very soft, and the internal surface was in a sphacelated state, lhere was a small serous cyst in the rWht ovarium, the corpus luteum in the left. °