321 21b. G oz. The pus measured one pint. The other kidney was diseased, but a considerable portion of its natural structure remained; there was a cal- culus in the pelvis, which weighed 12 grains. The lungs were healthy; also the structure of the heart; the valves of the aorta slightly ossified. 4G A kidney, with calculi in the infundibula, the pelvis dilated ; the ureter was ulcerated at about an inch and a half from its origin by a calculus. The patient, a man 55 years of age; had for nearly five years been afflicted with symptoms denoting diseased kidneys and bladder; he frequently voided a considerable quantity of mucus with his urine ; it was sometimes mixed with pus and blood, and occasionally with uric acid. The symptoms gradually increased, and he experienced great difficulty in voiding it. It was imagined by those who attended him that he had a calculus in the bladder; he was sounded by several able sui*- geons, and all declared him to be free from this disease. About a month previous to his death, he was seized with pain in the region of the right kidney, which increased daily, and ultimately became agonising ; he also complained of pain in the bladder and in the right testis. At last he was attacked with violent rigors, accompanied with febrile symptoms, and he died. The viscera of the thorax and abdomen were healthy. On reflecting the peritoneum to examine the kidnies, a considerable quantity of offensive fluid, like urine and pus, was found in the eellular tissue around the psoas muscles, as in lumbar abscess ; there were also several small renal calculi mixed with the fluid. On inspecting the kidney on this side, its cavity contained a number of different sized calculi; the pelvis was dilated, and the ureter was ulcerated at about an inch and a half from its origin; this had been caused by the penetration of a calculus, which accounts for all the morbid appearances. There were two calculi in the left kidney, but its structure was not diseased. The bladder was greatly distended with urine and coagulated lymph, and there were several small calculi in it; the coats Y