296 consequence of a very large calculus. A portion of the duodenum is also preserved, to show the en- trance of the ductus communis choledochus. From a woman 72 years of age, who had enjoyed health for the principal part of her life. During the last five years of her existence, she had increased greatly in corpulency. For about six months previous to her death, she had been troubled with tussis hepatica, accompanied with frequent attacks of vomiting, and she complained of violent pain in the region of the gall-bladder. These symptoms increased in violence for nearly two months previous to her dissolution. The evacuations from the bowels were clay-colored, the urine scanty in quantity, and of a deep yellow color, and she became intensely jaundiced. The liver was of a deep yellow color, from the bile having been detained in the biliary vessels, in con- sequence of the obliteration of the ductus communis choledochus by viscid bile. The structure of the liver was very hard, the effects of chronic inflam- mation ; but there were no signs of tubercular or malignant disease. The gall-bladder did not contain bile, but it was dis- tended by an immense gall-stone, in figure and size as large as a pigeon's egg ; it weighed 203 grains. The internal coat of the bladder had lost all its natural structure, and was of a brownish white color ; there was pus between it and the peritoneal coat. All the other viscera healthy. The aperture of the ductus communis choledochus is immensely large, which induces me to imagine, that during the patient's life, a large calculus had passed through the duct into the duodenum. A portion of the pancreas is also shown in the preparation. 1234 Gall-bladder, with an irregularly formed gall-stone. The coats greatly thickened, and the internal surface highly inflamed, and partly ulcerated; its natural appearance effaced. The liver large, struc- ture inflamed. 1235 Diseased gall-bladder, which contained an immense number of different sized calculi. The coats sur- prisingly thickened, the internal coat destroyed by