236 surface of the small and large intestines, and the mucous glands were enlarged ; they are shown in the preparation. The mesenteric glands were scrofulous ; all the other viscera healthy. In this case I am induced to imagine, that the morbid state of the intestines caused the violent diarrhoea, which latter produced introsusception ; I have several preparations to corroborate this opinion, and there is one from my collection in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. Drastic purgatives have, in some instances, produced this disease. I had two preparations to prove this fact, which were taken from dogs killed by too large a dose of croton oil; in one of the specimens, the invaginated intestine was sphacelated; they are in the College Museum. 995 Introsusception. The ileum with the caecum had passed through the valvula coli, and projected into the as- cending colon ; the invaginated parts were greatly constricted, as in strangulated hernia; the mucous coat was highly inflamed, and lymph had been deposited in great quantity on the ileum, which had become organised, as seen in the preparation ; had the patient lived a few days longer, this portion of the bowel would have sphacelated. The mucous glands in the duodenum and ileum were enlarged, and the internal coat inflamed ; the mesen- teric glands contained caseous matter; all the other viscera healthy. A boy, of a very delicate constitution, 12 years of age, became suddenly seized with pain in the bowels, followed by tormina and tenesmus; he was also vio- lently sick, and his bowels could not be acted on. He lived three days. This preparation illustrates admirably the appearances of introsusception. I never saw this disease in an adult, except in the case described in the history of No. 998. 996 Introsusception, which had commenced at the ileum. This intestine had passed to a considerable distance within the transverse arch of the colon, carrying with it the ceecum, and its appendix. The portion of ileum introsuscepted, is highly inflamed, thickly coated by coagulated lymph, and if the