379 lining highly inflamed, as were the internal linings of the Fallopian tubes ; the canal of the right Fallo- pian tube was distended with pus and lymph, and the extremity of the tube was obliterated. The ovarium on this side was inflamed, the left was con- verted into an abscess. From a young subject; the history of the case is not known. 1510 Uterus, the cavity extremely small, the fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes obliterated, and the canals greatly distended with pus. The inter- nal surface much thickened by chronic inflamma- tion. 1511 Uterus and bladder, &c. The whole of the peritoneal surface, covering the ute- rus, was greatly thickened by organised lymph, the effects of chronic inflammation. The uterus was extremely small, its parietes dense, the Fallopian tubes greatly shortened, their fimbriated extremi- ties obliterated, and the canals dilated with some secretion. The ovaria were changed into various cancerous tumors, and there were several serous cysts beneath their coverings. The os uteri pro- jected considerably into the vagina, it presented a roundish appearance, and it was more developed than natural; the aperture was nearly closed. The bladder was. very small, its peritoneal coat was greatly thickened, and firm adhesion had taken place between it and the uterus. The mucous coat was greatly thickened by coagulated lymph, which was organised, and appeared flocculent; the muscular coat was also much thickened. The liver was affected with carcinoma, and there was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen. The peritoneal covering of the viscera of the abdo- men was thickly coated with lymph, and the in- testines agglutinated. From an old woman. 1512 The uterus, its serous coat greatly thickened, and beneath it there are several depositions like small tubercles. The structure of the uterus and its mu- cous lining highly vascular, and the cavity large ; these appearances are well exhibited in the prepara- tion, the morbid parts having been preserved in alcohol.