244 near the termination of the right ureter, which had heen made hy the trocar, as indicated in the speci- men by a black bristle. The vagina very capacious, the internal surface plicated, the cervix uteri very long, the os uteri large. In consequence of the extent of mal-formation, it is very evident that no blame could be attached to the operator, as it was perfectly correct to attempt to establish an outlet for the contents of the bowels. Sometimes the rectum terminates within a short distance of the anus, in some of these cases there is an appearance of an external opening, in others no vestige of this is seen; occasionally the rectum terminates in the bladder; this fact is seen in a mal-formed foetus. See Section on this subject. 1012 Mal-formed rectum. The infant lived only 48 hours from the time of birth ; it could not void faeces or urine ; it was extremely restless,and convulsions came on, which occasioned death. The large intestines, particularly the lower, were greatly distended with meconium. The rectum terminated in a cul de sac, about two inches and a half from the anus, and a narrow process of con- densed cellular substance proceeded from this point to the sphincter ani. The anus presented a natural appearance to the extent of a quarter of an inch, where it became obliterated. The bladder was empty, and its muscular fibres very large; the ureters and pelves of the kidnies were immensely distended with urine, which was ex- plained for by the openings of these tubes into the bladder being impervious. 1013 An opening of communication between the urinary bladder, rectum, and vagina, in a fostus; the effects of mal-formation. 1014 An imperforate anus, in an infant; it lived three days from the time of its birth. It was noticed by the nurse that the child had no evacuations from the bowels, was extremely restless, and made great efforts to pass a motion. The accoucheur who attended the mother examined the anus of the child, and found the rectum imperforate; he considered the case irremediable, and did not advise an operation.