118 cavities of the chest; the lungs were emphysematous, and some of the lobes were infiltrated with sero- purulent fluid. The pericardium contained nearly six ounces of water; the heart was very large ; parietes of the left ven- tricle very thick; the cavity was very capacious, and the aperture of the mitral- valve semicartilaginous. The liver was very large, but its structure appeared natural; the veins gorged with blood, and the gall- bladder distended with a viscid green-colored secretion. The spleen was large, and more dense in structure than natural. 437 Aorta, the internal coat converted into cartilage and bone ; lymph had been deposited, and pus secreted between this and the fibrous coat, and some portions of the latter were destroyed by ulceration ; the ex- ternal tunic highly inflamed. From a man 34 years of age, of a very plethoric temperament, who died suddenly. Most of the principal arteries were remarkably large, and full of blood. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy, but congested with blood. 438 Two portions of the thoracic aorta, showing inflamma- tion and partial ulceration of the internal coat, with considerable thickening by cartilaginous and osseous deposits. One of the coronary arteries obliterated by lymph ; the aperture of the other only admitted a small bristle, which is seen in the preparation. The patient, 34 years of age, had been affected with cough and distressing dyspnoea for nearly two years, also violent palpitation of the heart; pulse full and very irregular ; lips purple. Symptoms of hydro- thorax came on, succeeded by ascites, and about a fortnight previous to his dissolution, symptoms of purpura haemorrhagica appeared on most parts of his body; he had also haemoptysis and intestinal hae- morrhage, and he died suddenly. The heart was of a tremendous magnitude, its left auricle and ventricle very capacious, the parietes of the latter very thick. The aorta and pulmonary artery highly inflamed. The pericardium contained about four ounces of water. The pleurae on both sides of the chest adhered in parts very firmly, and there were two pints of water in both cavities.