339 the penis : with a stricture in the urethra, and an artificial opening. The bladder ascended considerably above the pubis, it was greatly distended with urine mixed with pus. Description of the preparation. The mucous coat is highly inflamed ; there are seve- ral sacculi in the bladder, one of them of consider- able size, near the opening of the left ureter; this is shewn in the preparation. The prostate gland is not enlarged (but pus was found in its structure), the prostatic and membranous portion of the urethra is ulcerated, and there is a dense stricture at the bulb, and an artificial opening near this part, which appears to have been made in endeavouring to pass a catheter into the bladder. The strictured part is nearly a quarter of an inch in length, and the whole course of the urethra, from the extremity of the penis to the strictured part, is greatly thickened, and altered in structure, partly by disease, and partly by the means em- ployed to cure the stricture. The ureters were greatly thickened and dilated, as were the pelves and infundibula of the kidneys, and were distended with urine mixed with pus; their internal sur- face was highly inflamed. The kidneys were re- markably small, and their structure presented a spotted or stellated appearance, such as I have fre- quently seen in morbid kidneys, which I believe is occasioned by excessive distention of the capillary vessels. A man, 46 years of age, had suffered for a consider- able length of time, all the symptoms attendant on a diseased state of the urinary organs, occasioned by a stricture in the urethra. Various means had been employed by several surgeons, to cure the disease, but without effect. Caustic had been freely used ; irritative fever came on, which caused death. 1400 Diseased bladder, prostate gland, and kidney. The bladder is immensely large, the muscular and mucous coats greatly thickened, and there are several large sacculi, which had been produced by the violent efforts at different times to expel