150 mensely large, the fore-head very high, and the rest , of the frontal hone greatly developed.* All the common bones of the cranium were extremely thick, solid, and very vascular ; and the sutures were completely obliterated. There was a large collection of water in the ventricles ; the brain was very soft, and there were no signs of convolutions. 562 Two portions of the ischiatic nerve, from a stump; the extremities bulbous, occasioned by periosteal exos- tosis on one side of the femur, after amputation ; the nerve being impacted in the disease. In the 16th Volume of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, a paper of mine is published, contain- ing practical observations on the healthy and morbid condition of stumps. And most of the preparations are in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 563 Portions of the ischiatic nerve, their extremities bulbous. 564 A portion of the ischiatic nerve, showing a bulbous enlargement after amputation of the thigh. 565 A part of the ischiatic nerve, unravelled, showing a great number of ganglionic tumors of various sizes in the fibrillas. The nerve was extremely large, the neurilema dense ; and the cellular tissue connec- ting the filaments adhered so firmly as to render the separation of the different parts, by dissection, ex- tremely tedious. The blood-vessels were very large. The nerves belonging to the integuments and muscles of the thigh, showed similar tumors to those in the ischiatic nerve ; only smaller in size. Sections of some of the enlargements proved they were of a dense fibrous structure, like those noticed in morbid stumps. The tumor in the thigh appeared to be formed of loose coagulated blood, mixed with sero-purulent infiltra- tion ; not unlike the tumors described by Mr. Hry ; but the morbid parts not having been preserved in a sufficient quantity of alcohol, they were in so putrid a state, that it was impossible to decide whether the disease was fungus haematodes, or medullary sarcoma. See Cast of the head and face.