281 The lungs were loaded with blood and sero-purulent infiltration, and in some portions hepatisation had taken place. The pleura costalis on the right side was highly inflamed, and beneath it at the superior part of the chest, a tumor was detected, resting on the first four ribs near their articulation with the vertebrae. The tumor with its pleuritic covering was removed, and on making a section, it was found to consist of medullary and fungoid matter, and portions of the first three ribs, upon which it had rested ; the bones were partly absorbed. It is my opinion that the disease had its origin during the development of the foetus in utero ; as I believe have all malignant and scrofulous diseases. 183 A portion of liver affected with carcinoma. From a woman 60 years of age, her mamma was affected with the same disease. :184 Two portions of liver affected with carcinoma. The external surface of the liver was thickly coated with organised lymph. The structure was very dense, and converted into schirrous tumors; the cellular tissue thickened, and its color green, from bile having been effused ; this is shown in the preparation. The gall-bladder was empty, the hepatic duct and the communis chole- dochus obstructed with viscid secretion. The spleen was very large. There was a great quantity of water in the abdomen. From a man 60 years of age, who had been long afflicted with diseased liver and jaundice. 185 Liver affected with carcinomatous tubera; a portion of the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas shown in the preparation. The liver was occupied by medullary and carcinoma- tous tubercles, many of them very large; one was about the size of a large apple, it was situated in the under part of the great lobe of the liver near its surface, and its covering had become united firmly to the peritoneum, near the termina- tion of the ductus communis choledochus in the duodenum ; this duct and the hepatic duct were obliterated, which gave rise to the yellow color of the cellular tissue. The gall-bladder was filled with an albuminous fluid,