246 in several other parts of the bowel ; having symptoms of consumption, it was thought prudent not to propose another operation. He died of phthisis pulmonalis. The lungs were nearly filled with miliary tubercles and large vomicae, and the pleurae adhered very firmly ; the bronchial tubes and trachea highly inflamed, and filled with pus and mucus. The mesenteric glands caseous, and the mucous glands in the small intestines enlarged, some of them ulcerated. I have frequently noticed the connection of haemorr- hoids and fistulee with phthisis pulmonalis. 1019 Inferior part of the intestinum rectum, with the verge of the anus, and a portion of integument belonging to the perinseum and scrotum. From a man who died of phthisis pulmonalis. For many months previous to his death he suffered from haemorrhoids and fistulas in ano, and he had been operated on for this disease some years ago. There are several fistulas in the rectum, some of them very extensive, the sinuses are very capacious, and the internal surface shows the character of a secreting membrane ; there are also fistulae in perimeo, which in the preparation are denoted by black bristles, and pieces of glass; there is a large pile at the verge of the anus. The pleurae adhered firmly, the lungs were nearly conso- lidated by scrofulous tubercles ; they also contained several vomicae. The bronchial tubes, the trachea, and larynx, were greatly inflamed, and some portions of the annuli of the trachea, absorbed ; and the under surface of the epiglottis and rima glottidis greatly thickened by chronic inflammation. The liver was gran ulated,the mesenteric glands caseous. See Section on Morbid Trachea. Two months previous to the death of this patient, an abscess formed on the upper part of the sternum ; it burst, and a considerable quantity of pus escaped, of a scrofulous kind, which continued to flow for a length of time, and occasioned aphonia. At this time the cough and expectoration diminished : the part gradually healed, the cough became again dis- tressing, and the expectoration very profuse, which caused death. I have seen three similar cases.