257 began to decline, her complexion became sallow, and she could scarcely keep any thing in the stomach ; haematemesis came on, and she died suddenly. There were carcinomatous tubera in the liver. On opening the stomach it was found greatly contract- ed, and contained some coagulated arterial blood only; after removing the coagulum, it was seen that the coats of the stomach, to a large extent, near the pylorus, had been destroyed by ulceration. A portion of one side of the pancreas had also been destroyed, and the coats of the splenic artery were laid bare, as indicated in the preparation by a black bristle. The boundary of the ulcerated portion partly adhered to the healthy part of the pancreas ; but the remainder presented a ragged appearance, as if it had been detached by the violent vomiting. There were small schirrous tubercles between the muscular and mucous coats, near the diseased part. This is a very remarkable specimen. 1038 A portion of stomach, affected with carcinoma. This is the most remarkable preparation of genuine carcinoma of the stomach I ever examined. Nearly one half of the great arch of the stomach is con- verted into very large schirrous tumors, which had formed between the cellular and mucous coats, and the mucous surface is converted into a morbid structure of great density, resembling verrucae, or chimney sweeper's cancer. 1039 Pyloric extremity of the stomach, affected with carci- noma ; a portion of the duodenum shown. The disease commenced in the cellular tunic; the liver was also affected with the same disease. 1040 Pyloric extremity of the stomach, with the duodenum. A man, 45 years of age, a labourer, had suffered from gastric affection nearly three years ; he expe- rienced great pain after swallowing solid food, in the epigastric region. The liver was greatly enlarged, and when pressure with the hand on examination was employed, pain was excited; there were no signs of icterus ; he became greatly emaciated. For nearly five weeks previous to his decease, he was distressed with a pain at the pit of the stomach and in the right hypochondrium, accompanied with s