32 have effected a perfect osseous union. The other section of the bone was macerated. An extensive oblique fracture of the os femoris, which had united by bone. This is a complicated fracture of the shaft of the femur, at about four inches from its neck ; the latter was also fractured at its base, and it was driven deeply into the cancellous structure. The external surface is well covered by very solid osseous deposits ; and a large bony mass had formed on the under surface of the neck, which extended to the edges of the trochanters. These appearances are seen in the preparation. From a woman, 55 years of a'ge ; she was corpulent; and had been hemiplegic on the left side for nearly twelve months. The accident happened by falling down a flight of stairs; from the immense size of her thigh, the great en- largement caused by the accident, and consider- able ecchymosis, it was quite impossible to ascertain whether the case was one of fracture within the capsular ligament, or of the upper part of the shaft of the thigh bone. The toes were turned inwards, and there was slight shortening of the limb. The leg was placed in a straight position, and supported; she expe- rienced great pain, and symptomatic fever came on, which continued for ten days. After the swelling of the thigh had subsided, another attempt was made to ascertain the situation of the fracture, when it was evident by the crepitus, that the bone was fractured at its superior part. Six months after the accident, she was able to walk nearly as well as before the injury; but this was effected imperfectly from the circumstance of the injured limb belonging to the paralysed side. She died ultimately of apoplexy. Inspectio.—The arach- noid membrane, and pia mater, were thickened by chronic inflammation ; and there was a considerable quantity of fluid between them. The substance of the brain was very vascular; there were four ounces of water in the ventricles ; and several serous cysts in the plexus choroides on both sides. The arteries at the base of the brain were hardened by cartilaginous and bony deposits. This was a case of serous apoplexy; and the first attack