277 inflamed, and partly ulcerated. In both sides of the chest, there was a considerable quantity of water, and in some parts the pleurae were adherent. There were a great number of miliary tubercles in the lungs, also several small abscesses, and some portions of the lungs were hepatised. The internal surface of the bronchi and trachea was greatly inflamed, in some parts ulcerated. There were three ounces of water in the pericardium, and the serous covering of the heart was inflamed; the heart was very small, but its structure natural. The whole of the internal coat of the aorta was semi- cartilaginous, and in some portions it was detached from the fibrous coat. There was a small aneu- rism at the inferior part of the arch, near the origin of the left subclavian, which has been described in the history of Aneurisms. From a woman of very diminutive size, 38 years of age, who had been afflicted with symptoms denoting disease of the liver; she had been attended by several able Physicians. Jaundice came on, which was succeeded by ascites, and edema of the lower extremities, under which she died. 1158 A small portion of liver. The patient, a woman, 45 years of age, of a strumous diathesis, had suffered for several years from diseased liver, which ulti- mately occasioned ascites, of which she died. The liver was very large, and extremely soft in texture, of a pale whitish color, and seemed converted into small scrofulous tubercles. There were also similar morbid appearances in the spleen and lungs. 1159 Liver, minutely injected. The liver was nearly filled with large scrofulous tubercles ; the caseous matter is not colored by the injection. I have frequently attempted to inject scrofulous tubercles, but never succeeded. 1160 A portion of liver, natural structure nearly destroyed by scrofulous matter. The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. 1161 A piece of liver, structure nearly destroyed by lymph and scrofulous deposits ; color white. Gall-bladder empty. She died of phthisis pulmonalis. The liver projected considerably below the ribs, and from having worn stays too tightly laced, several