15 by the fact, that anchylosis had taken place, between the surfaces of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae at their anterior borders ; as seen in the preparation. The central parts of the divided bodies of the verte- brae do not possess the softening, or want of phosphate of lime, nor the deposition of caseous matter noticed in scrofula; but are more solid in structure than natural. The spinal marrow and its membranes were removed from the spinal canal, to give a better view of the state of the vertebrae. The medulla spinalis, and the cauda equina, together with the theca are shown in the preparation. The external surface of the dura mater, and arachnoid membrane were thickened; and the spinal marrow softened near the diseased vertebrae. I consider this to have been a case of ostitis, which gave rise to the formation of a lumbar abscess. The preparation was obtained from a man, 34 years of age (a tailor), who had suffered nearly four years, from symptoms of dis- eased spine, and psoas abscess. The brain eventually became affected, and he died. There were no signs of scrofulous tubercles in the lungs, and all the abdominal viscera were healthy. This is a valuable specimen. Spine of a sheep with curvatures. The deformity is on the left side, and is formed by the dorsal vertebrae. It presents the appearance not only of a lateral, but also of an angular curve ; it seemed on examination, not to have been the result of accident, but of a morbid state of the ligaments of the spine, and of the inter- vertebral substances ; these parts being extremely soft. And this opinion is strengthened by finding some of the joints, particularly the knee, greatly distended with thickened synovial secretion, and the capsule thickly coated with lymph. See the knee joint, No. 259. There was no softening of the bony structure of the verte- brae, but the two bodies which formed the angular curve were partly absorbed, in consequence of pressure, and their intervertebral substances removed. The spinous processes are bent downwards on the right side nearly to a level with the heads of the ribs ; and the ribs on this side are brought closely together, to accommodate the curvature on the left; while the ribs of the left side are widely separated. This is a very singular specimen.