460 the fungoid matter, and the parietes of the bone were extremely thin (as seen in the preparation). A portion of the bone had been absorbed, which allowed the fungoid matter to protrude through the periosteum, and to appear externally. The fungus had made its way between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, and had caused ulceration of the anterior tibial artery, where it passes through the interosseal ligament. The ulcerated orifice had at last become completely pressed upon by the fungus and the coagulated blood, so as to prevent any further hemorrhage. The fungous substance had also made its way from the head and shaft of the tibia between the gas- trocnemii muscles, and had displaced the posterior tibial artery, vein, and nerve, without producing any morbid change, except inflammation of their external surface. The fascias and cellular tissue connecting the muscles of the upper part of the leg were in a high state of inflammation, as were the thecae of the tendons; and in many parts sloughing had commenced. The muscles, particularly the gastrocnemii, tibialis posticus and anticus, and the extensor longus digitorum were injected with blood, and presented a very unhealthy appearance ; these changes are seen in the specimen. The periosteal covering of the tibia, for some dis- tance beyond the diseased parts, was excessively vascular, and much thickened, and irregular depo- sitions of bony matter had taken place on the outer part of the bone, as in chronic inflammation of the bones. The knee-joint was perfectly healthy, ex- cepting that there was slight inflammation of the sy- novial membrane, and the condyles and shaft of the femur were natural in structure. On examining the fungous matter in, and that protruding from, the internal part of the tibia, it was found extremely vascular, fibrous in texture, and mixed with coagulated blood, similar to that noticed in aneu- risms undergoing spontaneous cure. A con- siderable portion of the injection had passed from the popliteal artery, and through the ulcerated opening in the anterior tibial artery, and was diffused in the morbid growth.