104 that of the mitral valve. The coronary arteries were ossified. The right side of the heart was natural, but the parietes of the auricle and ventricle were thin. 329 A portion of the right and left ventricle of a heart, showing a carcinomatous tumor in the muscular structure, at a short distance from the external and superior surface of the right ventricle. 330 A portion of the right and left ventricle of a heart, showing a carcinomatous tumor in the muscular tissue, near the external and anterior surface of this right ventricle. There were several similar produc- tions in the other viscera. I have met with only four specimens of malignant disease in the heart; one of these may be seen in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, London. 331 A diseased heart. The serous coverings are firmly united by lymph ; structure of the heart soft, left ventricle capacious, aortic valves thickened by car- tilaginous and osseous deposits. From a man 56 years of age. There was a great collection of water in both sides of the chest; the lungs were oedematous; the liver granulated; the spleen large and firm in texture. Comparative Anatomy of the Heart. 332 The inferior portion of the right ventricle of the heart of an ox. The heart was immensely large, the surfaces of the pericardium firmly adherent. An abscess of considerable size had formed in the substance of the ventricle near its apex; the muscular structure was highly inflamed, and lymph was effused in great abundance. The cause of these morbid changes was found to have been, a large piece of twisted copper wire, which the animal had swallowed, whilst grazing, and which had perforated the oesopha- gus, and by progressive absorption had penetrated the pericardium and apex of the heart. In another case in a cow, I had an opportunity of seeing a large ten-penny nail which had passed through the first stomach, and had penetrated the left side of the diaphragm ; and would in time, most probably have perforated the pericardium and the heart.