358 agnosis of their character, particularly in the fun- goid or medullary kind. 1419 Part of a bladder, with the prostate gland, vesiculae seminales, vasa deferentia, and the penis. There was a large aperture in the right side of the velum pendulum palati, which had healed; the turbinated bones had been destroyed. The glans penis had been removed by syphilis, and the parts had healed favorably. The prostate gland is not diseased; the vesiculae seminales are shrivelled, and did not contain any fluid. The testes were greatly diminished, and their tunics firmly united, solid in structure, and there were no signs of tubuli seminiferi. The liver im- mensely large, of a yellow color, and the cellular tissue was greatly thickened, the effects of chro- nic inflammation; there were scarcely any signs of vascularity, and the serous coat was greatly thickened with organised lymph. The spleen was double the natural size, and its structure as firm as liver; the serous surface was thickly covered with coagulated lymph. The gall-bladder was dis- tended with a sap-green colored bile, as were the cystic, hepatic, and common duct. The mucous glands of the small intestines were greatly enlarged, and the mucous surface in several parts ulcerated. All the thoracic viscera were healthy, except one of the lobes of the right lung, which was hepa- tised. The preparation of the pharynx and larynx from this patient is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 1420 A diseased prostate gland, the penis injected with size and vermillion. The bladder was extremely large, the muscular fibres very flaccid, and there were several large sacculi. Description of the preparation. The mucous coat is greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and the prostate gland is immensely large, particularly the middle lobe; the structure is dense, and the caliber of the prostatic urethra diminished by this growth. There is likewise a large opening through the centre of the middle lobe, about two inches in length, which had been