G2 right side has been absorbed, and the patella is firmly united by ligament. A spiculum of bone of inconsiderable size has formed a little above the patella, which projects upwards and outwards. The cancelli of the femur are extremely large and hard: these appearances are shown in the specimen. 238 The inferior part of the thigh-bone of a man. The bone had been fractured in a transverse direction close to the condyles; inflammation of the joint en- sued, which ultimately terminated in destroying all the soft parts of the joint. The leg having been kept in a straight position for a considerable length of time, imperfect anchylosis took place, and the patient with the aid of a stick, was able to use the limb.—He died of typhus fever some years after the accident. Appearances of the bones.—The fractured portion has united by bone, to the head of the tibia ; a consider- able portion of the condyles has been absorbed, and there is an appearance in the femur, as of the ex- tension of the fracture in a perpendicular direction through the shaft of the bone. This has become united by solid osseous deposits, and at the end of the femur resembles two segments. The cancelli are extremely soft. This is a very curious looking preparation, and one very difficult to describe. 239 The knee-joint of a man ; the leg was amputated. The patient had been afflicted with chronic inflam- mation of the joint nearly two years. The joint became stiff", painful, and useless, which in- duced him to have the leg amputated. The osseous structure of all the bones belonging to the joint is healthy; but the cartilages have been absorbed, and the articulating surfaces closely approximated; there are no signs of ligamentous or osseous union. The surfaces of the bones are polished and eburnated. 240 The knee-joint of a man. All the natural structures of the joint have been destroyed ; the articulating sur- faces have approximated closely, and are polished and eburnated. Osseous matter, in abundance, has been deposited on the articulating surfaces of the femur and tibia, which would in time probably have pro- duced anchylosis. The spine of the tibia near to its