18 " The bodies of the second and third vertebras are dis- placed towards the right, so that a line drawn along their middle and continued upwards, would strike the right margin of the basilary process; and the- small tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas corresponds to the left side of those bodies. The right occipital condyle, the remains of the right transverse process of the atlas, the inferior articular plane of the axis, and the right side of the basis of the dentiform process, are anchylosed; so as to form one solid bony mass. The left occipital condyle is partially anchylosed with the atlas; the left articular plane of the axis, its transverse process, and that of the third vertebra, are all conso- lidated with the partial anchylosis just mentioned." " The articular processes of the axis and the third vertebra are anchylosed, the union extending on the left side as far as the bases of the spinous processes. The bodies of the axis and third vertebra are not anchylosed. The preternatural bony connexions just enumerated are perfect, equalling in solidity the natural bony structure, so that the limits of the anchylosed bones are confounded. The bony texture is quite natural; there is no roughness of surface, no diminution of so- lidity, nor any appearance of caries. The dimensions of the vertebral canal at its commencement are greatly reduced by the extensive displacement of the atlas and axis." " The antero-posterior diameter of the foramen mag num is in this case one inch and a half; the greatest measurement from side to side is one inch and a quar- ter. The diameter of the ring of the third vertebra, from side to side, is seven eighths of an inch, from front to back, six eighths. The measurement of the canal, between the displaced portions of the atlas and axis is half an inch from before backwards, and five eighths of an inch from side to side." This valuable preparation was presented to me, by William Lawrence, Esq. On examining the three cervical vertebra?, I found the osseous structure na- tural, and there were no signs of the bones having been affected with scrofula. In the history of the post-mortem examination, it is not stated, whether the bodies of the vertebras in the si- tuation of the lumbar abscess were altered in structure,