303 and the internal surface very thick, and injected; hut the liver was not colored with the injection; its structure was granulated. The gall-bladder was also filled with flukes and viscid bile; its internal surface highly injected, also the cystic duct. Several of the flukes are shown in the preparation. 1273 A portion of liver, with the gall-bladder and biliary ducts of a Sheep. The peritoneal covering greatly thickened by organised lymph; its substance con- solidated by lymph and bilious effusion. All the biliary ducts were greatly dilated, and filled with dead flukes ; the internal coat immensely thickened by organised lymph; the gall-bladder was also completely filled with dead flukes, its internal sur- face condensed, and its fundus and a portion of the liver destroyed. As the liver was examined soon after death, it is fair to conclude that the death of the fasciola? arose from inanition, the liver having ceased to secrete bile, the fluid on which these animals subsist ; and the appearances which the fundus of the gall-bladder, and the portion of liver connected with this part present, might have been produced by some of the living flukes endeavouring to obtain nourishment from the liver. 1274 A portion of the liver of a Sheep, with hydatids in its substance, and on the serous surface. The liver was pale-colored, and dense in structure. 1275 Liver of a sheep, injected, showing a large and dense cyst, which had contained a great number of hydatids. The structure of the liver was nearly destroyed by numerous hydatids ; and the biliary ducts and gall- bladder were filled with fasciolas or flukes (distoma hepaticum.) On opening some of the cysts of the hydatids, they were found to contain dead hydatids, mixed with pus; and the internal coats of the cysts were minutely injected, which proved that the growth of the hydatids had occasioned inflammation and sup- puration. The external surface of the liver covering the cyst of the hydatid is cartilaginous, which is seen in the preparation. 127G Liver of a Sheep, with a large hydatid in its substance;