61 was amputated. The natural structure of the joint is completely destroyed; the effect of inflammation and absorption. A section of the bones shows the parietes to be very thin, and the internal lining of the medullary canal highly inflamed; but there were no signs of caseous deposition in the cancelli; whence it may be inferred that this was not a scrofulous affection. 235 The knee-joint of a man, 40 years of age. All the soft parts of the joint were destroyed by chronic in- flammation and absorption, as were the cartilaginous coverings. From the absence of synovial fluid, and from the continued fixed position of the knee, the opposed surfaces have by the movement of the joint, become highly polished, and resemble ivory ; a fact I have frequently noticed in joints affected with chronic inflammation. The leg was injected with size and vermillion A sec- tion of the femur is made ; its structure is healthy ; the bones are highly vascular, especially at their articular surfaces ; but no particle of the injection could be seen in the small portions of the cartilages which remained. The leg was amputated. From the healthy state of the bones, I think, that if the case had been, at the commencement, scientifi- cally managed, the limb might have been saved. 236 The bones of the knee-joint of a man, affected with scrofula. All the soft parts were destroyed, as were the cartilages ; the under surface of the condyles, and the head of the tibia, are in a carious state. The bones are very light and soft; the cancelli are loaded with scrofulous matter, and ligamentous union has taken place between the under surface of the patella and the depression between the two con- dyles, which is shown in the preparation.—The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. 237 The right knee-joint of a man, who had been severely afflicted with rheumatism. The whole of the natural structure had been destroyed by chronic inflamma- tion and ulceration, and the joint gradually became contracted into the bent position. In consequence of the pressure of the posterior, and under surfaces of the condyles of the femur upon the head of the tibia, a considerable portion of that bone on the