59 formed beneath the fascia of the thigh, and it was necessary to evacuate it by an opening. Symptoms of hectic fever again came on; he was greatly emaciated; the integuments of the nates and sacrum sloughed, and the periosteal covering of this bone was denuded; irritative fever supervened, which terminated his existence. Inspection.—The lungs were nearly destroyed by scrofulous tubercles, and vomicas would soon have formed. The bronchial glands were affected with scrofula. There were scrofulous tumors in the liver and spleen ; and the mesenteric glands were conver- ted into caseous tumors. The whole of the internal surface of the peritoneum was studded with miliary tubercles ; and the mucous glands in the small intes- tines were greatly enlarged. The kidnies appeared healthy; but there were several small calculi in the pelvis of each : and I was informed that several of a similar kind had been voided with the urine during his illness. Appearances of the hip-joint.—The capsular ligament and the cartilaginous coverings had been destroyed ; as was a portion of the head of the femur, and the ligamentum teres. The remaining part of the head of the thigh-bone was found resting partly on a portion of the acetabulum, and the obturator foramen; showing that the dislocation had been produced by disease. A scrofulous knee-joint, in a bent position, imperfectly anchylosed, the patella united to the under surface of the external condyle of the femur. From a man, 30 years of age, who died of phthisis pulmonalis. At an early period of life, he suffered from a scro- fulous affection in this joint. The cartilaginous covering of the condyles of the femur, the head of the tibia, as well as the synovial membrane and ligaments, had been destroyed by ulcerative absorption. The disease had also con- sumed the principal part of the condyles, and a con- siderable portion of the articulating surface of the tibia. After these ravages, the flexor tendons had bent the joint to an acute angle. The morbid action having ceased, a healthy reparatory process com- menced; and lymph was deposited, which became