334 of vomiting and singultus, and his urine was mostly mixed with pus, sometimes small calculi were voided, and he complained of great pain in the region of the kidneys. These symptoms gradually increased, especially the nephritic, and the pain was agonising, although the warm hath and large doses of opium were employed to relieve his suffer- ings, hut without effect. The pulse hecame hard and full, and the brain was affected. By bold bleedings, saline aperients, &c. the symptoms gradually subsided; the blood was buffed and cupped. About a month after this severe attack, he began to complain of great pain in the kidnies and blad- der, and he had great difficulty in voiding urine, several small calculi were voided, with some uric acid. These symptoms were followed by an acute pain in the spermatic cord and testis of the right side, which increased rapidly, although leeches in great number were applied, fomentations, poultices, &c. Symptoms of hernia humoralis came on, the integu- ments of the scrotum sloughed, and the testicle became exposed. The opening between the bladder and the rectum had nearly closed, with the exception of a small sinus which is shown by a black bristle in the prepara- tion. I have made the history of this case rather long, as I thought it singular, and very interesting. 1391 A bladder, shewing the effects of inflammation of the mucous surface, lymph having been deposited; there are likewise several sacculi, which were occa- sioned by retention of urine. There is an abscess in the right lateral lobe of the prostate gland; the left scirrhous. The kidnies were diseased; the description is given in the Section on Morbid Kid- nies. 1392 Bladder, with the prostate gland, &c. There are several sacculi in the bladder, two of them very large, and situated at the posterior part, a little above the termination of each ureter. The muscular fibres of the bladder are very large ; the mucous coat healthy, although three calculi were found in the bladder. There are also several calculi in the prostate gland, it is