275 occasioned by the cyst of an hydatid ; which I shall have occasion to describe. 1152 A portion of liver, with a dense osseous cyst near its surface, containing a shrivelled hydatid. 1153 Hydatids, with an osseous cyst; several of them were dead, from having been deprived of their natural nutriment; the cyst was separated from the liver to show its density. Taken from a woman who died from the effects of •jaundice and ascites. Some of the hydatids contain young ones. 1154 A portion of liver, with an hydatid in its substance near the surface of the liver; the cyst dense. The liver was inflamed, and the gall-bladder filled with green-colored viscid bile. The child from whom it was taken, about two years of age, died of hydrocephalus, the symptoms of which had existed from birth. The membranes of the brain were inflamed, and there was effusion of water beneath them; the convolutions were flattened and soft; there was a considerable quantity of water in the ventricles. The effusion into the brain was probably congenital, as was the formation of the hydatid. 1155 A portion of the right lobe of the liver, occupied by an innumerable quantity of various sized hydatids. From a woman, 45 years of age, whose mamma had been removed. About six months after the operation, the disease recurred in the cicatrix, and beneath the surround- ing integuments ; sloughing and ulceration spread and laid waste the skin to a considerable extent, anda fungous growth wasproduced, which frequently bled so profusely as to threaten her life. She suffered very severely; the axillary glands en- larged, and her health gradually declined; she was excessively nervous, and irritative fever supervened, which soon put an end to her sufferings. The disease in the axillary glands was strictly carci- nomatous ; there were a great number of medullary tumors in the lungs. The liver was very large, its structure dense, and color reddish white, but it was not very vascular. At the posterior and inferior part of the right lobe and near its edge there was a nodulated en-