68 the astragalus, and the motions of the limb, the surfaces have become hardened and polished. 254 The inferior part of the tibia and fibula. The articu- lating surfaces are destroyed by ulceration, occasioned by a severe injury to the ankle-joint. The leg was amputated. The bones are light and soft, as in scrofula; a conside- rable portion of the fibula shows signs of caries. 255 Tibia and fibula of a woman. The structure of the soft parts, and the cartilages of the ankle-joint have been destroyed by chronic inflammation. Periostitis had taken place near the inferior end of the tibia at its inner edge, and extended upwards for nearly two inches. Exostosis succeeded, which had destroyed the interosseous ligament, and the peri- osteal covering of the fibula; and complete bony anchylosis has been effected. The end of the fibula is covered with bony matter, as was its head. 256 Part of the foot of a boy. The integuments mortified in consequence of a carriage wheel passing over the ankle-joint and consequent laceration ; it was necessary to amputate the leg. The patient soon recovered. 257 Bones of the ankle-joint, and part of the tarsal bones. The ankle-joint is completely anchylosed by osseous matter, as are the tarsal bones. The tibia and fibula are affected with caries. The fibula is united by bone to the inner surface of the tibia; and there is a process of bone between the tibia and fibula, in the situation of the interosseous ligament. This is a curious specimen ; it was found in a burial-ground. 258 Part of the bones of a foot of a young man affected with scrofula. Some of the metatarsal bones were dis- eased, and they were removed. The wound did not heal; and there was a considerable discharge of pus. Some months after this operation, the knee-joint was attacked, and the disease made rapid progress; his health became so affected, that amputation above the knee-joint was thought necessary. The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. Most of the cartilages of the tarsal bones had been absorbed; the osseous structure was very soft, and the cancelli contained caseous matter. The foot was