479 when he was attacked with phlegmonous erysipelas all over his body, accompanied with fever, and the integuments of the nates and sacrum sloughed, which caused his death. The semilunar valves of the aorta were shortened and thickened hy osseous deposits, the coronary arteries were ossified. The lungs healthy. The thoracic and abdominal aorta ossified. The liver was very large, solid, and granulated; the spleen large, the pancreas healthy. The kidneys granulated. There was also a very large scrotal hernia. See Section on Hernia. The patient had lived irregularly for many years. J injected the leg with size and vermillion ; the following are the appearances noticed on examining the leg and the stump. All the coats of the arteries belonging to the leg were ossified, some of them obliterated, which accounted for the mortification of the leg. The fascia and subcellular tissue were in a sphacelated state, and the extensor tendons and cutaneous nerves were exposed; these appearances are seen in the preparation, likewise the posterior tibial and plantar arteries. The integumeuts of the stump had healed, with the exception of a small sinus, where the ligature belonging to the femoral artery had been, this con- tinued to discharge. Although the stump was well covered with integu- ments, the asperities of the sawn bone were not ab- sorbed; nor were there any signs of osseous depo- sition at the end of the bone, but at about a quarter of an inch from the surface of the bone, exostosis had been effected to a considerable extent, which completely encircled the shaft of the femur. The coagulum in the artery and vein is shown. 1804 Cyst of a psoas abscess, converted into bone. The disease had existed nearly two years,the vertebraa and theca vertebralis became affected, and the patient died. This is the only specimen of ossification of the cyst of a psoas abscess I ever saw. 1805 Portion of an ovarial cyst, which adheres firmly to the peritoneal surface of the diaphragm, and a part