447 but there being in this instance an inguinal hernia on the same side, makes the preparation more valuable. The patient was a man, 20 years of age, who had never experienced any inconvenience from the hernias, and had not used a truss. He died from the effects of a diseased heart and liver. 1729 A portion of intestinum ileum, exhibiting the effects of a strangulated femoral hernia in a woman. An operation had been performed. Only a small knuckle-like portion of the intestine was incarcerated in the hernial sac. The coats of the intestine were highly inflamed, yet not sphacelated, but this would soon have taken place had not the operation been performed. The nature of the disease was not discovered so early as could have been wished, which in all probability was the cause of the want of success in the operation. The peri- toneum and all its reflections were highly inflamed. 1730 A portion of intestinum ileum, inflamed, and lymph deposited on the serous surface, the effects of a strangulated inguinal hernia. A man, 60 years of age, had long been afflicted with asthma, and a diseased liver; ascites came on, accompanied with icterus, and about two months prior to his death his breathing was performed with such distressing difficulty, that it was considered right to perform paracentesis. This afforded great relief, but effusion into the abdo- men again took place, and four days previous to his dissolution symptoms of peritonitis came on, fol- lowed by vomiting, and his bowels could not be acted on. There was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen ; the peritoneum and all its reflections were highly inflamed, and most of the small intestines were agglutinated by recently effused lymph. On the right side there was an inguinal hernia; a portion of ileum was seen in the hernial sac, which was only slightly constricted, and was easily drawn out; the peritoneal coat was not more inflamed than that belonging to the rest of the small intes- tines, and the mucous coat was not affected. The liver was large, hard, and granulated ; the gall- bladder distended with viscid bile ; the spleen large, its structure dense.