476 putation was performed. The leg was injected with size and vermillion; the cancelli of the tibia and fibula are filled with caseous secretion, the bones (as they generally are in scrofula) were very soft. It is very singular that in this preparation, anchylosis has taken place between the inner surface of the patella and the under surface of the head of the femur; theligamentum patellae is greatly elongated; it is preserved in the preparation. The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis and tabes mesenterica. 1799 Section of a knee-joint, in the bent position. All the soft parts, also the cartilaginous coverings, had been absorbed, and ligamentous union had been effected. The cancelli of the bones were filled with caseous matter, the parietes were very thin and soft. I have examined a great number of scrofulous joints, at different periods of the disease, but I have not in any instance found that osseous union had been effected. Is this want of union caused by a defici- ency of phosphate of lime in the bones of scrofulous subjects ? When joints have been attacked with active inflam- mation, occasioned by local injury or any other exciting cause, and destruction of the soft parts has been the consequence, the patient not having a scrofulous diathesis, osseous union does take place when the case is properly managed. 1800 The ankle-joint and bones of the foot, affected with scrofula. All the soft parts of the joint had been destroyed by ulceration,andthe cartilages absorbed. The bones of the tarsus were affected with the same disease, and the cancelli were filled with caseous matter. The health of the patient being affected, and there not appearing any signs of disease in any other part of the body, the leg was amputated. The lungs and mesenteric glands afterwards became diseased, and the patient died. This preparation shows admirably all the morbid changes in this destructive disease. 1801 Ankle-joint, the whole of the soft parts were destroyed by ulceration, and the cartilaginous coverings be- longing to the articulation of the joint were ab-