112 406 The inferioi* part of the femoral and the popliteal artery and vein, with a portion of the popliteal nerve. The vein obliterated by organised lymph; the artery healthy, and filled with firm coagulated blood, which did not adhere to the internal coat. The man from whom this specimen was taken, had been afflicted for many years, with disease in the tibia and fibula, which produced a foul ulcer on the shin; several spiculae, at different times exfoliated ; gan- grena sicca came on, which rendered it necessary to amputate the leg. > The arteries were all obliterated, so that it was not re- quisite to apply a ligature. The particulars of this case will be given in the des- cription of diseased bones. 407 A portion of inflamed aorta, with cartilaginous depo- sitions beneath the internal membrane; the external coat removed. The patient died of ascites ; the liver was not diseased; this was a case of arteritis causing effusion, which might have been prevented by timely bleedings. 408 A portion of femoral vein, completely obliterated by blood, the effects of phlebitis. 409 Iliac artery and vein. The former inflamed, and lymph deposited on its internal surface; the latter complete- ly obliterated by firmly coagulated blood and lymph. This preparation was taken from a patient who had carcinoma of the testicle; the inguinal, and other absorbent glands were affected with the same disease. 410 A portion of the thoracic aorta, showing the incipient change of the natural structure of its internal coat. In consequence of inflammation of the coats of arteries, lymph is effused between the internal and fibrous coats, which becomes organised ; the internal coat becomes opaque, and is easily detached from the fibrous; and ultimately is converted into semicarti- laginous or bony deposits ; or other products, such as [ shall describe in the history of some of the preparations. 411 Femoral artery and vein, showing coagula after ampu- tation. Haemorrhage came on a few days after the operation, and the patient died. The operation was performed at a hospital 24 years ago. A bristle is placed in the artery to show the ulcerated opening.