89 paroxysm of coughing haemoptysis occurred, and he died suddenly. In the right side of the chest there was a pint of bloody serum—on the left side there were firm adhesions between the pleura costalis and pulmonalis ; the lungs were slightly congested with blood. The liver of a deep purple color, and all its blood-vessels gorged with blood; as were those belonging to the other abdominal viscera. There were three quarts of bloody serum in the abdomen. The pericardium contained about three ounces of bloody serum; the left auricle greatly dilated, its parietes thick, and the internal coat thickened and granulated; the effects of chronic inflammation. The margin of the auriculo-ventricular opening very dense in structure, and the aperture extremely small; the ventricle aneurismal, parietes hypertrophied. The valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery were natural, but the internal coat of both these arteries was slightly thickened by atheromatous matter; a morbid change we do not often see in so young a subject. 307 Heart of a lady 63 years of age, of a very corpulent habit. She had been subject to palpitation of the heart during six years ; accompanied with violent head-ache. She frequently complained of pulsation, and a singing noise in her ears ; her sight diminished in power; pupils contracted; she was extremely nervous, and subject to attacks of syncope; the lips mostly of a purple color. About twelve months previous to her death, the palpi- tation of the heart became more troublesome, the pulsation and noise in the ears increased, and her mental powers became affected. She died suddenly. The vessels of the scalp and pericranium as well as those of the cranium, were extremely turgid with blood • the arachnoid membrane lining the dura mater was inflamed, and slightly thickened by lymph, and that portion covering the pia mater was thickened by chronic inflammation. A conside- rable quantity of water mixed with coagulated blood was found between the pia mater and the external surface of the brain. The convolutions of the cerebrum were flattened, and the substance inflamed;