64 24G Knee-joint of a child affected with scrofula; in a bent position ; amputation was performed. 247 A magnificent specimen of chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The capsule was distended to an enormous size ; and on cutting it open, it was found to contain coagulated blood, large flakes of lymph, and an oleaginous looking fluid. The internal surface of the capsule was thickly coated with organised lymph, and there were several small pendulous tumors on the surfaces of condyles, similar to those described by Hunter; they are seen in the preparation. The cartilaginous covering of the condyles, and head of the tibia has been absorbed ; small round osseous deposits have formed on the surfaces of these bones, and similar changes have taken place in the capsule and head of the fibula. The popliteal artery was ossified ; its caliber small. The other knee-joint was affected with the same dis- ease, but not to so great an extent, and the wrist joints were likewise diseased. The dura mater ad- hered very firmly to the calvarium, which was caused by the deposition of lymph and osseous substance. The arachnoid membrane and pia mater, were greatly thickened. The brain was extremely firm and inflamed, and there were two ounces of water in the lateral ventricles ; most of the arteries were thickened by cartilaginous and osseous deposits. The tractus optici, and optic nerves were extremely small, which satisfactorily accounted for the amau- rotic affection of both eyes. The pleura adhered firmly, the effects of chronic inflammation ; the lungs were healthy ; the liver small and granulated ; the spleen small, its capsule cartilaginous. The whole of the aorta ossified. Case.—A man, 64 years of age, had been subject to severe and frequent attacks of gout for several years, and most of the joints of the extremities were greatly disfigured by this disease; chalk-stones having been formed. To these miseries was added one which distressed him more than his other afflictions, the loss of sight by amaurosis for twenty years. A severe attack of gout came on, which