432 or retraction of the nipple is a sign of malignant disease of the breast. This I do not think a correct diagnosis, as I have seen the nipple project naturally in the worst cases of cancerous mammae, and it is seldom diseased ; I have seen the papillae very short in healthy breasts. 1695 Mamma, affected with carcinoma. The skin was immensely thickened, and presented that fibrous appearance said to characterise carcinoma. There had been a large" collection of fluid in the centre of the disease near its surface, and a sensa- tion of fluctuation having been felt at this part by the Surgeon who attended the patient, a large opening was made through the integuments, and a great quantity of gelatinous fluid permitted to escape. As the rest of the tumor felt extremely dense, and had occasioned great pain, it was thought prudent to remove the breast. A few months after the operation, the disease recurred, and caused death. The opening in the integuments, as well as a part of the cyst which contained the gelatinous se- cretion, are seen in the preparation. I think that if the real nature of the disease had been ascertained, the first operation would not have been performed. 1696 Mamma converted into carcinoma; there were a great number of scirrhous tumors in the skin, and the integuments which had covered them had sloughed ; the edges were greatly thickened. These appearances are well shown in the prepara- tion. The breast was destroyed, and a cancerous tumor, not much larger than a walnut was seen, but the disease (in this instance), had affected the nipple, and it was retracted. A bristle is placed into one of the apertures, which had be- longed to one of the excretory ducts. Many other parts of the body were affected with the same dis- ease. This is a splendid specimen of tuberculated cancer. It was removed from an old woman ; the history of the case is not known. 1697 Carcinomatous mamma, with the axillary glands. Jn the same bottle there is a scirrhous ovarium. From a patient, 47 years of age, who had been afflicted with carcinoma of the breast for nearly two