128 firmly ; and there is a similar aneurism at the inferior part of the arch; the aperture of the sac of a tri- angular figure, and very small. In the descending portion there is another aneurism, ahout the figure of a walnut; the aperture of the sac is not large, the aneurism filled with a very dense coagulum, as if nature had been attempting- to effect a spontaneous cure, but the external surface of the sac, by adhesive inflammation, was agglutinated firmly to the outer surface of the left bronchus ; ulcerative absorption having been excited, several portions of the annuli were destroyed, which allowed the blood to escape into the trachea. All the abdominal viscera healthy. This is a very valuable preparation. 464 An aneurism in the arch of the aorta, of considerable magnitude; it had ascended as high as the inferior portion of thyroid gland; firm adhesion had taken place between the posterior part of the sac of the aneurism, and the anterior surface of the trachea; and an ulcerated opening of communication had been produced between the aneurism, and the trachea; the patient died suddenly from hae- morrhage. The parietes of the aneurism are not thicker than those of a healthy aorta; the sac contains a very dense lamellated coagulum, mixed with fibrine, which nearly filled it, and in some portions firm adhesions had been effected between its internal surface and the fibrine, which is seen in the preparation. The internal coat of the aorta is greatly inflamed, also the arteries given off at its arch, and they are implicated in the sac; the caliber of the arteria innominata, a lit tle above its origin, is lessened, and the left carotid nearly obliterated. This is a splendid specimen to show how nearly a spontaneous cure had been produced. The history of the case is not known. The patient must have suffered great difficulty in breathing, &c. In Mr. Hodgson's Work on Aneurisms, there is a plate of an aneurism in some respects similar to the pre- paration last described. 465 An aneurism in the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta. The patient, a robust man, 46 years of age,