232 by the passage of the spoon through the ileo-caecal valve, which is greatly dilated, and the circumference thickened; this is shown in the preparation. The mucous coat of the caecum is nearly destroyed by ulceration; the spoon was found in this intestine, with the bowl downwards, where it had formed a large sac, which prevented its passage into the colon. The spoon is shown in the preparation, and from chemical change was rendered perfectly black. 984 Part of the caecum, the mucous coat inflamed, and partly ulcerated. 985 Intestinum caecum, ulcerated, &c. The principal destruction is in the mucous surface near the caput coli; the valve constricted, but there is not much disease in the ileum. The small remains of the mucous coat of the caecum, presents a blackened or melanoid appearance, which is partly retained in the specimen. The valve of the caecum is denoted by a piece of green glass, which was passed through the ileum into the caecum ; a black piece of glass shows the opening of the appendix. A white piece of glass directs to an ulcerated aperture in the caecum, which communi- cates with the external surface of the peritoneum in the right hypochondrium, where an abscess formed, and was opened during life; it was supposed to communicate with the liver. In this preparation, small tubercles of a carcinomatous and medullary character are seen, which had their origin in the cellular tissue connecting the coats of the bowel. These growths had occasioned progres- sive absorption, and ulceration of the principal part of the muscular and mucous surface of the caecum, and the superior part of the caput coli; the cellular coat had ulcerated, and adhesions had formed between the healthy part of this coat surrounding the abscess, and the reflected portion of peritoneum in the iliac fossa; this excited inflammation of the cellular tissue connecting the peritoneum and abdo- minal muscles, thus accounting for the abscess which presented in the integuments covering the right hypochondrium ; which was supposed to have its origin in the liver. The peritoneum was inflamed, and its reflections agglutinated by lymph.