40 months; after this he was able to use crutches; and in consequence of the great degree of shortening of the limb, he was obliged to have a shoe with a very high heel; in the course of twelve months he could walk tolerably well with a stick. About eight months previous to his death, symptoms of organic disease of the liver made their appearance; his digestive organs were disordered, and he became emaciated; although he had been in good health for several years since his accident. He was at last at- tacked with diarrhoea and intestinal haemorrhage, which could not be suppressed. Inspectio.—The lungs were healthy ; the valves of the heart cartilaginous and osseous. The liver was very small, extremely solid, and granulated. The spleen was small, but firm in texture. The mucous coat of the intestines was extremely vascular; but more espe- cially in the ileum and caecum ; the glands were en- larged, and ulcerated ; and there was a considerable quantity of mucus mixed with coagulated blood in the intestines. The congested state of the capillary vessels of the intestines had been caused by the morbid state of the liver, and spleen, which had produced the intestinal haemorrhage, a fact I have frequently noticed. The limb was shortened to the extent of four inches. Appearances of the hip-joint.—The external part of the capsular ligament was greatly thickened, and in some portions cartilaginous; on cutting it open, it was seen that the neck of the thigh-bone had been fractured close to the head; and the whole of the neck to its base, had been absorbed. The trochanter major was drawn upwards by the action of the gluteal muscles, and the base of the neck of the femur was placed on the dorsum ilii, which ac- counts for the great degree of shortening in the limb. The internal surface of the capsule was thickly covered with organised lymph; the head of the femur re- mained in the acetabulum ; the synovial membrane of this cavity, and that covering the head of the femur was partly absorbed; as were portions of the cartilaginous coverings. In the thirteenth volume of the Transactions of the