332 disease. From a boy, 14 years of age, had been in Cripplegate Workhouse most of his life ; he had for a considerable length of time shown symptoms of organic disease in the lungs, and the glands in the neck gradually enlarged. The tumors in the neck ultimately affected his respi- ration, and his lips were of a purple color; he was troubled with a cough, and complained of head-ache, but he was not emaciated. About fourteen days previous to his death, symptoms of inflammation of the brain came on, which were succceeded by symptoms of effusion, and he died suddenly in a convulsive fit. It is very singular that the patient never complained of any of the symptoms denoting a calculus in the bladder. 1390 A diseased bladder, prostate gland, kidneys, &c. The bladder is very capacious; the muscular coat is flaccid, and the mucous surface near the pros- tate gland ulcerated. The prostate gland is not enlarged, but there is an abscess in the right lateral lobe, communicating with the urethra, (which contained pus, prostatic calculi, and a mode- rate sized urinary calculus), and there are calculi in the left lobe of the prostate. The substance of the left kidney had been nearly absorbed, there not being more than the pelvis and infundibula re- maining. The pelvis and ureter on this side were immensely distended with pus, thickened, and the internal surface highly inflamed. The cause of these morbid changes was seen to have been pro- duced by two large calculi in the ureter, about four inches from where the tube enters the bladder ; they are preserved in the preparation. The right kidney, which had longperformed the whole function of secretion, is large, its structure ex- tremely soft; the infundibula, pelvis, and ureter greatly dilated, thickened, and filled with urine, pus, and several calculi. The renal artery is very large, and there are two aneurisms, each about the size of a garden pea, which are shown in the prepa- ration. The liver was very large and firm in texture. This patient had a large scrotal hernia; and his death was occasioned by inflammation of the tunics