24 vertebrae did not possess that softened character no- - ticed in scrofulous bones; nor were there any signs of caseous deposits in the cancelli. As there were no signs of scrofula in any part of the body, I think all the morbid changes may be referred to ostitis, the theca vertebralis becoming ultimately inflamed. But it is most singular in this case, that the disease should have existed so long without any attempts being made by nature to produce anchylosis in the vertebrae ; which might have effected a cure. Two of the last lumbar vertebrae, with the sacrum ; the extremity of the latter had been fractured by an accident. From a man, 25 years of age. When admitted into Cripplegate workhouse, he appeared in good health; but had all the signs of paraplegia. On questioning him, as to how the accident had been produced : he said " he had been many years in the Navy ; and that he had fallen from the main-top of a ship, upon the main deck ; and from that time had completely lost the use of his legs." He was sent to Kingston Public Hospital, Jamaica, after the accident; where he remained a considerable time without receiving any benefit. The surgeon of the hospital imagined the paralysis to be occasioned by a dislocation of the spine; and signed a certificate to that effect; and the man was sent home, and afterwards placed in Haslar hospital. Various plans of treatment had been extensively employed, without the least benefit. Abscesses formed near the loins, and the extremity of the sacrum, and burst; and at different times spiculae of bone had been discharged; several of them were in his possession, which he gave to me. The patient also informed me, that for some time after the injury, his urine, and faeces passed involun- tarily ; but he was gradually enabled to void them naturally. Whilst he was in the Workhouse, ab- scesses formed near the sacrum, anus, and perin- asum; they were opened, and several portions of dead bone were removed, which afforded him great relief. He continued in this miserable state for several months ; his health began to decline, and the diges- tive organs were disordered. Symptoms of inflam- mation of the theca vertebralis ensued, accompanied