•271 previous to his death; his countenance was sallow, and his digestive organs were greatly disordered. About twenty-four hours previous to his dissolution, he was suddenly attacked with vomiting, and intestinal haemorrhage, which could not be sup- pressed. The thoracic viscera were healthy ; the semilunar valves were slightly thickened by ossific depositions at their base. The liver was remarkably large and granulated, its structure very dense, and the veins were gorged with blood ; but there were no signs of bile in the ducts, or pori biliarii. The gall-bladder was greatly thickened, it contained inspissated bile, resembling dried black currants, and the ductus cysticus and communis choledochus were obstructed by the same morbid secretion. The spleen was very large. The mucous coat of the small intestines was surcharged with blood, and the mucous glands were very distinct, but not much enlarged; the kidnies were healthy, but they pre- sented the lobulated arrangement seen in the foetus. Liver, structure nearly destroyed by lymph, and effu- sion of bile ; it was granulated; the gall-bladder was filled with black viscid secretion; the spleen very large, and dense in structure. From a man, 49 years of age, who died of ascites and jaundice. A portion of diseased liver. From a woman, 50 years of age, who had been afflicted with diseased liver for many years; she became greatly emaciated, and a few months previous to her death icterus came on; the urine and faeces were pale- colored, and ultimately the brain became affected. She had lived very abstemiously. The liver was im- mensely enlarged; externally it presented a greenish color, and appeared granulated ; its substance was very solid, it felt soapy, and all the natural structure was nearly destroyed by lymph and biliary effusion, giving it a mottled green and white hue. The gall-bladder was quite empty, the ductus cysticus, hepaticus and communis choledochus were perfectly healthy. The spleen was large, and firm in texture ; pancreas natural. The lungs and heart normal. The membranes of the