45 of the femoral artery is also preserved in the prepa- ration, exhibiting the extent of its obliteration. The history of this case is published in the Transac- tions of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society. 180 Stump of a thigh-bone, together with another portion of the same bone. A sufficient length of integuments not having been saved, the stump did not heal: inflammation and sloughing came on; which was succeeded by irri- tative fever, and the patient died three weeks from the time of the performance of the operation. Scarcely any attempts at reparation had taken place on the extremity of the bone; the periosteum was highly inflamed, and there were all the signs of ostitis; the latter appearance is partly shown in the preparation. 181 The stump of a thigh-bone, with very irregular depo- sitions of bone, which had their origin from the periosteum. 182 An oblique fracture of the tibia, which had united solidly. The fracture is situated at four inches and a half from the inferior part of the bone; and the upper portion projects over the inferior nearly two inches. The history of this case is not known; but I have no doubt the fibula was also fractured. This defor- mity might have been prevented, if proper surgical and mechanical skill had been employed. 183 A fracture of the external malleolus, which extended into the joint, and occasioned inflammation; fever supervened, and the patient died. 184 A diseased tibia and fibula. — From a man, 74 years of age, who had been afflicted with an ulcer on the integuments covering the anterior part of the tibia for ten years ; which could not be healed, al- though he was submitted to treatment in hospitals. The sore was considerable in magnitude; and there were large fistulous openings in the skin, which were found to communicate with the diseased tibia ; and at different times various sized sequestra were thrown out, and several were removed by the for- ceps. The patient's health did not appear to suffer much from the disease, although he had been dis- tressed with difficulty of breathing, and palpitation