19 as in scrofula; nor is there any description of the state of the thoracic, or abdominal viscera ; so that it is difficult to account for the cause of the abscesses. When a psoas abscess is excited by a scrofulous affec- tion of the vertebras, few cases terminate favorably. That an abscess might form in the lumbar region, from various causes, without the patient being of a strumous habit, the following case will prove. Mr. , 20 years of age, a medical student in Dublin, on climbing over a high gate, fell on the ground, and bruised his back considerably; but he soon recovered from the effects of the injury. About three months from the time of the accident, he experienced pain in the loins ; and an enlargement of the right side of the spine, in the situation of the inferior dorsal vertebras appeared, which gradually increased. The patient was under the care of an eminent surgeon, and every endeavour had been employed to disperse the enlarge- ment, but without success. The tumefaction increased, and in the course of twelve months it had acquired an immense size ; fluctuation was detected, and the case was considered a lumbar abscess. The health of the patient became affected; a consultation was held as to the propriety of puncturing the abscess, the opinion was, that such an operation was not advisable. After this, the brother of the patient, a surgeon, ad- vised his coming to London. He was seen by several distinguished surgeons; all were of opinion that it was a psoas abscess, and they did not recommend its being opened. I was requested to see him ; I exami- ned carefully the course of the spine, there was not the least sign of a curvature ; nor of any pain in moving it; and when pressure, and percussion were employed along the spinous processes, he did not feel the least uneasiness. The patient informed me that he had been troubled for some time with profuse morning perspirations; and after dinner his face became flushed. 1 employed the stethoscope, also percussion, but could not detect any sign of organic lesion of the lungs. He was a very muscular fine-looking man, there were no signs of ema- ciation, and his animal spirits very good. I imagined that the hectic symptoms were occasioned by the large accumulation of pus; and I did not think the bones of the vertebras were diseased ; nor were there