317 From the continuance of the haemorrhage, and the frequent sickness, it was imagined hy all who saw her that she could not survive ; she exhibited a ghastly appearance, yet her spirits remained re- markably good. By proper treatment the irritabi- lity of the stomach and bladder subsided; as did the haemorrhage ; and for six weeks she appeared to be in a convalescent state. The urine ceased to be tinged with blood, but it became turbid, and depo- sited a sediment like pus, and mucus. There was no material alteration in the symptoms, but progressive improvement of health for several months, when the patient was again attacked with violent bilious vomiting, and the bowels became irregular in their functions, and the excretions dark-colored. She likewise complained of an obtuse pain in the right hypochondrium. On examination, I distinctly felt an enlargement of considerable magnitude, which extended from the false ribs on the right side to as far as the iliac fossa ; slight pressure on this part produced pain, and considerable pulsation was felt, which the patient said had existed a long time. The patient again rallied, and her health improved ; but she complained of a dull pain in the tumor, also of a numbness in the right thigh and leg, and the pulsation in the tumor was more distinct. After this period the abdomen began to increase daily, and she experienced great uneasiness in the hypogastrium ; the bladder became extremely irri- table, and she had almost constant desire to void urine. So violent were the efforts, that they re- sembled those produced by a calculus in the blad- der ; they were accompanied with the sensation of prolapsus uteri. A catheter was introduced, and upwards of a pint of thick bloody fluid was drawn off, which gave great relief; afterwards the contents of the bladder were expelled naturally, but with great pain, and generally mixed with a considerable quantity of coagulated blood. Although the discharge of blood had been so very profuse, the tumor was not diminished, and it seemed to occupy the chief part of the abdomen ;