65 caused a high state of febrile action, affected his brain, and eventually terminated his existence. The structure of both eyes was natural; the optic nerves were extremely small. The history of this preparation is given with the description of morbid eyes. 248 An excellent specimen of active inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; showing destruction of the soft parts, cartilages, &c. From a woman 72 years of age, who had been subject to frequent attacks of erysipelas in the face and su- perior extremities. She had also, during the last nine months of her life, been afflicted with inflammation of the synovial membrane of the left elbow-joint. Although active treatment had been employed the joint became enlarged; and an abscess formed beneath the integuments, a little below the head of the radius, which was opened and gave exit to a large quantity of pus. Abscesses also formed in the fore-arm, which were opened. After this the left knee became extremely painful; the integuments inflamed ; and the joint gradually increased in size, in spite of local and general treatment. The pain in the joint was so distressing as to require large doses of the liquor opii sedativus to lessen her sufferings. Febrile symptoms came on, accompanied with frequent rigors; and the patient became extremely restless and anxious. As there was no probability of saving the life of the patient, I thought it expedient to make an opening into the capsule, and nearly three pints of foetid pus, with a fluid like thickened synovia escaped. All the symptoms after this subsided for nearly a month; the aperture closed ; the capsule however re- distended ; the former symptoms recurred; and another opening was made with the same mitigation of suffering. The discharge continued for a conside- rable time ; at last the action of the flexor muscles of the thigh became very powerful, and the knee-joint was bent. Irritative fever ensued, and she died. The liver was very large, of a pale yellow color, excee- dingly firm in structure, and granulated. The gall- bladder was filled with viscid bile ; the spleen was large, and solid in structure. The mucous glands of F