463 and impeded his walking, he also complained of pain and numbness of the leg. The veins of the thigh and leg became greatly enlarged, and tor- tuous. At this time I was requested to see the patient. On examining the tumor carefully, I found it composed of several inequalities, it had an elastic feel, and presented all the signs of fungus haematodes. Amputation was proposed, but the patient at this time would not give consent. The tumor increased, the integuments covering it became inflamed, and the tension was so great as to excite considerable pain. The surgeon who attended the patient thought there was an accumulation of fluid, an opening was made into the enlargement, and nearly two pints of venous-looking blood were discharged. There was an oozing of blood from the aperture for nearly a fortnight. The pain in tbe leg increased, and his health began to decline. Henowimplored to have the limb amputated, although he had been informed of the nature of the disease, and the uncertainty of the success of an operation. There was no sign of disease in the inguinal glands, nor in any other part of his body, that could be discovered. I amputated the thigh high up, so as to give a better chance of the operation proving successful, and as a tourniquet could not be employed, pressure was made (by my friend Mr. Barlow, of Writtle) on the femoral artery, where it passed under Poupart's ligament, which answered extremely well. The arteries of the leg were injected with size and vermillion. On reflecting the integuments and fasciae from the diseased growth, it was seen that the tumor was contained in a dense cyst. The base and part of cyst adhered very firmly to the periosteal covering of the femur, near the inferior part of the linea aspera, where I believe the malig- nant disease had its origin, and had been excited by the injury the man received, having been consti- tutionally predisposed to the disease. From this situation the tumor had made its way be- tween the long head of the biceps femoris, the semitendinosus, and membranosus, and a portion of