383 der. Various sized fibrous tumors had formed be- neath the serous covering, and in its substance. A large one, about the figure of a small apple, had grown beneath the anterior surface of the uterus, which had pressed on the bladder, and had fre- quently prevented, for a time, the flow of urine into it, occasioning great distress to the patient, and leading to the impression that she labored under suppression of urine, as a catheter had been em- ployed, and the bladder was found quite empty. The patient was about 49 years of age, had ceased to menstruate for three years, and suffered from uterine disease nearly four years. She had also symptoms of phthisis pulmonalis. 1527 An uterus, with various sizedfibrous tubercles beneath the peritoneal covering, in its substance and cavity. Some of the tumors are very large, particularly one situated at the posterior and inferior surface, which is cut through to show its dense fibrous structure, and it appeared to have been formed by the union of several small tumors. The fundus of the uterus had been absorbed ; the neck healthy. The ovaria and Fallopian tubes normal. The patient was nearly 50 years of age ; had suffered from the effects of uterine irritation for several years, and had at times experienced great difficulty in voiding feces. Constipation came on, which could not be relieved, and the patient died with symptoms of enteritis. The mucous coat of the intestines was highly in- flamed, in some parts sphacelated. The colon and rectum were distended with hardened feces ; this accumulation of feculent matter, and its retention in the intestines was caused by the large tumor having become impacted in the pelvis, and com- pressed the rectum. 1528 A very large fibrous tumor, which had its origin in the cavity of the uterus, and had protruded into the vagina, and ultimately externally. The patient was 40 years of age, and had been for several years subject to profuse discharge from the vagina, which was supposed to be leucorrhcea, and she experienced at the same time a bearing-down sensation, which another practitioner imagined to be