335 not enlarged, but its structure is more dense than natural; which may have been caused by age, and the irritation occasioned by the calculi. The pa- tient was 70 years of age; he had a large fungoid tumor near the dorsum of the ileum, and the kid- neys were carcinomatous. See the Section on Morbid Kidneys. It was not ascertained before death that he had been afflicted with a stone in the bladder. 1393 A diseased bladder, urethra, &c. The mucous coat of the bladder is greatly thickened, and a considerable portion of it near the prostate gland is destroyed, and its place supplied by ver- rucal growths, which must have impeded the dis- charge of urine. The prostatic urethra is ulcerated; and there is a stricture at the bulb. The ureters greatly thick- ened and dilated, and the right one is obliterated. The kidneys were inflamed, the infundibula and pelvis very capacious. Nearly the whole of the surface of the urethra had been destroyed by the imprudent use of caustic, and different instru- ments. 1394 Diseased bladder, prostate gland, and a stricture in the urethra. The prostate gland is converted into an immense mass, with various sized fungoid tumors, and some of a scirrhous density. The tumor had extended into the perineum, and occasioned an obstruction in the prostatic and membranous portion of the urethra; small tumors of the same character are formed beneath the mucous coat of the bladder, near its neck, and they extend into the prostate gland, which caused the impediment in expelling the urine, and the difficulty of introducing a ca- theter. The vesicula? seminales and vasa defe- rentia are impacted in the morbid mass, 1395 Diseased bladder and kidneys, the external organs of generation and verge of the rectum preserved; there is also a large calculus, which was found in the bladder. The bladder is much thickened, and dilated. The right kidney is much larger than the left; the capsule thickened by chronic inflam- mation, and the cortical part altered in structure