181 744 A portion of lung, which had been consolidated by effusion of blood into the cellular tissue ; some of the blood was squeezed out, to show the ragged state of the cellular media 745 A portion of lung, consolidated by sero-purulent infiltration, and thickened cellular tissue, the effects of inflammation. The patient, a man 46 years of age, had laboured under symptoms of hydro-thorax for several months, ac- companied with palpitation of the heart, and irregu- larity of the pulse ; he died suddenly. There was a considerable quantity of serum in both sides of the chest, and nearly half a pint in the peri- cardium. The pleura pulmonalis and costalis were considerably thickened by lymph. The pericardium was coated with lymph ; the heart was very large, the left ventricle very thick, its cavity capacious ; the lining of the auricles and ven- tricles highly inflamed On the carneas columnaa, and chordae tendineae, near the origin of the pulmonary artery, there were a great number of excrescences, like verrucae. The valves of the pulmonary artery were likewise covered with small vegetations, which must have impeded the flow of blood through the vessel. The mitral valve, and the semilunar valves of the aorta were quite healthy. All the abdominal viscera were normal. If active treatment had been employed at an early stage of the disease, the life of the patient might probably have been saved. The preparation of the heart is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 746 Lung, rendered solid by sero-purulent infiltration. 747 A portion of lung, hepatised, the effects of active in- flammation of the cellular septa; the pleura pulmo- nalis thickened by coagulable lymph. The lungs minutely injected. 748 Two portions of lung, and a part of the pleura costalis. The lungs consolidated by active inflammation, the pleurae highly inflamed. The morbid parts having been preserved in alcohol, the inflammatory appear- ances are beautifully shown. 749 A portion of lung, consolidated by inflammation, and effusion of lymph.