220 937 Intestinum ileum, with several volvuli; a portion of the intestine was cut open to show the valvula; conni- ventes, and miliary tubercles beneath the mucous coat. The volvuli I have no doubt were formed shortly before death. A boy, about 7 years of age, had from his birth been in a delicate state of health ; when about 5 years old, he was attacked with continued intermittent fever, which ultimately affected his brain. He became emaciated, the abdomen enlarged, and he complained of great pain in the bowels, and in the head near the occiput ; the bowels were greatly disordered. These symptoms gradually increased, symptoms of hydrocephalus came on, and his vision was imperfect. The anterior fontanel was very capacious. The mem- branes and substance of the brain highly inflamed, the convolutions flattened ; nearly twelve ounces of water were found in the ventricles. On cutting into the lobes of the cerebellum, it seemed to possess little remains of its natural structure, having been des- troyed by the growth of a scrofulous tumor, which had occasioned an abscess in its centre. There were several miliary tubercles in the lungs, liver, and spleen, and the mesenteric glands were converted into large scrofulous masses ; there were a great number of miliary tubercles beneath the mucous coat of the small and large intestines. Another child of the same family was affected in a similar manner. The preparation of the brain is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 938 A part of the intestinum ileum, showing a great deter- mination of blood to the minute arteries belonging to the mucous surface, &c. the effects of purpura haemorrhagica. 939 A portion of intestinum ileum, showing great determi- nation of blood to the mucous surface, which occasioned profuse intestinal haemorrhage. From a woman, who died a few hours after a very extensive scalding with boiling water over the chest and abdomen. This was not the effect of inflamma- tion, but the result of excessive determination of blood to the minute arteries of the mucous surface, causing profluvia, and shows decidedly the sympathy