194 the mucous surface in some parts inflamed and sphacelated. It is astonishing how life could have existed so long, with such extensive disease in the lungs. We do not frequently find malignant disease connected with scrofula, therefore this must he considered as an accidental occurrence. 789 Lung, filled with various sized medullary tumors. There were also a number of small products of the same character beneath the pleura, and its edges ; and there is a small portion in one of the bronchial tubes. The patient, 43 years of age, had a malignant tumor in the axilla, which was removed, but the disease recurred, and he died. The history of this case and dissection, was published in the 8th Volume of the Transactions of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society. Several other parts of the body were affected with the same disease. See the diseased kidney and intestine. 790 A portion of lung, showing small medullary tubercles, also hepatisation in some parts, the effects of inflam- mation. The patient, a man 45 years of age, had shown signs of organic disease in the lungs for many years, and had been attended by several Physicians. The symptoms were distressing cough, dyspnoea, great emaciation. About six months previous to his death, he complained of violent pain in the region of the kidnies, and voided an immense quantity of urine, as in diabetes; but on examining the urine, it did not contain any saccharine matter, but a great quantity of mucus. The disease in the kidnies gradually increased, and pus was frequently mixed with the urine, which smelt offensively. The dyspnoea became more dis- tressing, he was ultimately attacked with difficulty in swallowing, followed by colliquative diarrhoea, which caused death. Inspectio. In the right side of the chest there were two pints of water, iu the left one pint; there were also old standing adhesions in the pleurae. The lungs contained an immense number of small medullary tubercles, not larger than a pea, and some portions of them were consolidated by inflammation; several of the pulmonary veins were obliterated by the pulpy matter, which adhered firmly.