240 The peritoneum thickly covered with lymph, and the intestines agglutinated. All the mucous glands in the small intestines are greatly enlarged; the mucous coat is highly inflamed, in some portions ulcerated, and there are several fistulous openings through all the tunics. 1005 A portion of colon, the mucous coat completely des- troyed by chronic dysentery, and lymph had been deposited on the muscular coat in considerable quantity, which had become organised; there is also a great accumulation of adipose substance between the serous and muscular coats. 1006 A portion of the transverse arch of the colon. The mucous coat ulcerated to a considerable extent; the ileum and ceecum affected with the same morbid change. There were several scrofulous tubercles in the liver and mesentery, and the lungs were filled with tubercles and vomicae. 1007 A portion of colon, the internal coat ulcerated, and there are two openings through all the tunics, the serous coat greatly thickened. From a woman, 64 years of age; about five years previous to her dissolution she became disordered in her di- gestive organs; she was troubled with dyspepsia and costiveness, which obliged her to take very active medicine. During the last year of her life, the signs of disease became more apparent, and her constitutional powers began to diminish ; she was obliged to take drastic purgatives, and to have _recourse to enemata; she complained of great pain in the situation of the caecum, and was much annoyed by flat ulence, and sometimes attacked with vomiting. Her countenance was sallow, and from having been very corpulent, she became extremely ema- ciated ; the alvine discharge consisted generally of scybalae, sometimes mixed with pus and blood. The pain in the abdomen was atlast so distressing, and accompanied with such violent vomiting,as to require large doses of opium, and suppositories : the abdo- men became distended with air; and she gradually sank and died. The lungs were healthy, the pleurae adhered firmly; the heart was remarkably soft, the edges of the mitral