195 The internal surface of the bronchial tubes was highly inflamed, also the bronchi, trachea, and larynx ; the latter was ulcerated. The heart was large, parietes of both ventricles thick, cavities capacious. The right auricle greatly dilated with blood, the valves natural. The aorta and pul- monary artery were extremely large, but not diseased. There were no signs of disease in the liver or spleen. The mucous surface of the intestines was highly inflamed, and the glands in the ileum and caecum were greatly enlarged, and partly ulcerated. Beneath the serous surface of the intestines, there were seen numerous small tumors, similar to those in the lungs. A tumor of a similar kind, only much larger, was found in the transverse arch of the colon, which had produced ulceration of the muscular coat, and pro- bably would have formed an opening into the cavity of the abdomen, had the patient survived a little longer. The left kidney was affected with medullary and fungoid matter, and the renal vein and several of its branches were obliterated by the same morbid pro- ducts. The right kidney was nearly destroyed, as was a portion of its capsule. The history of this case, and post-mortem appearances, may appear too long, but as I consider this case very valuable, I thought it right to state all the particulars. See the Section on Diseased Kidnies. 791 A portion of lung, with a medullary tubercle. There were several similar tubera in the lungs, also a large tumor of the same character in the urinary bladder. The description is given in the Section on Diseased Bladders. 792 Medullary sarcoma in the lung. 793 Bronchial glands, and a portion of lung converted into medullary sarcoma. A portion of the trachea and bronchi is shown in the preparation, also the arch of the aorta, pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The internal coat of the aorta was inflamed, and partly thickened by lymph; small shreds of organised lymph are seen in the preparation, hanging from its surface. One branch of the pulmonary artery is nearly obliterated