26 118 Two ribs of a horse which had been fractured, and united by very solid bone. There is also a large square portion of bone, extending between the inter- costal spaces, close to the fractured parts ; and the two ribs by this means are completely anchylosed. 119 Rib of a bullock fractured longitudinally to a conside- rable extent, and united firmly by bone. 120 Rib of a horse affected with necrosis. 121 Rib of a horse with a united fracture ; there is also a long process of bone near the inferior edge of the rib, which is partially united to it by osseous matter. 122 Rib of a horse. At its external and anterior extremity there are two large irregular osseous growths ; and the parietes of the rib are greatly expanded. A sec- tion shews the cancelli immensely developed, and the parietes of the rib extremely thin. The cells in the fresh state were filled with blood; the osseous growths on the external surface had been caused by periostitis. 123 Rib of an ox, with a comminuted fracture, which is united. 124 Rib of a horse, with large osseous growths, occasioned by an expanded state of the cancelli. 125 Caries in the sternum, from a man, 40 years of age ; who died of phthisis pulmonalis. The internal surface of the trachea was completely destroyed by ulceration; the cricoid cartilage which had been converted into bone, was in a carious state, and a considerable portion of it had been destroyed. The patient occasionally coughed up fragments of bone, which were, no doubt, the separated portions of the cricoid. There were several large vomicae in the lungs, one of which had progressively made its way through the pleura pulmonalis, p. costalis, and the periosteal covering of the sternum ; and had produced caries of that bone. Ah abscess formed beneath the inte- guments of the sternum, which burst, and there was a profuse discharge of pus, which lasted for a consi- derable time ; and during the acts of coughing, air sometimes escaped. The ulcerated opening in the shin, which is of considerable size, is shown in the preparation ; as well as the appearances of the diseased parts in their relative situation. This was a very singular case. 126 The upper portion of the sternum. From a man, 82