125 the carneee columnae were very large, and the mitral valve healthy. The whole of the aorta was in an aneurismal state, more especially at its origin and arch ; the vessels given off by the latter were extremely large; and the arteria innominata aneurismal. All the coats of the aorta were thickened by organised coagulated lymph and cartilaginous and osseous deposits, more especially the internal coat, and several portions of it had been absorbed. The aortic valves were not diminished in size, but at their base they were slightly coated with lymph, and at the edge of one of the valves there was a small process of lymph organised. Near the base of the aorta close to the middle valve, there was an aneurism, the opening large, the sac small; it would most probably have burst into the pericardium. The coronary arteries healthy. All these morbid changes are shown in the preparation. There were no signs of lesion in any of the abdominal viscera, but they were all surcharged with blood. The man was only 38 years of age, of a full habit of body, and had been much addicted to dram drinking; he died suddenly in a public-house. 459 The ascending portion of the aorta. This preparation shows two different states of aneurism, one by the laceration of the internal coat, the other by dilatation of all the coats. All the coats of the aorta inflamed; the internal greatly thickened by organised lymph, cartilage, and bone ; the aortic valves slightly thickened. About half an inch from the base of the middle valve, there is a triangular opening in the aorta, which only ad- mitted the round point of a small probe, this is shown by a black bristle in the preparation. This aperture leads to a very small aneurism, which burst into the pericardium, and destroyed the life of the patient. The internal surface of the sac was covered with coagulated lymph. The other aneurism is situated on the ascending portion of the aorta, commencing a little above the aperture of the small one, and is formed by a dilatation of all the coats, The history of the case is not known; the patient was a bass singer. 460 The arch and a portion of the descending aorta.