101 The aortic valves thickened and shortened by chronic inflammation : the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery are also thickened, which is a rare occurrence ; as we seldom find disease on the right side of the heart. The mitral valve slightly thickened and the opening contracted; the fossa ovalis was greatly expanded. The right auriculo-ventricular aperture of its normal size. 322 Heart of a man 65 years of age. He had been afflicted with diseased liver and heart nearly four years. The mitral valve greatly thickened and shortened, and containing cartilaginous and osseous matter. The ventricle immensely capacious, and the parietes very thick. The right side of the heart healthy ; the coronary arteries very large, tunics ossified. The semilunar valves of the aorta ossified, and shortened; the internal coat greatly thickened by cartilaginous and osseous deposits. There was a considerable quantity of water in the pericardium, and an adventitious membrane of con- siderable thickness covered the serous membrane of the heart; the result of chronic inflammation. There was a great quantity of water in the abdomen, the liver large, structure very yellow, and felt soapy. The gall-bladder distended with dark green-colored fluid: spleen large, its capsule cartilaginous. Although the coronary arteries were ossified, the patient had none of the symptoms denoting angina pectoris. 323 Heart of a man 46 years of age. He had suffered severely for several months from symptoms of organic disease of the heart, which occasioned hydrops pericardii, of which he died. The left ventricle very large, parietes thin, structure very flaccid ; the aortic valves thickened and short- ened, and containing cartilaginous and osseous deposits. 324 The left ventricle of the heart, with the arch of the aorta. The patient was a tall man, 30 years of age. The liver had been in a disordered state for a conside- rable time ; his skin and conjunctiva sallow, and the urine small in quantity and high-colored. Symp- toms of organic disease of the heart commenced,