478 in some portions the mucous surface was ulcerated. The large intestines were inflamed, a small por- tion of the transverse arch of the colon was ulcer- ated, and the mucous surface of the rectum was sphacelated. All the pelvic viscera were agglutinated by lymph ; the uterus was perfectly healthy, but the ovaria presented appearances as of old corpora lutea; these I have seen in virgins, they are probably oc- casioned by some uterine excitement. The lungs contained scrofulous tubercles, the heart was normal. It is well known that some patients are more suscep- tible of the action of mercury than others, and that a small dose in some instances will produce a severe salivation. This fact I have noticed in practice, particularly in patients of a strumous diathesis, and if ptyalism is not produced, the medicine acts so powerfully on the constitution of these patients, as to excite into action scrofulous tubercles in the lungs or other viscera, which probably might otherwise have remained dormant. 1803 Foot and part of the leg of a man, 70 years of age, showing the effects of gangrena sicca. The integuments and subcellular tissue were in a sphacelated state, and the extensor tendons of the toes were exposed. The Surgeon who had attended the patient requested me to see him, thinking amputation ought to be performed to save his life. From the advanced age of the patient, I did not think it advisable to operate, and I stated to him the uncertainty of its success. This had no effect, he was a very courageous man, and felt anxious to live a little longer: at his par- ticular request I amputated the limb ; he bore the operation with great fortitude. I had occasion to tie the femoral artery only, which I found ossified; the other vessels I imagine to have been obliterated. The stump healed more favorably than T anticipated, but the ligature was not separated 'till the third week, and I did not think it right to attempt to remove it, knowing the diseased state of the artery. The patient's health improved, and he lived nearly six months from the time the operation was performed,