435 The patient's health was greatly affected, and she seemed anxious to have the diseased part removed. At this time I was consulted, my opinion was that an operation should not be performed. The disease increased in size, the integuments sloughed exten- sively, and there was a sanious and ichorous dis- charge ; her health gradually declined, and she died. 1707 A tumor of the carcinomatous kind, extirpated from the mamma of an unmarried woman, 40 years of age. The disease had been making progress for nearly twelve months, had occasioned great pain, and affected the patient's health so much as to induce her to request an operation. The wound healed in a tardy manner, although her health improved after the removal of the tumor. About twelve months after the operation a small tumor appeared near the cicatrix, also one in the axilla of the same side ; they gradually increased, accompanied with pain, her health again became disordered, and the cata- menia ceased. Tumors of the same description formed beneath the integuments, covering the other breast ; also in the axilla. The tumors enlarged, the integuments became of a purple color, and the capillary vessels were very numerous ; sloughing commenced, accompanied with frequent hemorrhage. The edges of the wounds were hard and everted. In this wretched state she continued nearly nine months; fresh tumors making their appearance in various parts of the body; the lungs subsequently became affected, which terminated her miserable existence. The tumors on the surface of the body were of the fungoid kind. There were several similar tubera in the anterior mediastinum, also in the lungs. The abdominal viscera healthy. This case, and many others which I shall have occasion to describe, prove the inefficacy of performing operations on local malignant diseases. 1708 Section of a scirrhous mamma, with fungus hasma- todes. The lungs were affected- with the same disease. 1709 Mamma and axillary glands affected with fungus haEmatodes. Several other parts of the body were