119 The lungs partly hepatised, their structure inflamed, and one of the lobes on the left side was injected with florid blood, presenting the appearance denominated apoplexy of the lung. There was about a gallon of water in the abdomen. The abdominal viscera were gorged with blood, and the serous surfaces affected with purpura. There was a considerable quantity of coagulated blood in the small intestines, and the villi were surcharged with blood; which accounted for the intestinal hae- morrhage. 439 A portion of lung, showing the effects of purpura- hsemorrhagica; and a portion of intestine, showing great determination of blood to its mucous surface, from the same subject, will be found in their respective sections. The last two preparations from the subject above described. In this case, I believe that arteritis was the cause of all the morbid changes, which I think might have been subdued by bold depletion, &c. at the commencement of the attack; particularly as the viscera of the thorax, and abdomen, appeared to have been in a healthy state previous to the inflammatory action. I have seen many cases of purpura haemorrhagica without any disease of the heart. 440 Aorta, with the different coats shown. The artery was very large ; the fibrous coat immensely thickened; osseous and cartilaginous deposits hadformedbetween this and the internal coats. A portion of the fibrous tunic was absorbed. These, and other lesions give origin to aneurisms. 441 Aorta, with the coats shown ; the internal membrane thickened by bone, and the apertures of some of the intercostal arteries obliterated. 442 Aorta, with cartilaginous and small osseous deposits between the internal and fibrous coats; the external removed to show the middle tunic. 443 Part of the abdominal aorta dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine, to show inflammation and bony deposits on the internal coat. 444 The abdominal aorta, from the origin of the superior mesenteric to its termination in the iliac arteries. The whole are very large; theinternal coat is converted into dense cartilage and bone, and several portions