437 there was great difficulty in relieving the patient; this took place occasionally, hut in the last attack the symptoms were more serious than in the former, and although the taxis was continued for a con- siderable length of time, and various other means were employed to reduce the hernia, all seemed ineffectual. It was now considered right to propose an operation, although little hope could be entertained of its proving successful. Fortunately another attempt by the taxis was made, which was continued more than an hour, when to the surprise of all present, a loud explosion of air and a rumbling of the bowels were heard, the strangulated bowel receded into the abdomen, and the principal part of the omentum was afterwards reduced. Means to prevent inflammation were employed boldly, but without effect; symptoms of peritonitis came on, and the integuments surrounding the umbilicus, and to a considerable extent beyond, became highly inflamed, and appeared likely to sphacelate. By general and local bleedings, poulticing, keeping the bowels freely open, and low regimen, the dangerous symptoms were subdued, and although her bodily powers were greatly reduced, she recovered. It is still more astonishing that although the patient was kept on her back in bed for nearly three months, the bowel during this period had not again pro- truded. Inflammation of the sac and omentum had taken place, lymph was effused, which had become organised, and a spontaneous cure of the hernia was effected. The patient continued to enjoy good health for nearly three years, with the exception of an occasional attack of asthma, to which she had been long subject. This disorder occasioned her death. On opening the abdomen, it was found that the omentum, which had passed through the abdominal ring, had become firmly united to it, and had obliterated the aperture. The transverse arch of the colon adhered to the anterior surface of the bag of the peritoneum, and the serous surface of the rest of the intestines was agglutinated. The abdominal viscera were natural.