353 blood ; the mucous coat is greatly thickened and inflamed, and the muscular tunic is very thick. At the posterior part of the bladder, there is a tumor equally large with the bladder itself. On carefully examining this enlargement, it was found to be produced by the prostate gland which was converted into a fungoid and carcino- matous tumor, and the urethra presents an ap- pearance resembling melanosis; all these morbid changes are well preserved in the preparation. The kidneys were inflamed, as were the pelves, infundibula, and ureters ; the latter were greatly thickened, especially the left, which was distended with a bloody-looking fluid, the consequence of the entrance of the tube into the bladder being nearly obliterated by the pressure of one portion of the enlarged prostate gland. The absorbent glands in the pelvis and abdomen were converted into medul- lary and carcinomatous matter, and the veins in the pelvis were filled with fungoid deposits. The whole of the peritoneum was thickly coated with coagu- lated lymph. The liver and spleen were healthy. All the coats of the inferior end of the stomach to the extent of four inches from the pylorus were greatly thickened by cancerous deposits between them. The mucous surface close to the pylorus had been de- stroyed to the extent of a dollar. The man, 45 years of age, had suffered severely nearly five years from symptoms of diseased bladder ; the urine was frequently loaded with mucus, some- times tinged with blood. From the difficulty of introducing a catheter into the bladder, it was imagined that there was a stricture at the membranous portion of the urethra ; he also suffered great pain in voiding faeces. During the last six months of his life he had voided pus and blood per anum ; he became greatly ema- ciated, his complexion was sallow, and he com- plained of a burning heat in the region of the sto- mach, sickness, and great pain after meals. There was considerable pulsation in the epigastric region, and he frequeutly vomited a coffee-ground looking fluid. This is a very singular case. A A