187 769 A portion of lung, showing scrofulous tubercles, and an enlarged state of the air cells, &c. the pleura pulmonalis at its under surface slightly thickened by the production of aggregated tubercles, as seen in the preparation. The lungs on both sides were similarly affected; some of the enlarged air-cells were filled with blood. The history of the case not known 770 Two portions of lung rendered quite solid by scrofulous tubercles, and inflammation of the cellular tissue ; the pleura thickened by coagulable lymph. The lungs on both sides of the chest were similarly affec- ted, and the pleura? were thickened, and adhered firmly. The liver was large and granulated, and the substance of the kidnies nearly filled with serous cysts. See the Section on Diseased Kidnies. The patient, a drayman, 45 years of age, had been affected with pulmonic disease for several months ; he was knocked down by a horse, and expired a few hours after the accident. It appears quite surprising that he should have existed so long with such extensive disease in the lungs, &c. 771 Diseased lung and ribs, the effects of inflammation and ulceration. The heart is also shown. A child, 6 years of age, who from birth evinced all the symptoms of scrofula, became affected with phthisis pulmonalis about two years previous to its death. An abscess formed on the left side of the chest, near the cartilages of the 5th and 6th ribs, which burst externally, and continued to discharge for nearly two months; the ribs became carious. The lungs on the right side were nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles, and vomicae. On the left side the pleurae were excessively thickened by coagulable lymph, and the adhesion between them was very firm, particularly near the boundary of an abscess in the lung. A portion of the pleura pulmonalis and costalis, also the intercostal mus- cles, &c. between two of the ribs had been absorbed: which had allowed the matter in the lung to escape beneath the integuments. One of the lobes was in a state of suppuration, and there was a large collection of pus in the thorax, which compressed the other lobe considerably, it was coated with