82 The liver was of enormous magnitude, of a deep yellow color ; its structure presented a granulated appear- ance, as if all the biliary ducts were surcharged with bile; and it felt soapy. The gall-bladder was greatly distended with viscid bile of a deep green color. The spleen was very large, and its structure re- markably soft. In the right side of the thorax there were three pints of sanious fluid ; the lobes of the lung were firmly agglutinated by organised lymph, and much flatten- ed; the pleura costalis thickly coated with lymph. The lung on the left side healthy. There were four ounces of yellowish fluid in the pericardium; its internal surface, and that reflected over the heart, highly inflamed, and lymph deposited, which was organised; firm adhesions had been effected, more especially, on the left side of the heart near the auricle and the root of the pulmonary artery. The left auricle and ventricle very capacious, the parietes of the latter rather thin. The mitral valve normal, except a few opaque spots near its origin. The valves of the aorta were natural, but a little above the origin of this artery the internal coat was, in points, ossified and the orifice of the left pulmonary artery surrounded by bone, which lessened its caliber. The right side of the heart normal. This is a very valuable preparation. 295 Heart of a girl 15 years of age, minutely injected. Lymph deposited on the internal surface of the peri- cardium, also over its reflected portion, and an ad- ventitious membrane formed. The left ventricle large, parietes rather thick ; the internal surface of the auricle condensed, also the mitral valve, but the aperture not constricted; the result of chronic inflammation. The foramen ovale open ; the aortic valves and those of the pulmonary artery healthy. The aorta normal, the coronary arteries very large. This is a very interesting preparation. History of the case not known. 296 Heart with complete union of both surfaces of the pericardium. A man GO years of age ; he died from the effects of typhus fever. There were very old standing adhesions in both pleura?, and the lungs were in parts consolidated.