425 On dissecting the leg and thigh, to show the hones belonging to these parts, the os femoris, tibia, and fibula, were seen to be misplaced ; the posterior sur- faces of each being situated on a line with the an- terior part of the abdominal parietes, and the foot was turned outwards. The appearance of the toe-like projection near the heel, was found by dissection to have been occasioned by a growth of bone, having its origin from the posterior surface of the condyle of the femur, in a line with the fibula, and producing the appearance of an imperfectly formed leg ; these appearances are preserved in the specimen. There were only two vessels belonging to the umbilical cord, an artery and a vein. 1GG5 A mal-formed male foetus. The child was still-born, at the full period. The left side of the body was considerably larger than the right, particularly the superior and inferior extre- mities. The fore-arm on this side only measured two inches, there being a deficiency of formation of the carpal extremities of the ulna and radius, also of the carpus, and the thumb was wanting; both the feet were deformed. There was no appendix caeci, the rectum termi- nated in the bladder at its fundus, and the large in- testines were distended with meconium. There was only one umbilical artery, which was on the left, or perfect side of the body ; it was nearly as large as the aorta. The head was removed to examine the osseous structure; the bones on the left side are more developed than those on the right. The arteries were injected with size and vermillion. The liver is minutely injected. The mother of this child had a distorted pelvis and spine, and was very diminutive in stature ; I do not infer from these bodily defects that they had any thing to do with the deformity of the child. Children are occasionally born with an imperforate anus, in some instances the defect is remediable by an operation ; but in a case similar to this (and some others I have before described) it would not have saved the child's life.