70 I always avoid doing,unless it is absolutely necessary; yet I have several times had occasion to tie veins, without any bad effects having been produced. The flap operation was employed ; the stump healed almost completely by the first intention, and he soon recovered his health. The following are the appear- ances noticed on dissecting the limb. The enlargement of the knee measured 19 inches in circumference; see cast of the leg, and the diseased bone. Scarcely any of the muscular structure of the vasti muscles was visible; the fibres appear to have been converted into bone. The exostosis seems to have been produced by ostitis and periostitis, com- mencing in the head of the tibia, which had caused complete destruction of all the soft parts of the joint; and a large portion of newly formed bone occupies its cavity, as is seen in the preparation. Large masses of osseous matter are also formed on the internal and external edge of the head of the tibia, over the head of the fibula, and to some distance beyond it; which had, with other deposits, occasion- ed anchylosis of the joint in a straight position. Irregular ossific productions are also seen on the an- terior surface of the femur, about two inches from the centre of the condyles, and for some distance beyond ; and on each side of the thigh-bone, immense masses of rocky-looking bone are formed, which project to a considerable extent, they likewise extend to the ham, and beyond the posterior sur- faces of the head of the tibia and fibula. These growths had displaced the blood-vessels and nerves in the ham, which were impacted in the disease, and so greatly compressed, that in a short time the femoral artery and vein would have been completely obliterated, and the leg must have mortified. All these appearances are well shown in the preparation. The arteries, veins, and nerves, are preserved; the deep veins are greatly enlarged. Examination of the leg showed evidently the cause of the neuralgic symptoms, and the enlargement of the external and internal veins. This patient continued in good health for nearly five years from the time the amputation was performed,