175 the trachea. The bronchial glands, and the glanduhe concatenate were converted into carcinomatous and melanoid tumors. The thyroid gland not affected. There were several cancerous tubercles in the lungs. This is an invaluable preparation. 713 A portion of the left bronchus, the internal surface thickened by organised lymph; one of the bronchial glands converted into a calcareous mass. From a man, the history of the case is not known. 714 Trachea and bronchi; the internal surface highly inflamed; the bronchial glands converted into medullary sarcoma, the external appearance resem- bling what Mr. Abernethy denominated" Pancreatic Sarcoma." The lungs were affected with the same disease. See the Section on Diseased Lungs. 715 Trachea and bronchi; from a patient who died of phthisis pulmonalis. The internal lining greatly inflamed. 716 Trachea, bronchi, and a portion of lung; the internal lining highly inflamed, and ulcerated; the lung consolidated by miliary tubercles, and sero-purulent infiltration. From a patient who died of phthisis pulmonalis; there were also vomica? in the lungs. 717 The inferior part of the trachea, bronchial glands, &c. The patient, a man, died of phthisis pulmonalis, 30 years of age. The lining of the trachea and bronchi highly inflamed, and ulcerated; the bronchial glands scrofulous. The lungs were filled with miliary tubercles, and there were several large excavations. 718 A portion of lung; the pleura? thickly covered with unorganised lymph, the effects of pleuritis. The structure of the lung healthy. 719 Pleura; excessively thickened by coagulated lymph, which was organised; the pericardium and heart are also shown in the preparation. The patient, a very delicate girl, 8 years of age, was attacked with symptoms of peripneumonia, which became very distressing, although active treatment was employed by the gentleman in attendance. She complained of great pain in the left side of the chest, near the region of the heart, and great difficulty in breathing; pulse so very rapid, small, and irregular, that it was impossible to count the number of beats