102 which increased slowly, and he breathed with great difficulty. The heart's action became very powerful, pulse generally intermittent; symptoms denoting hydrops pericardii and hydrothorax came on, his legs were cedematous, and he died suddenly. There were eight ounces of water in the pericardium : the left auricle and ventricle of the heart very capacious; the mitral valve containing osseous deposits of very irregular figure; the aortic valves partially thickened, but not to that degree to have impeded their functions. The gall-bladder was filled with inspissated bile of a deep-green color. The liver was very large, solid in structure, and pre- sented the hob-nailed appearance. Adhesions of old standing subsisted between the pleura costalis and pulmonalis on the right side of the chest, in which about two pints of water were found : and nearly the same quantity in the left. 325 Heart rather small in size. A considerable quantity of fat deposited beneath the serous covering ; hyper- trophy of the left ventricle ; structure very soft. The mitral valve thickened by chronic inflammation, and slightly constricted ; the lining of the left auricle also thickened. The right ventricle very thin, and its structure remark- ably soft; the tricuspid valve thickened. The foramen ovale open; the internal coat of the aorta slightly ossified, the lining membrane of the coronary arteries also ossified ; they were very large. The history of this case is not known. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances, would I have no doubt have been exactly similar to those I have described in some of my cases of diseased hearts. 326 Heart of a very old woman, its size very small. History of the case not known. The internal lining of the left auricle greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and the aperture of the mitral valve formed into a small narrow fissure, by the same morbid action. The cavity of this ventricle very small, the parietes hypertrophied, and the edges of the aortic valves slightly ossified. The coronary arteries remarkably large for the size of the heart; they were partly ossified. The arch of