120 had been removed by the absorbents. The inferior mesenteric artery is very large, as are the renal arteries, but the caliber of the right renal is diminished by osse- ous matter. The right external iliac artery is greatly dilated, aneurismal. The cellular coat is reflected to show the fibrous coat; and in one part calcareous concretions have formed between them. The patient from whom this specimen was taken, was 84 years of age ; his prostate gland was affected with carcinoma. About three months previous to his death, he com- plained of excruciating pain in the chest ; he was also affected with dry cough, and great difficulty of breathing ; pulse very irregular, and the lips purple. Tn walking up stairs he suddenly fell down, and died. There were firm adhesions of the pleura}; the lung on the left side appeared as if it had been affected with melanosis; but on cutting into it, the structure was found to be extremely soft, and emitted a very offen- sive smell; which proved it to be in a gangrenous state. The lung on the right side, presented externally, a dark color ; which was produced by a black fluid having been deposited between the cellular septa; and one of the lobes was emphysematous. The pericardium contained about four ounces of water ; the heart was small, its structure remarkably soft; the coronary arteries, and the semilunar valves of the aorta were partly ossified. The liver pale colored, and presented the appearance of what is termed cirrhosis. The spleen was very dense in structure, and its capsule thickened by chronic inflammation. I have met with only three cases of mortification of the lungs. 445 The abdominal aorta and iliac arteries, the internal and fibrous coats cartilaginous and osseous. Several portions of the internal coat have been absorbed, and osseous matter has supplied its place, particularly at the origin of the creliac artery; the aperture of the superior mesenteric is greatly enlarged, and the caliber of the inferior mesenteric artery lessened; the iliacs very large. From a patient nearly 70 years of age; the left ven- tricle very large, parietes thick, and aortic valves ossified. 446 A case containing the inferior part of the abdominal aorta, the iliacs, and main arteries of the thigh and