87 The pleura costalis and pulmonalis adhered very firmly on both sides of the thorax; sections of the lungs showed the effects of sero-purulent infiltration. The pericardium contained a considerable quantity of yellow serum mixed with flakes of very white coagulated lymph : the internal surface was thickly coated with organised lymph, which adhered very firmly, proving the effects of chronic inflammation ; and a dense adventitious membrane was formed over the reflected portion of the pericardium ; the lymph was remarkably white, and in many parts, superficially granulated. The abdominal viscera healthy. I have before noticed this singular appearance of the coagu- lated lymph in pericarditis, the effect of gout; it cer- tainly is very different in appearance to what we see in acute pericarditis under other circumstances. I cannot satisfactorily account for this deviation in the secretion of the lymph; perhaps a practical chymist might. 302 Ossified pericardium, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. This morbid change is not often seen. 303 Heart of a boy 8 years of age, who died from the effects of inflammatory fever, accompanied with acute pain in the region of the heart. There was a considerable quantity of water in the pericardium, and the mem- brane was greatly inflamed. The muscular structure showed all the signs of carditis, and the lining of the auricles and ventricles and the arteries was highly inflamed. This was a case of arteritis that might possibly have been cured by bold depletion, &c. 304 Heart and lungs inflamed. A boy 12 years of age, very delicate, was attacked with cynanche trachealis; the symptoms were very violent. He died on the sixth day from the commencement of the complaint. The pleurae were highly inflamed; the lungs hepatised; there were also a great number of small tubercles in them, and beneath the pleura. The bronchial glands were converted into fleshy tumors, which were very vascular and compressed the bronchi. It is very singular, that there was a small vascular tumor in one of the pulmonary veins, which adhered very firmly; a morbid change which I never before met with. The pericardium contained about an ounce of water,