372 firmly united. The same morbid change had ex- tended along the whole course of the spermatic cord as far as the groin. 1467 Testis affected with medullary sarcoma; some por- tions of the morbid parts are rather dense in struc- ture. The tunica vaginalis and albuginea were greatly thickened. The enlargement was of con- siderable size ; the spermatic cord not diseased. 1468 Testicle of a child affected with medullary sarcoma. The tumor was of considerable size; the tunica vaginalis and albuginea were greatly condensed; and a portion of the diseased testiele had protruded through the albuginea. On cutting through the morbid part, it was found composed of medullary matter, mixed with coagulated blood. Not a par- ticle of the natural structure of the testicle re- mained. The spermatic cord was perfectly healthy. A tumor formed beneath the pericranium, which affected the dura mater and pia mater ; it exactly resembled the structure of the testicle. See Section on Tumors. The abdominal viscera were all natu- ral. The lumbar absorbent glands on the right side "were converted into medullary tumors of con- siderable magnitude. The heart was normal. The lungs on the right side were healthy, but those on the left were affected with medullary tubercles. The child had been perfectly healthy from its birth, and its body was well developed. When about ten months old, an enlargement was per- ceived in the scrotum, which increased rapidly, and in the course of two months had acquired the mag- nitude and figure of a hen's egg. The tumor had not excited any pain, nor was there any sign of constitutional disease ; the case was supposed to be a hydrocele, and paracentesis was performed, but only a little blood with a brain-like substance escaped. The case was now considered of a malignant nature, and as the glands in the groin were not affected, and the child appeared in good health, the opera- tion of castration was proposed, which I performed ; there was considerable haemorrhage from several of the integumental arteries, which rendered it neces- sary to tie them.