258 frequent attacks of vomiting; the bowels became constipated, and could not be relieved by drastic purgatives or clysters. All the thoracic viscera were healthy,the liver was great- ly enlarged, and presented a granulated structure, and there was a small abscess in the substance of the great lobe of the liver near its inferior surface. The spleen was natural, as was the pancreas. The small arch of the stomach was considerably thickened, as far as the pylorus, by carcinomatous depositions in the cellular media connecting the different tunics, and a great portion of the mucous coat had been destroyed by ulcerative absorption. There were many schirrous tubercles in the omentum (some of them shown in the preparation), the largest about the size of a marble. About four inches from the commencement of the duodenum, there was a strictured state of this intestine, caused by similar morbid changes to those noticed in the stomach. The diseased state of the pylorus and bowel, satis- factorily accounts for some of the distressing symptoms. 1041 A portion of stomach, affected with genuine carcinoma. A boy, 14 years of age, by trade a miller, had been in a delicate state of health from his birth, and during the last eight months of his life, his health was greatly affected. The coats of the pyloric portion of the stomach were immensely condensed by car- cinoma ; the mucous surface highly inflamed, and in parts ulcerated. Some of the ribs were affected with the same disease. I never before saw carcinoma in the stomach, in so young a person. Was the disease congenital ? 1042 Pyloric extremity of the stomach, with a portion of the duodenum. The coats of the stomach were greatly thickened by carcinoma, particularly near the pylorus, and its caliber diminished. At the commencement of the duodenum, a small opening had been formed by ulceration of its coats (which is shown by a black bristle in the preparation), and a portion of omentum had become adherent to the surface of the intestine, near the ulcerated opening; which prevented the escape of its contents into the cavity of the abdomen. The mucous coat of the duodenum was greatly thickened.