100 320 Heart of a man 60 years of age. For nearly five years previous to his dissolution he had symptoms of hepatic disease, and organic affection of the heart; ascites came on, followed hy cedema, and he died gradually. There was water in both cavities of the chest, and his lungs were oedematous ; there was also a considerable quantity of water in the pericardium, and in the abdomen. The liver and spleen were diseased. The heart was very large; its structure extremely soft, and inflamed, the left ventricle greatly dilated, parietes thick ; the mitral valve healthy. The foramen ovale remained open, which I have no doubt existed from birth. The semilunar valves of the aorta were ossified, particularly one of them, near the corpus sesamoideum ; the aorta, at its origin was aneurismal, and the coronary arteries slightly ossified. The valvular structure of the right side of the heart natural, but the parietes of the ventricle were ex- tremely thin ; the structure very flaccid. 321 Heart of a man 36 years of age, of a robust and ple- thoric habit. He had been afflicted with symptoms denoting organic disease of the heart for a conside- rable length of time. The pulsations of the heart and arteries were so violent, as to induce the gentleman who attended him to imagine the existence of an aneurism of the heart. The pulse very irregular; face and lips of a purple color ; great difficulty in breathing, &c. The pericardium contained half a pint of water; lymph was deposited on the containing and the reflected portion, but from not having been long effused was not organised. There were three pints of water in the right side of the thorax, and nearly four pints on the left side. The structure of the lungs highly inflamed ; in some portions hepatised. The ventricles of the heart, particularly the left, greatly enlarged, the parietes hypertrophied ; the auricles not very capacious, but extremely muscular. The cellular tissue belonging to the muscular fibres of the heart, the lining of its cavities, and the in- ternal coat of the arteries are inflamed.