312 origin. From a man who had stricture in the urethra, and a diseased prostate gland. 1312 A kidney; the infundibula are greatly dilated, and their internal surface very thickly coated with or- ganised coagulated lymph ; the substance of kidney is absorbed, as seen in the specimen. The infundibula were filled with very thick pus, mixed with flakes of lymph, and the origin of the ureter was obliterated. The brain became affected, followed by delirium, under which he died. The other kidney was only slightly diseased. 1313 A kidney; substance nearly absorbed in consequence of the ureter having been obliterated; this had occasioned inflammation of the pelvis and infun- dibula, thus forming a large abscess. A portion of the duodenum adheres to the capsule of the kidney; a bristle denotes the ductus communis choledochus. The other kidney was not affected ; the liver was granulated, and there was a conside- rable quantity of water in the abdomen. 1314 A kidney; a portion of the cortical and medullary structure destroyed by absorption ; the pelvis and ureter dilated. 1315 A diseased kidney; the whole of the cortical and medullary substances have been absorbed, and only a shrivelled state of the infundibula and the pelvis remain, which are thickly coated with lymph ; the ureter pervious; the other kidney presented the same appearance. 1316 A kidney injected. The arteries were injected with size and vermillion, the veins with size and Prussian blue. Scarcely any of the natural structure of the kidney is visible. The patient, a man 45 years of age, had long suffered from the effects of stricture in the urethra; the prostate gland was destroyed ; irritative fever came on, which occasioned death. See the description of this case in the Section on Morbid Bladders. 1317 Atrophy of the kidney. The infundibula dilated, and very little of the cortical part remains. 1318 Section of a kidney ; structure highly inflamed and granulated. 1319 A granulated kidney, injected with size and vermil- lion, The patient a gin-drinker.