90 the ventricles of the brain contained a large quantity of water mixed with coagulated blood; but there was no lesion of the substance of the brain, such as we notice in sanguineous apoplexy. The membranes covering the base of the brain were greatly thickened, and blood had been effused be- tween the pia mater and the cerebrum, and between the latter and the cerebellum, similar to that noticed beneath the membranes covering the hemi- spheres. This haemorrhage was discovered to have been occasioned by the rupture of an aneurism in the anterior, superior part of the basilary artery, where it gives off the posterior cerebral arteries; it had lacerated the membranes at the posterior part of the infundibulum, and thus the blood was forced into the third, lateral, and fourth ventricles , the fornix and septum lucidum having been broken down by the force of the blood. The carotids and anterior cerebral arteries were aneu- rismal, and on the right side an aneurismal sac would shortly have burst. The principal number of the arteries at the base of the brain were in a morbid state, and some were obliterated. In the pericardium there were two ounces of fluid. The heart was large, and between its serous covering and the muscular structure there was a great quantity of fat. The auricles and ventricles were very large; the muscular structure not very firm, but did not ap- proach that degeneration or softening which we sometimes notice, where the coronary arteries have been much diminished in caliber. The left ventricle very capacious; its parietes extremely thick ; the mitral valve slightly thickened by chronic inflammation ; the fossa ovalis of wide extent; the edges of the bicuspid valve partly cartilaginous : the aortic valves cartilaginous at their bases. The aorta and vessels given off from its arch remarkably large, particularly the arteria innominata; the internal coat of these arteries was thickened with large patches of lymph, which had acquired nearly a cartilaginous density. The lining of the auricles and ventricles, as well as of the arteries, was of a brilliant scarlet color, which I should say indicated the incipi- ent state of inflammation. The lungs greatly loaded