429 A distinguished surgeon was consulted, who examined the parts very carefully, his opinion was " that the breast and the axillary glands ought to be re- moved." I extirpated the breast, but did not think it necessary to remove the axillary glands, as I felt inclined to imagine that they were only sympatheti- cally affected. I entertained this opinion from the disease being of short duration, and from having seen the axillary glands enlarged in similar cases, and resume their normal size after the removal of the diseased breast. The glands in the axilla, soon after the operation, be- came natural, the wound healed favorably, and the patient enjoyed good health for nearly three years, when she began to complain of pain in the region of the kidneys, which she imagined was the effect of rheumatism. Cupping and suitable remedies were employed, which did not afford relief, and a considerable quantity of uric acid was voided with the urine ; the patient felt some difficulty in using the inferior extremities, and her health was affected. Although she was naturally very corpulent, her bulk gradually diminished. Subcarbonate of magnesia, with liquor potassae, were prescribed, and the liquor opii sedativus when the pain was violent, which lessened her sufferings, yet a great quantity of gravel was voided. At this period several hard small tumors began to appear in the integuments of the chest, which became painful, and increased gradually. The ung.pot. hydriod.was used for some time, which seemed to lessen the size of the tubercles, but similar growths formed beneath the clavicles, and the left breast became affected with all the signs of carcinoma. Her health gra- dually declined, her sufferings were great, and they could only be mitigated by morphia. Ultimately the lungs became affected, the expectoration was of a sero-purulent character, the respiration labo- rious, and she died. The patient bore the operation and the whole of her affliction with Christian fortitude, and her mind was not affected during her illness. The body was greatly emaciated, the skin very yellow. There were several various sized tubercles of a scirrhous