197 internal surface of this vessel, which had become organised, and long processes of it were seen floating in its cavity. The bronchial glands were converted into large masses of dense matter, resembling carci- noma, which diminished the caliber of the bronchi; and a portion of the phrenic nerve was implicated in the disease; the oesophagus was constricted, and some of the medullary matter had penetrated its cavity. The internal surface of the bronchi and trachea were ulcerated, and the concatenated glands on each side of the neck, were changed into medullary sarcoma. The abdominal viscera natural. 798 Medullary sarcoma in the lung, which had caused absorption of the pleura, and allowed the morbid production to protrude into the cavity of the chest; a firm adhesion between this growth and the pleura costalis had been effected. One of the ribs is shown in the preparation. The lungs were nearly filled with similar products, and several other viscera were affected. 799 Four portions of lung, from the patient last described, showing medullary sarcoma, fungus haematodes, carcinoma, and scrofula combined; also one of the bronchial tubes, its internal surface greatly thickened. 800 A portion of lung, affected with fungus haematodes. In the same bottle there are shown, some of the lumbar absorbent glands converted into fungoid and carcinomatous matter ; adhesion had been effected between these morbid productions and a portion of the abdominal aorta, and the disease in time would, by progressive absorption, have protruded into the artery. There were a great number of large medullary and fungoid tubera in the lungs. These specimens were taken from a man who had a testicle affected with medullary sarcoma, combined with cancer. The description of the testicle is given in the Section on Morbid Testes. 801 A portion of lung, affected with fungus haematodes. The tubera are numerous, distinct, and not much larger than peas; many of them are seen in the preparation, beneath the pleura. A man, 30 years of age, had an immense tumor on the chest, near the axilla, consisting of fungus haemato-