11 The right side fractured, and not united by bone. A great quantity of osseous matter had been deposited near the fractured part, and to a considerable distance around it; and there are several large excavations in the bones. These changes had been produced by in- flammation and abscesses. 85 The vertebral column, with the cranium attached, show- ing spinal curvature. From a woman fifty years of age ; the history of the case is not known. The curvature is partly angular and lateral, it had been occasioned by a morbid state of the intervertebral substances, and probably of the ligaments, the bones being per- fectly healthy. The bodies of the first, second, and third dorsal vertebra, protrude into the thorax; the cervical vertebrae are perpendicular; the greatest ex- tent of angular projection is formed by the fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and anchylosis has taken place between their transverse processes, and between the anterior portions of their bodies. These important provisions of nature are frequently noticed, where partial destruction has taken place in vertebrae not affected with scrofula, but from the effects of ostitis. 86 Angular curvature of the spine, in a very old man; the concavity of the curve being inclined forwards. The osseous structure of the bodies of the vertebrae quite healthy; but in consequence of some morbid change of structure in the intervertebral substances, or from pressure occasioned by the superincumbent weight of the head, they have been compressed, and nearly destroyed, especially in the cervical and dorsal regions of the spine. Exostosis of the anterior surfaces of the bodies is seen uniting the first and second lumbar vertebrae. 87 Diseased spine. The intervertebral substances of the cervical, and six of the dorsal vertebrae have been nearly absorbed, as well as a considerable portion of the anterior surfaces of the bodies. The remaining vertebrae are affected with scrofula. The preparation is in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 88 Part of the spine of a child, 2 years of age, affected with angular curvature, and showing the destructive effects of scrofula. Some of the bodies of the cervical ver- tebrae, as well as those of the dorsal, have been des- troyed.