378 The serous covering of the lungs was affected with purpura; the cellular media inflamed, and there was considerable sero-purulent infiltration. The lining of the bronchial tubes and trachea was affected with purpura. The auricles of the heart were greatly distended with dark-colored blood, and the internal surface of the ventricles was highly inflamed; the pericardium was also affected with purpura. The internal coat of the aorta had a petechial appear- ance. All the abdominal viscera were surcharged with blood, but their structure was perfectly healthy. The vessels belonging to the uterus were greatly loaded, and there was coagulated blood in the cavity. The internal surface was affected with purpura, which is shown in the preparation. All the specimens are in alcohol. Depletion in this case was not employed, the gentle- man who attended having a great objection to bleeding in fever. The post-mortem appearances show evidently the propriety of bleeding, &c. in similar cases, particularly as all the viscera were perfectly healthy in structure, and the disease was occasioned by plethora. Preparations 687, 804, 876, are from the same sub- ject. 1508 Uterus of a woman. The serous and mucous coats are highly inflamed, as are the ovaria and Fallopian tubes. The patient, 36 years of age, of a plethoric diathesis, was attacked with scarlatina. The fe- brile action was very severe; three days previous to her death, she was violently delirious, and the menstrual discharge was very profuse. She died on the sixth day from the commencement of the fever. The preparation is preserved in alcohol, which shows the vascularity well. The arachnoid membrane and pia mater were in- flamed, and there was a serous fluid between them. The lateral ventricles contained about an ounce of water; the structure of the brain inflamed. If bleeding and active treatment had been employed in this case, the life of the patient might have been saved. 1509 Uterus, its peritoneal surface, substance, and mucous