512 more minute inspection ; and the following were the morbid appearances which presented. A portion of omentum adhered to the convex surface of the right lobe of the liver, and on detaching this it was seen to have closed a small aperture in the diseased portion of the liver. On cutting open the right lobe of the liver, it was found to be formed into.two dense cysts of conside- rable size, which communicated with each other, and they were filled with hydatids. The cyst, at the superior part of the liver, was considerably larger than the one at the inferior portion. The hydatids were removed, those found at the superior portion of the liver appeared natural, whilst those at the inferior part were dead and shrivelled. In consequence of the serous surface of the right lobe of the liver having formed firm adhesions with that belonging to the diaphragm, caused by the growth of the hydatids, an opening of communication had been established between the liver, diaphragm, and thorax, and some of the hydatids had protruded into the substance of one of the lobes of the lung. The pleuree adhered firmly on the right side, and the lung was nearly filled with dead hydatids and pus. The lung on the left side was loaded with sero-purulent infiltration, and the lining of the bronchial tubes, bronchi, and trachea, was highly inflamed. This is a very singular specimen. The question is, whether the opening in the cyst of the liver, was made by the trocar, or by the growth of hydatids, which had caused ulceration of the peritoneal surface, and allowed the fluid of the hydatids to escape into the cavity of the abdomen ? I think, in performing paracentesis, the liver was per- forated, and the fluid of the hydatids was discharged, and that there was not any fluid in the abdomen at the time the operation was performed; this opinion appears probable, from ascites not supervening, as is generally the conse- quence after tapping, in cases caused by diseased liver. It is well known that hydatids in the human subject,