505 dochus. The opening of this duct into the bowel is shown by a black bristle in the preparation. See Section on Morbid Testes, No. 1462. 2305 Medullary sarcoma in the heart, lungs, oesophagus, and vena cava superior. From a man, 45 years of age ; he was admitted into the Sick Ward of Cripplegate Workhouse. The patient informed me that he had been afflicted with disease in the lungs for nearly five years, which had been increasing for more than twelve months, and that he had been a considerable time in an Hospital. He was greatly emaciated, dyspnoea was very distress- ing, and he complained of acute pain in the chest; the expectoration, muco-purulent; pulse very small, 120, sometimes 140 in a minute, and he had palpi- tation of the heart. The patient lived only a short time after his admission. Inspection. The adhesion of the pleurae on both sides of the thorax was so firm as to render it difficult to remove the thoracic contents. The pleura pulmonalis, in some portions, was nearly half an inch in thickness, and of a semicartilaginous density. The heart, aorta, the two trunks of the pulmonary artery, the oesophagus and trachea seemed almost lost in the diseased lungs, which had surrounded these parts. On cutting through the lungs, their natural structure seemed to have been nearly destroyed by medullary and fungoid tubera, and there were likewise a great number of miliary tubercles. The pericardium was greatly thickened, and on its anterior surface bone had been formed to about the size of a dollar, which is shown in the preparation. The serous covering of the heart was highly inflamed and thickened, and there were medullary tumors in the right auricle. The heart was small, structure soft and inflamed, and there were several small medullary tubercles beneath the serous covering of the ventricles. The internal surface of the auricles and ventricles was highly inflamed, the valves normal. The superior cava and part of the right subclavian vein were nearly filled with medullary secretion.