351 1408 A diseased bladder and rectum. From a woman GO years of age. The bladder is contracted, the mu- cous coat greatly thickened by chronic inflamma- tion, and there are two ulcerated openings near the meatus urinarius, which communicate with the an- terior part of the intestinum rectum ; they are shown by two pieces of white glass in the prepara- tion. The verge of the anus, and to some distance beyond, is affected with carcinoma, and the mucous coat in some parts is greatly thickened and ulcerated; there are several fistulous sinuses in it, which are denoted by green-colored glass. The uterus was affected with carcinoma. See the Section on Morbid Uteri. 1409 Bladder and rectum ulcerated. A carcinomatous growth is formed in the cellular tissue connecting the posterior and inferior portion of the bladder, which had produced an opening of communication between the bladder and the rec- tum ; the mucous coat of the former is inflamed and ulcerated. 1410 A diseased bladder, prostate gland, urethra, &c. The bladder is immensely large, the muscular and mucous coats greatly thickened, more especially the latter. The lateral lobes of the prostate gland are converted into carcinomatous tumors of various sizes, and have formed a large mass, which les- sened the caliber of the prostatic portion of the urethra. The internal surface of the whole of the urethra is highly inflamed, and a part of this por- tion had been lacerated, probably by a catheter. The cells of the bulb were filled with firm coagu- lated blood, and their structure thickened by in- flammation. The kidneys were affected with carcinoma ; the in- fundibula and pelves greatly dilated. The patient was 60 years of age. 1411 Prostate gland, the vesiculae seminales, and vasa de- ferentia. The prostate gland is not much enlarged, but its natural structure is converted into small cancerous tumors, and there are several prostatic calculi in the substance of the gland. The middle or third lobe is enlarged, and there is an opening