514 chest, and the lungs were partly filled with serous infiltration. The pericardium contained two ounces of fluids the heart was small, its structure flaccid, the valves normal. All the ahdominal viscera appeared blanched, and there was scarcely any blood in the vessels. The liver was extremely small and pale colored, the structure soft ; the gall-bladder and ducts were distended with bile. The spleen and kidnies were healthy. The body and parietes of the uterus were much larger than natural, yet there were no signs of carcinoma or fungus hsematodes. A polypus was found at the superior portion of the uterus, which seemed to have its origin from the cellular tissue of the mus- cular coat; it projected into the cavity of the uterus, and extended through the os uteri into the vagina. The os uteri was greatly dilated, so that there would not have been much difficulty in applying a ligature round the neck of the polypus. The Fallopian tube on the right side was obliterated, the ovarium converted into serous cysts; the left Fallopian tube was pervious. A longitudinal section was made of the polypus, the pedicle was as dense in structure as the muscular substance of the uterus, but in that portion in the vagina there was a cyst filled with blood, and the external surface was thickly coated with coagulated blood; after this was removed, it presented the appearance of a vascular growth, which lead me to think the haemorrhage had proceeded principally from this part. The application of a ligature sometimes prevents the recurrence of this disease, but in the present case, the operation, considering the state of health of the patient, would probably have been unsuccessful. The case is published in the 7th Volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. I lately had an opportunity of seeing an uterus with a polypus, similar to the one just described. A ligature was applied, the patient died of peritonitis on the fourth day. 2348 The external and internal organs of generation, with