354 See the description of the stomach in the Section on Morbid Stomachs. 1414 Diseased bladder, prostate, and a portion of the penis, with a stricture in the urethra. The coats of the bladder are greatly thickened; the prostate gland is enormously enlarged by carcino- matous and medullary tumors. The lateral and middle lobes are greatly increased ; the caliber of the prostatic and membranous portion of the urethra is greatly diminished, and there are several bands of organised lymph in these parts of the canal, passing from one side to the other, simi- lar to those seen between the pleuras, as the result of inflammation. The fundus of the bladder is about three inches above the ossa pubis, and firm adhesion had been effected between the cellular tissue of the anterior surface of the bladder, and the periosteal covering of the ossa pubis. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy. The patient, 70 years of age, had for several years been troubled with difficulty in voiding urine, owing to an enlargement of the prostate gland. He had a very large hydrocele on the right side, and one on the left; these had existed for several years, and had been tapped and injected. As the hydrocele did not increase, and only inconvenienced him by its bulk, it was not interfered with. The difficulty of voiding urine became more distress- ing, and one day after drinking a considerable quantity of gin, retention of urine came on. Several attempts were made, by various sized catheters, without effect, to draw off the urine. The bladder having become greatly distended, and as the patient was suffering agonising pain, it was considered right to tap the bladder above the pubes; a large quantity of fostid urine was drawn off". The canula was kept in the bladder for a considerable length of time ; the urine began to flow from the urethra, and there was also a discharge of pus, which induced me to attempt to pass a small elastic gum catheter into the bladder, which was effected, and a consider- able quantity of urine, mixed with pus, was drawn off. The catheter was left in the bladder, and the urine passed partly through it and the urethra;