]58 color. Most of the arteries at the base of the brain were cartilaginous, some ossified, and several of the minute ones obliterated.The sclerotica were shrivelled into an irregular figure of small size, and contained nothing more than the lens converted into a calcareous mass. 658 Eye, the conjunctiva thickly covered with lymph; pupil nearly obliterated; lens opaque, and its capsule ad- hering to the iris ; the natural structure of the coats nearly destroyed. 659 Eye, the conjunctiva thickly coated with lymph ; the cornea completely destroyed; crystalline lens opaque, choroid without pigment. The effects of purulent ophthalmia; both eyes were affected. From a child six weeks old ; the case had been neglected ; the brain became affected, and con- vulsions came on, which caused death. The membranes of the brain were highly inflamed, likewise its substance. 660 Opacity of the cornea, adhesion of the iris at one point to the cornea ; the lens was opaque. 661 Eye, cornea ulcerated; pupil nearly obliterated by or- ganised lymph ; the internal structure destroyed. 662 Eye, cornea opaque, iris adhering to the inner surface of the cornea; retina, and choroid coat thickened by lymph. Pus was found between these coats ; the lens opaque, and very dense in structure. The pigmentum nigrum having been absorbed, the choroid is quite white, as in the eye of an albino. 663 Eye, the cornea opaque, the iris adheres to the cornea. 664 Eye, the cornea opaque, iris adherent. 665 Eye, the retina thickened, lens opaque; vitreous humor partly absorbed, which gives a puckered ap- pearance to the choroid coat. 666 Eye, the crystalline lens opaque ; the vitreous humor partly destroyed; retina thickened and plicated. The two last preparations from the same subject. 667 Eye, the lens opaque, retina thickened. 668 Eye, showing disorganisation of all its internal natural structure, the cornea and lens opaque ; the effects of iritis. 669 Eye, cornea opaque, retina thickened, choroid nearly white, the vasa vorticosa very distinct, the optic nerves diminished in size, and of a brownish color.