468 I have often seen a fractured state of the bone where fungus hEematodes or carcinoma had formed in the internal part of cylindrical bones. 1778 A knee-joint of a young woman, affected with medul- lary sarcoma. An enlargement commenced in the ham, and in- creased to an immense magnitude, so as to impede the function of the knee-joint. The nodulated figure of the tumor, the color of the skin, with the enlarged state of the veins, denoted its character to be of the fungoid kind. Her health became affected, and she showed signs of internal disease, consequently amputation was not proposed. The patient died. I have not the history of the case. The specimens were sent to me, I dissected the parts, and the following is the description of the appearances. The tumor was composed of an aggregation of me- dullary and fungoid growths, which seemed to have their origin in the cellular connecting media of the muscles, vessels, and nerves, and scarcely a sign of the muscular fibres could be traced. The popliteal artery, vein, and nerve, were with great difficulty traced, and the blood-vessels were so much compressed, that it seemed surprising how circulation had been carried on. The disease had made its way into the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and had destroyed by ulceration the periosteal covering of the femur to a considerable extent beyond the superior part of the condyles ; the absorbents had removed a great portion of the external surface of the bone, where the periosteal covering had been denuded. The right kidney was affected with small tumors of a medullary and fun- goid character. The uterus was natural, but the ovaria were converted into large fungoid tumors. See Section on Diseases of the Uterus. This is an excellent specimen of fungus hgematodes. 1779 A fungoid tumor, which I removed from the outer surface of the chest of a dog ; the tumor had been growing for six months. About four months after the removal of the tumor, other enlargements of the same description began to show themselves in various parts of the body.