148 The arachnoid membrane and pia mater (more especi- ally the latter) were highly inflamed, as was the whole substance of brain; and the blood vessels were greatly distended. The internal surface of the longitudinal sinus was filled with firmly coagulated blood, and fibrine ; some of the latter is shown in the preparation. The parts were preserved in alcohol, which shows the inflamma- tory appearances beautifully. I never before saw the pia mater in such an inflamed state. 545 The superior surfaces of the hemispheres of the brain, showing a thickened state of the arachnoid mem- brane, and of the pia mater. From a man 70 years of age, who had been for many years afflicted with gout, and was obliged to be frequently bled, or cupped, and took large doses of colchicum. The last attack was remarkably severe; his stomach was affected, and symptoms of inflamma- tion of the brain supervened; which could not be subdued by the most active treatment. Jnspectio. The bones of the cranium were thick, and solid as ivory. There were nearly eight ounces of dark colored fluid, like claret, between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater. The arachnoid membrane lining the dura mater, and that portion reflected over the pia mater, were greatly thickened by chronic inflammation ; and a dense ad- ventitious membrane was found between these tunics. These appearances are shown in the preparation. The structure of the brain was inflamed; there was not more fluid in the ventricles than natural; most of the arteries belonging to the brain were partly cartilaginous, some of them ossified. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy; the kidneys were granulated, and there was a large serous cyst in one of them. 546 A portion of arachnoid membrane and pia mater infla- med ; the blood-vessels are greatly enlarged by blood; —preserved in spirit of turpentine. This is a beautiful preparation. From a boy 14 years of age. The concatenated glands on both sides of the neck, were greatly enlarged, which ultimately compressed the bronchi, and occasioned great difficulty in