ulcerative absorption ; and a portion of the groove for the meningeal artery is destroyed, as is seen in the preparation. 73 Calvarium. The external and internal tables are affected with syphilis. 74 A cranium, showing the effects of syphilis. The princi- pal part of the anterior portion of the superior max- illary and turbinated bones, and the palatine arch, have been destroyed. The destructive effects in this case, and in many others which I shall have occasion to describe, were, I have no doubt, principally caused by the improper use of mercury. 75 A cranium, showing the effects of syphilis on the outer surface of the calvarium; the ossa nasi, and the left malar bone, &c. are also affected. 76 Cranium of a woman, the anterior part of the os frontis, and the right side of the ramus, are affected with syphilis. 77 H alf of the cranium of a cow, on the right side of the skull, the bones are enormously expanded ; this enlargement was occasioned by a medullary tumor, which formed in the diploe. The morbid growth had caused des- truction of the integuments covering this part of the head, and had formed a bleeding fungus, which pre- sented a very frightful appearance. It is singular that the internal table of the skull was not affected, nor were the membranes of the brain. The liver con- tained a great number of medullary tubera. The animal was greatly emaciated; the muscular fibres very flaccid ; and the cellular tissue tinged with bile. 78 Inter-maxillary bones, with the permanent teeth in their alveoli; from a child of a scrofulous diathesis. This exfoliation took place and the child died, from the imprudent use of mercury. 79' Inter-maxillary bones, with the incisor teeth of an adult. Necrosis and caries were produced in this case by the injudicious use of mercury, for a remedy for what has been denominated " pseudo-syphilis." The patient's life was for some time in a precarious state. Some anatomists have asserted that the sutures of the inter-maxillary bones always become obliterated in adult age; this change however does not invariably take place, as [ can prove by reference to crania in my