234 about six months previous to his dissolution, the intestines became more disordered, accompanied with pain in the abdomen, and the discharges from the bowels were frequently mixed with mucus, and sometimes with pus and blood, and smelt offensively; his brain became affected, and symptoms like typhus fever supervened. Although the patient had the advice of several physi- cians, the progress of the disease could not be checked, but merely palliated; he had been very corpulent, but became as greatly emaciated as a person with phthisis pulmonalis. The stomach and intestines were greatly distended with air; the peritoneum showed signs of chronic inflam- mation, and all the intestines were agglutinated. The liver was pale-colored, but did not exhibit any signs of organic disease; the gall-bladder contained an albu- minous secretion. The spleen was healthy; the mesen- teric glands were affected with medullary sarcoma ; there were tumors of the same kind in the mesentery, and the absorbent glands, from the diaphragm to the groin on both sides, were similarly diseased. All the mucous glands belonging to the small and large intestines were diseased, and the mucous coat of the caecum and colon was ulcerated ; all the coats were tinged of a black color, as in melanosis, which appear- ances are seen in the preparation. There were old standing adhesions of the pleurae in both sides of the chest; the lungs healthy. This T consider a malignant disease, and congenital. 1 A portion of caecum, affected with punctated melanosis in the mucous coat. A man, who had been afflicted with haemorrhoids and fistulee in ano for a considerable length of time, applied to a Quack, who employed the most stimu- lating escharotics, which had nearly destroyed the whole verge of the anus, and did considerable mischief to the internal surface of the rectum. Soon after this the inguinal glands on the left side, began to enlarge, and were very painful; matter formed, and the integuments ulcerated. The edges of the ulcer formed verrucal appearances, the discharge was very offensive, and there were occasional attacks of venous haemorrhage.