475 escaped; there was afterwards a great discharge from the abscess. A probe was introduced into the abscess, and the bone was felt denuded; a consul- tation was held and amputation advised, which was performed. I obtained the leg, and on examining the diseased parts, I found the capsule and structure of the joint healthy. The disease was necrosis, and nature had been making great efforts to form a new bone ; the dead bone would in time have been absorbed, and a perfect union would have been effected. It is nearly 20 years since this operation was performed, fortunately the knowledge of pathology and the treatment of local diseases in many cases has so much improved of late years, that operations are not so often performed. The abscess in the head of the tibia is shown in the preparation, likewise the spiculum belonging to the necrosed part, which is of a white color, also the appearance of the new bone. 1796 Necrosis of the tibia at its inferior extremity. A section of the bone shows hypertrophy of its parietes near the necrosed bone, likewise the quantity of osseous matter deposited to supply the place of the dead bone. The sequestrum is also seen. 1797 A section of the bones of a knee-joint affected with scrofula. From a young subject. The epiphyses are shown. The parietes of the bones were remarkably thin, and very soft, in consequence of the phosphate of lime having been absorbed, and the cancelli being filled with caseous matter. The capsular ligament was inflamed, lymph had been deposited, and the crucial ligaments were softened and detached from their origins. The leg was amputated, but the patient afterwards died of phthisis pulmonalis. 1798 Section of the knee-joint of a young person, the whole of the natural structure is destroyed by scro- fulous ulceration. Fistulous openings formed between the joint and the integuments covering it, and there was a profuse discharge of pus, which affected the health. The leg was allowed to get into a bent position, and am-