167 The sacciili laryngis were nearly obliterated by lymph, the rima glottidis, and the epiglottis, were greatly thickened and shortened, and ulceration of the arytsenoid cartilages had commenced. The pleurae adhered firmly, and the structure of the lungs had in some parts become consolidated by inflammation. 698 The fauces, larynx, and trachea of a child. The patient was suddenly attacked with all the symptoms of cynanche trachealis ; convulsions came on, which caused death a few days from the commencement of the disease. Lymph was deposited only on the lining of the larynx, and a small portion of the trachea, it adhered very slightly ; the lining of the trachea and bronchi, and their ramifications was inflamed ; but lymph had not been effused, and the lungs were not consolidated. I am inclined to think that the life of this child might have been saved, if tracheotomy had been performed. 699 Base of the tongue, pharynx, larynx, and trachea of a boy, 6 years of age, who died from the effects of croup. The lungs were consolidated, and there were a great number of scrofulous tubercles in them. The bronchial tubes, bronchi, and trachea were inflamed, and covered with coagulated lymph ; in the larynx the lymph was thick, and adhered firmly to the internal lining. The history of this case is not known. Tracheotomy in this instance would not have been advisable. 700 Larynx, pharynx, trachea, and bronchi of a girl, 6 years of age, who died from the effects of cynanche trachealis, on the third day from the commencement of the attack. The lungs were consolidated by sero-purulent infiltra- tion and coagulated lymph ; the bronchial tubes were filled with pus and mucus. The internal surface of the bronchi, trachea and larynx thickly coated with lymph, and an adventitious tube had formed, which did not. adhere to the surface of the trachea; a portion of this is preserved in the preparation, the other part was removed. 701 Larynx and trachea of a boy, 6 years of age. He had a very severe attack of pneumonia, and although