393 1560 Uterus, vagina, and rectum. Ulceration had taken place in the internal surface of the uterus, and a considerable portion of the mus- cular structure had been destroyed ; the vagina was ulcerated, and a communication had been established between it and the rectum. There were also fistula? in ano, the consequence of haemorrhoids. The lungs were nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles ; the liver was of a pale color and very soft; the mesen- teric glands were converted into caseous matter, and there were a number of scrofulous tubercles beneath the mucous coat of the small intestines ; the mu- cous glands greatly enlarged. The patient 46 years of age, had been afflicted with uterine disease and piles. The discharge of pus from the vagina and rectum had been very profuse ; fever of typhoid character came on, which occasioned death. 1561 Uterus greatly enlarged, parietes thick, there was a small cancerous tumor about an inch from the superior part of the uterus, beneath the mucous surface ; the latter was in a sphacelated state, occa- sioned by carcinomatous ulceration ; the vagina was affected with the same disease. The ovaria were converted into fungoid tumors. The liver was affected with medullary tubera. 1562 Uterus, the cervix affected with medullary sarcoma, the ovaria carcinomal ous. There were several medullary tubera in the liver, and in the mesentery ; the rest of the abdominal viscera were healthy, likewise the thoracic. The uterus was a little enlarged, its structure more dense than natural, and there were several small scirrhous tubercles beneath the mucous surface ; the cervix presented all the genuine characters of me- dullary sarcoma, which is seen in the preparation ; the ovaries were carcinomatous. The patient 40 years of age, had suffered severely from uterine pains for nearly two years, and the pain was greatly increased during the menstrual periods. There was a considerable discharge of pus, frequently mixed with blood, from the uterus. Her health and strength gradually declined, and about a year previous to her death, she ceased to men- struate, and her countenance became sallow.