446 1726 A large scrotal hernia. The patient had never worn a truss ; the penis is also shown in the preparation, and all the parts concerning this rupture are exhi- bited. Jn this instance the obturator artery arises from the external iliac with the epigastric, which I have frequently seen. 1727 A large scrotal hernia, with a considerable quantity of omentum, which adheres very firmly to the in- ternal surface of the sac, the opening is very capa- cious. The spermatic cord and the testis are seen in the preparation. In consequence of a diseased prostate gland, the tunics of the testicle became greatly inflamed, pus was secreted between them, and the tunica vaginalis ulcerated to a considerable extent; the cellular tissue between the external surface of the tunica vaginalis and the internal part of the integuments of the scrotum sphacelated, and exposed the testicle. The remaining portion of the vaginal coat was thickly covered with coagulated lymph, but the tunica albuginea was not affected, the testicle was healthy. The particulars of this case have been given in the de- scription of No. 1390, which is a preparation of the kidneys, bladder, and prostate gland from the same subject. 1728 A direct hernia, or ventro-inguinal hernia, and a small inguinal hernia, on the right side. The ventro-inguinal hernia is large, it possesses all the coverings of an inguinal hernia, with the ex- ception of the cremaster muscle. The sac of the inguinal hernia is small, but the open- ing rather large ; the epigastric artery and the ob- turator are given off by the external iliac. If there had been strangulation of the direct hernia, and the structure had been divided upwards and outwards, the epigastric artery would inevitably have been wounded, and there would have been considerable risk of doing this had the division been performed directly upwards, but no danger in cutt ing obliquely upwards and inwards. If the inguinal hernia had re- quired an operation, the stricture might have been relieved without any chance of touching this artery, by cutting directly upwards. This species of rup- ture, ventro-inguinal, is not of frequent occurrence,