129 had been troubled with a violent palpitation of the heart, accompanied with unusual pulsation in the carotid arteries, for nearly a year and a half. About six months previous to his death, those symptoms became more distressing, he had great difficulty of breathing, and occasionally the paroxysms of dyspnoea were so alarming as to threaten immediate suffocation: the lips and face were of a purple color, ac- companied with syncope ; he was also annoyed with a violent cough, which produced epistaxis There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest: the lungs were gorged with blood, and partly hepatised. The pericardium contained about four ounces of water. The heart was of an immense size ; both ventricles very muscular, and their parietes thick; cavitieslarge. The mitral valve healthy, but the carnea? columnae and chordas tendineas were very large. The aorta, from its origin to the arch, immensely dilated, and all its coats greatly thickened, especially the internal one, which was occasioned by deposits of lymph, and semi-cartilaginous products, between it and the fibrous coat. At the commencement of the aorta, and close to the middle aortic valve, there is an aneurism ; the aper- ture nearly the circumference of a Spanish dollar; which in time would have burst into the right auricle of the heart. There is also another aneurism, at the superior and posterior portion of the aorta, near the origin of the large vessels springing from it. The opening of this aneurism is nearly of the same size as the one at the base of the aorta ; the sac small, and its posterior surface united firmly to the anterior part of the trachea about half an inch from the bronchi ; ulceration had commenced at this part, which had destroyed a portion of the sac ; and had the patient lived a little longer, the aneurism would have burst into the trachea. The vessels of the arch of the aorta were of immense size, particularly the innominata ; the coronary arteries were large, and their coats dense. The liver was very large, and granulated ; all the abdominal viscera were gorged with blood. The aneurisms in this case were produced by a regular dilatation of all the coats. K