413 and the urine was voided naturally, but it was always mixed with blood, which reduced her bodily powers. All signs of labor ceased, she gradually sank, and died. The peritoneum was thickened by chronic inflamma- tion, particularly those parts which cover the pelvic viscera. The fundus of the bladder was situated greatly above the brim of the pubis, the muscular coat extremely thick, the internal coat inflamed and thickened. So completely did the uterus occupy the pelvis, that it was a matter of astonishment (to all present at the inspection) how the bladder and rectum could have performed their functions. The fundus of the uterus was situated at the inferior part of the sacrum, proving that it was retroverted. In consequence of the irritation which the increasing bulk of the uterus had occasioned in such an un- yielding cavity as the pelvis, inflammation of the serous covering had been produced, lymph effused, and such firm adhesions had been formed as to make it very difficult to remove the pelvic contents for inspection. The parietes of the uterus were very thin, but not unhealthy in structure. At the poste- rior part of the uterus near its cervix, and beneath its peritoneal surface, there was a fibrous tumor, about the size of an apple, of a character frequently seen in the uterus. The corpus luteum was in the left ovarium. The right kidney was affected with fungus hasmatodes, the left kidney normal. There were several fungoid tubera in the liver, all the other viscera healthy. The foetus presented a shrivelled appearance, and the cuticle had separated, but it was not putrid, proving that it had been dead for some time. Probably the life of the child had been destroyed by the pressure of the uterus. A portion of the chorion of a morbid ovum, showing an innumerable quantity of vesicles, of various sizes, formed upon the extremities of the ramified tufts of this membrane. The woman, 50 years of age, who had borne several children, imagined herself again in the family way, the menses having ceased. At about the 7th month from the cessation of the