230 spoon; he was teased with diarrhoea, and the evacuations were often mixed with blood and pus. Symptoms of diseased liver came on, he was slightly jaundiced, and (he secretion of urine scanty ; ascites followed, with oedema of the lower extremities, and he experienced distressing difficulty in breathing. By the advice of a Physician, I performed paracentesis, but merely to give the patient temporary relief, and nearly a bucket-ful of water was drawn off. Symptoms went on favorably for nearly three weeks, and some hope was entertained that he might rally ; but he still complained of pain in the situation of the ca3cum ; his bowels were not easily excited into action. The fluid having been evacuated from the abdomen, and being greatly emaciated, I was in- duced to carefully examine with my hand if I could feel the spoon, when to my astonishment, I detected a solid substance in the situation of the cajcum; which induced me to believe that it was the spoon he had swallowed. A short time previous to his death, the urine and faeces were voided involuntarily, and although the greatest care was employed to keep him dry and comfortable, the integuments covering the sacrum became highly inflamed, and sphacelated, and extended to the theca vertebralis, and the membranes of the brain ; which caused death. On opening the writing desk of the deceased, a letter was found, addressed to his mother, of which the following is a copy. " To my dear Mother, " In the event of my death, let me be " opened soon after by medical men, any you may " wish, but I wish Mr. Langstaff to be present, and " if he pleases, to operate. " The spoon will be found in my intestines ; I have " given it to my mother, but she is at liberty to dis- " pose of it in any way, or to whom she may think " proper ; if the possession of it is desirable to any of " the faculty for the public good, scruple not to com- " niunicate it, or publish any of the facts or circum- " stances relative to the above matter, if the know- " ledge of them will benefit the community.