400 seemed to have no power to expel it, and it was deemed necessary to extract it with the hand. This operation, I was informed, was effected with great difficulty, the adhesion being so firm. 1577 An uterus, showing ulceration of the internal surface, a morbid state of the right ovarium, and sloughing of the lining of the Fallopian tube. The peritoneal surface is thickenedby organised lymph. The corpus luteum is seen in the left ovarium. The patient, 34 years of age, of a delicate constitu- tion, was recently delivered, the labor was natural, there was profuse haemorrhage after the birth, and although the uterus made several efforts to expel the placenta, and pressure was used on the abdo- men to assist its action, yet the placenta was re- tained. The haemorrhage became so profuse as to endanger life, it was therefore thought prudent to introduce the hand into the uterus, and carefully separate the placenta. The placenta was found to be attached to the poste- rior part of the uterus near the cervix, a conside- rable portion having been detached ; the other re- mained firmly adherent, so as to require some time for separation. The haemorrhage was increased by the removal of the placenta, but was soon subdued by pressure on the abdomen, and the frequent ap- plication of cloths with vinegar and water. Great exhaustion was occasioned by the haemorrhage ; the pulse was small and frequent, but regular; in the course of twenty-four hours her powers rallied, and every thing seemed going on favorably till the fifth day, when pain was complained of a little above the pubes, which was increased when pressure with the hand was made. The pulse became full and hard, and she was extremely restless and anxious. In- flammation of the uterus was suspected to be the most likely cause of the symptoms. Twenty ounces of blood were taken away from the arm, the blood was buffed and cupped, and sixteen ounces were removed away the following day, presenting the same inflamed appearances. Leeches were applied to the abdomen, and fomentations employed fre- quently. The symptoms for a time subsided, and it was imagined that there was some hope of recovery,