8 mr. churchill's publications. MR. NUNNELEY, Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Leeds School of Medicine. A TREATISE ON THE NATURE, CAUSES, & TREAT- MENT OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. LANGSTON PARKER, Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the Birmingham Royal School of Medicine. THE MODERN TREATMENT OF SYPHILITIC DISEASES both Primary and Secondary; comprehending an Account of improved Modes of Practice adopted in the British and Foreign Hospitals, with numerous Formulae for the Administration of many new Remedies. 12mo, cloth, 5s. " An excellent little work; it gives a clear and sufficiently full account of the opinions and practice of M. Ricord, Desrulles, Cullerier, Wallace, &c. Such a digest cannot fail to be highly useful and valuable to the practitioner."—Dublin Medical Press. " This little work is a useful compendium of the practice of the French surgeons. The book is judicious and well timed, and will save many practitioners from the erroneous dulness of routine."—Medical Gazette. " This manual, we doubt not, will be extensively read : we recommend our readers to procure the bock, it is not a large one, and a perusal will afford much information."—Dublin Medical Journal. DR. PR OUT, F. R. S. ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF STOMACH AND URINARY DISEASES; being an Inquiry into the Connexion of Diabetes, Calculus, and other Affections of the Kidney and Bladder with Indi- gestion. Third edition, with Six Engravings, 8vo, cloth, 20s. " Those who have been benefited by the labours and researches of Dr. Prout will be delighted to see the announcement of the third edition so much enlarged as to be almost a new work. . . This table of contents will shew the great extent of our author's inquiries, and we need hardly assure our readers that the subjects are treated with consummate ability."—Dublin Journal of Medical Science. " Many of the doctrines contained in this work will certainly be embodied in the practice of English medical men during the next half century. . . We would gladly extend our analysis, did our limits permit; but that we believe we have enabled the reader to comprehend the philosophical plan on which the work is constructed, and the length to which we have already gone will shew our sense of its value."—Medical Gazette. P. R A Y E R, D.M.P. A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Translated from the French, by WILLIAM B. DICKENSON, Esq., M.R.C.S. 8vo, 12s. " We can recommend the present translation of Rayer's Treatise as an excellent companion at the bedside of the patient."—Lancet. " The translation of Rayer has conferred a great obligation on the science of medicine in Eng- land."—Medical and Surgical Journal. DR. JAMES REID, Lecturer on Midwifery at the Webb-street Medical School. A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY, Containing a Description of Natural and Difficult Labours, with their Management. In- tended chiefly as a book of reference for Students and Medical Practitioners. With Engravings on Wood. 24mo, cloth, 5s. 6d. " The relative diameters of the pelvis and the fecial head, and the different presentations of the child, are all usefully represented by wood engravings among the letter-press, and the book is thus particularly well calculated to effect the objects of such a work."—Lancet.