55 The hand was injected with size and vermillion. On examining the morbid parts, it was found that nearly the whole of the natural structure of the joint had been destroyed, and a few fragments only of the carpal bones remained, which were coated upon their surfaces with organised lymph. The osseous structure was very solid, showing it was not affected with scrofula. The ends of the ulna and radius were greatly thickened by organised lymph ; and the ulna, for nearly three inches above its ex- tremity was enlarged, from the deposition of osseous matter on its external surface, the effects of ostitis and periostitis. From the patient having a good constitution, and the ulna and radius, and remaining fragments of the carpal bones being in a healthy state, I am unable to state why the inflammatory action in the joint had not been checked at the commencement of the attack. This is a valuable specimen. 220 A scrofulous finger (index) which was amputated. The structure of the second articulation of the joint, was nearly destroyed. There was a large fistulous opening in the integuments, which communicated with the diseased joint, and a fungus surrounded its edges, which bled freely.—The patient did well. 221 The first phalanx of the index finger; the structure of the joint destroyed and the bone denuded, the effects of paronychia.—The finger was amputated. 222 First joint of the finger; the joint had been cut into by accident with a knife ; proper attention was not paid to it; the finger became extremely painful and swollen, and it was found necessary to amputate. If the finger had been placed on a splint, and means adopted to prevent the inflammatory action, it might have been saved. 223 Joints of a finger, from a man who had suffered several severe attacks of gout. Most of the joints of his body were covered with a chalky deposit. 224 Acetabulum; the cartilaginous covering is nearly ab- sorbed, as is part of osseous structure. 225 Part of an acetabulum, ilium, and pelvis. All the soft parts, cartilages and ligaments belonging to the hip joint, have been destroyed by ulceration, and firm