426 Mal-formation among the Lower Animals. 1666 A monstrously formed young pig, which only lived a few hours after its birth. The deformity is in the head, which in figure in some degree resembles that of an elephant. The frontal and parietal bones project perpendicularly, presenting a conical shaped high forehead. The eyes are very small, and the eye-lids of a dark color, as is the face and ears, which gives a most singular appearance to the animal, the rest of the skin is white, and free from hair. The extremity of the nose and upper lip projects considerably, re- sembling on a small scale the trunk of an elephant. There are no signs of nostrils, the tongue pro- trudes beyond the lips, the under lip is curved upwards, and it does not possess the least appearance of that of a pig's. The fore and hinder feet were not bisulcated. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were normal. 1667 Two young pigs, the heads and bodies united. The heads, necks, and faces intimately united sideways. The bones of the calvaria were wanting, but the membranes and nerves belonging to a brain were present; the nerves were extremely diminutive, and the base of the cranium, which appeared to be formed by portions of each, was extremely narrow, as seen in the preparation. There was only one ear and a single eye to the two heads, and only one fore leg to each body ; the tho- rax and abdomen were united, the hinder parts of the body were distinct, and the extremities natural. One was a boar, the other a sow. 1668 Two young pigs united. There is only one head, which is very large; there were two ears in the natural situation, and there were two well developed ears in the integuments of the scalp at the occipital part, close to each other. The thorax and abdomen were closely conjoined, there were two fore legs to each pig, and the hinder extremities were natural. They were sows. If the head of this pig had been dissected, it would have been probably found that it had been formed by an union of one half of the cranium of each pig.