405 posterior surface of the uterus, the effects of chronic inflammation, probably caused by the first labor. The adhesion of the extremity of the Fallopian tube to the external surface of the uterus was so great as to have completely prevented its embracing the ovarium in actu coitus ; the corpus luteum was found in the right ovarium. The muscular fibres of the bladder were very flaccid, and pale colored, probably occasioned by their want of action, the urine having passed through the vagina. The posterior part of the bladder was" cut open to show the aperture which communicated with the vagina ; it was situated at the posterior and inferior part of the bladder, between the openings of the ureters ; its circle was equal to the size of half a crown, and the edges smooth and defined ; this is shown in the preparation. I have seen another case of the same kind. When the aperture in the bladder is large, and so near the openings of the ureters, I think it would be highly imprudent to perform any operation with a view to remedy the defect. I have found the introduction of a soft sponge into the vagina particularly useful in preventing the invo- luntary discharge of urine, and excoriation of the external organs of generation. External and internal organs of generation, with the sacrum, &c. &c. The labia and nymphae, the vagina, verge of the anus, and a considerable por- tion of the rectum were destroyed by sphacelation, as was the neck of the bladder. The uterus was healthy; a corpus luteum in the left ovary. In consequence of the integuments cover- ing the sacrum having mortified, the inferior part of this bone became necrosed, and a portion of the bone, with the os coccygis, exfoliated ; the spinal marrow became inflamed. There was a considerable quantity of serous fluid between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, and these membranes were inflamed ; there was about an ounce of the same kind of fluid in the ventricles of the brain. All the thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy. The poor woman, 30 years of age, had been nearly three days in labor ; she was attended by a midwife; the