134 patient lived a few days longer, the aneurism would have burst externally. The patientwas aman50years of age ; the disease had been making progress nearly eight months. See the cast of the external part. 472 An aneurism of tremendous size at the ascending part of the aorta and its arch. - The heart was very large, hypertrophy of the left ventricle, cavity capacious. Valves normal. The sigmoid valves of the aorta extremely large, their base slightly thickened by lymph. The aorta, from its origin and arch formed an immense aneurism ; all its coats were rendered very dense, particularly the internal one, by organised lymph and cartilage : and all the vessels given off by this artery are aneurismal. The sac adhered firmly to the cellular tissue of the sternum, it had, at this part, sloughed, and nearly the whole of the sternum, and portions of the ribs had been absorbed. The aneurism protruded externally; the subcellular tissue and integuments belonging to the anterior surface of the thorax, sphacelated; and in a short time the aneurism would have burst through the skin. The sac was filled with coagulated blood and fibrine; some portions of the latter are preserved in the preparation. The internal surface of the sac is thickly coated with organised lymph. This is a magnificent preparation. The patient,—a man 50 years of age, the disease had proceeded gradually for nearly three years. 473 An aneurism of the descending and inferior part of the aorta, of considerable magnitude. The valves normal; the internal coat of the aorta immensely thickened by organised lymph, and irregular pro- ductions of cartilage. The aperture of the aneurism is about the circumference of half a crown ; the sac nearly filled with coagulated blood and fibrine ; the internal surface very thick. This is an aneurism by dilatation of all the coats. The patient was a very athletic man, 40 years of age. 474 An aneurism in the thoracic aorta, the sac of which had formed adhesion to the pleura of one of the lobes of the left lung; the sac gave way, and filled this side of the chest with blood. 475 Four dorsal vertebra?, the anterior and lateral surfaces