380 The patient, 69 years of age, had been afflicted with symptoms of a diseased liver, accompanied with jaun- dice, for nearly twelve months. During the last five months of her life she had been teased with diarr- hoea, and complained of pain in the situation of the caecum and transverse arch of the colon. The fasces were frequently mixed with mucus and blood. These symptoms were moderated by chalk, kino, and opium. She had uterine haemorrhage, which reduced her greatly; at last the intestines be- came immensely distended with air. and she ex- pired. The peritoneum was thickened by chronic inflamma- tion, and the intestines were firmly agglutinated by lymph. There were depositions of lymph in the form of small tubercles, beneath the serous cover- ings, and on the mesentery. The liver was very small, of a deep yellow color, solid in texture, and its vascularity greatly diminished. The mucous coat of the intestines was highly vascu- lar, especially in the caecum and colon, where con- siderable ulceration had been produced. The tho- racic viscera were healthy. See Section on Dis- eased Intestines. 1513 Uterus, with a portion of the rectum ; long firm adhe- sions had been formed between the serous covering of the Fallopian tubes, and that reflected over the anterior surface of the rectum, which are seen in the preparation; the Fallopian tubes are ob- literated. There are several small scirrhous tubercles beneath the peritoneal covering of the Fallopian tubes, and one in the uterus, near its neck. The woman was a notorious cyprian. 1514 Uterus of a noted cyprian. The cavity of the uterus and os uteri were very small, long bands of adhesion had formed between the fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes and the peritoneal surface of the rectum, so as to pre- vent their embracing the ovaria in coitus. The patient, 25 years of age, had never been pregnant. She had suffered several attacks of syphilis, which was evidently shown by the inguinal cicatrices, and the ragged state of the labia; there were nodes