123 edges on the middle of the leg near the tibia; the veins were varicose. On the 1st of September, 1827, the wound became very painful, the pain daily in- creased, and there was an ichorous discharge ; the surface of the sore assumed a dark hue, and the temperature of the foot and leg was considerably diminished; in the course of a week they showed all the signs of gangrena sicca. The poor fellow suffered agonising pain; his health became disordered; the integuments of the foot and leg began to slough, and the discharge of pus was extremely offensive. He earnestly requested to have the leg amputated, although he was informed by the gentleman who attended him, that an operation would not save his life. At this time I was request ed to see the patient; I strongly advised him not to think of having the leg removed, as there did not appear the least chance of its proving succesful at his period of life. He still persisted in wishing to have an operation performed, whatever might be the conse- quence. To oblige him (although it was contrary to my wish) I removed the leg, above the knee-joint; which he bore with surprising fortitude, and it was not necessary to tie a single artery. The stump healed in the course of ten days, which was more than was expected, considering the morbid state of the arteries, and his health improved. About seven weeks after the operation he was suddenly seized with violent palpitation of the heart, and dyspnoea, something similar to angina pectoris, and he lived only twenty four hours. Examination of the amputated limb. The integuments were hard and dry ; the muscles dark colored, and extremely putrid ; the periosteum dense ; it was separated from the principal part of the tibia by putrid pus. The tibia and fibula after ma- ceration showed the effects excited by the ulcer on the leg: a considerable portion of the tibia having been absorbed. The fibula was greatly enlarged, and in consequence of periostitis, osseous matter had been deposited irregularly on the surface of the bone, and the interosseous ligament in some parts was converted into osseous matter. Tnspectio cadaveris. There was upwards of a pint of