316 pulpy tubera ; it weighed twelve ounces. The ab- dominal aorta was remarkably small; the renal arteries were large, nearly equal to a large carotid. The pelvis of the right kidney was very capacious, the ureter small; the renal artery was injected with size and vermillion and waxen injection ; some of the injection had passed into the cavity of the pelvis, which accounted for the repeated haemorr- hages during the patient's life. From a female, 21 years of age,with a very delicate con- stitution ; from the age of 15 had menstruated with regularity. For several months she had expe- rienced great pain in the loins, and difficulty in voiding urine; the abdomen seemed to be en- larged ; and her health became affected. About a week prior to the regular menstrual period she was suddenly attacked with frequent desire to make water ; and, in the course of a few hours, an amazing quantity of limpid urine was discharged, without allaying the urgent propensity to void more. The irritability of the bladder increased, and arterial- looking blood was discharged in considerable quan- tity ; but, as there was great uterine irritation, it could not be easily ascertained from whence the haemorrhage proceeded. From the loss of blood and violence of the pain, she became extremely pale, pulse small and very rapid, the mind much agitated; but there were no signs of syncope. The acetate of lead and opium were given, and at proper intervals, infusion of roses ; cloths wrung out with vinegar and water were employed, which had the effect of lessening the hasmorrhagic action. After this, retention of urine came on, and the pain in the region of the bladder was so dis- tressing as to render it necessary to draw off the urine ; nearly a pint and a half of blood, mixed with urine, were evacuated, which gave the patient great relief; but it was necessary to repeat the operation for several days. The irritation of the bladder continued very violent ; the contractile efforts were frequent, and a considerable quantity of bloody fluid was discharged; the regular men- strual discharge commenced, and she was greatly distressed with bilious vomiting.