176 in a minute; she was extremely irritable, and appeared greatly exhausted. On exploring the chest, the left side was found to be much larger than the right, and the abdomen greatly distended with fluid. It was now evident that empyema was the cause of the enlargement of the thorax; but there was some dif- ficulty in accounting for the effusion into the abdomen. The case being complicated, and the patient appearing in a dying state, it was not considered prudent to perform paracentesis thoracis. The child died on the fifteenth day from the commencement of what was supposed to be pleuritis. On opening the abdomen, the left side of the diaphragm was seen to have descended, in the form of a large sac, nearly as low as the crista of the ilium. The cause of this protrusion was found to be pus, which filled the left side of the chest, and with that in the sac, measured seven pints. The pleurae were greatly thickened by organised lymph, also the external surface of the pericardium, and the lung was compressed, and completely impervious to air, as shown in the preparation. The internal surface of the pericardium, and its reflected portion were inflamed, but lymph had not been effused, and there was not more serum in the bag than natural. The heart was large, as were the vessels of the arch of the aorta; its muscular structure very soft; the valves natural. The lungs on the right side of the chest were so much distended with air, as to appear too large for the cavity. The internal structure healthy; but the pleurae were inflamed, and there were six ounces of fluid in the cavity. The serous surface of the inferior part of the diaphragm was highly inflamed, and partly ulcerated; and if the patient had lived a little longer, an opening in the diaphragm would have been formed, and the pus in the left side of the chest would have escaped into the cavity of the abdomen. The abdominal viscera were healthy. The result of the post-mortem examination proves clearly, that the effusion into the chest had been going on insidiously for a considerable length of time. 720 Pleura costalis, immensely thickened by organised coagulated lymph, the result of chronic inflammation.