166 The right subclavian artery, at its origin, was conside- rably lessened in its caliber, by a thick deposition of lymph, which was as firm as fibrine, and would in time have obliterated the trunk at this part. All the abdominal viscera healthy. My reason for describing the history of this case so fully is, because I consider it in many points of view highly interesting. From the plethoric state of body of this patient, and his having lived rather luxuriously, I am induced to imagine, that this was a case of arteritis, and that in all probability the effusions of fluid into the different cavities, had in a certain degree, taken place previous to his having bathed in cold water, and that the effusion was increased by the febrile action caused by bathing. I shall dwell more on arteritis in describing some other cases. 696 Larynx and trachea of a man 40 years of age; who for several years had suffered, at different times, severe attacks of catarrh, which affected his voice ; he was also afflicted with piles, and fistula? in ano. Symptoms of phthisis pulmonalis proceeded gradually ; he expectorated pus, his breathing was very laborious, and he became greatly emaciated. A short time previous to his death, an abscess formed beneath the integuments at the superior part of the sternum; it was opened, and the matter discharged was of a scrofu- lous kind. Hectic fever came on, accompanied with diarrhoea. Inspectio. The lungs on both sides were almost solid with miliary tubercles, and there were a great number of vomicae. The surface of the epiglottis, the lining of the larynx, and the chordae vocales were greatly thickened by chronic inflammation. Most of the mesenteric glands were affected with scrofula, and there were a great number of fistulous openings in the. rectum. 697 Larynx and trachea of a man, who had suffered from the effects of chronic catarrh, and had lost his voice for several years. The whole lining of the wind-pipe was thickly coated with coagulated lymph ; but this was more obvious in the larynx, where it was deposited in a granular form, as seen in the preparation.