17? 1 Pleura pulmonalis, thickened by coagulated lymph organised. The structure of the lung partly conso- lidated by inflammation, and in one portion there are small excavations, or vomicae. From a man who died of phthisis pulmonalis 2 Pleura pulmonalis, thickly coated with coagulated ymph, which was organised ; the structure of the lung is remarkably solid from the effects of chronic inflammation, and sero-purulent infiltration, and in some portions of the lungs there were several sacs containing pus. The bronchial tubes, the bronchi and trachea, were filled with pus, and the lining highly inflamed, and in some parts ulcerated Ihe pericardium was inflamed, and lymph deposited on its surface, which was easily detached The abdominal viscera, with the exception of the intes tmes, were healthy, the latter greatly distended with air and the mucous glands of the ileum enlarged and in some portions ulcerated. ' The patient who was 19 years of age, had been under the care of several physicians ; i was informed that the blood taken from a vein in the arm was highly inflamed. ° 3 Pleura pulmonalis inflamed, and thickly coated with coagulated lymph, which adhered firmly • the Ws were hepatised. A child, 2 years of age, had great difficulty in breathing, with lips of a purple color Ihe pleura thickly covered with coagulated lymph the lungs on both sides consolidated; the bronchial tubes were partly obliterated, and the bronchi and trachea nearly filled with pus. There were a few miliary tubercles in the lungs, and some of the mesenteric glands were converted into caseous matter The abdominal viscera healthy. Pleura, thickened by lymph ; the lung rendered solid by small miliary tubercles, and deposition of lymph in the cellular tissue. This is a frequent occurrence in scrofulous subjects. Pleura pulmonalis, thickly covered with organised lymph ; the natural structure of the lung destroyed by very minute miliary tubercles, and interstitial deposits of lymph, which had become organised 1 he patient was a female 19 years of age The pleurae on both sides of the chest were greatly