56 ligamentous anchylosis is effected. The other sec- tion is in the Museum of the Royal College of Sur- geons. From a man, 65 years of age, who had received a severe injury in the situation of the hip- joint. Great swelling and inflammation, with ex- treme pain in the hip, were the consequence. Active means were employed to check the progress of the disease by the gentleman who attended the patient; hut the pain in the joint still continued to annoy him. He was confined in bed for nine months ; after this an abscess formed near the groin, which was opened, and a considerable quantity of pus, mixed with flakes of coagulated lymph escaped, and a copious dis- charge continued from the opening for nearly two years. The patient had been greatly affected by the pain he had endured; but shortly after the discharge of pus, the pain ceased and his health improved, but the hip-joint remained useless. He was strictly desired to keep the leg in a splint, in a straight position: this he did not attend to, but preferred sitting during the day in an arm chair; the consequence was, that anchylosis of the joint took place in angular position. He remained in good health for several years, but was eventually attacked with symptoms denoting organic disease of the liver; jaundice came on, succeeded by ascites, and the operation of paracentesis was performed. The fluid again accumulated in the course of three months ; but his health was so much affected, that the operation could not be repeated. On inspection, the peritoneum was found greatly in- flamed, and thickly coated with coagulated lymph ; and the intestines were agglutinated. The liver was granulated; the spleen was large, and its capsule cartilaginous. The union of the joint was so very firm, that it was considered a case of osseous anchylosis, until the section I have described was boiled, when it proved to be only a ligamentous union. 226 A diseased hip-joint, which resembles in some degree the appearances seen in a fractured neck of the thigh- bone, within the capsule. From a woman, 70 years of age, who died of sanguineous apoplexy. Ten years previous to her death, she had a scrofulous