337 the bladder is highly inflamed, and thickened with coagulated lymph ; the muscular coat is also in- flamed. The prostate gland healthy, but the ure- thra is thickly coated with lymph, which adheres firmly. The peritoneum on the right side, near the kidney, was highly inflamed. The cause of this appearance was ascertained on examining the kidney, which was thickly covered with adipose substance; the gland was greatly diminished in size, and its infundibula and pelvis were nearly filled with calculi of different sizes. The sub- stance of the kidney, and the lining membrane of the pelvis, &c. were inflamed, and the ureter had ulcerated at about a quarter of an inch from its origin, and several renal calculi had passed through it, which had occasioned inflammation of the cel- lular tissue belonging to the psoas muscles. Suppura- tion followed, and formed an enlargement similar to a lumbar abscess, from diseased vertebra?. There were several calculi in the left kidney, and in the urethra. The liver was not much affected, but there were several calculi in the gall-bladder. The lungs and heart were healthy. The patient, 55 years of age, had suffered greatly many years with an affection of the kidneys, and had been seen by several eminent surgeons. The urine was mostly loaded with mucus, sometimes mixed with pus and calcareous concretions. A sound was introduced into the bladder, which gave the patient great pain, but no stone was detected. The rectum was examined by another surgeon, who imagined all the symptoms were occasioned by a diseased state of the prostate gland and the urethra. The patient was suddenly seized with excruciating pain in the situation of the right kidney, the blad- der, and the testicle; he had frequent rigors, and the quantity of urine diminished; fever super- vened, and he died on the fifth day from the com- mencement of this attack. Although this patient had been suffering severe pain such a length of time, and had been obliged to keep his bed during the greatest period of his affliction, yet he remained remarkably corpulent, z