36 through the cervix, and lacerated the capsular ligament. From a woman, 85 years of age ; she lived fourteen days after the accident; the synovial covering of the neck of the bone had been lacerated, and an opening made into the cavity of the joint, into which blood had been effused from the torn vessels, as well as into the cellular tissue of the muscles of the thigh, near the fractured part. This specimen shows well to what an extent a fracture of this nature may proceed in old subjects, whose osseous structure has become fragile. The history of this case is published in the thirteenth volume of the Transactions of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, in a paper of mine on Fractures of the neck of the Thigh-bone within the capsular ligament. 155 A corresponding section of the thigh-bone. See the diseased kidney, and the bladder and prostate gland. 156 A fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone united by ligament. From a man, 82 years of age, by trade a tailor, a pauper, in Cripplegate workhouse. Ob- serving he walked lame, yet without the aid of a stick, I was induced to ask the cause of his lame- ness ; when he informed me, " that about six years ago, he had a fall and fractured his thigh-bone, and was conveyed to Saint Bartholomew's Hospital, where he remained nearly twelve months. When he was discharged, he was sent to his own apart- ment, and was unable to leave his bed for six months. Shortly after this period, he could walk with crutches ; which he continued to employ for two years, he then used but one; and after some time could walk very well with a stick." On examining the limb of the left side, I found it shorter than the other, the foot everted, and considerable enlarge- ment about the trochanter major, which convinced me, that the neck of the thigh-bone had been frac- tured within the capsular ligament; yet I had never seen a patient walk with so little lameness, after such an accident, at so advanced an age. The patient died from the effects of an old asthma, and hydro-thorax. Post-mortem examination.—There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest; and old