511 The liver felt greatly enlarged, and fluctuation was detected in the abdomen. Various kinds of diu- retics, &c. were prescribed, but the enlargement increased, and dyspnoea became very distressing. The nature of the case being interesting, I requested Drs. Farre and Birkbeck to see the poor fellow, they were of opinion that he could not long survive, and advised his being tapped. I performed the operation at about three inches below the umbilicus; only four quarts of fluid were drawn off, which was quite colorless. This afforded more relief than I anticipated, and to my astonishment all the unfavorable symptoms gradually subsided, and there was no further effusion of fluid, yet the liver felt enlarged. He left the Workhouse, and went into the country. About a year and a half from this period he was again admitted; the liver felt greatly enlarged, he was troubled with cough, accompanied with great difficulty in breathing, and occasional attacks of haemoptysis, which were very alarming. He was not emaciated; pulse 120 in a minute; the cough and dyspnoea became more distressing, the expec- toration of pus with mucus profuse; he lost his voice, symptoms of hectic fever came on, and he expired. The peritoneal surface of the liver was thickly coated with organised lymph, the right lobe presented irregular protuberances. The left lobe of the liver was pale-colored, structure affected with cirrhosis. The gall-bladder was extremely small, and con- tained only a glairy kind of fluid; the biliary ducts natural. The spleen was considerably enlarged, its structure healthy, but the capsule was thickened with lymph. All the other abdominal viscera were healthy, except the mucous glands of the small intestines, which were greatly enlarged. The kidnies were granulated ; in the right there was a calculus, occupying the pelvis, and three of the infundibula ; in the left there were three small calculi, and one in the urinary bladder. The liver, diaphragm, and lungs were removed for