420 the superior and inferior extremities were perfectly developed, also the nerves. 1657 A specimen of complete deficiency of the encephalon and its bony coverings, with the neck, and part of the thorax. Most of the nerves of the brain were seen, but they were all extremely small; the optic nerves very diminu- tive ; the retinas not present. The medulla spinalis small, the nerves forming the axillary plexus were large and looked healthy. In consequence of a deficiency of four of the cervical vertebrae, the neck appeared greatly shortened. The par vagum, phrenic, great sympathetic, inter- costal, and nerves of the inferior extremities were all perfect. All the viscera were natural, and the large intestines contained meconium. A foetus, about the 7th month. 1G58 A malformed foetus, about the 7th month, which was still-born. Most of the bones of the cranium wanting, also the brain ; the cervical nerves ex- tremely small, except the optic, which were nearly of a natural size. Most of the cervical vertebras were wanting, which made the child appear to be without a neck, the spinal canal was very small, it. contained only the theca vertebralis; there were no signs of spinal marrow. It is interesting that the axillary plexus of nerves on both sides were natural in size, as were the nerves belonging to the inferior extremities, which are preserved in the preparation. The par vagum, great sympathetic, and phrenic nerves were large. The heart was situated on the right side of the chest, it was rather large, and the arch of the aorta very capacious. The right auricle large, the left small, there was a free communication between them, without any signs of a foramen ovale having ever existed. There was also a free opening be- tween the ventricles, owing to an imperfection in the septum ventriculorum, near the origin of the aorta. The lungs were natural, the liver large, and solid in structure; the division of the lobes not regular. The intestines were situated in the left hy- pochondrium ; the caecum and its appendix were found on a line with the left kidney, which is seen in