159 The crystalline lens was opaque, and felt like wax. From a man 60 years of age, who had been afflicted with cataract eight years. 670 Eye, with a pearly cataract. 671 Eye, with a pearly cataract; the iris, choroid, and re- tina shown. 672 Eye, with a cataract. 673 Eye, with a pearly cataract; the retina thickened. 674 Eye, crystalline lens opaque, iris and the choroid without pigment. G75 Eye, with a cataract; the iris adheres to the inner sur- face of the cornea. From an old subject. 676 A pearly cataract, which was extracted. From a man 70 years of age ; the operation successful. 677 Eyes of a boy 16 years of age, with a calcareous cataract in both eyes. Mr. Lawrence describes these calculous concretions in the eye, in his invaluable Treatise on the " Diseases of the Eyes." He was deprived of sight at an early period of his life by confluent small pox. The eyes became staphylomatous, and the corneas ap- peared cartilaginous ; the arteries of the conjunctivas were greatly congested, and very tortuous, and the globes of the eyes projected beyond the palpebrag. During the last two years of his existence, he had been subject to severe pain in the eyes and head ; the accu- mulation of fluid in the eyes increased, which pro- duced a hideous appearance. With a view of en- deavouring to lessen his sufferings, and to prevent the disfiguration of his features ; T considered it right to puncture the corneas. A considerable quantity of water escaped, the tunics gradually collapsed, and the eye-lids closed; which made his appearance less disgusting. The symptoms were relieved, and he enjoyed good health till the 5th of April, 1821, when he was attacked with typhus fever, accompanied with purpura hasmorrhagica all over his body; the latter appeared two days previous to his death. He died on the 14th day from the commencement of the attack. Post mortem. All the vessels of the brain were excessively turgid; the arachnoid and pia mater inflamed ; there was a considerable effusion of blood between them.