266 portions of this membrane surrounding the intestine, in the same manner that I have seen the constriction formed in internal hernia in the human subject. I think it would be very difficult to give a correct opinion respecting the function of the portion of bowel above described. Perhaps it is calculated to prevent the nutritious part of the food passing too quickly from the small into the large intestines, and allows the lacteals to take up a larger quantity of chyle ? 1008 Stomach and duodenum of the Iguana. The oesopha- gus is very capacious. The structure of the stomach is very delicate and thin, its serous covering presents a glistening appearance of a bluish color, which has been called tendinous. The cardiac orifice is about an inch and a half from the pyloric. On the internal surface of the small arch of the stomach, the mucous coat is formed into four broad and long laminae, and the stomach at this point dilates into a roundish sac, which extends to the pylorus, and may be considered as a second stomach. The duodenum is very large, and the mucous coat plicated in the longitudinal direction ; the villi delicate. 1000 Duodenum of an Iguana, minutely injected with size and vermillion ; the internal coat laminated in the longitudinal direction. 1100 (Esophagus, stomach, and part of the duodenum of a Boa Constrictor. The oesophagus is very capa- cious in this reptile,and its internal surface is plicated longitudinally, as is also the mucous coat of the stomach. 1101 Duodenum of a Boa Constrictor. The external and internal coats are remarkably delicate in structure, there did not appear any signs of a muscular coat. The internal coat presents numerous small villi, which do not project far from the surface of the intestine. There were several tape worms found in the duodenum. The heads of two of them adhere to the intestine. There is something singular in the teniae found in the Boa Constrictor, the head is much larger than in any others I have examined, and there are two pointed processes near its mouth,