147 vein in the arm, an active purgative given ; the head shaved, an evaporating lotion constantly applied, and a proper belt to the chest. To my astonish- ment, the day after the accident, he was able to answer questions correctly ; but he had not the least recollection of his having had an accident. He complained of excruciating pain in the chest, and the breathing was laborious; he said " he felt bruised all over his body." The pulse remaining full and hard, and the scalp being very hot, bleeding from the arm was repeated; leeches were applied to the head, and saline aperient medicine prescribed. For nearly a week there ap- peared some hope of his recovery ; but he occasion- ally complained of a pain in the head, and at times his mind was confused. Four days previous to his death, febrile action came on, succeeded by considerable cerebral affection ; which terminated in convulsions. The patient lived fourteen days from the time of the accident. Inspectio. The calvarium very thick; there was water between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater; on the left side a considerable quantity of coagulated blood was found, 'firmly adhering to the arachnoid membrane lining the dura mater; the blood had lost a considerable portion of its colouring matter. The brain was inflamed, and there was more water in the ventricles than natural. Four of the true ribs were fractured at about three inches from the connecting cartilages ; no signs of union had taken place. The pleura costalis on this side was not inflamed. The thoracic viscera healthy. The liver was firm in texture, and granulated; the spleen large and solid. One of the kidneys was in a state of atrophy, and enclosed a large serous cyst filled with a mixture resembling chalk and water, probably the effects of gout; the patient having been long afflicted with this disease. In this case there were none of the positive symptoms of compression, or concussion, except on the day of the accident. Dura mater, with the falx, arachnoid, and pia mater. From a plethoric man who died of phrenitis. The internal surface of the dura mater, and falciform process are inflamed.