472 1785 Portions of the parietal bones of a child, showing the expanded state of the anterior fontanelle, the effects of hydrocephalus. 1786 A portion of cranium and dura mater of a child, who died of hydrocephalus, showing the bones greatly separated by the accumulation of fluid in the ventricles. 1787 Lumbar vertebras and sacrum of a foetus, showing the bones, intervertebral substances, cartilages, &c. There are two specimens in the bottle ; one from a foetus of about the 8th month, the other of the 6th. 1788 Sections of the os femoris of a child, showing the epiphyses, the centre of ossification, cancelli, &c. 1789 Patella, with its ligament. From a child. The arteries were injected with size and vermillion, after- wards dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. This is a very beautiful preparation. 1790 The left hand of a gentleman, showing extensive laceration of the integuments, &c. of a portion of the palm, occasioned by the bursting of a gun. I amputated the arm soon after the accident, and it was necessary to secure several small arteries. With a view of lessening the number of ligatures, to give the stump a better chance of healing by the first intention, I cut off both ends of the ligatures applied to the radial and ulnar arteries; a plan recommended by Dr. Jones. The stump healed favorably, but about three weeks after the operation, the patient complained of pain in the inner surface of the fore-arm; the integu- ments became inflamed, and a small abscess formed, which was opened, and to my astonishment the noose which had been applied on the radial artery escaped with the pus. After this the swelling and inflammation subsided, and the opening soon healed. This fact convinced me of the impropriety of cutting off both ends of the ligatures in amputations. But in a case of strangu- lated umbilical hernia, where there was a large portion of omentum in the sac, which could not be returned into the abdomen, it was removed, and several large arteries were tied, both ends of the ligatures being cut off; the patient soon re- covered.