256 vomiting. Her health declined, she gradually became emaciated, and looked very sallow. About six months previous to her death, she could scarcely keep sufficient.nourishment in her stomach to preserve life; she frequently vomited a fluid like coffee grounds ; and complained of a burning heat in the oesophagus, and scrobiculus cordis. Her bowels were generally constipated,—she appeared to die of inanition. In the lungs and liver there were a great number of medullary tumors, the ovaria were greatly enlarged by carcinomatous tumors. The stomach was greatly contracted, but at the superior and posterior part of the small arch, close to the left side of the cardiac orifice, a pouch, or second stomach had been formed, such as I have before noticed, which I believe is the part principally em- ployed in carrying on digestion in these cases. There was a small quantity of dark-colored fluid in the stomach; its mucous surface was inflamed; and the extremity of the oesophagus and cardiac portion of the stomach were ulcerated ; these appearances are exhibited in the preparation. 1036 A portion of oesophagus, affected with carcinoma and melanosis. The disease had commenced in the cellular tissue, between the muscular and mucous coats, and caused ulceration of the latter to about the extent of two inches and a half; the loss of structure presented an elliptical figure. There is also an ulcerated opening through all the coats, about half an inch in length, which must have allowed what was swallowed to have passed partly through it, and in all probability occasioned inflammation and sloughing of the cellular tissue connecting the oesophagus, trachea, &c. Some of the absorbent glands were affected with melanosis. This is a very valuable specimen; the history of the case is not known. 1037 A portion of stomach, with the pancreas. The woman, 59 years of age, had been for upwards of two years distressed with dyspepsia, and complained of great pain in the region of the stomach after taking her meals, and had occasional attacks of vomiting. Her health for a few months previous to death,