259 1043 Stomach affected with carcinoma, and medullary sarcoma. The inferior part of the stomach was greatly condensed by the production of various car- cinomatous and medullary tumors between its coats. The mucous coat is ulcerated, the serous surface greatly thickened, and several of the tubera are seen in the preparation, beneath the serous coat. The pylorus and about three inches of the duodenum, are ren- dered nearly an inch in thickness by cancerous disease. This is a very remarkable specimen. 1044 Pyloric extremity of the stomach, with a portion of the duodenum. A man, 50 years of age, had been affected with stomachic disease several years ; a few months previous to his death, he complained of a burning heat in the region of the stomach, and could scarcelykeep any thing in it; he wasconstantly thirsty, jaundice supervened,he became emaciated, and appeared to die from inanition. The stomach was contracted, it contained only a small quantity of coffee-colored fluid, mixed with mucus; the internal surface was of a darkish color and very vascular. The pylorus was greatly lessened in caliber by medullary tubercles between its coats; the duodenum was inflamed, and nearly the whole of the cuticular lining of the oesophagus was destroyed bythe frequent acts of vomiting. The liver was hard and granulated; there were a great number of medullary tubercles in the omentum, some of them are preserved in the preparation; the omentum having become partly united to the outer surface of the stomach. Most of the large arteries were highly inflamed, and in some medullary matter was deposited between the fibrous and internal coats. 1045 Pyloric extremity of the stomach, affected with fungus haematodes and carcinoma. The serous and muscular coats of the stomach, for about four inches from the pylorus, were immensely thickened by schirrous and fungoid productions, and a portion of omentum adhered firmly to the serous tunic. The malignant tumors had by their growth destroyed the mucous coat, and projected into the stomach ; their appearances are well exhibited in the preparation. The pyloric opening very small.