249 1023 Inflamed and ulcerated intestines, injected with size and vermillion. A portion of the duodenum and jejunum, and a considerable part of the colon and rectum are preserved, to show the extensive state of disease in the mucous membrane. The lungs were nearly filled with miliary tubercles, and there were several large excavations. The mucous mem- brane of the trachea and oesophagus highly inflamed, and the former ulcerated. The liver very large and granulated, the peritoneal coat of the intestines inflamed, and all of them felt as thick and fleshy as those of a large Turtle. The whole of the mucous coat of the intestines highly inflamed, ulcerated, and in several parts greatly thickened and corrugated. The patient, a man 50 years of age, had led a most irregular life; for several months he had been afflicted with cough, and purulent expectoration, and about two months previous to his death was tormented with diarrhoea, and voided pus and mucus, sometimes blood ; hectic fever came on, and he expired. 1024 A portion of rectum. The mucous coat of a dark color and partly ulcerated; the effects of spirit of turpentine, which had been swallowed. The stomach and small intestines were also affected. 1025 A stricture at the verge of the anus. From a female child seven months old; it had been very delicate from birth, and the bowels unnaturally costive ; it was frequently teased with tenesmus, and sometimes with vomiting. The abdomen became greatly dis- tended; the case was considered to be diseased liver, with tabes mesenterica. Symptoms denoting hydrocephalus came on, which continued about three weeks, and the child died suddenly in a convulsive paroxysm. The large intestines were enormously distended with fasculent matter and gas, and all the coats immensely thickened (as seen in the preparation), and there were large scybalee in the caecum and colon. The small intestines were also greatly increased in size and thickness, and they contained faeculent matter in a fluid state ; there were no signs of inflammation of the mucous coat, but the glands were greatly enlarged.