253 been produced by a stricture in the rectum, and the caecum was in one part ruptured, which accounted for the escape of some of the contents of the bowels into the cavity of the abdomen; the opening is shown in the preparation. On examining the rectum, a stricture was detected, about four inches from the verge of the anus ; the coats of the bowel, at this part, were immensely thickened by the growth of carcinomatous and medullary tubercles, which commenced in the cellular tissue, and had made their way into the cavity of the bowel by ulcerative absorption, as is seen in the preparation. A part of the caecum is ruptured. The substance of the uterus was normal, but the right ovarium was converted into a tumor, the size of a small turnip ; its structure was partly schirrous and medullary. The peritoneum and its reflections were highly inflamed. The liver, particularly the left lobe, was affected with carcinomatous and fungoid tubera; the kidneys were also affected with small tumors of a schirrous density. The mucous coat of the bladder was inflamed. From a female, 42 years of age, who had never been married; she had been troubled with an obtuse pain in the lower part of the abdomen, nearly two years, and suffered great difficulty in discharging the contents of her bowels, requiring active purgatives to regulate them. The menstrual periods were very irregular, the secretion scanty in quantity, and accom- nied with severe pain. The discharges from the intestines were frequently mixed with pus, and sometimes blood, and the odour very offensive. The patient had been seen by several medical gentle- men. I examined the rectum, and although this was done in the most gentle manner, she complained of great pain. I soon ascertained that there was a malignant stricture in the intestine, and that the opening was extremely small; the mucous surface was ulcerated, and the cavity of the rectum felt as if filled by a large tumor. Bougies had been tried, which seemed to have aggra- vated the disease, and they always occasioned con-