327 1378 Cast of a very large urinary calculus. 1379 A large calculus, found in the bladder of a tortoise. 1380 A diseased bladder, from a boy, 10 years of age, who died on the fourth day after the operation of lithotomy. The operation was performed with a double-edged gorget, too wide, which had com- pletely divided the membranous portion of the urethra. There was considerable haemorrhage during, and after the operation; inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum supervened. All the coats of the bladder are greatly thickened, particularly the muscular, which probably had been occasioned by the calculus. The mucous coat of the bladder is highly inflamed, as was the whole of the peritoneum, the effects of the operation. 1381 Bladder and prostate gland. The bladder is greatly enlarged, the muscular and mucous coats thickened; and near its fundus lymph is deposited in consider- able quantity between the serous and muscular coats, it is organised, and formed into a tumor. The anterior part of the bladder adheres very firmly to the periosteal covering of the internal surface of the ossa pubis. There are several calculi in the prostate gland. The disease in the bladder was occasioned by the wheel of a cart passing over the ossa pubis, which separated the junction of the bones. The patient suffered greatly after the accident from retention of urine, which required to be drawn off, and it was generally mixed with blood. About four months after the accident, he was able to walk, and attended to his business, but he continued to have great difficulty in voiding urine, and occasionally required the aid of a catheter The patient was also very liable to attacks of catarrh, which had affected his voice, and a violent cold brought on pneumonia of a very distressing nature, which terminated in cynanche trachealis, and although very active treatment had been employed, the patient died. See the Section on Morbid Tracheee, &c. 1382 Urinary bladder, from a woman, which burst in con- sequence of neglected retention of urine. The coats of the bladder were highly inflamed, and sphacelation had taken place to the extent of two inches, at its inferior and anterior parts.