52 Periosteal inflammation had affected the external sur- face of the ulna and radius, for some distance beyond the joint; and enlargement of these bones had been produced, as is seen in the specimen. The arm was kept in a bent position, with a view to the production of anchylosis; but constitutional symp- toms came on, with great pain, &c, and rendered it necessary to amputate the arm. The disease in the joint was thought to have been occasioned by sy- philis, aggravated by the effects of mercury. The rounded enlargement near the head of the radius resembles a node. 215 Bones of the hand, with the inferior portions of the radius and ulna. In consequence of an injury done to the wrist, inflam- mation ensued, which increased to a great degree, although very bold treatment had been employed to subdue it. Pus formed in the joint; the hand became greatly swollen, and the integuments were inflamed. An abscess pointed at the wrist, which burst, and there was a great discharge from the opening. This did not lessen the pain in the joint; pus continued to be discharged, and was occasion- ally extremely foetid ; no granulations were formed at the edges of the opening; nor were there any signs of cicatrisation; but the discharge continued profuse ; the patient's health became disordered. On introducing a probe into the wound, the bones were found denuded; and it was thought necessary to amputate the arm. All the soft parts of the joint, with the cartilages, and a considerable portion of the ulna and radius were destroyed by ulceration, and an exostosis had formed on the former. The ends of the ulna and radius are firm in texture, and dense, without any scrofulous tendency, and the carpal, and metacarpal bones healthy. If the patient's health had not been so much affected, the joint might, in time, have anchylosed. 216 The ulna and radius, with the carpal and part of the metacarpal bones, affected with scrofula. From a man, 34 years of age. The disease in the joint had been progressively increasing for more than a year. Fistulous openings formed between the joint and skin ; there was a profuse caseous discharge; and