237 patient had lived a little longer the part would have sphacelated. The csecum is highly inflamed, the appendix not inverted, nor have I ever found this to have taken place in any case of introsusception ; the mucous coat of the colon, inflamed. The child 8 months old, had been particularly healthy from its birth; it became, in consequence of dentition, affected with diarrhoea and violent sickness. These symptoms increased, although proper remedies had been given to subdue their violence. The sickness became more distressing, and dysenteric symptoms supervened, with discharges of blood and mucus ; the child was in agonizing pain, and the abdomen became tense, and when pressed the pain was in- creased. The case was considered to be one of intro- susception, and it was very evident it would terminate unfavorably; convulsions came on, and the child expired. This is an excellent specimen of this fatal disease ; it exactly resembles a strangulated femoral, or inguinal hernia. 997 Introsusception. A fine healthy child, three months old, was suddenly seized with pain in the bowels, followed by violent vomiting, and unavailing attempts to relieve them. These symptoms increased, and nothing but blood and mucus passed from the bowels ; the vomiting became violent, and the child seemed in great agony. The abdomen enlarged, a tumor could be felt in the left hypochondrium, and there was prolapsus ani, denoting introsusception ; convul- sions came on, and the child expired. The jejunum and duodenum were greatly distended with fluid excrementitious matter, and the mucous coat was inflamed. The ileum had protruded through the valve of the colon, as far as the sigmoid flexure of this intestine, carrying with it the caecum, and a portion of the colon. The mucous coat of the invaginated intestines was highly inflamed, covered thickly with coagulated lymph, and in one part sphacelated. It is very singular that in this case, there was, in addition to an extensive volvulus in the usual way, a smaller inva- gination in the opposite direction, which is shown in the preparation.