86 Nearly half a pint of pus was found in the pericardium. The heart did not exceed the normal size ; the sur- faces of the pericardium were thickly covered with coagulable lymph; the adhesions were more firm on the surface of the heart, than on the containing part. The internal surface of the auricles and ventricles was highly inflamed, also the internal coat of the aorta and pulmonary artery. There was a considerable quantity of fat beneath the serous covering of the heart, the cavity of the left ventricle and its parietes were natural in size : the mitral valve was thickened, but the orifice was not constricted, the effect of chronic inflammation ; a morbid change which is frequently seen in old subjects. The right auricle and ventricle were natural in size, but the tricuspid valve was thickened, and the cellular tissue of the muscular structure inflamed. The aorta was of immense size, as was the pulmonary artery ; the former appeared aneurismal. The coronary arteries were also very large, but not diseased ; the sigmoid valves of the aorta were slightly thickened at their edges; those of the pulmonary artery normal. The liver did not appear to be much diseased; it was of a palish color, and felt soapy. The gall-bladder was completely filled with calculi of various sizes, 35 in number; the biliary ducts healthy. The spleen very large, its structure solid, and its capsule covered thickly with organised lymph. The patient had never been married ; the uterus was not more developed than one belonging to a girl 14 years of age ; there was a small polypus on the right side of the os uteri; the ovaria very small, their surface granulated—no signs of the vesicles of De Graaf. A portion of the left ventricle of the heart of a man 60 years of age, showing the effects of chronic pericarditis. He had for several years been afflicted with gout; during the last three years of his life he had cough and dyspnoea, with palpitation of the heart. About a fortnight previous to his death, he was attacked with a very severe paroxysm of gout, succeeded by metastasis to the heart, and he expired suddenly.