467 The absorbent glands in the course of the femoral artery were enlarged, from a deposition of fungoid matter, as were the inguinal, pelvic, and lumbar glands. The liver contained several fungoid tu- mors ; all the other viscera were healthy. The history of this interesting case has been partly described by Wm. Lawrence, Esq. in his invaluable Lectures in the Lancet on Fungus Haematodes. 177G The head of a tibia, expanded to an enormous extent, by the growth of a medullary and fungoid tumor in the cancelli of the bone. The parietes of the bone were nearly absorbed, there was only a thin shell left, which was very soft, from the absorption of the phosphate of lime. From a man 60 years of age. The leg was amputated, the disease after- wards attacked other parts of the body, and he died. 1777 Section of a tumor. From a man, 37 years of age, who had been afflicted with a disease near the knee- joint for three years. He had been seen by several Surgeons, some imagined it to be a disease of the sy- novial membrane, others, scrofulous, &c. The tumor in the ham was very large, and it had all the appearance of fungus haematodes. The leg was amputated. The main bulk of the tumor was situated in the ham, and it spread out laterally ; after the skin, muscles, &c. were dissected off, the external surface of the enlargement had a nodulated appearance, it felt soft and elastic. On making a section of the joint, it was seen that the capsule was immensely distended with fun- goid and medullary matter, that the cartilaginous covering of the head of the femur, and part of the osseous substance had been absorbed; the me- dullary part of the shaft of this bone was filled with fungoid matter, and a spontaneous fracture had taken place; this is seen in the preparation. The capsule of the joint was greatly thickened, and its internal surface was covered with organised lymph. The stump did not heal well, his health became affected, carcinomatous tubercles of various sizes appeared in the skin in several parts of his body, and previous to death the lungs became diseased. The disease seemed to have commenced in the femur.