180 tumor in the thigh, which was removed ; the history is given in the Section on Tumors. 736 Carcinoma affecting the pleura pulmonalis and costalis on the left side of the chest, causing compression of the lung on this side, and adhesion of the pleura pulmonalis to the pleura covering of the pericardium. The adhesions were occasioned by a thick deposition of lymph between the pleura? on the left side of the chest, and by a carcinomatous affection of the absorbent glands on each side of the sternum. The lungs were greatly disorganised by cancerous tumors, some of which were as large as a walnut. 737 A beautiful specimen of ramifying coagulated lymph, in firmness resembling fibrine. Some portions were coughed up from the bronchial tubes by a patient afflicted with cynanche trachealis; the remainder were removed after death. A similar preparation is published in Hunter's Treatise on the Blood, with an engraving. 738 A portion of lung, dried, to show enlarged air cells, taken from a patient who had been afflicted with asthma for many years. 739 A portion of lung, dried, showing the effects of emphysema. From a patient who had been affected for many years with asthma. 740 A portion of lung, showing interlobular emphysema. The patient 65 years of age, had suffered from asthma for nearly six years. This is a beautiful specimen. 741 Emphysema of the lungs. The lungs are minutely injected. This is a very beautiful preparation. There are two portions of lung in the bottle ; one piece is hepatised, the effect of inflammation. 742 Apoplexy of the lung. The lungs were nearly solidi- fied by blood, from the rupture of branches of the pulmonary artery, which caused death. The coagulated blood was removed, to show the appearance of the cellular tissue. He had suffered several attacks of haemoptysis, there were but a few tubercles in the lungs ; the liver and the other abdo- minal viscera were healthy. 743 A splendid specimen of apoplexy of the lung, preserved in alcohol. The patient died from haemorrhage.