169 believe he could not survive many hours, I did not think it right to operate. He only lived twelve hours from the time I saw him. The lungs were rendered remarkably solid by miliary tubercles, and interstitial depositions of lymph and pus, and the bronchial ramifications were loaded with pus and mucus. The velum pendulum palati was covered in some parts by lymph, and in other portions was sphacelated. The covering of the epiglottis, the rima glottidis, and the larynx, were thickly coated with coagulated lymph, which adhered firmly. The lining of the trachea was highly inflamed, and a very delicate adventitious tube had formed, but it did not adhere to the internal membrane of these parts. A portion of this tube is shown in the pre- paration, in the right bronchus. The abdominal viscera were healthy. The remains of the ductus arteriosus are seen in the preparation, with the termination of the vena cava inferior, and the Eustachian valve. It would be very difficult to decide in this case, whether the inflammatory action commenced in the substance of the lungs, thence affecting the inner surface of the bronchial tubes, and lastly the trachea and fauces; or whether it proceeded in the reverse direction. From what I have noticed in other cases I should say, the disease extended from the lungs. This must be considered a most important fact in practice, to be able to decide, particularly in cases of genuine croup, where tracheotomy seems the only chance of saving the life of the patient. In the last stage of phthisis pulmonalis, the internal lining of the bronchi, trachea, and larynx, frequently becomes inflamed, and ulcerates. 703 Larynx, and part of the trachea of a man, who died of chronic croup. The lining of the epiglottis and larynx, thickened by coagulated lymph, and in some parts ulcerated; the lungs were hepatised. 704 Trachea and larynx of a man. The larynx and trachea thickly coated with organised lymph; the lungs were hepatised. The patient died from the effects of chronic croup. The patient was 18 years of age, he had pseudo-syphilis,