474 followed by great swelling of the leg, matter formed beneath the fascia, and fever supervened. A con- sultation was held, amputation was proposed, and performed. The stump sphacelated, and irritative fever came on, which caused death. As the fracture was very extensive, and so much mis- chief had been done to the adjacent soft parts. I think in this case it would have been advisable to have performed the operation soon after the accident. Yet some cases of compound fracture do well by good management. I recollect a time when com- pound fractures of the extremities were removed immediately after the accident, and no attempts made to save the limb. The diseased state of the skin near the injured part is seen in the preparation, also the sloughy condition of the fascia. 1794 A very extensive ulcer in the integuments of the leg of a man, near the inferior extremity of the tibia. The periosteal covering of the bone in this part is very thickly coated with what appears to be coagu- lated lymph, the edges of the ulcer do not show any signs of healthy granulations. A section of the bone was made, the parietes were greatly thickened, and there were pus and small sequestra in the cavity of the bone near the internal malleolus, proving that this was a case of incipient necrosis, which, probably in the course of time, and by judicious treatment, might have undergone a spontaneous cure. The limb was injected with size and vermillion, and although the skin was made red with the fluid, there does not appear in the specimen much vascularity in the edges of the ulcer, and very little in the part covering the periosteum. 1795 A specimen of necrosis in the superior part of the tibia of a boy 10 years of age. He was in an Hospital for several months, the disease was sup- posed to be a scrofulous affection of the knee-joint, and was treated accordingly. An abscess formed near the tuberosity of the tibia, near the insertion of the ligamentum patellae ; it was opened and a considerable quantity of pus