347 to those found in the urethra. See the Section on Morbid Kidnies. The penis is injected with size and vermilion. The opening into the bladder is shown in the prepa- ration. From a man 40 years of age, who had been afflicted nearly three years with a renal disease. He had experienced great pain in the kidneys, his urine was generally very turbid, and he had constant in- clination to void it; this was generally effected with difficulty, the urine was loaded with mucus, frequently mixed with calcareous matter. The affection of the kidneys came on, shortly after a severe attack of typhus fever ; he also had exten- sive sloughing of the nates and loins, which it was imagined would cause his death. The disease in the kidney and bladder became very distressing; he voided urine with great difficulty, and it was generally mixed with pus, and some- times with blood. Every endeavour was employed to relieve his sufferings, but without permanent effect. A large swelling was felt in the perineum, which he said had been forming for several weeks, and leeches, poultices, and various other means had been employed to reduce the swelling. Re- tention of urine came on, and the bladder became greatly distended ; several attempts had been made to draw off the urine without effect. I examined the tumor in the perineum, it felt very dense, and as no fluctuation could be distinguished, I did not cut into the tumor. I then attempted to introduce a catheter into the bladder, but this I found quite impracticable, the obstructioi-i of the urethra being so great. I therefore decided on tapping the bladder above the pubes, to afford tem- porary relief. A considerable quantity of very thick offensive urine mixed with blood was drawn off, which mitigated his sufferings, and he became composed, and slept comfortably. The urine con- tinued to flow through the canula, and he appeared doing more favorably than was expected for four days, when irritative fever came on, and he was so furiously delirious as to require the use of a straight waistcoat, and he died. 1404 A bladder, its fundus ruptured, the prostate gland diseased, and the urethra lacerated.