20 any signs of scrofula in any part of his body ; which induced me to propose letting out the matter, which was readily sanctioned by the patient and his brother. A large wash-hand basin full of pure pus was dischar- ged ; and a considerable quantity continued to flow from the aperture; the hectic symptoms gradually dis- appeared, and his health improved. In about six weeks the wound closed; a fresh collection of pus formed, and it was necessary again to let out the fluid, which was considerably less in quantity than in the first operation. The discharge was very profuse for a length of time ; the opening closed; after this straps of soap plaster were applied, and a bandage round the waist; this plan was pursued for several months; the secretion of pus ceased, and the patient recovered. But what is very singular in this case, an enlargement appeared beneath the left clavicle, which increased in size, although the unguentum hydriodatis potassae, &c. had been employ- ed. Fluctuation was felt; the part was punctured, and a large quantity of matter flowed, the aperture after a time closed, a fresh collection of pus formed, and it was necessary to make another opening ; after this all went on favorably. This was a circumscribed abscess, as was the one in the loins. 96 The three first cervical vertebras. From a gentleman who was thrown from a horse and pitched upon his head, which occasioned death. On inspection, a con- siderable quantity of blood was found effused into the cellular tissue beneath the muscles at the nape of the neck, the posterior segment of the ring of the atlas was completely fractured, and the theca vertebralis and medulla spinalis, with the two vertebral arteries, lacerated. The transverse ligament which retains the odontoid process of the second vertebra, is preserved in the preparation, to show that it was not injured by the accident, nor was there any displacement of the arti- culating surfaces of the two vertebrae, which from such violent injury might have been anticipated. 97 Section of a dorsal vertebra, showing inflammation, and deposition of dense bone in the cancellous structure. 98 Fracture of one of the dorsal vertebrae through its body, and two of the spinous processes, which occasioned pressure on the spinal marrow. The lower extremities