132 ration of the internal one ; the left subclavian artery at its origin and a little above, is dilated, and there is another aneurism about the size of a walnut, at the descending aorta, nearly an inch from the origin of the left subclavian. This aneurism is also formed by a distention of all the tunics ; the sac did not contain coagulated blood, or lymph. 470 An aneurism at the descending portion of the aorta, which burst into the oesophagus, and the right bronchus. A man, 60 years of age, was admitted into Cripplegate Workhouse in 1825 ; he had been at a Dispensary for a considerable time. He com- plained of having suffered greatly from the effects of a cough and pain in the chest, accompanied with great difficulty in breathing; his face looked sallow, lips of a purple color, and he appeared greatly dejected; pulse 120 in a minute, small, but not irregular; he also said he had experienced great trouble in swallow- ing food or medicine for some time. The fauces were carefully examined, they appeared in a healthy state ; from the color of his lips and skin, it was imagined that the liver and heart were diseased. He refused taking any medicine, and scarcely took any nourishment; about a week from the time of his admission, he was suddenly seized with haematemesis, which was so profuse as to threaten destruction of life. This haemorrhage gradually subsided, but he voided blood with his faeces, and about the third day from this attack, the vomiting of blood recurred, accompanied with haemoptysis, which caused imme- diate suffocation. In both sides of the chest there were old standing ad- hesions between the pleura?; the lungs of the right side were partly hepatised, and one of the lobes in the left cavity was injected with blood. The ven- tricles and valves of the heart were natural; but the auricles were extremely capacious, and very muscular; the fossa ovalis greatly expanded. The internal coat of the aorta is greatly condensed by cartilaginous and osseous matter ; the caliber of the arteries at its arch is large, especially the innominata. At the descending part of the aorta, near the origin of the left subclavian artery, and the under surface of its arch, there is an aneurism of moderate size ; the