284 show the cellular texture in which it had been deposited, this is greatly thickened. The vena cava hepatica was filled in many parts with medul- lary matter. The lungs were affected with the same disease. This case is published in the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society. 1194 A portion of liver affected with medullary sarcoma ; the serous covering was thickened, and very vascular. 1195 Liver affected with medullary sarcoma, the gall- bladder thickened. The liver injected. A woman, 56 years of age had lived very irregularly ; the liver projected considerably beyond its boundary; she complained of great pain in the right shoulder, the fasces were clay-colored, and she had frequent attacks of bilious vomiting. A few months previous to her death jaundice came on. There was not the least sign of peritoneal inflam- mation ; the liver seemed to occupy nearly the whole abdomen ; it felt very firm, and its external appearance was of a dark green color (this is preserved in the specimen), with the exception of numerous whitish circular spots beneath the serous covering. These macula? were various in size, the largest not exceeding an inch in diameter, they had scarcely any projection; the largest had central depressions, from the serous surface having become cartilaginous, and there were a number of minute arteries supplying those diseased parts. The ductus cysticus, hepaticus.and communis choledochus were plugged up with a black morbid secretion. The liver was of a deep green color, as if the minute biliary ducts had diffused their contents, instead of conveying them into their main tubes. There were a great number of medullary tubera of different sizes in the liver, and although the arteries had been injected with subtle fluid, scarcely any signs of vascularity were seen on making sections of the organ. The gall-bladder was filled with the same kind of secretion noticed in the biliary ducts. The spleen was enlarged but not diseased; all the other viscera were healthy, but the veins were gorged with black blood.