146 539 A portion of dura mater, with the arachnoid and pia mater injected with size and vermillion ; the arach- noid and pia mater are greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and the under surface of the pia mater is granulated. From a man, an incurable maniac ; there was also water in the ventricles. 540 Dura mater and arachnoid membrane. The tunica arachnoides and pia mater were greatly thickened ; the substance of the brain highly inflamed. From a man who died of typhus fever. 541 Dura and pia mater, the latter greatly thickened by chronic inflammation ; a portion of the brain is also shown. From a man who died of serous apoplexy. 542 Dura mater and falx, with the arachnoid and pia mater, also a portion of the cerebrum. The tunics are greatly thickened, and the convolutions of the brain flattened; the falciform process of the dura mater is imperfectly developed, there being several fissures in it. There was a large collection of pus between the arachnoid membrane, and the pia mater ; the brain was inflamed, and there was pus in the ventricles. 543 Dura mater, with the other tunics, and a portion of the cerebrum. Blood is effused between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, which adheres firmly to the former, and the arachnoid covering the pia mater is thickened. A plethoric man, G7 years of age, was thrown out of a gig, and fell on the right side of his body; he was taken up quite insensible. I saw the patient soon after the accident, he appeared laboring under symptoms of compression of the brain; the breathing stertorous, pupils of the eye contracted ; the vessels of the conjunctivae greatly distended; pulse full and hard. On examining the head, to ascertain whether there was fracture of the skull, T detected a considerable en- largement on the right side of the head, beneath the integuments covering the temporal and parietal bones. I could not detect any signs of fracture in any part of the cranium ; the enlargement I consi- dered was occasioned by effusion of blood beneath the integuments. The elbow on this side was bruised ; and some of the true ribs were fractured. A considerable quantity of blood was taken from a