407 External and internal organs of generation, with part of the bladder and rectum. The labia externa are remarkably large, as are the nymphas ; there were several ragged excavations in the right nympha, and it was nearly separated from its base. There were several large verrucal growths on its surface, some of which had extended to the clitoris and its preputium : and similar growths had covered the verge of the anus, pre- senting altogether a very disgusting appearance. The meatus urinarius was destroyed by syphilitic disease ; the vagina was in a state of sloughy ul- ceration, and there was a large opening between the vagina and the posterior and inferior part of the bladder. The uterus and its appendages were healthy, the mucous coat of the rectum had been destroyed by ulceration, and there were several fis- tulous openings, some leading along this bowel, and passing from it into the vagina. From a patient 60 years of age, who had suffered frequent attacks of gonorrhoea, and the different stages of syphilis, and had been often salivated. During the last sixteen months of her existence she experienced excruciating pain from inconti- nence of urine, which excoriated the external organs of generation, and the integuments of the thighs. Her constitutional powers became greatly reduced, ascites supervened, and she experienced such diffi- culty in breathing, that it was thought necessary to perform paracentesis ; fifteen pints of water were drawn oft. This afforded, for a time, temporary relief, but symptoms of disease in the lungs became very evi- dent, and she died. The peritoneum was covered with lymph, deposited in a granular manner, the effects of chronic inflam- mation ; and there were eight pints of water in the abdomen. The liver was double the natural size, color yellow, structure soft. There were old standing adhesions in both sides of the thorax; the lungs were in several parts hepatised, and there were a great number of scrofulous tubercles. The pericardium contained six ounces of pus, and lymph had formed on its surfaces. The heart was of natural size, but the foramen ovale was widely open.