71 and had used a wooden leg: when pain was felt in the stump, which he imagined had been occasioned by some imperfection in the instrument. Means were employed to prevent the mechanical irritation, but without effect; he suffered painful sensations in the part, and an enlargement on the inner surface of the thigh-bone, above the base of the stump, was felt. Various means were tried to prevent, if pos- sible, the growth of the bone, but to no purpose. The neuralgic affection increased; he suffered from severe spasms at the end of the stump; and his health became disordered. There not appearing any chance of checking the mor- bid action, I advised another operation, which he readily consented to. The shortness of the thigh rendered a tourniquet useless; the femoral artery was therefore compressed on the body of the os pubis by a well constructed instrument, entrusted to a good assistant. I performed the flap operation, and with a hope of pre- venting the recurrence of the disease; the thigh-bone was sawn through, a short distance from the inferior part of the trochanter major. It was found necessary to tie seven arteries; the femoral vein (as in the first ope- ration) bled so profusely, that I fully expected I should have occasion to apply a ligature around it also. But as I was anxious to avoid doing this, I plugged up the end of the vein, and applied cold water to the surface of the stump for an hour, which fortunately produced the desired effect; but by doing this, I nearly exhausted the patience of the poor sufferer, and the gentlemen who were present at the operation. Plenty of integuments were saved to cover the stump (which I believe to be all that is necessary in amputations), it healed almost com- pletely by the first intention, and all the ligatures were separated in less than a fortnight. The patient sustained the second with as much fortitude as the former operation. I sincerely hope the disease will not again recur; but it is well known that in all cases of exostosis of great magnitude, requiring removal by an operation, the result is not always favorable; as there remains a predisposition to the reproduction of the disease.