305 disordered ; and during the last six months of its life it suffered from remittent fever. The liver was very large, and its structure very firm, and of a brownish white color. The gall-bladder contained viscid green-colored bile. The spleen was large, and extremely solid, like liver ; of a brightish red color (which appearance is seen in the preparation), and the capsule greatly thickened. Most of the mesenteric glands were enlarged and very solid in texture; not scrofulous. The mucous glands of the ileum and caecum were very large, and the mu- cous surface highly vascular ; but ulceration had not taken place. The thoracic viscera healthy. In all probability the disease had its origin previous to the birth of the child. 1285 Spleen consolidated by chronic inflammation and in- terstitial depositions of lymph; the capsule semi- cartilaginous. The patient died of ascites and jaundice. The liver was highly inflamed, and dense in structure. 128G Section of a spleen; it was of an immense size; its capsule greatly condensed, and partly cartilaginous; its substance rendered nearly solid by chronic in- flammation and interstitial deposition of lymph. A section of the spleen was made, and all the soft matter pressed out to show how small a quantity of ihe natural structure remained. The peritoneal surface of the liver was also greatly thickened, and its structure nearly destroyed by chronic inflamma- tion and effusion of lymph. A man 60 years of age, who died of ascites. 1287 Section of a spleen, its capsule greatly thickened by organised lymph; its structure as dense as in carcinoma. The man died from the effects of re- peated attacks of intermittent fever. The history of this specimen is related in the Section on Morbid Livers. 1288 Section of a spleen, capsule cartilaginous; vessels and cellular structure shown. The liver was granulated. 1289 Spleen, a portion of the diaphragm, and lung. From a man 70 years of age. The liver was greatly altered in structure from the effects of chronic inflammation, deposition of lymph, x