387 ment of the patient, and the persons about her, she was suddenly seized with an immense discharge from the bowels and the bladder, which flowed in- voluntarily, and deluged the bed and room, and in the course of a few hours her abdomen was as flaccid as if she had been tapped. The unexpected suddenness of this immense discharge of fluid seemed at the first impression unaccountable, but a little consideration satisfied the mind that this event could only have taken place by the giving way, by ulceration, of the ovarial cyst, and some portion of intestine and the bladder. Although the patient rallied for a time in a surprising manner, from the debilitating effects of this shock to the constitution, yet there appeared to be symptoms denoting organic disease, from which there was no hope of recovery. Pain in the abdomen was com- plained of, symptoms of hectic fever came on, suc- ceeded by diarrhoea, which continued for ten days. Part of an ovarial cyst, which had increased to an enormous magnitude; its external surface had formed adhesions with the serous surface of the dia- phragm, and most of the coverings of the abdominal viscera. The fluid was contained in various sized cysts, it was gelatinous ; the internal surfaces of the cysts were thickly coated with coagulated lymph, which adhered firmly. Paracentesis had been performed several times. The patient died from the effects of peritonitis. This would have been a very unfavorable case for the removal of the ovarium by an operation. I have performed the operation of paracentesis re- peatedly in ovarial dropsy, but only in one case was an absolute cure effected. A patient, in very good health, had an ovarial dropsy; the abdomen was greatly enlarged, and she expe- rienced great difficulty in breathing, which induced her to wish an operation to be performed, to give her temporary relief. A very large quantity of semi-gelatinous fluid was evacuated, which gave the patient great comfort. In about three months the disease recurred, but the abdomen was not so much distended as in the first instance. I re- peated the operation, and ordered a belt with