174 felt in the tumor, it was thought advisable to puncture it, to afford temporary relief. A considerable quantity of florid blood escaped, and continued to flow from the opening, which caused the death of the patient. 712 Base of the tongue, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and thyroid gland. The patient, 55 years of age ; had been afflicted with disease of the thyroid gland for nearly three years. For some time previous to her dissolution, she experienced great difficulty in swallowing, and gradually lost her voice. The symptoms increased in violence, and she could only take fluids in small quantity; her health became seriously affected, and shin sallow ; she was greatly emaciated, and appeared to die of inanition. The thyroid gland was carcinomatous ; the right lobe had formed a firm union with a portion of the trachea and oesophagus ; it had compressed both these tubes, but more especially the oesophagus, and had produced a stricture, which was situated at about two inches from the commencement of this tube ; the coats at this part had ulcerated, which is shown in the prepa- ration. The lining of the larynx, rima glottidis and trachea was thickened. The lungs were affected with carcinoma. The tongue, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi are shown; also the sublingual glands, the nerves and muscles of the tongue, likewise the thyroid gland, the glandulaj concatenates of the neck, and the bronchial glands. Carcinomatous tubercles had formed in the cellular media, belonging to the coats of the oesophagus, at the superior and anterior part; they had progres- sively produced absorption of the muscular and mucous coats, had projected into the pharynx, and extended upwards as far as the covering of the rima glottidis, compressing them considerably; the morbid action had also proceeded some distance along the oesophagus; these appearances are well displayed in the specimen. On cutting open the anterior part of the trachea, the internal lining (in a small circle) had been absorbed, and a portion of the thyroid cartilage deprived of its perichondrium, projected through this aperture into