172 in them; the bronchial tubes were filled with pus. The foramen ovale open. The mesenteric glands, and the mucous glands in the small intestines were affected. The description of the heart from this subject is given in the Section on Morbid Hearts. 708 The inferior portion of the trachea, and bronchi; the annuli in some parts converted into bone. The epiglottis, rima, and chordae vocales very large. The patient, 60 years of age, was a watchman ; he had a stentorian voice. He died of hydrops pericardii; the parietes of the left ventricle were very thick; the cavity capacious ; mitral valve semicartilaginous ; the aortic valves ossified. The coronary arteries in their caliber greatly diminished. The patient showed no signs of angina pectoris; it appears rather singular that the muscular structure should have continued so firm, with such a morbid state of the nutrient vessels. 709 Tongue, larynx, trachea, with the thyroid gland. The patient, a woman, died of confluent small pox, in the latter stage of the disease. The gums were covered with sordes, and the tongue and fauces were in an apthous state, but not from the effects of pustules. There were no signs or trace of pustules either on the lining of the larynx, trachea, or oesophagus. Two portions of the integuments belonging to this patient are preserved in the prepa- ration, to show the small-pox pustules ; there is also a trachea to exhibit the natural state. J have examined a great number of patients who died of small-pox, at different stages of the disease ; but I never saw any signs of pustules on the tongue, trachea, or oesophagus. I think the apthous appear- ances, have been by some, considered to be the effects of pustules. 710 Tongue, pharynx, and trachea. The patient 24 years of age, had been in a very delicate state of health for several years, and during the last eight months of her life had shown signs of consumption. About a month previous to her dissolution, she ex- perienced great difficulty in breathing, and was teased with a frequent cough; she also complained