I 386 obliterated; in the cavity there was a small poly- pus. The right ovarium was formed into a large sac, which was filled with sebaceous matter, matted with long coils of delicate brown-colored hairs. None of these hairs seemed to be growing from the internal surface of the cyst. The external surface of the ovarium was remarkably dense. The left ovarium was formed into sacculi, filled with glairy fluid, but it was not much enlarged. From an old woman. The history of the case is not known. 1541 An uterus; the natural structure of the left ovarium destroyed by a semi-gelatinous secretion, which had distended the capsule enormously, and firm adhesions had been effected between a portion of the external surface of the ovary and the serous covering of the transverse arch of the colon, and the fundus of the bladder. On cutting through the diseased ova- rium, the sac was found to be half an inch in thick- ness, the internal surface highly inflamed, and some portion in a sphacelated state. There was a considerable quantity of coagulated lymph and foetid pus in the sac. An ulcerated opening of communication had been established between the superior part of the surface of the ovarium and the cavity of the transverse arch of the colon, and the fundus of the bladder, which had allowed the escape of the contents of the ovary into these parts. The mucous coat of the colon and bladder was highly inflamed. The patient 44 years of age. The abdomen was greatly expanded by the ovarial enlargement, which had been increasing for nearly three years without affecting her health materially, and she menstru- ated regularly. About six months previous to her death, the enlargement of the abdomen began to occasion great pain in the loins, the secretion of urine diminished, and it was with difficulty voided. The symptoms gradually increased, pain was com- plained of over the whole surface of the abdomen, and she occasionally had attacks of vomiting. To give temporary relief to her sufferings, tapping had been frequently proposed, to which she would not assent. At last, symptoms of peritonitis came on, and she was hourly expected to die ; but to the astonish-