350 saved, by drawing off the urine, or by paracentesis above the pubes. This is an interesting prepa- ration. 1400 A diseased bladder, prostate gland, urethra, fistulse in perineo and scrotum. All the coats of the bladder are immensely thickened, the prostate gland enlarged, and as firm in texture as carcinoma. The membranous and prostatic portion of the urethra are completely destroyed by ulceration ; and there are several large fistulous openings in the perineum and scrotum, which are denoted by bristles; the integuments, and subcutaneous tissue belonging to these parts are greatly condensed. A cat-gut bougie is introduced from the commence- ment of the urethra into the bladder, to show the morbid state of the urethra. Ulceration of the superior portion of the prostatic part of the urethra had been produced, which had proceeded upwards between the anterior surface of the bladder and the pubis, and the cellular connecting tissue is in a spha- celated state ; the bladder adheres firmly to the periosteal covering of the superior part of the ossa pubis, as seen in the preparation. The kidneys and the internal surface of the ureters, pelves, and in- fundibula were highly inflamed. The patient was 40 years of age ; he died in an hos- pital. Various means of treatment had been em- ployed, such as bougies and caustic, freely, without producing any beneficial effect. This is the most complicated specimen of disease of the urinary organs T ever examined. 1407 A portion of bladder and urethra. There is a very small stricture at the membranous portion of the urethra, which is shown in the pre- paration by a black bristle. The whole surface of the prostatic urethra ulcerated, and the lateral lobes of the prostate gland destroyed; there is a large fistulous opening in the middle lobe, which communicates with the urethra. This is a very singular preparation. The history of the case is not known. It would be difficult to decide whether the opening in the middle lobe was occasioned by disease or by the employment of a catheter.