397 complaint was moderated by an astringent mixture but pus continued to be discharged with the faeces' the febrile symptoms ceased, and the patient did not experience any pain. At this period some hope of her recovery was enter- tained, but her health did not improve, her counte- nance became sallow, and pus, tinged with blood occasionally passed with the faeces. It was now evi- dent that the disease was of a malignant character. teJ months previous to her dissolution ascites with oedema of the lower extremities came on and very little urine was secreted, fever commenced, and the brain became affected. This is a very singular case. 1572 An uterus at the full period of gestation. The arteries and veins were injected with size and vermilhon, also with wax injection to show the numerous arteries, and particularly the veins, which ^r. William Hunter denominated large sinuses Ine uterus was cut open to show the thickness of its panetes, the vascularity of its internal surface and the vessels where the placenta was attached' Potion of the cervix uteri was lacerated. This is a very valuable preparation, particularly for a lecturer on Midwifery. The patient was 21 years of age, the labor was (I was informed) very lingering, and there was considerable haemorrhage during the pains. The haemorrhage was very profuse after the expulsion of the placenta and the patient died in a quarter of an hour This would have been a fair opportunity to have tried the effects of transfusion of blood. There were nearly three pints of blood in the cavity of the uterus all the other viscera were very healthy. 1573 Uterus of a woman 24 years of age, who died after parturition. The arteries were injected with size and vermilhon. I was informed by the Accoucheur who attended her, that the labor was very lingering and symptoms of fever came on the day after delivery These were followed by delirium, which caused death on the sixth day from the commence- ment of the attack. The perinaeum was lacerated m labor but the laceration had not completely ex- tended through the sphincter ani. The vagina was