502 ostitis, and exostosis. From an old man, who had for several years been troubled with an extensive ulcer in the integuments, which could not be cured. His health became affected, and it was considered right to amputate the limb. 2289 A section of the inferior portion of a fibula, minutely- injected, the earthy matter has been removed by muriatic acid; tbe vascularity of the cellular media is beautifully shown in the specimen. 2290 A fibula ; the superior portion enlarged, resembling a united fracture; the external surface rough, and there are two sharp spicula. The section of this part of the bone shows a thickening of the parietes, and a diminution of the medullary cavity ; there had not been a fracture. 2291 Cast of the leg of a man, showing great enlarge- ment of the knee-joint, the effects of exostosis. See Section on Diseased Bones, No. 261. 2292 A slice of an osteo-sarcomatous tumor, which had its origin from the inferior jaw-bone of a woman. See the Model. 2293 A fungoid and scirrhous tumor, which had its origin from the cellular tissue of the cancelli of the inferior portion of the right tibia; by its growth it had produced a spontaneous fracture of this bone. The disease had likewise caused destruction of the integuments to a considerable extent. From a man ; the disease had been progressively increasing for several years ; there was a profuse discharge of pus, sometimes mixed with blood ; his health became seriously affected, and there being no hope of saving the limb, it was amputated. On examining the morbid parts, .some of the blood- vessels were found obliterated, and a portion of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum pedis perfo- rans was exposed in the ulcerated part. 2294 A portion of sternum affected with carcinoma ; there is also in the same bottle part of a tumor of the same character, which was situated on the outer surface of the periosteal covering of this bone. The disease in the sternum had formed in the centre of the bone, and if the patient had lived a little loDger the morbid growth would have occasioned absorption of the periosteum and integuments.