247 1020 Intestinum rectum, enlarged in its circumference to an enormous size ; its coats prodigiously thickened, more especially the muscular. From an incurable maniac. He had for a length of time a constipated state of bowels (a condition I have frequently noticed in maniacs and idiots), and frequently was not relieved for several days. In consequence of not being strictly attended to by those who had the care of him, he was attacked with violent vomiting, which was followed by dis- tension of the abdomen, and he appeared in great agony ; his bowels could not be relieved either by drastic purgatives or clysters; stercoraceous vomiting came on, succeeded with singultus, under which he sunk. I was requested to inspect the body. There was an immense quantity of air, and fasculent matter in the cavity of the abdomen. The whole of the large intestines were of an immense size, more especially the rectum, although they were completely empty. The protrusion of the fagces into the cavity of the abdomen, was occasioned by a laceration of a part of the transverse arch of the colon. 1021 Intestinum rectum, ulcerated; the uterus and appen- dages shown. A woman, of a scrofulous diathesis, for nearly two years was teased with a cough, accompanied with pain in the chest; she expectorated freely, and her bowels were frequently relaxed. Symptoms of phthisis pulmonalis gradually increased, she became greatly emaciated, and complained of great pain in the abdomen, and difficulty in voiding faeces, which were tinged with blood and pus. These symptoms increased, the bowels were constipated, and required active purgatives and clysters to relieve them. A constricted state of the rectum was at this time suspected, an examination with a bougie was made, which denoted a diseased state of this intestine, six inches from the anus. About four months previous to her death, the pulmonic symptoms became more distressing, and the dis- charge of pus with the fasces was very profuse ; hectic fever came on, and the patient died. The