3.99 The abdomen was not distended, nor was pain com- plained of when pressure was made. The uterine affection began to moderate, and some hope was now entertained that she might recover, but unfor- tunately the pain in the head, with intoler ance of light, increased, and there was considerable pyrexia. Bleeding, blistering, and mercury were employed in vain. The patient died on the 12th day from the time of her delivery. The arachnoid and pia mater were highly inflamed, and pus was found between them ; the substance of the brain was extremely soft and vascular. There were two ounces of turbid fluid in the lateral ventricles, and about half an ounce of the same kind of fluid in the fourth ventricle. There was not the least sign of peritonitis, nor were there any morbid appearances in the abdominal or thoracic viscera. The parietes of the uterus were extremely firm in tex- ture, and highly inflamed, but the greatest degree of inflammation existed in the internal surface, where ulceration had taken place, and near the cervix the surface was sphacelated; this is seen in the prepa- ration. The ovaria and Fallopian tubes were inflamed; the corpus luteum was in the left ovarium ; the internal coat of the bladder was also inflamed. This is a very interesting case in a pathological point of view, as it proves that the peritoneum is not always affected in inflammation of the uterus after delivery, but it is found generally inflamed in puerperal fever. I never saw a case of inflammation of uterus termi- nate favorably. 57G Uterus of a woman, who died about a fortnight after parturition. Symptoms of inflammation of the uterus came on about a week after delivery. The uterus and vagina were inverted, to show the mor- bid appearances. The whole of the internal surface was highly inflamed, lymph had been deposited, but the fundus of the uterus, where the placenta 'had been attached, was more affected than the rest • the mucous surface of the vagina was inflamed and partly ulcerated. The corpus luteum is shown. The placenta adhered so firmly, that the uterus