274 The gall-bladder was rilled with a viscid green-colored secretion. 1148 A portion of liver; its natural structure nearly des- troyed by very small calcareous deposits of a granular figure ; the cellular tissue of a greenish color. A man, 40 years of age, by trade a Publican, had lived very intemperately. For nearly two years previous to his death, he had shown all the signs of diseased liver; jaundice came on, which continued for several months, and was followed by ascites ; subsequently his brain became affected. There was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen ; firm adhesion had been effected between the peritoneum and the serous covering of both lobes of the liver, and all the intestines were agglu- tinated by organised lymph. The transverse arch of the colon adhered firmly to the under surface of the liver, and the biliary ducts and pancreas were so thickly covered by lymph, and adhered so firmly, that they could only be detached by dissection. The gall-bladder contained only a little, thick, green- colored bile ; the pancreas not diseased; the kidnies granulated. 1149 Liver and gall-bladder, &c. The liver of a pale color, and granulated. There were a great number of large chalky concretions in its substance ; two of them, about the size of walnuts, are seen in the preparation. The gall-bladder very small, the coats dense, and there were several calculi in it; the cystic duct obliterated. The history of this case is not known. I have seen similar concretions in the liver in gouty subjects. 1150 A portion of liver, with an osseous cyst about the size of a walnut, which contained a chalky sub- stance ; it was situated near the surface of the liver, and had occasioned a thickening of the serous covering. 1151 A portion of liver, with a deposition of osseous matter of considerable size near its surface, which caused a thickened state of the serous coat. The history of this case is not known. I have seen similar morbid appearances in the liver of a sheep,