346 well as through the catheter. A sound was intro- duced from this opening, with a view of ascertaining the presence of a stone, but with the same unsuc- cessful result as by the urethra. If a stone had been found, the high operation of lithotomy might have been performed by increasing the opening in the bladder above the pubes, with a blunt pointed bistoury. Irritative fever came on, which caused death. I have performed the operation of tapping the bladder above the pubes in four cases in men; also in a woman, who had a thickened and con- stricted urethra. 1403 Diseased bladder, prostate gland, with the penis. The bladder was tapped above the pubes. The muscular coat of the bladder is greatly thickened; the mucous surface nearly destroyed by ulceration, and partly in a sphacelated state. The prostatic and membranous portion of the urethra is com- pletely plugged with blood, and portions of the sloughy mucous membrane, which probably had passed from the bladder; and there are also several small calculi. The bulb of the urethra is firmly compressed by a tumor, occasioned by a thickening of the cellular tissue, and pus was found in the centre of the tumor; there is an ulcerated open- ing between this abscess and the urethra. The pus in the abscess and urethra was very foetid, and portions of the musculi accelerators urinae were destroyed by ulceration. The prostate gland is not much enlarged, but in the centre of each lateral lobe there is an abscess. The prostatic and membranous parts of the urethra are sphacelated; the rest of the tube is ulcerated, and greatly altered in structure. The ureters were considerably dilated, and filled with urine and pus ; their internal surface highly inflamed, more espe- cially the right, which was partly sphacelated at about an inch before it enters the bladder. The kidneys were large, and soft in structure ; their external surface, after the capsules were removed, presented a granulated appearance. The infundi- bula and pelves of the kidneys were dilated, and contained urine mixed with pus; and in the right kidney there were three small calculi, similar