51 adherent to its surface, and is attached inferiorly to the coronoid process of the ulna, and superiorly to the anterior surface of the humerus immediately above its articulating surface. The head of the radius has been thrown completely off the humerus, and the interval between its superior surface and the epi-conclyle, has been filled with coagulable lymph, which has become organised and converted into ligamentous substance. In the midst of this liga- mentous substance, a small mass of bone of a trian- gular figure has been deposited, which is converted into a point of support, and articulation for the cup shaped cavity upon the head of the radius ; it is firmly attached to the middle of the cup by a strong inter-articular ligament, which firmly secures the head of the bone, while it permits of the utmost degree of movement in rotation. The external con- dyloid ridge of the humerus, has undergone a change in correspondence with the new position of the radius, and is prolonged outwards to a considerable extent in the form of a sharp bony crest, which gives attachment inferiorly to the ligamentous substance of the new joint for the radius. The lesser sigmoid notch is quite perfect, and its cartilage, and synovial membrane healthy. From the mode of union of the anchylosed bones, the arm must have been placed in the extended position. The specimen was sent to me, without the history of the case—if surgical aid had been employed soon after the accident, the dis- location might have been easily reduced. The description of this peculiar dislocation was pub- lished in the Lancet, April 18th, 1840. 213 Bones of the elbow-joint. A perfect osseous union has taken place between the end of the humerus, and the head of the ulna; and unfortunately in a straight position. The head of the radius is in a carious state, and its surface is roughened to some distance by the deposition of osseous matter in small masses. If the arm had been placed in a bent, or angular position, it might have become a more useful member. 214 Bones of the elbow-joint. The soft structures and cartilaginous portions of the joint, had been de- stroyed by ulceration and absorption.