* 38 In this instance there was no attempt made by nature to establish a crutch of bone between the trochanters, for the support of the fractured ends of the bone, as is generally noticed in these cases. The shortening of the limb was one inch and a half. Tf this fracture had been correctly managed, I have no doubt that osseous union would have taken place. A section of the upper portion of the acetabulum, and head of the thigh-bone is made to show the firm adhesion between the two surfaces. The two last preparations are very valuable. 158 A section of a thigh-bone, fractured between the two trochanters, near the base of the neck, which had united so completely, as to leave scarcely any appear- ance of cancelli where the fracture had existed. But from the altered state of the trochanter major, the crutch of bone formed between the trochanters, and the thickened state of the capsular ligament, there can be no doubt that a fracture really did exist The other section is dried, and numbered 3092. From a patient, 65 years of age ; 20 years previous to his death he fell from the main top of a ship upon deck; and fractured, as was supposed, the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament. He was sent to a hospital, where he remained eighteen months ; upon his discharge, was able to walk with a stick, the toes were inclined inwards, and the limb was shorter than the other by one inch. 159 A comminuted fracture of the os femoris, close to its head. The patient died shortly after the accident— the other portion of the bone was not allowed to be removed. 160 Fracture of the neck of a thigh-bone within the capsular ligament. From a woman, 80 years of age ; the neck was fractured close to the head of the femur; the greater part of the neck had been removed by absorption ; and the base of the neck had united to the fractured surface ; partly by bone, and partly by ligamentous matter. The patient was kept in bed for 12 months ; she died from the effects of old age. The preparation shows beautifully the efforts made by nature to promote union in fractures, at a very advanced age. 161 A fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the