103 the aorta aneurismal, the internal coat considerably thickened by cartilaginous and bony deposits ; and the semilunar valves slightly affected. The pulmonary artery was nearly as large as the aorta, the valves natural. What is very singular, the internal lining of the right auricle was thickened, and the ostium venosum con- stricted ; the fossa ovalis was greatly expanded, and it appeared quite diaphanous. 327 Aortic and mitral valves diseased. A man 36 years of age, who had for several years suffered from severe attacks of acute rheumatism, and pneumonia, became troubled with palpitation, accompanied with difficulty in breathing, and an irregular pulse; symptoms denoting effusion into the chest supervened, and he died suddenly. The lungs on both sides of the chest, bore evident signs of having remotely and recently suffered from the effects of inflammation ; and in some parts they were hepatised. There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest, and about six ounces in the pericardium ; its internal surface, as well as the reflected portion, were highly inflamed. The heart was rather small in size, but its muscular structure, particularly that of the left ventricle, was very firm in texture. The mitral valve was partly cartilaginous and bony, and slightly contracted; the aortic valves were very large, and their edges partially constricted. It is very remarkable that there was only one coronary artery, but it was of a very large size, and gave origin to three branches of considerable magnitude. In other respects the heart was healthy, as were also the abdominal viscera. 328 Heart of small size. History of the case not known, but from the nature of the disease I should imagine the subject to have been very old. The left ventricle greatly dilated, more particularly at its superior part, near the origin of the aorta; the parietes remarkably thin. The left auricle greatly thickened, and the mitral valve converted into osseous matter of great density ; the aperture was constricted into a small fissure. A si- milar change had also taken place in the semilunar valves of the aorta, and the fissure was exactly like