91 with blood and mucus; several of the air cells, at some time had been ruptured, and formed large sacculi near the surface, similar to what we find in asthmatic patients. The liver was remarkably large and the serous covering thickly coated with organised lymph, which adhered firmly; the result of chronic inflammation. The substance of the liver was as dense as carcinoma, it was nodulated, and of a dark color ; scarcely any of the natural structure was visible, and the cellular media were greatly thickened. The gall-bladder was filled with a very dark, green-colored, thick fluid; the biliary ducts healthy. The spleen large, its structure nearly as firm as the liver ; capsule cartilaginous. The preparation of the base of the brain, with an aneu- rism in the basilary artery, is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. Heart of a man 74 years of age. He had been dis- tressed with difficulty in breathing, and palpitation of the heart for several years, which symptoms had increased in violence for six months previous to his death. The pulsation of the heart and arteries was very power- ful, and invariably irregular, his lips of a purple color; he had all the symptoms denoting angina pectoris, more strongly marked than in any case of the kind I had ever seen. His breathing was very difficult, his sleep interrupted by sudden startings, and frightful dreams ; the secretion of urine scanty in quantity ; his legs became (Edema- tous, and he expired suddenly. There were nearly ten ounces of serous fluid in the pe- ricardium, and four pints of the same kind of fluid in the left cavity of the chest, and two and a half in the right. The lungs, with the exception of the en- larged state of the air-cells, were healthy, and their pleurae free from adhesions. The heart was of an enormous size, from the magnitude of its auricles, and of the left ventricle, the parietes of which were very thin and soft. The semilunar valves of the aorta were greatly thickened and shortened by cartilaginous and osseous deposits, and by organised lymph; two of them were lacerated, which must have allowed of regurgitation