25 with fever, the brain became affected; jaundice su- pervened, and he died suddenly. Inspectio.—The arachnoid membrane, and the pia mater were infla- med, and thickened, and pus had been secreted between them; the vessels of the brain were con- gested, and the brain inflamed; and there were nearly two ounces of water in the lateral ventricles. The lungs were gorged with blood, as were the auricles of the heart; but there were no signs of organic disease in these viscera. The liver was large, and granulated; the gall-bladder contained a calculus, of the size of a nutmeg. The mucous glands of the small intestines were enlarged. The theca vertebralis was sphacelated, and the me- dulla spinalis was of a darkish hue, and softened. The sacral nerves were greatly diminished in size, flattened, and of a blackish color. The inferior por- tion of the sacrum was deprived of its covering, the left side of this bone was seen to have been fractured, and a considerable portion had been des- troyed, extending nearly as far as the third foramen ; and the os coccygis had been displaced. The asperities of the fracture had been absorbed, and a smooth surface produced; but on the concave side of the sacrum, the osseous deposits were very irre- gular. There was no appearance of dislocation in any portion of the spine. If the real nature of the accident had been detected at an early period, and the comminuted fragments of the bone removed by an operation, the man might probably have reco- vered. This is a very interesting case. See the theca vertebralis, and the biliary calculus. 109 Exostosis of considerable size between two of the vertebras of a cod-fish. This is the only specimen of diseased bone I have ever seen in a fish. 110 A rib affected with necrosis. 111 Cartilage of a rib, perichondrium partly ossified. 112 A beautiful specimen of necrosis in the rib of a horse ; some of the sequestra shown. 113 Rib of a horse affected with necrosis. 114 Rib of a horse affected with necrosis. 115 Rib of a horse, fractured, and united by ligament. 116 Fractured rib of a horse, which had not united. 117 Necrosis in the rib of a horse.