440 it was extremely small, the edges obtuse. Adhesions of long standing were observed between the serous covering of the convex surface of the liver, and that of the peritoneum reflected on the under surface of the diaphragm. The gall-bladder was thickly covered with fat, it was very small, and contained only a small quantity of orange-colored fluid. The spleen was quite flat, of considerable extent, and free from blood.* The pancreas healthy. The mucous coat of the stomach and intestines was of a blackish color, occasioned by venous congestion, and there was a considerable quantity of blood in the stomach and intestines. The kidneys were granulated. The heart, considering the size of the body, was extremely small, its muscular fibres soft, but very red, and the lining of the auricles and ventricles of a very bright red color, as were the coats of the pulmonary artery, the aorta, and all their main branches. These I consider to be signs of arteritis. Some Pathologists have imagined that the discolora- tion of the tunics of the blood-vessels was produced by the blood in them after death ; this idea must be incorrect, for in this case all the blood-vessels were nearly empty, which confirms an opinion I have long entertained from observation, that arteritis is the principal cause of most of the morbid actions to which the body is liable. The following were the appearances of the parts belonging to the hernia. The hernial sac contains a portion of omentum, firm adhesion had taken place between the sac and the omentum, which had completely closed the external umbilical aperture ; the other part of the omentum, which was connected with that in the sac of the hernia, had united to the peritoneum at the internal opening, had prevented the recurrence of further protrusion. The arteries of the omentum were extremely large, they are filled with wax injection, and are shown in the preparation; the adipose substance is likewise seen, which is of immense thickness. I believe the dropsical effusion in the abdomen to have been occasioned by venous plethora, produced by