465 considerable stiffness, and there was a little en- largement near the tibial portion of the knee-joint. The swelling gradually increased, and the part be- came painful; the swelling extended over the upper portions of the tibialis anticus, and of the extensor longus digitorum pedis. A pulsation being felt in the tumor, which increased in strength, led to a suspicion that the anterior tibial artery was aneurismal. A consultation was held, to ascertain the real nature of the disease, and if an aneurism, whether it would not be right to tie the femoral artery. But as it was not decided whether the disease was fungus haematodes or aneurism, the operation was not per- formed. The pulsation in the tumor suddenly ceased; after this the swelling increased greatly, there was considerable enlargement in the ham, and the gastrocnemii muscles and integuments were greatly stretched. The tumor presented a formidable appearance, the cu- taneous veins became enlarged, the integuments assumed a purplish color, and a sense of fluctuation was felt in the enlargement. A puncture was made into the tumor, nothing but blood escaped, a fungus shot out, the aperture enlarged, the growth increased, and there was considerable hemorrhage. As the health of the patient was daily declining, a consultatioi-i was held, and am- putation was proposed, which was performed. Every thing appeared to be going on favorably till the 6th day after the operation, when profuse he- morrhage came on from the stump, and he died before any assistance could be obtained. It was found that the ligature had separated from the fe- moral artery, that there was no union of the artery, and it had ulcerated. I injected the leg with size and vermillion, and the following are the ap- pearances which were noticed on dissection. The internal coat of the femoral artery on the face of the stump was inflamed, but there were no signs of lymph or a coagulum; the femoral vein contained a coagulum. The head of the tibia and the upper part of the shaft of this bone had been expanded by the growth of H H