171 tonsils and fauces. The patient at this period experienced great difficulty in swallowing and breathing, as in cynanche trachealis; convulsions succeeded, under which he expired. The tonsils and fauces were ulcerated, and in a sphacelated state ; the lining of the trachea, and the rima glottidis, were thickened by lymph. With this specimen there is another, showing similar morbid appearances. From a child, much younger than the former, belonging to the same family. 706 Larynx, and trachea of a man, who died of phthisis pulmonalis. He was 35 years of age, and had shown symptoms of pulmonic disease for several years. About a month previous to his death, he complained of pain in his trachea, and experienced great difficulty in breathing, and occasionally he had violent paroxysms of coughing, accompanied with a stridulous sound, dyspnoea, and purple color of the face, symptoms so generally noticed in cynanche trachealis; and he lost his voice. The expectoration was purulent, he had hectic fever, and colliquative diarrhoea. The pleurae were adherent on both sides of the chest, the lungs were nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles, and there were several vomicae. In many of these excavations, the bronchial tubes, and some of the blood-vessels were insulated, and their ex- ternal surface was coated with coagulated lymph. The internal surface of the trachea and bronchi was inflamed; lymph had been deposited in many parts, and ulceration had taken place in numerous small points. All the abdominal viscera were healthy, except the mucous glands of the ileum and caecum, which were greatly enlarged, and in some parts ulcerated. 707 Larynx, trachea, and thyroid gland, of a boy about 2 years of age. Symptoms of pneumonia came on, attended by a cough resembling pertussis, and about a week previous to his death he was seized with convulsions. The internal lining of the larynx and trachea, highly inflamed; small points of ulcei'ation, had taken place in many parts, more evidently on the epiglottis and the rima glottidis. The lungs were partly hepatised, and there were a »great number of miliary tubercles