mr. churchii.l's publications. 15 MR. WARDROP, Surgeon to his late Majesty George IV. THE MORBID ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN EYE. Second Edition, illustrated with Eighteen coloured Plates. 2 vols, royal 8vo, 30s. "The republication of a work which no subsequent production on ophthalmology has equalled, and which the whole existent range of works cannot supplant."—Lancet. MR. WALKER. INTERMARRIAGE ; or, the Mode in which, and the Causes why, Beauty, Health, and Intellect, result from certain Unions; and Deformity, Dis- ease, and Insanity, from others ; demonstrated by Delineations of the Structure and Forms, and Descriptions of the Functions and Capacities which each Parent, in every Pair, bestows on Children, in conformity with certain Natural Laws, and by an Account of Corresponding Effects in the Breeding of Animals. Il- lustrated by Drawings of Parents and Progeny. With Plates, 8vo, cloth, 14s. " This is in many respects a very remarkable book; we are not disposed to go the whole length with the author in the positions he maintains, but he has collected in support of them a mass of facts, many of them as novel as they are unimpeachable, which render his volume alike import- ant and interesting to the physiologist. In one or two points we have been obliged to regard Mr. Walker as prejudiced by his peculiar theories ; but in the general range of his researches he has given an example which may justly be imitated by others, deriving information bearing on the subject from whatever source it has been offered him. . . . Mr. Knight, whose extensive researches on a corresponding department of vegetable physiology are well known, contributed many of the most valuable observations contained in the present volume."—British and Foreign Medical Review. DR. WALLER, Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children, at the Medical School, Aldersgate Street. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE FUNCTION AND DISEASES OF THE UNIMPREGNATED WOMB; with a Chapter on Leucorrhoea, Fluor Albus, or Weakness. Illustrated by Plates, 8vo, cloth, 9s. " The present volume contains a short and succinct practical account of the principal morbid states either of the functions or the structure of the womb, the best methods of distinguishing them, and the means which experience has shewn to be the most effectual hi removing them. The reader will find that he obtains, in a small compass, a distinct view of the nature and treat- ment of each disorder."—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. DR. WILLIAMS, F. R. S. Professor of the Practice of Medicine, University College, London. THE PATHOLOGY AND DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE CHEST; illustrated chiefly by a Rational Exposition of their Physical Signs. Fourth edition, with much important new matter, Plates. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. " The fact that a fourth edition is called for is a very good argument in favour of any book. But this was not necessary in the case of Dr. Williams; it was well known to the profession as one of the best manuals of diseases of the chest we possess."—Dublin Medical Journal. " Evidently written by a man thoroughly acquainted with his subject."—Lancet. " We strongly recommend this work to the attention of auscultators."—Medico-Chir. Review. " By far the most important addition to our literature on this subject," &c.—See Br. Forbes's Preface to Trans, of Laennec. " Laennec, Andral, and Williams, the best writers on auscultation."—Dr. Copland's Diet. DR. WILLIAMS, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons. ON THE ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND PATHOLOGY OF THE EAR; being the Prize Essay in the University of Edinburgh. With Plates, 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. " We are glad that this neglected branch of Surgery is in a fair way of attracting the attention which on every account it merits. We can recommend Dr. Williams's work as containing much interesting and useful information."—Dublin Medical Press. _