205 871 Tongue; the pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi are shown, also the sublingual glands, the nerves, muscle's of the tongue, likewise the thyroid gland, the glanduhe concatenate of the neck, and the bronchial glands. Carcinomatous tubercles had formed in the cellular media belonging to the coats of the oesophagus, at the superior and anterior part; which had progres- sively produced absorption of the muscular and mucous coats, and had projected into the pharynx, and extended upwards as far as the covering of the rima glottidis, and compressed them considerably : the morbid action had also proceeded some distance along the oesophagus; these appearances are well displayed in the specimen. On cutting open the anterior part of the trachea, the internal lining (in a small circle) had been absorbed, and a portion of the thyroid cartilage deprived of its perichondrium, projected through this aperture into the trachea. The bronchial glands, and the glandulas concatenatae were converted into carcino- matous and melanoid deposits. The thyroid gland not affected. There were several cancerous tubercles in the lungs. This is an invaluable preparation. 872 Larynx, pharynx, trachea, and oesophagus. From a woman 50 years of age, who had been suffering for a great length of time from the effects of a stricture in the oesophagus; various plans of treatment had been employed to relieve her sufferings without effect; she was greatly emaciated. A Surgeon attempted to pass a bougie through the strictured part; considerable force was employed, which occasioned great pain, and the patient seemed half suffocated, and made great efforts to vomit; she died two days after the attempt was made to pass the bougie. On examining the morbid parts, the stricture was found to be situated about two inches below the posterior portion of the cricoid cartilage ; it was very narrow, and nearly two inches and a half in length. The disease was cancer, which had commenced in the cellular tissue, between the coats of the oesophagus, and by progressive absorption had made its way