355 after this the canula was removed from the bladder, and the catheter being withdrawn, the urine flowed spontaneously. His bodily powers gradually declined from the effects of old age, and he died. About three years previous to his dissolution, he was attacked with osseous paronychia, the finger morti- fied, and produced sympathetic fever, which ren- dered it necessary to amputate it at about the mid- dle of the metacarpal bone. See the description of the finger in the Section on the Abnormal Osseous System. Bladder, penis, and a fungoid tumor in the perineum. There is in the same bottle a portion of scrotum affected with carcinoma, and a diseased kidney. The bladder contained a large quantity of thick foetid fluid, but the internal coat was perfectly healthy, with the exception of a vascular excrescence near the middle lobe of the prostate gland. The ure- thra was free from strictures, but its surface was highly inflamed near the prostatic and membranous portion; this had been occasioned by the morbid growth in the perineum. The tumor had extended into the pelvis on the left side, and had caused ab- sorption of the periosteal covering of a part of the ramus of the ischium, and of the os pubis, and these bones were in a carious state. A section of the morbid part showed it to be composed of fungoid and medullary matter, with spiculas of dead bone. The liver was very large, and contained a number of various sized medullary tubercles. The gall- bladder was filled with what appeared to be healthy bile ; all the other abdominal viscera were healthy. The lumbar and pelvic absorbent glands were con- verted into large fungoid masses. The patient, 50 years of age, was admitted into the sick ward of Cripplegate Workhouse, with what is denominated carcinoma scroti, it was on the right side, and had been increasing nearly eight months. It was of considerable size, the integuments sur- rounding it were everted, and there was a con- siderable discharge of ichor, and frequently of blood; the patient suffered great pain, and was anxious to have the disease removed. As he ap- peared in good health, and the spermatic cord and