382 is also a large dense cyst in the duplicature of the peritoneum forming the broad ligament, which con- tained a transparent fluid. The extremity of the Fallopian tube obliterated, the ovarium extremely small, and its structure solid. The patient, 40 years of age, who had never been pregnant, although she had been married twenty years. She died of purpura hemorrhagica. The particulars of this case will be related in the de- scription of purpura. 1518 Uterus, with a small polypus at its cervix. From a patient, 50 years of age, who died of fungus haematodes in various viscera. 1519 Uterus, with two small polypi, situated about half an inch from the os uteri: there are also two small tumors beneath the mucous surface, and an osseous tumor beneath the serous covering of the posterior part of the uterus. The ovaria presented exter- nally a tubercular appearance, and their substance was very dense. 1520 An uterus, very diminutive, the ovaria small and gra- nulated, structure solid, no signs of vesicles or ova, and there is a small polypus near the neck of the uterus. From an old maid, who died of pericarditis and emphysema. 1521 An uterus with a polypus, corpus luteum shown. 1522 A polypus which was extirpated from the cervix uteri. 1523 Section of an uterus, with the Fallopian tube. The cavity and cervix of the uterus were nearly ob- literated. There is a small fibrous tumor at the angle of the uterus, near the opening of the Fallo- pian tube, also a small polypus. The patient, GO years of age. The lungs were stud- ded with scrofulous tubercles, and there were seve- ral excavations. The mesenteric glands were con- verted into caseous matter. 1524 Uterus, its natural structure nearly destroyed by the growth of fibrous tumors of different sizes, some of them converted into osseous matter. The ovaria were filled with glairy mucus in sacculi. 1525 Uterus, the Fallopian tubes cut off. There were two fibrous tumors in the cavity of the uterus, near its fundus, which had attenuated its parietes. 152G Uterus, with a part of the inferior portion of the blad-