267 similar to those seen in the larvae of the CEstrus Equi, or Gad-fly, by which the latter perforate the cuticular coat of the stomach, and hold firmly. 1102 Two portions of the intestine of a Boa Constrictor; one part shows the villous arrangement, the other the reticulated. 1103 The pyloric extremity of the stomach of the Acci- penser, or Sturgeon, with the air-bladder and duo- denum. The communication with the air-bladder is denoted by a piece of white glass. The silvery appearance of the air-bladder is shown, also the spiral valve in the duodenum. This is a beautiful preparation. 1104 The pyloric extremity of the stomach of the Acci- penser, or Sturgeon, with the duodenum. The appendices pylorica; in this fish, are consolidated into a glandular mass ; and a number of wide ducts are formed, which terminate in the duodenum. The spleen is divided into three long portions, and is situated near the pancreas. The whole of the intestines are extremely thick, the internal coat is elegantly reticulated (as in the Crocodile), and the same arrangement of tissue is continued along the course of the tubes belonging to the pancreas. 1105 A portion of the stomach, duodenum, the pancreatic caeca, and gall-bladder of the Morrhua, or Cod Fish. 110G Stomach, duodenum, &c. injected. 1107 A portion of rectum, and verge of the anus, of the Lupus Marinus, or Sea Wolf. The kidnies, urinary bladder, &c. shown. The muscles to the intestinum rectum are extremely large, especially those in the longitudinal direction. The internal coat, at the base, is reticulated, and formed into long projecting processes, or plicae, and their edges present a fringed appearance. The verge of the anus is very capacious, and in the dead fish the rectum protrudes to a considerable extent, presenting the appearance of a prolapsus ani; a similar fact I have noticed in the Lophius Piscatorius, Sea Devil, Frog Fish, or Angler. At the extremity of the rectum, the meatus urinarius is seen in the preparation, also the penis, which is extremely small. 1108 A portion of duodenum of the Lupus Marinus. The cellular coat is reflected from the muscular, and the