154 605 Eye of a horse; lens opaque, lymph in the anterior chamber. 606 Eye of a horse, with a pearly cataract. 607 Eye of a horse. The humors absorbed, the pupil obliterated, and the natural structure of the retina, and choroid coat destroyed. 608 Eyes of a llama,—ciliary processes very extensive. This is a beautiful preparation. 609 Eye of a giraffe,—the iris, choroid coat, ciliary nerves, &c. This is a very beautiful preparation. 610 Eye of a giraffe,—the muscles dissected, the iris, ciliary processes, and the internal surface of the choroid shown. 611 Eye of a sheep, cornea opaque, lymph in the anterior chamber, adhering to the pupil. 612 Iris and membrana pupillaris of a slink calf, injected minutely. 613 Eye of an ox, showing the puncta lachrymalia and ducts ; also the foramina belonging to the glandules Meibomiana?. 614 Eye of an ox, with opacity of the cornea, and organised lymph in the anterior chamber; the hyaloid mem- brane thickened. The morbid changes were produced by a blow with a stick. 615 Eye, and palpebrae of a bullock. An immense excres- cence is seen on the inner surface of the palpebrae conjunctiva, and cornea; which greatly resembles verruca;, or chimney sweeper's cancer. The tumor projected considerably; it was about the size of a large melon; the tarsi were covered with the same morbid growths, which were extremely vascular, and bled freely. The structure of the eye, and optic nerve were not affected ; but the latter was greatly elongated. The lachrymal gland was normal, the brain healthy. I had not an opportunity of examining the viscera of the thorax, and abdomen; but the animal was greatly emaciated. I think the disease might be denomi- nated warty, or cauliflower carcinoma. 616 Eye of a Greenland whale. The sclerotica very dense, choroid coat and optic nerve shown. 617 Eye of a whale. A section shows the different tunics, the iris, foramina for the blood vessels, and nerves. 618 Eye of a whale, showing the structure of the sclerotica, a portion of the choroid coat, and the tapetum.