189 Inspectio. The lungs were filled with scrofulous tubercles and abscesses ; the bronchial glands formed large scrofulous masses, which are shown in the pre- paration. The heart was natural in structure, but the foramen ovale was not completely closed. The peri- toneum was inflamed, and covered with coagulable lymph, and the mesenteric glands affected with scrofula. The liver and spleen were very large, and contained a great number of tubercles. 777 Lungs, bronchial glands, and glandulae concatenatae, greatly enlarged by scrofula. The heart, oesophagus and trachea, and a portion of the phrenic nerve are shown in the preparation, the latter is impacted between the morbid bronchial glands. The lungs were nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles, and in several parts small vomicae were seen. The liver, mesenteric glands, and the mucous glands in the ilium were affected with scrofula. The patient, a boy 12 years of age, had been in a very delicate state of health ever since his birth. 778 The trachea, lungs, bronchial glands, and heart of a child, 8 months old. From its birth, symptoms of pulmonic disease existed ; the mother was of a strumous diathesis. The natural structure of the lungs is partly consolida- ted with aggregated tubercles, and there are several vomicae. The bronchial glands, and the glandulae concatenatae are affected with scrofula. It is quite surprising how life could have been carried on so long, with so many important organs affected. 779 A portion of lung, consolidated by scrofulous tubercles; there are likewise vomicae. Several of the bronchial tubes open into the cysts, black bristles show the foramina. Inspectio. The pleuras on both sides of the chest adhered firmly ; the lungs were nearly filled with very large scrofulous tubercles, some portions of them being solid, and others ulcerated. The liver affected with scrofulous tubercles of different sizes. The" spleen was consolidated by miliary tubercles and coagulable lymph, and its capsule thickly coated with the same. Most of the mesenteric glands were converted into caseous substances, as were also some of the lumbar