345 rather suddenly with a violent pain in the right kidney and testis, which occasioned fever and de- lirium ; the pulse was very full and hard, and a considerable quantity of pus passed off with the urine. By general and local bleeding, and saline purgatives, fomentations, &c. the inflammatory action was in the course of a week subdued; his bodily power was greatly reduced, but he gradually recovered his •health, and was able to attend to his business. After keeping the canula in the bladder nearly six months, and the patient being in good health, and not having any symptoms denoting irritation in the bladder or kidneys, I thought it advisable to en- deavour to pass a bougie into the bladder, which in the course of two months was effected; after- wards a moderate sized silver catheter, with a large curve, was employed. This point having been effected, the canula was removed, but as the bladder could not expel its contents, the catheter was obliged to be used twice a day; and in the course of a short time the patient was able to introduce the instrument, which he continued to do for nearly three years. He was again attacked with pain in the kidnies, the urine very thick and foetid; he also had some difficulty in introducing the catheter. These symptoms were made more tolerable by warm baths, keeping the bowels open, and by taking magnesia, liquor potassee, &c. About a fortnight after this period, symptoms denoting a diseased state of the kidneys became more evident; he complained of a violent pain in the region of the right kidney, frequently accompanied with vomit- ing, and there was a considerable quantity of pus in the urine; he was also teased with tenesmus, and his health daily declined. Symptoms resembling those produced by a calculus in the bladder came on; a sound was introduced, without detecting a calculus. As the patient complained of great pain when the catheter was used, it was left in the bladder, which had the effect of discharging its contents. The aper- ture made by the trocar became partially open, and urine with pus were discharged through this part, as