342 The liver was very large, the veins turgid with very dark colored blood, its structure firm and granu- lated, as is noticed in those who have long been addicted to gin-drinking; and there were moderate sized calculi in the gall-bladder. See the Section on Biliary Calculi. The spleen was rather larger than natural, and more dense in structure; the other abdominal viscera healthy, as were the thoracic. Description of the preparation. The bladder is capacious, but its muscular structure flaccid. The prostate gland is not diseased, but the mucous surface of the prostatic and mem- branous portion of the urethra is destroyed by ulceration. There is a stricture in the urethra near the bulb, which extends nearly an inch; its structure is very dense, and it was with the greatest difficulty that a very small bristle could be passed through it, (as is shown in the preparation), the natural structure of the internal coat of the urethra to the strictured part had been destroyed by the instruments employed in attempting to cure the stricture, and by the application of potassa fusa. I felt particularly interested in ascertaining the changes which had taken place after the opera- tion, for the accommodation of the canula, never having had before an opportunity of examining a specimen of the kind. The anterior part of the bladder adheres firmly to the inner surface of the pubis, also where the recti muscles are inserted ; but the bond of union is the most complete in that part surrounding the opening in the bladder where the canula had been, which had completely prevented the effusion of urine into the adjacent cellular tissue, thus preventing in- flammation and sloughing. The communication between the abdominal parietes and the bladder are shown in the preparation. The ureters, pelves, and infundibula were greatly di- lated, which is generally noticed on inspecting these organs in subjects who have been long afflicted with disease of the urinary organs, and who have suffered frequently from retention of urine. 1402 Urinary bladder, the prostate gland, and a portion of