270 1123 Liver, consolidated by chronic inflammation and lymph ; the serous covering thickened. 1124 Liver, consolidated by chronic inflammation, and effusion of lymph. A man 49 years of age, who had lived very irregularly, and died of ascites. There was a large quantity of water in the abdomen, the spleen was very large. The serous covering of the liver was greatly condensed, and thickly covered with organised lymph, and there were long broad adhesions between this surface and the peri- toneum, which are preserved in the preparation, with a part of the abdominal parietes. 1125 A portion of liver, structure dense, from the effects of chronic inflammation; the gall-bladder greatly thickened, and its internal surface of a deep green colour, from a morbid secretion. Taken from a woman who died of ascites. 1126 Liver, inflamed, and granulated. From a woman, a dram-drinker, who died of ascites. 1127 Two portions of liver. The patient, a young woman, died of phthisis pulmonalis; she was jaundiced. A gin drinker. 1128 A section of liver; structure granulated. A dram- drinker. 1129 A portion of liver, congested, showing what has been denominated the " Nutmeg Liver." The patient died of ascites. 1130 Aportionof liver,anddiaphragm. The natural structure of the liver nearly destroyed by the effects of inflam- mation, and granular depositions. There was firm adhesion between the serous covering of> the dia- phragm, and that covering the convex surface of the liver. 1131 A portion of liver, granulated ; the serous covering greatly thickened by organised lymph, and there are long processes of lymph formed into broad bands, which were adherent to the under surface of the dia- phragm. From a man who had lived very irregularly. There was a great quantity of water in the abdomen, the liver was very large, as was also the spleen. 1132 A portion of liver, with the gall-bladder and the biliary ducts, and part of the pancreas and duode- num. A man, 50 years of age, had shown symptoms of organic disease in the liver for some time