144 Post mortem examination. Fragments of the bones were driven through the dura mater into the cere- brum ; and blood had been effused beneath the dura mater, and the arachnoid, on both hemispheres of the brain. 530 Dura mater and arachnoid membrane diseased. The external surface of the dura mater adhered so firmly to the inner surface of the cranium as to require dissection to detach it. The whole of the arachnoid membrane is greatly thickened, and in some portions converted into cartilage and bone. There was water in the lateral ventricles; the patient had amaurosis, &c. 531 A portion of dura mater, showing the effects of a trephine, in a case of fractured cranium. By the incautious employment of this instrument, the dura mater was injured ; inflammation ensued, and lymph was deposited. The inflammatory action extended to the arachnoid membrane lining the dura mater, and to that portion covering the pia mater, and considerable thickening had been effected. The brain was very soft, and highly inflamed, which caused death. 532 A portion of dura mater, with the falx. A morbid growth of considerable extent, firm in texture, and presenting a granulated appearance, is seen on the external surface, in aline with the longitudinal sinus. The caliber of the sinus is greatly diminished near the diseased part, and its internal surface greatly thick- ened, also the arachnoid lining the dura mater, and the falciform process. These appearances are shown in the preparation. The history of the case is not known. As the disease of the dura mater does not appear of a malignant character, probably it was the result of inflammation, from some injury done to the head. 533 Theca vertebralis, the internal surface thickly coated with organised lymph. From a child who died from diseased vertebras. 534 Cauda equina, theca inflamed, and lymph deposited on the external surface of what is called the cellular membrane, belonging to the spinal canal. From a woman who had a diseased sacrum. 535 Theca vertebralis, with a portion of the cauda equina.