388 buckles and regulated straps to be applied, which was worn for a considerable time, and to my asto- nishment there was no occasion to operate again, and the patient is now (7 years from the time of the last operation) in perfect health. 1543 Uterus, vagina, and a portion of the rectum. The uterus was not diseased; the right ovarium con- tained a large collection of pus, and the Fallopian tube was obliterated. The serous covering of the ovarium adhered to the anterior portion of the peri- toneum covering the rectum, and an opening of communication had been established between it and the rectum, which is shown in the preparation by a black bristle. The mucous coat of the vagina was completely destroyed by ulceration, but this had not been occasioned by venereal disease, the woman being beyond suspicion. The mucous coat of the rectum was greatly inflamed, thickened, and in some parts ulcerated, and a large abscess had formed in the cellular tissue connecting the vagina and the rectum, which is shown, the in- testine having been cut open. The peritoneum and all its reflections were thickly coated with lymph, particularly where it covers partly the pelvic viscera. The mucous coat of the ileum and caecum were highly inflamed. From a woman, 30 years of age, who had suffered conside- rably from repeated attacks of menorrhagia, accom- panied with profuse leucorrhoea for nearly three years. The menses ceased, and about three months previous to her death she complained of great pain in the abdomen, accompanied with diarrhoea, which could not be checked. The diarrhoea increased, and pus mixed with blood was frequently voided with the faeces ; there was a profuse discharge of pus from the vagina. Her health gradually declined; a fever of the typhoid character came on, which caused death. 1544 An uterus, the peritoneal surface greatly thickened by organised lymph and small miliary tubercles. The liver contained scrofulous tubercles, the mesenteric glands were converted into caseous substance, and the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater were covered with very small tubercles.