300 and bilious effusion; the gall-bladder was filled with black-colored secretion. The capsule of the spleen immensely thickened by cartilaginous and osseous deposits, which are shown in the preparation; the substance appeared like semi-fluid black currant jelly, which was washed out, to show the thickness of the capsule. The exter- nal surface of the spleen had formed long adhesions with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, which was converted into solid bone; this is likewise exhibited in this very remarkable preparation. The pleura pulmonalis adhered firmly to the serous covering of the thoracic portion of the diaphragm. There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the thorax and in the abdomen. 1290 A diseased spleen ; also a portion of liver. The man, 59 years of age, had long shown signs of organic disease in the liver; he became icteroid, and ascites supervened, of which he died. The liver was very large, of a yellowish color, and its structure extremely soft; the gall-bladder contained only a small quantity of bile, which was very thick. The spleen was rather small; its capsule greatly thickened, in parts semicartilaginous; there were also a great number of small tumors on it as dense as carcinoma ; these are seen in the preparation. The rest of the abdominal viscera, and those in the thorax were healthy. 1291 A spleen consolidated by inflammation and minute miliary tubercles ; there are also a great number of these tubercles beneath the capsule ; they are seen in the preparation. In the same bottle there is a portion of lung, which shows all the morbid appear- ances seen in the spleen. The child was eight months old, it had been extremely delicate from birth ; symptoms of phthisis pul- monalis came on about three months previous to its death; the dyspnoea was so great, and the cough so distressing, as to occasionally resemble cynanche trachealis ; the bowels were greatly disordered. The lungs were as solid as liver, and sunk in water; the result of tubercular disease, in- flammation, and effusion of lymph.