58 228 The upper portion of a thigh-bone. In consequence of chronic inflammation of the hip-joint, occasioned by an accident, the soft and cartilaginous parts were absorbed, and exostosis has commenced on the tro- chanter major, and on the shaft of the femur. From a woman, who had been a cripple for several years. The acetabulum was not removed; I have no doubt that it was diseased. 229 The superior portion of a femur. The head of the bone is of enormous magnitude; and from having been deprived of its cartilaginous covering, the sur- face is smooth and polished, a condition very pro- bably produced by friction. Exostosis had been produced on the whole of the neck of the femur, and had extended to the trochanters, and to some dis- tance down the shaft of the bone. The medullary cavity is very capacious, and the parietes very solid. The history of this case is not known. 230 A diseased head and neck of the thigh-bone. From a boy 13 years of age, of a strumous diathesis; he had complained of pain in the knee-joint for several months; and walked lame. The surgeon who attended the patient imagined the disease was in the knee-joint, and treated the case accordingly. The patient's health becoming affected, he was obliged to keep in bed; he was unable to use the leg, and suffered great pain. I was requested to see the boy; a slight examination showed that there was considerable disease in the hip-joint, but nothing the matter with the knee, except the painful sensations occasioned by the hip disease. There was considerable enlargement in the situation of the joint, and fluctuation was distinctly felt, which proved that there was an accumulation in the joint; the leg appeared much longer than the other, and the foot was turned inwards, which posi- tion could not be altered. As he was suffering from distressing pain, accompanied with symptoms of hectic fever, and as the abscess was superficial; I made an opening into it, merely with a view of giving temporary relief, and nearly three pints of scrofulous matter escaped. The pain and febrile action sub- sided, matter continued to be discharged, and his health appeared to improve. After this, matter