•265 1092 (Esophagus of a Turtle, inverted, to show the innu- merable pointed processes, all directed downwards. 1093 A portion of the intestine of a large Turtle, with a part of the mesentery, injected. The mesentery is quite transparent, the blood-vessels are very large, and some of the lacteals are seen in the preparation. The coats of the intestines are extremely thick, especially the muscular, the mucous coat rather thick, and formed into longitudinal plicae, not very delicate in structure. A portion of the internal tunic is reflected from the muscular. 1094 Two portions of intestine of a Turtle, in one the mu- cous membrane is reticulated; in the other it is formed into longitudinal plicae. 1095 Stomach of a young Alligator. The external surface of the stomach resembles the gizzard of a gramini- vorous bird; it is funnel-shaped; the internal coat is reticulated in a longitudinal direction, and terminates in the pylorus. About three quarters of an inch from the cardiac orifice, there is a small round aperture, which might be considered the pylorus, but from this part there projects a small sac, with all the natural structure of the stomach, like a second ventriculus; this appears placed at the extremity of the small stomach. The villi of the internal coat of the duodenum are numerous, short, and th6 surface is reticulated. 109G A portion of the duodenum of a Crocodile, with the mesentery, The blood vessels belonging to the mesentery are very large, and the lacteals very distinct. All the coats of the intestine are extremely thick, more especially the muscular, almost resem- bling a portion of the human stomach affected with carcinoma. The internal coat is beautifully reticu- lated, and arranged into cells like a honey-comb. 1097 A portion of the intestine of a Crocodile. Ondissecting this reptile, there did not appear any signs of a caecum, but at about the situation where the intestines divide into small and large, there was a considerable dimi- nution in caliber, to the extent of half an inch (without any appearance of disease), forming the resemblance of a strictured part, or contraction. This seemed to be produced naturally by two of the arteries and veins of the mesentery, with