22 them ulcerated, particularly in the ileum and caecum. All the vertebrae of the spine were in a softened state, and were easily cut through with a scalpel. From their extreme lightness, they would have possessed but a small quantity of phosphate of lime ; and they seemed to be principally composed of the vascular parts of the bone, with caseous deposits in the can- celli. The ulcerative action in the bones was most evident in the two last dorsal, and the two first lum- bar vertebrae, in which the spinous and transverse processes were completely destroyed. On the lateral surfaces of the first and second vertebras, osseous matter had been deposited ; as is seen in the prepa ration. The spinous processes having been destroyed, and the theca vertebralis protected only by the inte- guments ; it became inflamed throughout its entire extent; and the dura mater, and pia mater of the brain were inflamed. 105 A portion of the spine of a boy, 14 years of age; nearly three of the lumbar vertebrae had been des- troyed by scrofulous ulceration ; which occasioned an angular curvature. The patient died from the effects of inflammation of the theca vertebralis, and medulla spinalis. 10G The lumbar vertebrae, with the sacrum and a portion of the ilium. Nearly three of the bodies of the vertebrae, with the intervertebral substances have been destroyed by scrofulous ulceration, which had occasioned a con- siderable angular curvature; the remaining fragments of the bones compressing the theca vertebralis, and medulla spinalis, excited inflammation, and produced paraplegia; the brain became afterwards affected, and the case terminated fatally. 107 Diseased lumbar vertebrae, sacrum, and medulla spi- nalis, from a boy lOyears ofage, who had been afflicted with a diseased spine nearly five years, and had been in an hospital for several months. The disease ex- isted in the lumbar vertebrae; a psoas abscess formed, and burst on the right side of the sacrum, close to the coccyx. When admitted into the sick ward of Cripplegate workhouse, there was an angular curva- ture of the lumbar vertebrae ; the discharge from the opening was considerable; he was troubled with