14 mr. churchill's publications. MR. TUSON, F.R.S., F.L. S., Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. THE CAUSE AND TREATMENT OP CURVATURE OF THE SPINE, AND DISEASES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. With Twenty-six Plates. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. " The various forms of disease described in this volume are illustrated by numerous cases, in which the course of the malady and the treatment adopted are systematically explained. Mr. Tuson's treatment is sound and judicious, and there is much solid and useful information to be obtained from a perusal of its pages. The work is abundantly supplied with plates of the chief peculiarities of the cases, of the morbid structures, and of the apparatus employed in the treat- ment of the diseases. We recommend the volume as deserving of the attention of our readers." —Lancet, April, 1841. THE PRESCRIBER'S PHARMACOPEIA; containing all the Medicines in the London Pharmacopoeia, arranged in Classes according to their Action, with their Composition and Doses. BY A PRACTISING PHYSICIAN. 32mo, cloth, 2s. 6d. " As this little work had its origin in a want daily experienced by the compiler in his practice, he believes that it will be useful to a numerous class of practitioners who possess a memory of the same general character as his own. He has always had great difficulty in calling to mind, at will, a number of heterogeneous particulars which had not been originally contemplated in a systematic order, although he might be well acquainted with them individually. This difficulty he has often painfully experienced when attempting to pass hi review the various drugs and officinal formulae suited to fulfil any special indication that presented itself in the treatment of a disease ; and he has frequently witnessed, in the practice of others, a barrenness of prescription and a consequent confined range of resources, originating in the same cause, which could not fail to be injurious to the patient and the reputation of the physician. It is expected that the habit of viewing the articles of the Materia Medica in some such order as that adopted in the present compilation, will tend, in some degree at least, to remedy these evils. It is further believed that practitioners, from forgetfulness of the officinal preparations, are often led to pre- scribe extemporaneous formula? while there exist better substitutes in the pharmacopoeia; and it is hoped that the marshalling together all the various compound forms of medicine under the title of the main ingredient, as in these tables, will at once facilitate and simplify the labours of the prescriber."—Extract from Preface. " The title-page of this little book indicates its general character. We shall be very much mistaken if the author does not find his expectations fulfilled, as we believe the class of doctors with bad memories comprehends many beyond the pale of the College of Physicians."—British and Foreign Medical Revieiv, No. 23. THREE THOUSAND PRACTICAL RECEIPTS. THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS IN ALL THE USEFUL AND DOMESTIC ARTS; being a complete Book of Reference for the Manufacturer, Tradesman, and Amateur. By A PRACTICAL CHEMIST. Post 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. " This work embraces all the latest improvements in science and art, which the author has been assiduous in collecting in several countries of Europe and America for the last seven years ; no receipt has been admitted that is not of actual utility, and the writer has been particular to illustrate the plan of producing exact imitations of most imported articles, such as brandies, perfumery, wines, liqueurs, &c, derived from the processes of various laboratories, both abroad and at home, which the author has personally inspected, on an extensive scale, thus placing within the reach of every one the means of meeting the increased competition in trade." DR. MICHAEL UNDERWOOD. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN: With Directions for the Management of Infants from the Birth. Ninth edition, Revised, with additions, by SAMUEL MERRIMAN, M.D., F.L.S., and MARSHALL HALL, M.D., F.R.S. 8vo, boards, 15s. DR. WARREN, Professor of Anatomy and Surgery in Harwood University, and Surgeon of the Massachusets General Hospital. SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS ON TUMOURS: with cases and Observations. With Sixteen coloured Plates, royal 8vo, cloth, 16s.