•273 This morbid appearance is occasioned by atrophy of the lobular structure of the liver, and is termed cirrhosis. The gall-bladder was nearly empty; the spleen very large, structure solid, capsule semi- cartilaginous. The patient was a man, 60 years of age, who had lived veryintemperately for many years, became dropsical, and was tapped several times; a few months previous to his death, black jaundice came on. 1140 A small portion of liver, showing cirrhosis. From an old woman, who died from the effects of ascites. 1141 A section of a liver, affected with cirrhosis. From a man who had lived freely; ascites came on, followed by jaundice, of which he died. 1142 A small portion of liver, affected with cirrhosis. From a man who died of ascites. The liver and spleen greatly enlarged. 1143 Two portions of liver, granulated ; this disease is de- nominated cirrhosis. From a man 58 years of age, he had jaundice and ascites ; spleen very large. 1144 A portion of liver, with the gall-bladder. The liver was rendered very solid by chronic inflammation, and depositions of lymph, in a granular form. The gall-bladder was filled wilh a black-colored viscid secretion, and was very large ; the contents were pressed out, and then filled with wax injection. This person was a dram-drinker, and died from the effects of jaundice and ascites. 1145 A portion of liver. The biliary ducts surcharged with bile. The patient died of ascites. 1146 A portion of liver, showing the effects of an abscess. Hepatitis is a disease not often seen in England. 1147 A section of liver. The liver was remarkably small, and very solid in texture ; the external surface pre- sented an irregular tuberculated appearance, and its whole substance was of a mottled greenish white color. The serous coat was not much thickened, but it was thickly beset with very small serous cysts, not hydatids. A section of the liver showed no trace of its natural structure, it seemed composed of masses of orga- nised lymph, and bilious matter.