168 active treatment had been adopted to check the progress of this disease, cynanche trachealis super- vened ; the difficulty of breathing became very alarming, and he lost his voice. A consultation was held, to determine whether tracheo- tomy ought to be performed-; after carefully exploring the chest, it was ascertained that there was organic disease in the lungs, and therefore this was not done. The symptoms became more distressing, convulsions came on, and the patient died. The pleurae on both sides of the chest were highly inflamed, but lymph had not been effused. The lungs were exceedingly dense, and sunk in water; they were nearly filled with miliary tubercles, and partly loaded with sero-purulent infiltration. The bronchial tubes were filled with pus and mucus, and their internal lining was highly inflamed, as were also the trachea and larynx. The latter, and the rima glottidis were greatly thickened by coagulated lymph, which adhered firmly,—a morbid change which accounts for the aphonia. The abdominal viscera were healthy. 702 The tongue, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi; the heart and its arteries are also preserved. This is a very beautiful preparation. The patient was a boy 14 years of age. The glandulae concatenates on both sides of the neck had been greatly enlarged for a considerable length of time, and affected his respiration. He was attacked with cynanche tonsillaris, which he imagined was caused by taking cold. The inflammatory symptoms were very great, and accompanied with a high state of fever; the velum pendulum palati, and uvula became greatly inflamed and enlarged, and affected his breathing and swallowing. The symp- toms increased in violence, although the most active treatment had been pursued by the professional gentleman who attended the patient. The fauces began to slough, and symptoms of cynanche trachea- lis came on, followed by petechias all over his body; his pulse 140 in a minute. I was (at this period) consulted, to know whether it would be advisable to perform tracheotomy. All the symptoms appearing so unfavorable, and there being every reason to