49 200 A portion of the cannon-bone, the pastern, coffin, and shuttle-bones. From a horse. Slight exostosis is seen on the superior part of the cannon-bone, and the first pastern. 201 Extensive exostosis on the outer surface of the pastern bone of a horse. A section of the bone shows the can- cellous structure, as well as the origin of the exostosis. 202 Coffin-bone, shuttle, first and second pastern ; with their epiphyses. The bones are injected with size and vermillion ; the cartilages are not colored. From a very young foal. 203 Hoof of a young foal. 204 Foot of an ass injected with size and vermillion ; the flexor tendons, &c. shown. 205 Coffin-bone, small and large pastern, and sesamoid bones with the integuments. From a zebra. 20G Half of the cranium of a cow. On the right side of the skull, the bones are enormously expanded ; this enlargement was occasioned by a medullary tumor, which formed in the diploe. The morbid growth had caused destruction of the integuments covering this part of the head, and had formed a bleeding fungus, which presented a very frightful appearance. It is singular that the internal table of the skull was not affected, nor were the membranes of the brain. The liver contained a great number of medullary tubera. The animal was greatly emaciated ; the muscular fibres very flaccid ; and the cellular tissue tinged with bile. 207 Osteo-sarcomatous tumor, in the hinder leg of a rat ; which originated from the tibia, near the knee joint. The tumor is injected. 208 Foot and part of the leg of a cock. The leg is frac- tured at the inferior part of the tibia, as is the upper end of the tarsal bone. Osseous union has taken place, and the joint is completely anchylosed. In the same bottle there is part of the thigh and leg of another bird, showing a stump of the tibia. The bird lost its leg from the injury inflicted by a horse in treading on it. As it was a favorite bird, the owner would not allow it to be killed; and it lived for several years after the accident. 209 Foot and leg of a cock ; the bones of the middle toe