208 880 Human stomach, inverted. The mucous coat highly inflamed, and ulcerated in many parts; also the duo- denum and rectum; the effects of the person having swallowed a large quantity of spirit of turpentine. 881 Stomach of a girl 19 years of age, showing the effects of arsenic, which had been swallowed with a view of bringing on abortion. It was imagined that half an ounce of this poisonous substance had been taken; the symptoms were excessive vomiting, with agonizing pain in the stomach, followed by convulsions. The stomach contained a considerable quantity of arsenic, the coats were greatly contracted, the mucous coat appeared greatly thickened, the rugae very large, and the color very red, as if the vessels were surcharged. There were also several substances in the stomach, which were probably produced by the arsenic acting on the mucus therein contained. Some of the mucous glands near the pylorus were large, and the mucous coat of the duodenum was reddened. This is a very remarkable specimen. 882 Part of a stomach, showing the effects of sulphuric acid. 883 A portion of stomach, showing the effects of oxalic acid. The mucous coat softened, and of a dark color, as in melanosis, and the blood in the vessels tinged in the same manner. 884 A portion of stomach; the mucous surface softened and blackened, the effects of oxalic acid. 885 Stomach of an infant, inverted. The child was suddenly seized with violent convulsions from teething. The superior part of the great end of the stomach was destroyed by the gastric juice, close to the termina- tion of the oesophagus ; the other portion was quite healthy. " The gastric juice contains a considerable quantity of muriatic acid."—" Dr. Prout." Tn Dr. Armstrong's Work on Morbid Anatomy, there is a plate resembling this preparation, from a child nine months old. 886 Human stomach, inverted :—the principal part of the great arch destroyed by the chemical action of the gastric juice, the remaining part of the stomach and duodenum unaffected. The coats of the stomach