47 of morbid parts, I think this was a case of ostitis, and periostitis. 185 Tibia and fibula of a man, who had in his infancy been afflicted with rachites. The bones are curved, they are greatly flattened, and extremely solid; slight exostosis had taken place near the inferior, and inner surface of the fibula. 18G Tibia of a man, showing a great enlargement of the bone near the spine, at its inferior portion ; the effects of syphilis. 187 Two portions of the tibia, and the fibula, from a wo- man, who died from repeated attacks of syphilis, and the abuse of mercury. The external surface of the bones shows the effects of ostitis, and periostitis ; osseous matter having been deposited; and they present a very rough appearance. The parietes of the bones are very thick, and their structure solid ; and there are nodes on the portions of the tibia. 188 A splendid specimen of necrosis in the tibia ; the entire bone has been replaced by a new tibia, which is large and irregular in figure, as is usually the case in newly formed bone. The remains of the original bone are seen in the preparation; they are very white and solid in structure ; and their external sur- face is very rugged. 189 A tibia, enlarged, with nodes, &c.; the external surface is covered with irregular osseous deposits 190 Section of a tibia ; the parietes greatly thickened ; the medullary canal is considerably lessened, and the external surface is rough and irregular, from the de- position of osseous substance, which is dense and solid. 191 A fibula greatly enlarged, by chronic inflammation, and osseous deposition. 192 A sequestrum removed from the tibia of a man ; with a portion of carious bone removed from the lower jaw of Grimaldi. 193 A malignant growth, not unlike chimney sweeper's cancer ; which had its origin from the periosteal co- vering of the anterior surface of the tibia. The morbid production had destroyed the integuments to a considerable extent; there was a profuse ichorous discharge, sometimes mixed with blood from the surface, which had continued for several months,