450 that the patient drank large quantities of gruel and water. I believe the effusion into the abdomen had taken place prior to the operation; if it had been per- formed sooner, the life of the patient might have been saved. This is the most singular case I ever met with. 1733 A strangulated hernia in the omentum. A portion of the intestinum ileum, about two inches before it terminates in the caecum, had passed through a pari of the layers of the omentum, in a knuckle-like or angular figure, as is noticed in femoral and inguinal hernia. The intestine was incarcerated by a ligature formed by an artery and vein belonging to the omentum. I have seen stran- gulated hernia produced by the intestine passing through the mesentery. The incarcerated bowel was greatly discolored, and there were evident signs of inflammation of the serous coat of the ileum, beyond the strictured part; when water was injected into the bowel, it did not pass beyond the strictured portion of the tube. A man, 50 years of age, had experienced for several days pain in the intestines, accompanied with severe sickness, and considerable difficulty in passing fasces, although he had by his own accord taken very active purgatives. The symptoms becoming more distressing, induced him to apply for profes- sional aid, every endeavour was employed to pro- cure evacuations from the bowels, but without effect. The sickness increased in violence, accom- panied with singultus and tenesmus, and he com- plained of great pain in the situation of the caecum, also of tenderness when pressure was made on the abdomen. All these symptoms denoted some im- pediment to the due performance of the function of the bowels, but it seemed impossible to decide whether the cause was produced by what is deno- minated internal hernia, intro-susception, or by a stricture. The patient lived three days from the commencement of the attack. If the strangulation of bowel within the cavity of the abdomen could have been, by the symptoms, satisfactorily detected, Would it be con- sidered prudent in similar cases to perform an operation ?