213 active purgatives or clysters ; the abdomen became greatly distended with air and fluid, accompanied with great tenderness. Stercoracious vomiting supervened, as in internal strangulated hernia; she gradually sank, and died 24 hours from the commence- ment of the attack. Inspectio. There was an immense accumulation of fluid and air in the cavity of the abdomen, the former appeared like the gruel the patient had taken, and smelt of the medicine which had been given. The peritoneum and all its reflections were highly inflamed. The stomach and intestines were empty, except the upper part of the rectum, where there were hardened scybalee. The liver was large and granulated, the serous covering thickly covered with organised lymph, which adhered firmly ; the substance granulated, and there were a few calculi in the gall-bladder. The external part of the small arch of the stomach adhered firmly to the under surface of the great lobe of the liver. The uterine organs were in a high state of vascularity. In the cavity there was a gelatinous substance, and the same was found in the angle of the uterus, and in the ovarium of this side there were all the signs of a recent corpus luteum. The internal surface of the stomach was highly vascular, and the mucous and muscular coats had been, at some remote period, partially destroyed by ulceration ; the edges of the healthy mucous coat surroundiug the portions which had been removed, showed all the appearance of cicatrization having been effected. But in one of the ulcerated openings, which was about the circle of a sixpence, the serous coat seemed to have been slightly absorbed, and from inflammation of the serous surface of the stomach, and that belonging to the liver having been excited, and lymph effused, a union had been effected between them, which prevented the contents of the stomach passing through the opening into the cavity of the abdomen. The separation of the union which had taken place between the diseased portion of the stomach and the serous surface of the liver, had, I have no doubt, been occasioned by the violent vomiting. Was the vomiting caused by drinking ardent spirit, or from having taken poison .?