212 The liver was immensely large, there were a great number of medullary tubera beneath its serous surface, some of them extremely large, and the arteries near the morbid parts were very numerous and meandering. In the centre of several of these tumors, the peritoneal coat was semicartilaginous and indented, an appearance frequently noticed where the disease has long existed. The substance of the liver contained a great number of medullary tumors, and the gall-bladder was greatly distended with thick black secretion. Nearly the whole of the small arch of the stomach was affected with various sized medullary tumors, situated between the different coats, and they were all greatly thickened, particularly the mucous and serous coats, and the tumors were seen beneath them, which appearances, are shown in the preparation. Most of the mucous glands of the ileum and cascum • were greatly enlarged. The lungs were loaded with mucus tinged with blood, and the lining of the whole respiratory organs was highly inflamed, and the tubes filled with mucus. The heart normal. In consequence of the thinness of the abdominal parietes in this patient, the tumors could be distinctly felt, which rendered the diagnosis very clear during life. 898 Pyloric extremity of the stomach, with a portion of duodenum, showing an ulcerated opening in the former ; the pancreas and a part of the liver are preserved. From a woman 39 years of age, who was a cook, and had lived freely. For nearly two years she hadsymptoms denoting organic disease of the stomach, and could scarcely retain any thing in it; she had consulted several medical gentlemen ; the disease ultimately subsided, and her health improved. The evening previous to her death was spent in company with a male acquaintance ; she returned to her situation very late, inebriated. The following morning she was attacked with violent pain in the abdomen, succeeded by bilious vomiting. These symptoms were not subdued by the usual remedies, and the bowels could not be act >d upon by the most