95 right ventricle of a woman 50 years of age. For several months previous to her death, symptoms of cardiac affection had existed, which were succeeded by hydro- thorax, and oedema of the legs. There were four ounces of water in the pericardium, which was highly inflamed, though lymph had not been deposited. The lining of the auricles and ven- tricles was inflamed, as were the coats of the aorta and pulmonary artery. In the right side of the chest there was a pint of water, and nearly the same quantity in the left; the pleuree were inflamed, but lymph had not been effused—sero-purulent infiltra- tion in the lungs had taken place, which made them feel cedematous. The bronchial tubes were loaded with mucus, and their linings highly inflamed, as was the whole tube of the trachea. In the abdomen there were six pints of water. The liver was very large, and firm in texture, of a deep yellow color, and granulated; an appearance I have generally noticed on inspecting the bodies of gin- drinkers. The gall-bladder was distended enormously with a deep green-colored secretion; its internal surface partly ulcerated. The cause of the distention of the gall-bladder was inspissated bile, which obstructed the cystic duct. The preparation shows the following morbid appear- ances. The left ventricle large, parietes rather thick : the aortic valves considerably shortened and thickened by cartilaginous and bony substances, which must have impeded their function greatly; what is still more remarkable is, that there are four coronary arteries; it is the only specimen of the kind I ever saw. Heart of great magnitude; the history of the case not known. The left ventricle so greatly dilated, that it might be termed aneurismal; the mitral valve not affected, The sigmoid valves of the aorta (four in number) were considerably shortened and thickened by semi- cartilaginous and osseous matter, and their external surface and edges greatly thickened by excrescences which were organised. The right ventricle and auricle healthy, parietes thin. The aorta was very small for the size of the heart, but