298 1238 Inspissated bile formed into granules, similar to biliary calculi. From a woman ; the liver was granulated, the spleen large and firm in texture, and there was a great quantity of fluid in the abdomen. 1239 Inspissated bile in granules. 1240 A very large biliary calculus. The liver granulated, and very dense in structure. From a man 60 years of age, who died of ascites. 1241 A very large biliary calculus, of a brownish white color, with minute glistening particles like spar (cholesterine) on its external surface. From a man 74 years of age, who had been hemiplegic for several years. The arachnoid and pia mater were greatly thickened, and there was a considerable quantity of water between them ; there was a tumor beneath the pia mater. The morbid parts are in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 1242 Biliary calculi of various sizes, color white; the weight of the whole 174 grains, the largest weighed 47 grains. The liver was very large, its structure resembled the section of a nutmeg. The gall-bladder was filled with calculi, which felt like spermaceti. The spleen was large and firm in texture. From a woman 60 years of age, who had been affected with organic disease of the heart for several years ; —she died suddenly. The pericardium adhered very firmly, as if it had been so from birth. The heart was enormously large, the left ventricle very capacious, parietes thin, mus- cular structure very soft; the coronary arteries normal. The left ostium venosum constricted by cartilaginous and osseous deposits, and both the auricles greatly dilated and filled with black blood. There was a large fibrous tumor in the uterus, the white tubercle of Baillie. There was also a large inguinal hernia on the right side ; the ring was very large, the sac containing a portion of the ileum, with a piece of omentum, and the principal part of the fallopian tube, and the ovarium. The patient had never worn a truss; the husband of this woman had a diseased heart, and an aneurism of the arch of the aorta. 1243 Biliary calculi, six in number: they are of a pale