443 ring, and there is an ulcerated opening in this portion of the intestine, of about the circle of a four- penny piece. This is the part that had sloughed, and adhesion had been effected between this aper- ture and the omentum, which prevented the faecu- lent matter from passing through it. As only one part of the bowel had been strangulated, and the sloughing of it, and of a part of the hernial sac had taken place, without the extension of the in- flammatory action to the rest of this intestine, the stricture was relieved, and the ring being nearly closed, the intestine was prevented from again pro- truding into the sac. This is another proof of the possibility of spontaneous cure of a hernia, and I have seen similar events in inguinal hernia. 1718 A ventral hernia. It was situated about two inches above the umbilicus, and very singular to remark, the ligamentum rotun- dum hepatis, and a portion of the ligamentum suspensorium protruded a little beyond the neck of the hernial sac ; these are seen in the preparation. The sac is small, but very perfect, it contains a portion of omentum, which adheres in one point. A part of the liver is preserved in the preparation, to show these facts, and the relative situation. The integuments covering the hernia are also seen, to prove that this was not an umbilical hernia. The patient, a man 60 years of age, died of ascites, occasioned by a diseased liver. The hernia con- tained a portion of intestine, as well as omentum, it had never given the patient any uneasiness, and it was easily reduced ; he never used a truss. The mental powers of this man were so very defective that he could not state how long the hernia had existed. I think that this was a congenital ventral rupture. 1719 A ventral hernia; a small portion of the bowel protruded. 1720 A congenital scrotal hernia. From a man 54 years of age, the rupture had never produced any unfa- vorable symptoms ; he died of phthisis pulmonalis. The hernia was on the left side, a portion of the in- testinum ileum was found in the sac, but there were no adhesions between the serous coat of the intes-