78 internus. The bowels were irregular, the skin and lips of a purple color; about a week previous to death, the child was attacked with pneumonia. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in both sides of the chest; the lungs were hepatised, and the bron- chial tubes filled with pus. The heart was very large for the size of the child ; the auricles and ventricles were very capacious, parietes rather thin. The foramen ovale was open to a considerable extent, as is shown in the preparation, by a black bristle. The valves natural, the aorta of a moderate size, but the vessels at the arch remarkably large ; the ductus arteriosus was closed. A portion of diseased lung is shown. 286 Heart of a boy, 10 years of age. From birth he had symptoms denoting mal-formation of the heart; he was a complete caeruleus; pulse generally very full and irregular. About a fortnight previous to his death, he had a severe attack of scarlatina; purpura haemorrhagica appeared nearly all over his body; this condition was followed by hydro-thorax and ascites. In both sides of the chest there was a considerable quantity of serous fluid; and the lungs were cedema- tous and partly hepatised. There were four ounces of fluid in the pericardium ; the heart was remarkably large, and presented a very irregular appearance; its apex was very obtuse. The parietes of the left ventricle were thick, the cavity capacious, the mitral valve and lining of the auricle greatly thickened, the result of chronic inflammation. At the superior and central part of the septum ventri- culorum, there is an imperfection or aperture, about the size of a shilling, allowing of a free communica- tion between the two ventricles. Two of the aortic valves adhere very firmly at their superior part; they are all slightly thickened, and there are some small excrescences at their edges. The aorta is very large, as are the coronary arteries, and their coats are highly inflamed. The foramen ovale open, the fossa ovalis deep, are shown by a black bristle. The ductus arteriosus closed. The parietes of the right ventricle are thick ; the cavity large; the tricuspid valve and lining of the auricle thickened; the pulmonary artery large, with coats inflamed ; the valves dense; there are several