395 became sallow, and she had frequent attacks of diarrhoea. This is a splendid preparation. An ovarium, with the extremity of the Fallopian tube. The ovary was formed into a large scirrhous tumor, and long adhesions had formed between its perito- neal surface, and the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. Some of the uterine arteries were obliterated. The rectum was affected with cancer. A scirrhous ovarium. Uterus, natural in structure, the ovaria carcinomatous, the serous covering thickened by chronic inflamma- tion, and in some parts semicartilaginous. The whole of the peritoneum presented similar morbid changes, and the liver was affected with carcinoma. Uterus. The mucous surface highly inflamed, the right ovarium shows all the characters of carcinoma, the other the fungoid character. The patient had carcinoma of the mamma, which caused her death. Uterus, injected with size and vermillion. The uterus was healthy, the ovaria converted into fungus haematodes. There was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen, the liver ex- tremely large, of a camboge color, structure very soft, and several of the blood-vessels and biliary ducts were obliterated. The gall-bladder was greatly contracted, and only contained a small quantity of albuminous fluid, probably secreted by the vessels belonging to its internal surface. The biliary ducts were also obliterated. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in both sides of the chest, and there were several fungoid tubera in the lungs ; the heart healthy. The patient, 30 years of age, had lived immoderately for several years. She was afflicted with jaundice for many months previous to her death, and had frequent haemorrhage from the nose and lungs. The morbid condition of the liver and obliteration of biliary ducts satisfactorily account for the occurrence of jaundice. Uterus, its structure natural, the ovaria converted into large fungoid tumors, as was the kidney. There was an immense fungoid tumor surrrounding the knee-joint.