206 through the muscular and mucous coats, into the tuhe of the oesophagus, which is shown in the preparation. A little below the superior aperture of the stricture, the posterior part of the oesophagus was lacerated to as far as the inferior opening. I must confess I do not think it correct practice, to at- tempt to pass a bougie to cure a stricture of the oeso- phagus of old standing, where there are evident constitutional signs of malignant disease. The internal lining of the larynx and trachea were slightly thickened, and near the left bronchus, one of the bronchial glands (which was filled with cal- careous concretions) had formed a firm union with the cellular tissue of this tube, and had partly penetrated it. There were medullary tumors in the lungs, and the uterus was affected with carcinoma. 873 Base of the tongue, the pharynx, larynx, trachea, and oesophagus. A woman 56 years of age, who had experienced great difficulty in swallowing for several years ; a few months previous to her death she could only swallow fluids in small quantity, and this was effected with the greatest difficulty; she became greatly emaciated, and died of inanition. There is a stricture in the oesophagus, nearly an inch in length, the constriction only admitting a piece of glass not much larger than a probe, which is shown in the preparation. The stricture is situated nearly at the commencement of the oesophagus; it is formed into cellular tissue, which had caused partial absorption of the muscular and mucous coats in the constricted part. The lungs were affected with medullary sarcoma. This is another argument against the employment of bougies in these cases; they may perhaps be bene- ficial in spasmodic stricture, or where the constriction is produced by inflammation of the cellular tissue, and the effusion of lymph; as in strictures of the urethra or rectum. The last two specimens are practically useful. Stomach and Intestines. Stomachs.—Healthy and Morbid. 874 A stomach, minutely injected.