231 " I forced the spoon down my throat with my right " hand immediately after dinner, while in my room, " at Mr. Terry's, of Sutton, Coldfield, about the " beginning of October, 1827, and remember the " detail of the whole affair. Let there be two " members of my immediate family present during " the work of dissection." The sinuses of the brain were greatly distended with blood, the arachnoid membrane lining the inner surface of the dura mater, as well as that covering the pia mater, showed the effects of chronic inflam- mation ; there was also serous effusion of a milky fluid between the arachnoid and pia mater, on the surface of the cerebrum, as well as where the mem- brane dips into the furrows of the convolutions. The convolutions of the brain were greatly flattened, and the structure remarkably firm; but there were no appearances of active inflammation. In the lateral ventricles, also in the third and fourth, there were about two ounces of water. The arachnoid and pia mater showed a greater degree of density from chronic inflammation at the base of the brain, than where they cover the upper surface. There was also great thickening of the membranes near the valve of the brain, where they cover the pineal gland and corpora quadrigemina; a morbid change [ have frequently noticed on examining the brain of incurable maniacs. On cutting through the medulla spinalis, to remove the brain, water was seen between the arachnoid mem- brane and pia mater, and these tunics were highly inflamed. There were old standing adhesions of the pleura?, and about a pint of water in each side of the thorax; the lungs and heart normal; the latter remarkably small. The peritoneal coat of the small intestines was firmly agglutinated by lymph. The mucous coat of the stomach, as well as the duode- num, jejunum, ileum, and caecum, were more vascular than natural, and there were evident signs of their having been ulcerated in different portions, and that nature had put a perfect stop to the ulcerative process, by uniting the boundaries to the sub-mucous tissue. The greatest degree of mischief had been effected