191 lungs were nearly filled with large excavations, and there were a great number of scrofulous tubercles: in one of the lobes of the lung an abscess had formed, which by progressive absorption had destroyed several portions of the pleurae, and intercostal muscles, and caused the external tumefaction. The sinuses are shown in the specimen. The lung on the left side was nearly filled with miliary tubercles. The liver was of immense size, and of a deep yellow color; its substance was very soft, but there were no signs of tubercles. The mesenteric glands were converted into caseous matter, and the mucous glands in the small intestines enlarged. I have performed this operation in two other cases, both of which terminated favorably, the lungs not having been so extensively affected as in the case last described. 782 An abscess in the lung, the blood-vessels insulated, and their coats covered with coagulable lymph, which had prevented their becoming ulcerated. This fact I have frequently noticed in large vomicae, also in the groin where the arteries and veins had been insulated by malignant disease, &c. 783 A portion of lung, and liver, showing the effects of inflammation of the peritoneal covering of the dia- phragm, and that portion reflected over the convex surface of the great lobe of the liver. An abscess had formed between these membranes, which was bounded by adhesive inflammation, and from the effects of ulcerative absorption, an opening of com- munication had been established between the abscess and one of the lobes of the lung on the right side, which adhered to the diaphragm, a portion of the latter having been absorbed. The internal surface of the sac was in a sloughing state. The lungs on the right side were greatly distended, and were very firm in texture; the pleurae were firmly united. Upon cutting through the lungs they were found to contain small scrofulous tubercles, and were consolidated by sero-purulent infiltration; this is seen in the preparation. The lung on the left side was nearly as much diseased as that on the right, and there were several small