377 The urinary bladder and the hypogastric arteries are shown in the preparation. 1504 Uterus of a child, 13 years of age, which possesses all the character of a fcetal uterus. The child had a malformed heart. 1505 Uterus from a girl, 16 years of age ; it is very large for her age. The serous covering of the uterus and Fallopian tubes were thickly coated with lymph; the substance of the uterus was very vascular, as was the internal surface of the Fallopian tubes, and a re- cent corpus luteum was found in one of the ovaries. The patient died in the Fever Hospital. 1506 Uterus of an old woman, who had never had a child; it is extremely small, the extremities of the Fallo- pian tubes were greatly dilated, and they adhered firmly to the serous covering of the intestinum rectum, which I have frequently noticed on ex- amining the bodies of cypnans. There were several phlebolites in the uterine veins ; one of them is shown in the preparation. 1507 An uterus, the mucous surface affected with purpura heemorrhagica. From a woman, 24 years of age, corpulent, and very plethoric. She was attacked suddenly with febrile symptoms, which increased rapidly; she became violently delirious, and purpura appeared in almost every part of the body. After this the patient was seized with violent vomiting, the fluid discharged was of a chocolate color, mixed with dark blood, and there was a considerable discharge of blood from the intestines and the uterus, although men- struation had taken place a fortnight previous to the attack of fever. The patient was attended by a physician, who ima- gined the case to be of the typhoid class, but when the eruption appeared, the complaint was considered scarlatina. She died on the 5th day from the com- mencement of the attack. Inspectio. The pia mater was affected with purpura haemorrhagica, and there was a turbid fluid between the arachnoid and pia mater; the vessels of the brain were greatly distended, the substance of the cere- brum was highly inflamed, and there was about an ounce of water in the ventricles.