294 he had also a dry cough (tussis hepatica), and his pulse was generally irregular. Hydrothorax and ascites came on, accompanied with great difficulty in breathing, which was very distressing. With a view of affording him temporary relief, para- centesis abdominis was performed, and nearly 30 pints of green-colored fluid were drawn off. In consequence of the liver descending so low into the abdomen, I found it necessary to perform the operation considerably lower than is generally ad- vised, lest the liver should be punctured. The effect of tapping was very gratifying to the patient, re- lieving his dreadful sufferings completely: he con- tinued so well for nearly a fortnight, and without any signs of increase of fluid in the abdomen, that he flattered himself with the hope of recovery. The fluid again began to accumulate, and it was thought right to repeat the operation; 24 pints were evacu- ated. He died on the sixth day from the time that this was performed. 1230 A portion of liver, with the gall-bladder and ducts. The liver was remarkably large, solid in texture, and seemed gorged with bile; it showed little vascularity. The gall-bladder was greatly distended with an albu- minous fluid, perhaps its own secretion, and it also contained a great number of calculi; one, of the size of a very large marble, had completely oblite- rated the commencement of the cystic duct; the coats of the bladder were thickened, particularly the internal; there were no signs of the natural reticulated structure, and it was of a pale color. The spleen was large and dense. From a woman 60 years of age, who died of jaundice and ascites. This is a beautiful preparation. 1231 A portion of liver, with the gall-bladder. There were several moderate sized calculi in the gall-bladder, situated in its fundus; these had occasioned irritation and inflammation of the internal surface of the sac; adhesion had taken place about the centre of the bladder, which completely surrounded the calculi, like a cyst, whilst the lower half had carried on the natural office of the sac.