48 and ultimately affected the health of the patient. As the progress of the disease could not be altered by any mode of treatment, the leg was amputated. About three months after the operation, the in- guinal glands became enlarged ; symptoms denoting visceral disease were apparent, and the man died. A post-mortem examination could not be obtained. A portion of the vena saphena interna was obliterated, as is shown in the preparation. 194 Tibia and fibula of a man. Both bones are extremely dense in structure; and the external surface is greatly thickened by irregular osseous depositions ; the effects of ostitis, and periostitis. The parietes of the tibia are extremely thick; the medullary ca- vity is large. The history of this case is not known. This is a very valuable preparation. 195 A section of the superior extremity of the tibia after amputation. This preparation shows the cancellous structure ; it likewise displays the mode in which the end of the bone is defended by the deposition of osseous mat- ter ; the absorbents having afterwards removed all the asperities so as to prevent any irritation of the newly formed cushion of cellular membrane. In this instance the leg was amputated too near the joint. This preparation is described in the sixteenth volume of the Transactions of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society. 196 The superior extremity of the tibia and fibula, from a patient whose leg was amputated. The leg was re- moved too near the joint; and a sufficient length of integuments was not preserved. The end of the stump sloughed, and the bones projected; inflam- mation of the joint supervened ; and the patient died about a fortnight after the operation. 197 Exostosis between the articulating surfaces of the cannon-bone and pastern; which would have pro- duced anchylosis of the joint. From a horse. 198 Cannon-bone, and pastern of a horse, with exten- sive exostosis surrounding the articulating surfaces. There is also a considerable enlargement of the su- perior and anterior surface of the cannon-bone. 199 Complete anchylosis of the coffin-bone, with the small and large pasterns, the shuttle-bone not affected. From a dray-horse.