131 The sac of the aneurism had caused absorption of a considerable portion of the sternum, and the re- maining part was carious, also some of the ribs. There was a considerable quantity of coagulated blood and fibrine in the sac of the aneurism. The aorta, from its origin as far as the iliac arteries was greatly dilated, the internal coat converted into solid bone and cartilage, and in some parts ulceration had taken place. The heart was large ; the parietes of the left ventricle very thick, the cavity large ; the valves normal, all the abdominal viscera natural, also those in the thorax, but the blood-vessels were empty. What is most remarkable in this case is, that the internal coat of the aorta should have become ossified to such a degree, in so young a person. 468 A section of part of a coagulum and fibrine, taken from the sac of the aneurism last described, showing the laminated arrangement. 469 An aneurism of great magnitude, at the origin and arch of the aorta ; also a small aneurism at the descending portion. A man 55 years of age ; the symptoms of aneurism had existed for nearly two years; he was greatly emaciated, and died very suddenly. A part of the right side of the sternum ; the carti- lages of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th ribs were absorbed ; had the patient survived a little longer, the inte- guments of the chest on the right side would have sloughed, and the aneurism burst on the right side of the thorax. This side of the chest was nearly filled with coagulated blood, and the lungs were in consequence compressed, but healthy in structure, as were those on the left side. The liver large, and in some parts schirrous ; the gall-bladder did not contain much bile, the spleen large, and very firm in texture. There were about four ounces of water in the pericar- dium ; the heart was large, the parietes of the left ventricle very thick, the cavity large; the mitral valve healthy; the coronary arteries large. The sigmoid valves are slightly thickened at their base, and near the edge of two of them, there is a small aperture, which is seen in the preparation. The aneurismal enlargement had been occasioned by a gradual dilatation of all the coats, and not by lace-