218 917 Duodenum, minutely injected; the valvulaa conniventes extremely large, the serous coat greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and there are scrofulous tuber- cles beneath it, which are small, and very numerous. The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. The lungs were filled with tubercles and vomicae; the mesenteric glands diseased. 918 Duodenum, injected with size and vermillion; two of the mesenteric glands converted into bone. From a man, who died .of phthisis pulmonalis; the lungs were nearly filled with tubercles and vomicae, the mesenteric glands scrofulous, as were all the mucous glands in the intestines. 919 Duodenum, injected; the mucous coat inflamed, and in one portion there is a large opening by ulceration of all the coats, occasioned by carcinomatous tuber- cles between the tunics; it is shown in the prepa- ration ; the liver and the mesentery were affected with carcinoma. 920 A portion of duodenum, affected with medullary sarcoma, which had formed between the coats, and had in several parts destroyed the mucous surface, producing a ragged appearance; as seen in the prepa- ration. A piece of omentum adheres firmly to the serous coat. The intestinum ileum, the mesentery, and lungs, were affected with the same disease. 921 Portions of the duodenum and jejunum, minutely injected and dried; the valvulas conniventes shown. 922 A portion of duodenum and jejunum, injected with size and vermillion ; the coats were highly inflamed, ulcerated, and partly in a state of sphacelation. The ulceration had extended in some parts from the mucous coat through the serous, and some of the intestines were contracted, or strictured; the serous coat is thickened by organised lymph. 923 A portion of duodenum, with numerous small hydatids on the peritoneal coat. 924 A portion of jejunum, some of the veins filled with chyle, dried, and preserved in spirit of turpentine. I never saw an instance of the kind before. 925 Jejunum, injected minutely, inflammatory appearances shown ; preserved in spirit of turpentine. 926 Intestine inflamed, dried, and preserved in spirit of turpentine.