431 breast. I performed the operation, but I did not entertain the least hope of its proving successful from having seen many similar cases terminate fatally. There were no unfavorable symptoms after the ope- ration ; the health and spirits improved ; the wound, which was very extensive, soon granulated, and the healing process went on well. The pa- tient continued in good health for nearly three years from the time of the operation ; after this her health declined, and she experienced several bilious attacks, followed by dyspepsia, and her skin be- came sallow. These symptoms were succeeded by a distressing cough and dyspnoea, and there was a profuse expectoration of mucus, frequently mixed with pus ; she had also symptoms of a dis- eased liver. The patient became greatly emaciated ; symptoms of hectic fever came on, which terminated her ex- istence. Permission could not be obtained to ex- amine the body. I have no doubt that the lungs, liver, and mesenteric glands were affected with the same disease as in the mamma. The following are the appearances noticed on examining the morbid part. There were a great number of small scirrhous tubercles in the integuments, which were removed with the diseased breast, and there were the same appearances in the cellular tissue between the in- ternal surface of the integuments, and the external surface of the tumor. The principal part of the structure of the breast had been converted into hard tubercles, of different sizes, and there was a cyst containing a gelatinous secretion. 1694 Mamma, affected with carcinoma, the nipple was so much retracted, that the integuments belonging to it were alone seen. Not a vestige of the natural structure of the breast could be traced, the whole mass being formed of aggregated tubercles, of different figures, the largest was not bigger than a hazel nut, and there were a few serous cysts in the morbid growth. From a patient 64 years of age. The uterus was affected with cancer. Some Pathologists have stated, that the puckering in