306 duced. During the last three years of his life his mental and bodily powers gradually declined, the result of old age, and he died in the 77th year of his age. The sac of femoral hernia and the ring were very ca- pacious ; the internal surface presented its normal character; the sac of the scrotal rupture had not undergone any morbid change, nor had the inguinal on the left side. There were three ounces of fluid in the tunica vaginalis of the left testis; the structure of the gland was perfectly healthy, as was the epididymis ; and the vas deferens and sperma- tic artery were pervious. The tunica vaginalis and albuginea were greatly thickened, and lymph had been deposited, which was organised, and a firm bond of adhesion be- tween the two surfaces had been effected. T have examined a number of hydroceles, some of which had been injected, but I never saw such complete union of the two secreting surfaces as was shown in this instance. Generally, hydroceles which have been injected are found to be only par- tially agglutinated. My motive for wishing to make this case public, is to prove that a perfect cure of hydrocele may be effected in persons ad- vanced in life; yet, from the severe symptoms which were occasioned in this case, I should not recommend such a mode of practice. It would be more advisable to perform paracentesis whenever the accumulation in the tunica vaginalis testis became troublesome to the patient. The history of this case, with observations, was pub- lished in the Lancet. 1441 Two testes. The structure of one is completely de- stroyed by large scrofulous tubercles, the tunica albuginea and vaginalis, and the scrotum are partly destroyed by ulceration, and the scrofulous growth projects; the spermatic cord is likewise affected. The other testicle partially affected with scrofula, and there was a chronic hydrocele. A man, 34 years of age ; the lungs contained a great number of scrofulous tubercles, and the mesenteric glands were converted into caseous matter. In con-