341 relief would be by tapping above the pubes ; but be- fore doing this, I considered it prudent to endea- vour to draw off the urine with a catheter, I em- ployed a very small elastic gum catheter without the wire, and by introducing a finger into the rec- tum, I fortunately passed it into the bladder, and a large quantity of urine was evacuated. The catheter was allowed to remain in the bladder, where it was properly secured, and the urine passed partly through the tube and partly through the urethra. This plan was continued for nearly a fortnight, when the cathe- ter was withdrawn, and he afterwards passed urine without any aid; his health then improved. About a year after this attack, he was seized with apo- plexy, which produced paraplegia, and his mental powers were affected ; in another fit of the same disease he died. This is a very valuable specimen. 1401 Urinary bladder, the prostate gland, and a portion of the penis. From a man who was tapped above the pubes. The ossa pubis, with part of the abdominal integuments, and the inferior portions of the recti abdominales muscles are also shown in the prepa- ration. The patient, 46 years of age, had been afflicted with a stricture in the urethra for several years, which could not be remedied ; retention of urine came on, with all its painful and distressing train of symptoms, and, as the urine could not be drawn off, the blad- der was punctured above the pubes. Attempts were made during the artificial method of relieving the bladder, to re-establish the natural outlet for the urine, but unluckily for the patient this could not be effected. About three years from the time the operation was performed, symptoms of hepatic disease commenced, and it was noticed by his wife and family that his temper and mind had altered, and that he was disposed to be melancholy; he put an end to his existence by hanging himself. The membranes of the brain showed evident signs of having been affected for a considerable length of time ; the arachnoid and pia mater were thick- ened, there was a serous fluid between them, and nearly an ounce of water in the lateral ventri- cles.