163 tion of blood to the minute arteries belonging to themu. cous surface, &c. the effects of purpura haemorrhagica, 686 Two portions of skin affected with purpura haemorrha- gica. The cuticle of one of the specimens is reflected, to give a more distinct view of the disease. 687 A portion of skin affected with purpura hagmorrhagica; several parts of the body showed signs of this disease ; the liver was granulated, and there was water in the abdomen. Preserved in alcohol. 688 A portion of skin, showing petechias. 689 A portion of skin, showing the effects of scarlatina, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. 690 Two portions of skin, showing confluent small pox, at an early stage, connected with purpura. From a man of robust habit, 24 years of age. Purpura was seen beneath the serous covering of the lungs; they were gorged with blood; there were likewise signs of purpura beneath the peritoneal surface of the abdo- minal and pelvic viscera ; the internal surface of the stomach and intestines was affected in a similar manner, and all the arteries were inflamed. The antiphlo- gisticmode of treatmentwas notemployed in this case. 691 Two portions of skin, showing ichthyosis. From a man; the liver, and mucous glands of the intestines were affected with medullary sarcoma. 692 Left hand, showing extensive laceration of the integuments, &c. of a portion of the palm; occa- sioned by the bursting of a gun. I amputated the arm soon after the accident. Several arteries were secured; I cut off both ends of the ligature which was applied to the radial artery. The stump healed favorably, and the ligatures in the course of eight days separated. About three weeks after the operation, pain was complained of in the inner surface of the fore-arm ; the integuments inflamed, and an abscess formed, which I opened ; to my surprise, the ligature which had been secured around the radial artery escaped with the pus. The swelling and inflammation soon subsided, and the wound healed. This fact convinced me of the impropriety of cutting off both ends of the ligatures in amputations. But in a case of exomphalos, where I was obliged tq remove a portion of omentum, and tie several