33 must have been of the same kind, as no sign of an old apoplectic cell in any part of the brain was seen. The thoracic viscera were healthy; the liver was very large and firm in structure ; sections showed a nutmeg appearance ; and the gall-bladder was filled with dark colored bile. The spleen was large, and its structure firmer than natural. The stomach and intestines were of an enormous size ; the mucous glands in the small intestines were greatly developed. In Sir Astley Cooper's splendid work on Fractures and Dislocations, there is a figure exactly resembling the above preparation. .50 A section of the upper part of the thigh-bone, showing a fracture extending through the base of the neck. The case is described in No. 152. 151 A portion of the pelvis of a full blood mare. There is a fracture on the left side, extending from the middle of the os pubis, to the base of the tuberosity of the ischium. A part of the ilium and the aceta- bulum has also been fractured. From the appearance of the specimen the bone must have been comminu- ted, and some of the fragments absorbed: osseous union had afterwards taken place, which caused great deformity of the pelvis. The external surface along the line of fracture is covered with rugged bone, and the thyroid foramen obliterated. Although the pelvis was so greatly deformed, the mare gave birth after the accident to two valuable foals. .52 Sections of a fractured femur.—There are two frac- tures, one through the cervix femoris, the other through the shaft, between the trochanters. Black bristles denote the line of union. From a woman, 56 years of age, who had been afflicted with carcinoma mamma? for nearly two years; and in consequence of the glands in the axilla not appearing to have participated in the morbid action, the breast was removed. A few months after the operation, her health became affected ; tumors appeared beneath the integuments of the chest on the side whence the mamma had been extirpated ; and on various parts of the body. She became greatly emaciated and enfeebled; and in attempting to get out of bed, fell on the floor, which occasioned the fractures. In this instance, the foot D