186 The lungs on both sides of the chest were nearly filled with miliary tubercles. In one of the lobes of the right lung, there was a large excavation. 764 Two portions of lung, showing aggregated miliary tubercles, vomicae, &c. The pleurae in both sides of the chest adhered firmly by organised lymph. The lungs were nearly consolidated by coagulated lymph and very minute miliary tubercles, and there were several large vomicae which are shown in the preparation. The internal lining of those excava- tions presented the appearance of a secreting surface ; several of the bronchial tubes open into the sac, two of them are distinguished by pieces of colored glass. The mesenteric glands, and the mucous glands of the small intestines were diseased. 765 A portion of lung, rendered solid by scrofulous tubercles, and sero-purulent infiltration. The pleura costalis and pulmonalis adhered so firmly, that it was impossible to separate them, except by dissection. Portions of two of the ribs are shown in the preparation. The patient was very old. History not known. 766 A portion of lung, rendered nearly solid by scrofulous tubercles. An abscess, at some remote period, had formed in the lung near its external surface, and a portion of the pleura had been destroyed. The boundaries of the abscess had contracted, and there is a decided sign of a complete cicatrix. The lung, in some degree, resembles one affected with melanosis, this discoloration, I believe, had been produced by the person having lived all her life in London. The patient was 70 years of age. 767 Lung, the natural structure nearly destroyed by scro- fulous tubercles, inflammation, and vomicae ; the pleura covered with coagulable lymph. 768 Lung, showing consolidation of its structure by various sized scrofulous tubercles, &c. There is also a large vomica near the surface of the lung, which communi- cates with the bronchial tubes, as is seen in the pre- paration, the trachea having been filled with injection. The pleura? greatly thickened.