21? A girl, 13 years of age, had been in a delicate state of health from her birth. About a year and a half previous to her death symptoms of tabes mesenterica came on ; she had a sallow countenance, her digestive organs were disordered, and she was greatly emacia- ted ; diarrhoea and intestinal haemorrhage supervened about four days previous to the death of the patient. There were about three pints of water in the abdomen, all the viscera seemed exsanguine. The liver was large, of a pale white color, texture very soft, and there were a great number of miliary tubercles in its substance ; gall-bladder filled with bile. The spleen large and firm, and there were several small tubercles in it. The mesenteric glands considerably enlarged, they were very firm in texture, but did not contain that caseous secretion generally noticed in scrofula. The mucous coat of all the intestines very vascular, but ulceration had not taken place even where the mucous glands were so much enlarged. There were several tubercles in the lungs, but they had not affected the function of these organs. The last three preparations fiom the same subject. 913 A portion of duodenum of an adult, with part of the pancreas. The man had a diseased liver; there was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen, the peritoneum and all its reflections were inflamed, the mucous coat of the small intestines highly vascu- lar, and slightly thickened, and there were a great number of projections on the sides and edges of the valvulae conniventes. On examining these singular productions with a mag- nifying glass, they appeared to have been pro- duced, not by the disease (scrofula), but by an imperfection of the valvulae conniventes, perhaps congenital. 914 Duodenum, the mucous glands enlarged, some in a sloughy state. 915 Duodenum inverted, the mucous glands greatly en- larged, surface partly ulcerated. 91G Duodenum, injected with size and vermillion, with scrofulous tubercles beneath the serous coat. From an adult—the lungs filled with scrofulous tubercles and vomicae ; the mesenteric glands affected with the same disease.