456 plate, and that portion belonging to the bones forming the fossa for the middle lobe of the brain, were greatly thickened. On detaching them they were found separatedfrom the bones, in consequence of their having becorne diseased by the malignant growth in the antrum and orbit, and pus was found between them. The eye and all the muscles, &c. were completely fixed by the insinuation of morbid matter into the cellular tissue belonging to them, which is shown in the preparation. The left optic nerve was very small and dark colored. 1756 A cancerous tumor, removed from the integuments belonging to the tibia. Its external appearance resembled Chimney Sweeper's cancer. 1 have seen the same disease on the lip, face, nympha, &c. From a man, 50 years of age ; some time after the operation, the glands in the groin became affected with the same disease; it also affected the liver, which caused the death of the patient. 1757 A portion of diaphragm, affected with carcinomatous tumors of various sizes, beneath the thoracic and abdominal coverings. From a man 73 years of age, there were cancerous tubera in his liver and lungs. 1758 A tumor of the fungoid and carcinomatous character, it had its origin in the integuments covering the malar bone on the left side. The tumor had been growing gradually for nearly nine months; the patient's health became affected, and his complexion was sallow. The integuments covering the growth, and to some distance beyond, were inflamed and painful, ulceration commenced near the centre of the tumor, which was followed by considerable haemorrhage, that could not be suppressed by the application of cold, turpentine, or pressure. As the loss of blood seemed to have lessened his bodily power, and the haemorrhage could not be checked, I thought it expedient to extirpate the tumor; it was necessary to tie three arteries. About a fortnight after the operation his digestive organs became disordered, afterwards febrile symptoms commenced, succeeded by erysi- pelas, the patient became furiously delirious, and he died.