183 757 Lungs of a girl about 14 years of age. The structure of the lungs is consolidated by con- genital, aggregated, miliary tubercles, and lymph, and there is the cyst of an immense vomica, or exca- vation, which is seen in the preparation. The inter- nal part of the sac presents all the characters of a secreting surface, similar to the cyst of a large psoas abscess, and one of the bronchial tubes opens into it. A thick adventitious membrane is formed on the pleura pulmonalis. The mesenteric glands, and the glandulse aggregatae of the ileum were affected with scrofula. This is a splendid specimen. I never saw so large a vomica in a young subject History of the case not known. 758 Lungs, trachea, oesophagus, phrenic nerves, &c. A child, 2 years of age, had been affected with cynanche trachealis for nearly seven weeks. The paroxysms of coughing were so frequent and violent, as occasi- onally to threaten suffocation ; there was purulent expectoration, convulsions came on, and the child died suddenly. Inspectio. The lungs on both sides of the chest were thickly studded with small miliary tubercles, and there were several large abscesses, which are shown in the preparation. The bronchial glands were con- verted into scrofulous tumors, as were the thoracic, and the concatenated glands in the neck on both sides. The liver was large and pale-colored; the gall-bladder distended with viscid secretion ; the spleen very large, but not diseased ; the mesenteric glands caseous; and the glandules aggregataa in the ileum enlarged. I have noticed that when hooping-cough attacks patients with scrofulous tubercles in the lungs, they generally die. 759 A portion of lung, showing active inflammation cf the cellular structure, and consolidation by the deposi- tion of lymph, miliary tubercles, and medullary tubera. From a boy, 8 years of age, who had been in a delicate state of health, from his birth; he was during the last six months of his life affected with symptoms denoting pulmonic disease. About six weeks previous to his death, he complained of pain