127 The right side of the chest nearly filled with coagula- ted blood; the lungs healthy. The pericardium contained about four ounces of serum. The heart was large, structure healthy; the left ven- tricle very thick, cavity capacious. The abdominal viscera healthy. The patient, a plethoric man, 40 years of age ; he had been distressed for nearly two years, with all the symptoms denoting an aneurism ; he expired sud- denly. 463 The ascending aorta, its arch, and descending por- tion, affected with aneurism. The patient, a man 26 years of age, very plethoric, was a maniac in Old Bethlem Hospital. He had been long troubled with a cough and great difficulty in breathing ; he was suddenly seized with a severe attack of haemoptysis, and died sud- denly. The pericranium adhered very firmly (which I have generally noticed on inspecting the brain of an insane person), there was a considerable effusion of milky fluid between the arachnoid and pia mater; the structure of the cerebrum was very firm ; and there were nearly two ounces of water in the lateral ventricles. The arteries and every other part of the brain appeared healthy. The air cells of the right lung were greatly dilated, as in asthma; the structure healthy; but at the supe- rior portion of one of the lungs, there was a cal- careous concretion, about the size of a pea, beneath the pleura. The lungs on the left side were injected with effused blood, and were rendered solid, as in apoplexy. On carefully dissecting the lungs, trachea, and aorta, the following morbid appearances were noticed. The heart was very large; hypertrophy of the left ventricle; cavity large; the valves normal. The in- ternal coat of the aorta greatly thickened by organ- ised lymph, and cartilaginous matter ; the coronary arteries large. The ascending portion of the aorta and its arch greatly dilated, also the arteria inno- minata, and its coats thickened. At the arch of the aorta, near the left carotid artery, there is an aneurism about the size of a marble, the sac filled with fibrine which adhered