324 them. The brain was inflamed; there were two ounces of water in the lateral ventricles ; and in the centre of the right lobe of the cerebellum there was a coagulum of blood of about the size of a nutmeg, and water in the fourth ventricle. The preparation of the brain is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 1351 A renal calculus of considerable size ; its external surface is very irregular, owing to small calcareous deposits. There was- likewise a calculus in the urinary bladder. From an old woman. 1352 A renal calculus, which occupied part of the infundi- bula, pelvis, and ureter of the right kidney. From a man, 39 years of age, who had hydatids in the liver. The serous surface of the right lobe of the liver adhered very firmly to the diaphragm; and by the growth of the hydatids the peritoneal sur- face of the liver had ulcerated, also a portion of the diaphragm, which allowed some of the hydatids to escape into the substance of one of the lobes of the lung, and caused the death of the patient. The pleura pulmonalis adhered very firmly to the dia- phragm. The history of this interesting case is given in the Section on Diseased Livers. 1353 A great number of calculi, found in the pelvis of a kidney; they are very small, and composed of oxalate of lime. From a boy, 10 years of age. The kid- ney is of an enormous magnitude, the infundibula and pelvis greatly dilated, and the urethra, a short distance from its commencement, is obliterated by some of the calculi. The pelvis of the kidney con- tained a considerable quantity of urine, mixed with pus ; and there were a great number of mulberry calculi in the cavity of the kidney, of various sizes. The preparation of the kidney and the remainder of the calculi are in the Museum of the Royal Col- lege of Surgeons. 1354 Section of a calculus, from the bladder. 1355 A calculus, showing a central nucleus. 1356 Section of a very large calculus. The external sur- face presents the mulberry character (oxalate of lime) ; the nucleus is shown in the preparation. From a man, who had suffered from symptoms of