99 The spleen was double the natural size, and its cap- sule partly cartilaginous; structure dense. There were firm adhesions between the pleura?, on both sides of the chest, and also water in the cavities. The lungs were gorged with blood and water, and they felt cedematous. There were four ounces of water in the pericardium. The left auricle of the heart was greatly thickened by chronic inflammation; but the valvular structure was not affected; the ventricle capacious, its parietes thin; and at its base, near the aortic valves, there was a dilatation of the coats, forming an aneurism: but the greatest degree of dilatation was on the left side of the ven- tricle, and the coronary artery passed over the outer surface of the sac, as is exhibited in the prepara- tion. The diameter of the aneurismal opening was about an inch; the sac had not protruded externally to a great extent, but if the patient had lived a little longer, the aneurism would most probably have burst into the pericardium. The sac did not contain any coagulated blood, or fibrin; its internal surface was semicartilaginous ; the aorta was cartilaginous; the coronary arteries were rather small, and their internal coat slightly thickened. This is the only specimen of true aneurism of the heart I ever met with. It is very different from the active or passive aneurism described by Corvisart; in short I think the terms employed by that dis- tinguished Pathologist are objectionable, but his des- cription of the symptoms and appearances on dissection, are much to be admired. A portion of the left ventricle and auricle of a heart, with the aorta and its valves. A woman 60 years of age, had for several years shown signs of a diseased liver, and also symptoms denoting organic disease of the heart, which produced hydrothorax and ascites, and caused her death. The left ventricle of the heart was rather large, the parietes thick, but the muscular structure very pale-colored, and flaccid. The internal lining of the auricle semicartilaginous, greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and in some parts ulcerated; the mitral valve considerably contracted. The aortic valves at their base in a cartilaginous state, but not much shortened; the coronary arteries and aorta healthy.