37 standing adhesions of the pleura. The lungs were partly hepatised, and emphysematous ; the bronchial ramifications were filled with mucus tinged with blood ; and the internal surface was highly inflamed. The heart was small, and the aortic and mitral valves were cartilaginous and osseous. The liver was granulated; the spleen solid; and the mucous glands in the ileum and caecum were much en- larged. The capsular ligament is greatly thickened by organised lymph deposited on its internal sur- face ; and its external part is nearly converted into bone. The neck of the femur had been fractured transversely close to the head of the bone ; and a considerable portion of fractured surface had been rounded off. Lymph had afterwards been deposited, which had become organised, similarly to the end of a stump after amputation. A ligamentous union had been effected between the remaining portion of the neck of the thigh-bone, and the under surface of the head; thus forming an artificial joint; and an immense quantity of osseous matter had been depo- sited around the inferior part of the neck of the bone, which had kept the fractured ends in juxta-position. This case was considered, at Bartholomew's Hos- pital, to be a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsule, which had united by bone. I think this kind of union more favorable than any other; it is accompanied with less deformity, and the limb is more useful. A fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsule, united by ligament. From a woman 55 years of age; the real nature of the accident was not detected by the medical attendant, and no means beyond rest were employed. The accident happened sixteen months previous to her death. Examination of the fracture.—The capsular ligament was greatly thickened externally, and its internal surface was thickly covered with organised lymph. The fracture had taken place at the neck of the bone, close to the head : the remaining portion of the neck was absorbed, and lymph deposited, which was organised; short thick adhesions had formed be- tween the internal part of the capsule, and the fractured end of the head.