88 its internal surface was inflamed, as were also the muscular structure of the heart, the linings of the ventricles and auricles, and the coats of the arteries. The valves of the heart were normal. The internal surface of the trachea and bronchi was highly infla- med, but lymph had not been deposited. There were small tubercles in the liver, and in the me- senteric glands. The tubercles, I have no doubt were congenital, and those in the lungs must have aggravated the inflammatory action produced by croup. 305 A portion of the left ventricle of a heart, showing two small lacerated openings near its apex. A man 47 years of age, very robust, and plethoric, experienced a very severe attack of acute rheumatism in the hands and feet, which was followed by metastasis to the heart, and caused violent palpitation, accompa- nied with excessive pain in the chest and dyspnoea. These symptoms increased in violence, and he expired suddenly, on the fourth day from the com- mencement of the attack. The pleurae and lungs inflamed. On opening the peri- cardium there was found a large quantity of fluid blood which had escaped from the cavity of the heart, by two small lacerations near its apex. The heart was natural in size, and there were no signs of organic disease of old standing; but the serous covering, the lining of the auricles and ventricles, the muscular structure, and the internal coat of the aorta and pulmonary artery were inflamed. All the abdominal viscera healthy. If the patient had been freely bled, I think his life might have been saved; but the physician who attended him, had unfortunately a great aversion to the use of the lancet in rheumatism or gout. 306 Heart. The patient a boy 17 years of age, with a lateral curvature of the spine, constitution very delicate. For nearly two years he had been troubled with cough and difficulty in breathing, and occasional attacks of pneumonia, which affected his health. Symptoms denoting disease of the heart came on, which gradually increased in violence ; his legs be- came cedematous ; the heart's action was very violent and irregular, and the dyspnoea distressing; in a