280 remainder of the liver was of a deep green color, from the effusion of bile into the cellular media, occasioned by obstruction of the hepatic duct ; there were calculi in the gall-bladder, which had obstructed the cystic duct. The patient, a man, 59 years of age, died of ascites, and what is termed the " black jaundice." The spleen was greatly enlarged. 1178 Liver, affected with carcinoma, minutely injected. This specimen was preserved 24 years ago. 1179 Liver, affected with carcinoma. The tumors are small, but possess all the characteristic structure of schirrus. The lungs were also affected. 1180 Liver affected with carcinoma; the serous coat greatly thickened, and of a brownish color. The liver contained a great number of tubera, similar to the one shown in the preparation, and the rest of the liver was extremely dense in structure. The gall-bladder was empty and shrivelled. The spleen large. From a woman 60 years of age, who had ascites and jaundice. 1181 A portion of liver, showing two carcinomatous tumors. 1182 Two portions of liver affected with carcinoma, &c. From a child seven months old; from its birth an enlargement was felt in the abdomen, which in- creased gradually, and ultimately became of an enormous size ; the child had a teasing cough, and great difficulty of breathing ; it was not emaciated; it died suddenly. The patient had been seen by several professional gentlemen ; some imagined the liver was enlarged, others considered it a large tumor, or diseased mesenteric glands. There was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen, the liver was of enormous magnitude, and seemed to occupy nearly the whole of the abdomen. Its structure appeared to be wholly composed of medullary and carcinomatous tumors, some of them being distinct, others aggregated ; and the caliber of blood vessels and biliary ducts was greatly dimi- nished by the morbid products. The gall-bladder contained a small quantity of pale- colored bile ; the spleen was very large, but not diseased. All the other abdominal viseera were healthy.