445 The parts were carefully dissected, dried, and var- nished. The muscles fasciae, and all the different coverings of the hernia are shown, also the sper- matic cord, the cremaster muscle, testis, and its tunics. The external iliac artery and the epigas- tric were filled with wax injection. 1724 A scrotal hernia. There was a large quantity of omen- tum, also a considerable portion of the transverse arch of the colon in the hernial sac. The opening of the sac is extremely large, in conse- quence of the external and internal rings having been dilated into one aperture by the protruding contents of the sac. The fibres of the cremaster muscle are greatly developed, a fact generally noticed in dissecting a hernia of this kind. The most singular appearance in this preparation is the formation of a very firm adhesion at about the middle part of the hernial sac, by the omentum, which divides the sac into two portions, like a double hernia. The inferior part of the constricted omentum is about the magnitude and figure of a large testicle, and it is situated about two inches from the real testis, as seen in the prepara- tion. The man had never worn a truss, although he had been afflicted with a rupture for several years. If an operation had been necessary, the surgeon, after dividing the superior portion of the adhering omen- tum, would probably have been disconcerted on dis- covering the enlargement at the inferior part, near the testicle. I amputated the leg of this patient; the case has been given in the history of No. 457, which is the stump. 1725 A large scrotal hernia. The hernial sac is inverted, to show how little its natural structure is altered by having been for many years protruded and stretched. There are several bands or adhesions, which had united va- rious parts of the intestine in the sac. The hernia had been irreducible for four years, during which time the patient had not been able to wear a truss. The internal and external rings were in one, so that the intestine protruded directly.