193 786 A portion of lung, affected with carcinoma. The tubercles are seen in the structure of the lung, and beneath the pleura. The mamma was affected with carcinoma. See the preparation. 787 Lung affected with carcinoma. A woman, 46 years of age, had a cancerous breast removed, the glands in the axilla were not, affected, and her health was not impaired, although the disease had existed upwards of three years, and the integuments had begun to ulcerate. 788 Two specimens of lung. The pleura immensely thickened by organised lymph; the structure in some parts consolidated by large scrofulous tubercles, and medullary tubera ; in some portions ulcerated. The patient, 50 years of age, a delicate woman, of dark complexion, had been subject to cough, and dyspnoea for nearly twenty years. During the last year of her life the pulmonic affection became more distressing, the expectoration at times profuse ; the sputa consisted of pus, with mucus, and occasionally small granules resembling miliary tubercles were noticed. Symptoms denoting organic lesion of the liver came on, attended by slight jaundice, and lastly hectic fever, which caused death. The pleura pulmonalis and costalis were so firmly united, that it was necessary to remove the lungs by dissection for examination ; the adhesions were ex- tremely firm on the serous covering of the diaphragm, as seen in the preparation. On cutting through the lungs, it appeared that nearly all the normal structure had been destroyed by aggregated tubercles, and tubera of considerable size, resembling a combination of medullary sarcoma and carcinoma, and small blood-vessels passed through the latter deposits, but none were seen in the scrofu- lous tubercles. The bronchial tubes were filled with pus, the lining membrane was inflamed, and that belonging to the trachea was ulcerated. The liver was rather small in size, its texture dense, and there were several tumors in it similar to those found in the lungs, only less in size ; the gall-blad- der contained a small quantity of green-colored secre- tion ; the spleen was small, and rather solid. The glandulae aggregatas in the ileum were very large, o