53 several spiculee of bone were discharged at different periods. In consequence of the man's health be- coming affected, and as he appeared to have no dis- ease in the lungs or mesenteric glands, and there seemed no possibility of saving the arm, I amputated it. The stump healed favorably, the ligatures came away about the twelfth day after the operation ; and his health was soon restored. After his cure, he left Cripplegate workhouse; but I have not seen him since, nor have I heard any thing respecting the result of the case. I am, by no means, an advocate for proposing opera- tions in scrofulous patients, having seen so many cases which proved unsuccessful. Appearances of the morbid parts.—The whole of the natural structures have been destroyed by ulceration; and a considerable portion of the ends of the ulna and radius absorbed. Exostosis has commenced above the parts which were diseased; the carpal, and metacarpal bones are ex- tremely soft, and the cancelli are filled with a caseous secretion. 217 Hand; the arteries injected with size and vermillion. From a healthy man, 24 years of age, who had re- ceived a violent blow on the wrist, which produced considerable ecchymosis, and was followed by great pain in the wrist, and considerable swelling in the hand and arm. Prompt means were not employed to check the inflammatory action after the injury ; pus formed in the joint, occasioning destruction of the soft parts, cartilages and ligaments; and an ab- scess formed beneath the integuments on the exter- nal part of the hand. The subcutaneous cellular tissue, and fascia, with the integuments sphacelated. Appearances of the diseased joint.—The ends of the ulna and radius, with the carpal bones, were in a carious state ; and there was a considerable collec- tion of pus beneath the palmar fascia ; and upon the inner surface of the fore-arm. The stump healed favorably, and the patient was soon restored to health. 218 A hand ; the arteries injected with size and vermillion. The soft parts, cartilages and ligaments of the wrist, and carpal bones, are destroyed by ulceration. An