328 The urine escaped into the abdomen, which induced peritonitis, and the patient died on the fourth day from the commencement of the attack. 1383 Bladder and prostate gland. The mucous coat of the bladder is greatly thickened by chronic inflam- mation, and there are several sacculi which had been produced by the difficulty in voiding urine. The natural structure of the prostate gland is nearly destroyed by scrofulous ulceration, the prostatic and membranous portions of the urethra are in a sloughy state, and there is a very small dense stricture at the bulb. The patient had also scrofu- lous tubercles in his lungs. 1384 Bladder, prostate gland, vesiculae seminales, and vasa deferentia. The bladder is very capacious, and extremely flaccid; the mucous coat is highly inflamed, and partly ulcerated. The prostate gland is enlarged to nearly double its normal size ; structure very dense, the middle lobe is greatly enlarged, and the lateral portions project into the prostatic urethra, so as to diminish the caliber of the tube. The kidnies were inflamed, the infundibula, pelves, and ureters, greatly distended and highly inflamed. A man, 73 years of age, had been afflicted for upwards of five years with nephritic symptoms. He was seized with retention of urine, and had not voided any for twelve hours, he complained of violent pain in the hypogastric region, and in the loins. He was informed that it would be necessary to have the urine drawn off, but this he would not submit to. Various means were adopted for some time to relieve the bladder, but without effect. His sufferings became very distressing, and the bladder had ascended nearly as high as the umbilicus ; he was again urged to have the urine drawn off, which he agreed to. There was some difficulty in introducing a catheter, owing to the diseased state of the prostate gland, but by depressing the instrument, and introducing a finger into the rectum ; it was effected, and upwards of three quarts of offensive urine were drawn of. This afforded temporary relief, and the mine afterwards required to be drawn off twice