459 presented a nodulated appearance; the integu- ments were of a purple color, the cutaneous veins very large, and the patient's health affected. The central part of the tumor became conical, and the integuments were very thin, which induced a sur- geon, not well acquainted with the nature of the disease, to puncture the tumor. Nothing but blood flowed from the aperture; after this a fungus growth appeared, which increased daily, and bled profusely, and endangered the life of the patient; it was considered right to extirpate the tumor. Every thing went on favorably after the operation for some time, but cicatrisation did not proceed naturally; the surface occasionally bled, the gra- nulations were large and flabby. His health be- came affected, and the discharges from the bowels were very foetid, and of a black color, as in mae- lena. Tumors began to show themselves in the wound made by the operation, they increased in size, and there was an ichorous offensive discharge from them ; his health suffered, the surface of the wound sloughed, and the brain became affected, which caused death. I fully expected to have found some of the viscera of the thorax or abdomen affected with the same dis- ease, but to my astonishment there were no signs of malignant disease in any of the viscera. This is the only case I have met with where the disease was entirely local. The liver was large, granulated, and of a deep yellow color ; the mucous coat of the intestines of a darkish color, and portions of the caecum and colon ulcerated. 1766 Section of a fungoid tumor, minutely injected with size and vermillion. The tumor was removed from the thigh. 1767 A beautiful fungoid tumor, which was situated on the external part of the leg a little below the knee-joint, in a line with the edge of the tibia. The leg was injected with size and vermillion. From a man, 40 years of age, who had a similar tumor removed in the situation described, the cicatrix of which is seen in the preparation. The wound did not heal completely, a fungus of the same character began to appear, which gradually