362 stricted prepuce (phymosis), a discharge com- menced about a week after improper intercourse ; the prepuce became inflamed, accompanied with great pain and considerable swelling, which obliged the patient to ask the advice of a surgeon. The symptoms were supposed to" have been produced by a chancre, and mercury was given in such doses as to quickly produce ptyalism. This plan of treat- ment had no effect in checking the progress of the disease, but on the contrary aggravated it, and mor- tification of the prepuce came on to a considerable extent, which soon exposed the glans penis. It was enormously swollen, and there was every reason to suppose the part would sphacelate. At this period I was requested to visit the patient; he was in agonising pain, and his health was greatly affected. I ordered opiate lotions to be applied frequently, and liquor opii sedativus to be given in mint julep every four hours ; afterwards sarsapa- rilla and a nutritious diet. This plan was pursued a week, with beneficial effect, as his health im- proved, the mortified parts began to separate, and the surface of the part assumed a more healthy appearance. The wound healed gradually, but the inferior part of the prepuce remained, and its sub-cellular tissue had been greatly thickened by organised lymph, which had produced an enlargement nearly the size of the glans penis. About six months after the healing of the sore on the penis, symptoms of phthisis pulmonalis came on, which caused the death of the patient. The liver was sound, although a little more solid than natural; the rest of the abdominal viscera were healthy. There was a considerable quauiity of pus in the left side of the chest, and there were large excavations in the lungs; and the lung on the right side was emphysematous. The lining of the trachea and bronchi was highly inflamed. 1433 Penis and inguinal glands affected with carcinoma. A man, 55 years of age (several years ago) was admitted into Saint Bartholomew's Hospital, with what was supposed to be pseudo-syphilis. There was a foul ulcer round the whole of the corona