392 were several serous cysts near the extremities of the Fallopian tubes, and many of the absorbent glands in the pelvis were converted into large scirrhous tumors. The liver was affected with the same disease, and there was a large collection of fluid in the abdomen. From an old woman who had been several years afflicted with uterine disease. 1556 Uterus, vagina, bladder, &c. The body of the uterus is enlarged, and its parietes thickened; the mucous surface destroyed by can- cerous ulceration, also the cervix and the vagina. The ovaria were scirrhous, and the morbid action had extended into the bladder. A portion of intestinuni ileum adhered firmly to the serous surface of the uterus, as is shown in the pre- paration. From a patient GO years of age. 1557 An uterus, and part of the bladder. The parietes of the uterus were very thick and firm in texture; the cervix was partly destroyed by cancerous ulceration, as was the vagina ; the ovaria scirrhous. A portion of the bladder and the rectum also affected. The patient was 65 years of age, the right mamma was carcinomatous. 1558 Uterus, with carcinomatous tubercles in its substance, also beneath its peritoneal covering, the internal surface was highly inflamed and ulcerated. The right ovarium was studded with scirrhous tumors of different sizes, there were likewise serous cysts ; the left ovarium was extremely small, and very dense in structure. One of the breasts was affected with cancer. The extremity of the Fallopian tube is obliterated. This is a valuable preparation. 1559 Uterus, with a portion of the rectum. The whole of the peritoneum and its reflections were thickly coated with lymph which adhered very firmly, and in many parts near the pelvic viscera sphacelation had taken place, and a portion of the posterior part of the uterus was ulcerated; this is seen in the preparation. The parietes of the uterus were very thin and dense in structure; the os uteri was nearly closed, the ovaria carcinomatous. The liver contained scirrhous tumors. From an old woman.