394 15G3 Uterus affected with medullary sarcoma. The disease had commenced in the cellular tissue, and had progressively extended into the cavity of the uterus ; it had produced an enlargement of the organ to nearly the size of a gravid one at the third month. 1564 Uterus and intestinum rectum, affected with medullary sarcoma. The peritoneum was greatly inflamed, and lymph de- posited ahundantly; the intestines were agglutinated. The surface of the liver was thickly coated with organised lymph, the effects of chronic inflammation, its structure very firm, and the cellular media were greatly thickened. The gall-bladder contained only a small quantity of bile. The spleen small, structure dense, and its capsule cartilaginous. The mucous glands of the ileum and caecum, and transverse arch of the colon, were greatly enlarged, and the internal surface inflamed and ulcerated. The thoracic viscera healthy. The body of the uterus was enlarged, parietes thick, and very firm in texture; its cavity large, the surface inflamed. The cervix and os uteri were completely destroyed ; the internal surface of the Fallopian tubes was highly vascular, and their fim- briated extremities obliterated. The ovaria were very small, and very firm in texture. The disease at the cervix uteri had extended into the rectum, and had destroyed the whole of the mucous surface ; the ragged state of the muscu- lar coat is shown in the preparation. The internal surface of the vagina was also destroyed ; the blad- der was not diseased. The patient, 40 years of age, had been affected with pain in the uterus for nearly three years, which had increased during the last six months of her life, so as to make her existence miserable. The menstrual periods were more frequent than natural, very pro- fuse, and accompanied with agonising pain. She was also subject to uterine haemorrhage between the times of menstruation, and a discharge from the vagina, which appeared like cream, sometimes tinged with blood. She likewise had great difficulty in voiding urine. Her health became seriously affected, the countenance