370 The spermatic cord increased in size, and presented all the appearance of a hydrocele in this part; as the patient complained of great pain in the cord, pa- racentesis was performed, the fluid discharged resembled that of a hydrocele in the tunica vagi- nalis. The operation lessened the pain and ten- sion, but the fluid soon accumulated again, and the operation was obliged to be repeated a great num- ber of times. A seton was introduced into the scrotum, which produced a considerable discharge, which was continued for a length of time, but as it did not appear to alter the morbid growth of the testicle, it was discontinued. As his health began to decline, and he had a sallow complexion, it now became a question whether it would be right to pro- pose the removal of the testicle. Sir Astley Cooper was consulted, and gave his opinion that the opera- tion should be performed as soon as possible, with the hope of saving the life of the patient. I performed the operation on the 23d of November, 1835; he soon recovered his health, and he is at the present time, 17th July, 1839, free from disease. In consequence of the great degree of enlargement of the spermatic cord, even within the external ring, the operation was rendered difficult, and very tedious. This is an unique preparation. The history of the case was published in the Lancet in 1835. 1458 A testicle affected with carcinoma. The morbid action had caused partial absorption of the tunica albuginea, and had protruded between this coat and the tunica vaginalis; the internal surfaces of these coats were thickly coated with organised lymph. A bristle is placed in the vas deferens. The glands in the groin were affected with carcinoma. 1459 Testicle affected with carcinoma; the tunics are im- mensely thickened, and united very firmly, except at the superior part, where there was a large collec- tion of pus. The spermatic cord was not affected. 1460 Testicle affected with carcinoma. The structure of the testis was completely destroyed ; the disease had extended its ravages along the whole of the cellular tissue belonging to the sper-