333 of the testicle, which produced sloughing of the tunica vaginalis, and the integuments of the scro- tum. See the Section on Hernia. The patient, 64 years of age, very corpulent, had lived luxuriously for many years. Symptoms de- noting calculus came on, the urine was voided with difficulty, and it was frequently mixed with pus. Sir William Blizard sounded the patient, without detecting a stone. About a month after the sounding, two calculi were voided with the urine, about the size of a horse-bean. Probably the small size of the calculi prevented their detec- tion, or they might have passed from the kidney into the bladder after the sounding. The patient had suffered for a length of time, great difficulty in voiding faeces ; an abscess formed within the rectum, which burst, and an immense quantity of pus was discharged, which afforded for a time great relief. After this the urine was noticed to flow through the rectum, as well as by the urethra, proving that an ulcerated opening had formed between the bladder and the rectum. The urine was voided in this way for six weeks, when it began to be discharged, but with great difficulty, from the natural passage. He was attacked with a severe pain in the right kid- ney, accompanied with violent bilious vomiting, and singultus, and he had great difficulty in voiding urine. Two physicians were consulted, who considered the case hopeless. I was requested to see the patient. He had stercoraceous vomiting, and all the symp- toms of strangulated hernia. On inquiry, I ascer- tained that he had been afflicted with a hernia for several years, and had worn a truss. I found he had a large scrotal hernia, which with some diffi- culty I reduced, but a portion of the omentum ad- hered so firmly to the hernial sac, that it could not be returned into the abdomen. I applied a truss, so as to prevent the protrusion of the intestine without injuring the omentum, which relieved the distressing symptoms. From this time his health gradually improved, yet he occasionally had attacks