185 internal surface of the auricles and ventricles, and the internal coat of the aorta, and pulmonary artery; the muscular structure showed all the signs of carditis. These appearances are preserved in the preparation. The valves were all healthy, excepting those of the pulmonary artery,upon the edges of two of which lymph had been deposited, which had become organised, and there was a small tumor in one of the pulmonary veins, similar to those in the bronchial glands, which adhered firmly. The tubercles are distinctly seen beneath the pleura ; the mother was of a strumous diathesis. There were scrofulous tubercles in the liver; all the otber abdominal viscera were healthy. The preparation shows the existence of congenital tubercles, and I have several specimens from still- born infants, whose parents have died of phthisis pulmonalis. 761 Miliary tubercles, situated at the extremities of the minute arteries. By macerating the lung till it was quite putrid, and afterwards carefully separating the pulmonary artery and its ramifications, I found the tubercles firmly attached to the terminations of this artery; which I look upon as a proof of their having been formed by these vessels. J have also injected, with size and vermillion, lungs similarly affected, to illustrate this fact. I showed the preparations to Dr. Armstrong, many years prior to the publication of his Work on Morbid Anatomy, and he acknow- ledged, that he had never before seen such specimens. Tn his preliminary remarks on Morbid Anatomy, there is a note, describing the mode of preparing such specimens. 762 A portion of lung of a still-born infant, beautifully injected with size and vermillion. Small miliary tubercles are seen in the preparation, which are not colored by the injection. The lungs, liver, and spleen were studded with tubercles. The mother died two months after the birth of the child. 763 A portion of lung, consolidated by small tubercles, and effused coagulated blood ; preserved in alcohol. The patient, a man 30 years of age, had been afflicted with a pulmonary affection, accompanied with occa- sional attacks of haemoptysis ; he died suddenly.