344 toms slowly increased for nearly sixteen months, and blood was occasionally mixed with the urine. I was requested to see the patient: he informed me he had never been troubled with a stricture in the urethra. I examined the prostate gland, and found it greatly enlarged, and slight pressure with my finger excited great pain. I ordered leeches to be applied to the verge of the anus frequently, and medicine to keep the bowels in regular order, also suppositories. This plan of treatment was pursued for some length of time with seeming benefit, but the difficulty in voiding urine became more distressing, and there was a considerable discharge of blood through the urethra; retention of urine came on, the bladder was greatly distended, and he experienced agonising pain. I endeavoured to introduce an elastic gum cathether into the bladder, but could not effect this, owing to the diseased state of the prostate gland ; T also tried a silver catheter with a large curve, and introduced a finger into the rec- tum, but could not draw off the water. Tapping above the pubes seemed to be the only means of saving the life of the patient: but as I did not think it prudent to do this without the sanction of ano- ther surgeon, I requested Mr. Abernethy might be consulted. He endeavoured, for some time, to draw off the water, but finding this quite impossible, he assented to the operation. I performed the operation, and upwards of two quarts of very fcetid urine were drawn off, which afforded the patient great relief. The canula was well secured by a bandage, and every- thing went on favourably ; the wound in the integu- ments did not ulcerate, and there was no effusion of urine into the surrounding cellular tissue. On the sixth day after the operation the canula was withdrawn, lest calcareous matter should be depo- sited on it; another canula was introduced, con- structed with a round point, large openings on each side, and a cock with a good valve, to let off the urine when necessary, which answered the purpose admirably. About three weeks from the time of the operation, the patient was attacked