46*2 1769 The diseased absorbent axillary glands from the patient above described, injected. 1770 Section of a fungoid and medullary tumor, with the axillary glands. From a young man, 19 years of age ; the tumor was situated in the arm, it had acquired an immense size, and affected the axillary glands ; the inte- guments covering the scapula sloughed, and exposed a portion of the bone, and the growth of the tumor had produced a spontaneous fracture of the centre of the os brachii. The lungs were filled with medullary sarcoma. See the cast of the arm. 1771 Inguinal glands converted into large fungoid tumors ; and in the same bottle there is a large fungoid tumor, which was situated on the back. The brain of this patient was affected with fungus haematodes, and the longitudinal sinus was filled with medullary matter. From a young subject. 1772 A fungoid tumor in the mesentery. The liver was affected with the same disease, and there were fungoid tubera in the glutaeus maximus. 1773 Portions of two ribs, with large fungoid tumors in the cancelli near the cartilages, the periosteum and pleura costalis were greatly thickened; these ap- pearances are well preserved in the preparation. From a boy, 7 years of age ; the left eye was affected with fungus haematodes, as was the brain. The history of this case will be given in the Section on Diseased Eyes. 1774 A very large fungoid tumor, connected with carci- noma, which had its origin from the periosteum belonging to the os femoris at its posterior surface. From a patient, a man, 45 years of age. He had received a severe kick from a bullock on the poste- rior part of the thigh, which occasioned ecchymo- sis; this was followed by inflammation and con- siderable tumefaction, which confined him in bed for several weeks. After this period he was able to walk, but a considerable enlargement of the thigh remained, which occasionally caused pain. The swelling gradually increased, and in the course of three years it had acquired a great magnitude,