9G was not diseased, nor were the coronary arteries: the pulmonary artery natural. The remains of the ductus arteriosus are shown in the preparation. Heart, immensely large. A girl 13 years of age, she had, from her birth, been subject to palpitation, and the most moderate bodily exertion caused great dis- tress in breathing. These symptoms became gra- dually more urgent, and the action of the heart could be seen and heard at some distance, similar to what is noticed in an aneurism of the arch of the aorta; there was no intermission of the pulse. About four months previous to her death, symptoms of hydro- thorax came on, which were succeeded by oedema of the legs ; the heart's action continued very violent, the breathing was performed with distressing diffi- culty, and she expired suddenly. In both sides of the chest there was a considerable quantity of fluid. The pericardium contained six ounces of serum. The heart seemed too large for the chest; I never saw one of such a size, in so young a subject. The pericardium was greatly condensed ; on its internal surface lymph had been effused, and it had become firmly adherent in parts, (particularly near the apex of the heart) to the reflected portion, which was covered with organised lymph; there was a consi- derable quantity of fat beneath the serous membrane of the heart. The auricles were remarkably capaci- ous, particularly the left, and its parietes were thick and muscular. The internal lining had lost its beautiful, smooth, polished appearance, and had be- come rough and thickened by chronic inflammation. The tricuspid valve was thickened, and one of the carneas columnae very large, and considerably elon- gated ; the edges of the sigmoid valves of the pul- monary artery were slightly thickened. The parietes of the right ventricle were very thin, the cavity of immense size; its structure highly inflamed, as were also the coats of the pulmonary artery. The lining of the left ventricle was thickened, also the mitral valve, but the orifice was not constricted; the carneae columnae large, the cavity of the ventricle immensely dilated, the parietes very thin, and the . muscular structure extremely soft,andhighlyinflamed.