215 in the large intestines of the fetus, which is called meconium; it must therefore be secreted by the minute arteries belonging to these intestines. I am the more inclined to form this opinion from having found meconium in the bowels of a mal-formed lamb, where there were no signs of a liver. 904 A portion of duodenum of a young man, who was thrown from his horse against a turnpike-gate, and shattered the right os ilium to pieces, and ruptured a portion of the intestinum ileum to the extent of an inch. In consequence of the arterial blood having been effused between the cellular tissue, all the coats of the bowel appear in the preparation highly inflamed. The poor fellow lived 24 hours after the accident. 905 A portion of duodenum ; all the coats highly inflamed, more especially the mucous surface ; some parts ulcerated, and lymph deposited. From a man of a plethoric habit. The liver was inflamed, also the whole of the intestines, and there was a considerable quantity of coagulated blood in the intestines. The patient had intestinal haemorrhage for several days previous to his dissolution. Preserved in alcohol. Observations. On inspecting the bodies of those who died of typhus fever in the incipient stage, or from gout, acute rheumatism, purpura hasmorrhagica, dropsy from plethora, or any active disease, I always examined carefully the state of the main arteries, and generally found them in an inflamed condition ; that is, the internal coat was of a bright red color, and the vasa vasorum very apparent, and greatly enlarged. Some pathologists however imagine that the color of the internal coat is occasioned by the transudation of the blood into the tissue of the arteries after death. In purpura hemorrhagica occasioned by plethora, in patients free from organic disease in the liver, or any other important viscus, I have put a stop to the disease by bleeding, purgatives, and digitalis, and in all the cases the blood was as highly buffed and cupped as in peritonitis or enteritis. But when this disease was caused by some lesion of the liver, or any other vital organ, or from the want of constitu-