251 flamed, the small intestines immensely distended with air, and feculent matter in a fluid state. The caecum and the colon, to as far as the sigmoid flexure, were of enormous size; this had been occasioned by a stricture of the bowel at this part, which had prevented the feces from passing through the remaining portions of the large intestines ; this readily accounted for the symptoms, and caused the patient's death. The remaining portion of the colon and the rectum were empty and greatly con- tracted, in consequence of not having been em- ployed for a length of time. The stricture had been formed by chronic inflammation, caused by schirrous tubercles between the serous and muscular coats, around the whole circle of the intestine, and the mucous coat was greatly thicken- ed and formed into rugae, which added considerably to diminish the capacity of the tube. This stricture was the most complete I ever examined, it appeared as if a tight ligature had been applied round the bowel (which appearance is partly shown in the specimen), the aperture was so small as to allow only of the passage of a moderate sized bougie. There were several carcinomatous tubercles in the mesentery, the thoracic viscera were healthy. 1027 A portion of colon and mesentery. The mucous coat ulcerated, and sloughy ; there are also several small medullary tumors in the mesentery. 1028 Schirro-contracted rectum. The man, 74 years of age, when admitted into Cripplegate Workhouse, was so extremely ill as not to be able to give any description of his case; all he could say, was, that he " felt a great pain in his belly, and that he had not had a motion for 12 days." The abdomen was distended enormously, and felt very dense, but he did not complain on pressure. As there was no appear- ance of anasarca, and no fluctuation could be felt in the abdomen, I had no doubt that the accu- mulation was occasioned by air, and feculent matter in the intestines, from some mechanical obstruction; either an internal strangulated hernia, or a stricture. His pulse was extremely small and intermittent; he complained of excessive pain in