17 be the dentiform process of the second vertebra. When the soft parts had been completely removed by maceration, I found an extensive displacement of the occiput, atlas, and axis, anda firm consolidation of these bones in their new relative positions by the complete bony anchylosis of several articulations. The atlas is partially dislocated towards the left, and at the same time thrown a little forwards and upwards ; hence the right and posterior part of its bony ring intercepts a considerable portion of the spinal canal." The middle anterior protuberance now corresponds to the left side of the basilar process; the extremity of the left transverse process projects three quarters of an inch beyond those of the two following vertebras, while the right transverse processes of those vertebra?, project one quarter of an inch beyond the corres- ponding one of the atlas. A considerable part of the right side of this bone has been destroyed by absorp- tion : that is, the surfaces by which it is articulated to the occiput and atlas, a part of the transverse process, and that groove on which the right vertebral artery rested. The axis is completely dislocated from the atlas and occiput to the right, so that its left portion intercepts about one third of the spinal canal, and the dentiform process projects by its whole length, into the cavity of the skull at the anterior part of the foramen magnum, close to the right anterior condyloid foramen. In the natural position of the parts, the apex of this process is a little below the level of the occipito-atlantal articulation; here it is an inch above the same level, while its projection into the cavity of the skull is between five and six eighths of an inch. The lateral displacement is no less extensive; the measurement from the left anterior condyloid foramen to the middle of the basis of the dentiform process being seven eighths of an inch, while the distance from the right foramen to the same point is only two eighths. We cannot but be astonished at finding, that the immediate pressure of this bony projection on the under surface of the medulla oblongata caused no paralytic affection, even when we allow for the very gradual manner in which it must have taken place. The course of the right lingual nerve and vertebral artery must have been greatly altered." c