•282 not in the least colored with bile. The pancreas was affected with carcinoma (a viscus seldom found diseased), and firm adhesions had formed between its outer surface and the pylorus, as is shown in the preparation. The intestines were firmly agglutinated, and the mu- cous glands enlarged, some were ulcerated. From a man 70 years of age, who had signs of organic disease of the liver for several months ; he had frequent attacks of vomiting, and his digestive organs were greatly disordered; he complained of great pain in the epigastric region, and in the right shoulder ; jaundice came on, followed by ascites, which caused his death. 1186 Liver affected with carcinoma. 1187 Medullary sarcoma in the liver, with carcinoma. 1188 Liver affected with medullary sarcoma and carcinoma. History of the case not known. 1189 Liver affected with medullary sarcoma and carcinoma. A female 42 years of age, for nearly three years had symptoms denoting a stricture in the rectum; she suffered severely, her health became affected, her countenance sallow, and symptoms of organic disease of the liver came on gradually. On examining the rectum, a stricture was delected about three inches from the verge of the anus, the caliber was very small, and a dense tumor was felt. The liver was also enlarged, and when moderate pressure with the hand was employed on the left hypochondriac region, great pain was produced; this test made it evident, that the disease in the rectum and the liver, was of a malignant nature. For nearly three months previous to her death, she suffered agonising pain, particularly in voiding the faeces, which could only be effected by the assistance of clysters ; pus and blood were frequently voided; she had great difficulty in making water, and could scarcely keep any thing in her stomach, and was much annoyed with flatulence. Every thing was done with the view to allay her suffer- ings, but without success. On opening the abdomen, a large quantity of faeculent matter was found in that cavity ; the caecum, colon, and rectum, as far as the strictured part, were