349 kidneys were very large, they were highly inflamed, and the infundibula and pelvis dilated. The abdominal viscera were generally normal, al- though the gall-bladder contained twelve various sized calculi, which looked like spermaceti, and there were two of the same kind in the ductus com- munis choledochus, also two were found in the duodenum, and all the biliary ducts were capacious. On the left side there was an inguinal hernia, which had existed for many years, but by the employment of a well-constructed truss, the intestine had been prevented from protruding, and the mouth of the sac was greatly contracted. On the same side there was a large haematocele, which is described in the Section on Hydroceles. From a man 70 years of age, who had generally en- joyed good health, although he had at various times voided biliary calculi. He had experienced great difficulty in voiding urine for a considerable length of time, but about two years previous to his death the disease had increased, and there was occasion- ally blood in the urine. The patient had been under the care of several able surgeons, and it was ascertained there was an enlargement of the pros- tate gland, and that he was afflicted with what was supposed to be a hydrocele. He went into the country, where he was seized with retention of urine ; a surgeon was called in, who made several attempts to draw off the urine, but without effect. The patient was put into a warm bath, after this the urine began to dribble away, which seemed to afford relief; fomentations, and various other means were used, but the patient complained of great pain in the region of the bladder and kidneys. The urine continued to pass away guttatim ; vomiting came on, pain was felt over the whole of the abdo- men, and the brain became affected. A physician was consulted; it was imagined to be a case of pe- ritonitis, and treated accordingly. The patient died forty-eight hours from the commencement of the attack. I was requested to inspect the body. If the state of the prostate gland had been detected, and the symptoms denoting the retention of urine, probably the life of the patient might have been