69 injected; the integuments covering the bones were colored with the fluid, but the ulcerated part did not show any signs of granulation. 259 Bones of the knee-joint of a man. From chronic in- flammation, ulceration of the soft parts, with absorption of the cartilaginous substances, and de- struction of the ligaments, the condyles of the femur had approximated in a straight line with the head of the tibia ; and the surfaces had become polished. The bones healthy. 260 Bones of the knee-joint of a man. All the soft parts, cartilages, ligaments, &c. were destroyed. The bones are remarkably thin and soft; and the cancelli filled with caseous matter. The leg was amputated : the patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. 261 The knee-joint and leg of a man, showing extensive exostosis, which produced anchylosis. The bony growth had surrounded the popliteal artery, and vein; had nearly obliterated them, and had compressed the popliteal, and fibular nerves. The arteries and veins were injected with wax, &c. From a man 45 years of age, extremely muscular, plethoric, and with a hale constitution; who had been several years in the army. He informed the gentleman whose care he was under, that he received a blow on the knee, which gave origin to the disease. The enlargement of the joint had been making progress nearly five years, and various means had been employed to pre- vent the growth, but without effect. The knee-joint became anchylosed, the patient suffered severely from neuralgia, and at last was unable to attend to his business as a wheelwright. The knee joint was enormously large, and extremely irregular in figure ; the veins of the leg became greatly distended, and symptoms of phlegmasia dolens supervened, which rendered it necessary to amputate the limb, a consi- derable distance above the diseased part. The femoral artery and vein were extremely large ; on loosening the tourniquet, there was profuse haemorr- hage from the femoral vein, which could not be suppressed, although a plug of lint was put into the orifice, and cold water applied for half an hour; it became at last necessary to apply a ligature. This