391 tion; the disease had extended into the inferior part of the bladder, and the ovaria were converted into large scirrhous tumors. This presents the greatest extent of morbid action I ever examined. The patient 68 years of age. 1551 Uterus, vagina, and rectum, affected with carcinoma. In the preparation the clitoris is also shown. The disease had commenced in the cervix uteri, which it had completely destroyed, and an extensive open- ing of communication had been established between the vagina, rectum, and bladder. The bladder adhered firmly to the cellular tissue of the pubis, its fundus extending four inches above the bone; its parietes were greatly thickened, and the mu- cous coat sphacelated. The ovaria were very small, structure dense. From a very old woman. The history of the case is not known. 1552 Uterus, affected with carcinoma, parietes extremely thick, os uteri nearly obliterated, the mucous sur- face ulcerated; there was a scirrhous tumor be- neath the serous surface at the posterior part of the uterus; the ovaria were carcinomatous, and there were several serous cysts near the extremities of the Fallopian tubes ; the latter were greatly thick- ened and obliterated. From an old woman. This preparation shows the character of carcinoma admirably. 1553 Uterus, the ovarium affected with carcinoma. The disease had extended into the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The iliac and inguinal glands were also in a cancerous state. From an old woman who died of phlegmasia dolens. The diseased glands are shown in the preparation. The mucous glands in the rectum were also diseased. See Section on Diseased Intestines. 1554 Uterus, its structure nearly destroyed by cancerous ulceration; there were several osseous tumors of a small size in the remaining portion of the uterus ; one ovarium was carcinomatous ; the other was greatly dilated by an accumulation of gelatinous secretion, and its internal surface was greatly thickened by coagulated lymph and small osseous deposits. 1555 Uterus and ovaria affected with carcinoma. The disease had extended into the bladder. There