31 circular belt of bone had formed round the fractured extremities for their better protection. These ap- pearances are seen in the preparation. In fracture of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, or im- mediately external to it; I found that by placing the patient on a proper bed, and by keeping the limb in a straight position with the aid of pillows, the union took place more favorably, than when splints, or any other mechanical contrivances were employed. 147 A fractured neck of the thigh-bone, external to the capsular ligament, close to the neck of the bone. This specimen shows beautifully, nature's efforts to effect osseous union by an accumulation of new bone round the neck, from the trochanter major to the minor, and would, in time, have completed a perfect union of the fractured parts. This specimen was sent to me, without a history of the case ; probably inflammation of the capsular ligament might have produced fever, and caused death. 148 A fracture of the thigh-bone, which had extended through the base of the neck ; and had united by ligamentous and osseous deposition. From a man, 72 years of age, who slipped off a curb-stone. The limb was carefully examined, but no crepitus could be detected; nor was there any swelling, or sign of dislocation of the joint. He complained of great pain in the hip, and his foot was turned a little inwards; but there was scarcely any shortening. The only conjecture that could be formed as to the nature of the injury was, that there might be an incomplete fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone; he remained in bed seven months, when union appeared to have taken place; which could scarcely have been anticipated, considering the advanced age of the patient. He remained in Cripplegate work- house, where he was attacked with typhus fever, which caused his death. Appearances of the fracture.—On making a section of the hip-joint, the thigh-bone was found to have been fractured obliquely at its superior portion ; the frac- ture extending through the base of the neck. The fractured extremities had united closely by liga- mentous matter, and the external surface was well defended with osseous deposits, which in time would