272 brain, as well as its structure, were tinged with bile, and there was a considerable quantity of water in the ventricles, of a deep yellow color. I think it very probable, that the bilious matter having been taken into the circulating system by the absorbents, caused the cerebral affection ; and I am induced to form this opinion from having seen a case of jaundice in a young girl, which came on suddenly from her having been greatly alarmed ; delirium supervened, succeeded by convulsions, which caused the death of the patient in two days. 1135 A portion of liver, injected. The patient, a woman, addicted to dram-drinking ; she died of ascites. The natural structure is nearly destroyed by chronic inflammation, and small tubercles, and scarcely any signs of blood vessels or biliary ducts remain. 113G A portion of liver. The patient died of ascites. The liver was of an immense magnitude, and granu- lated ; the gall-bladder filled with green bile, spleen large and granulated. I have frequently found the kidnies in these cases simi- larly affected, which will be noticed in the descrip- tion of Diseased Urinary Organs. 1137 A portion of liver. From a determined gin-drinker. The liver was of immense size, of a pale white color, and felt soapy; the gall-bladder contained an albuminous fluid, not tinged with bile. 1138 A portion of liver infiltrated by lymph, and bilious secretion, structure soapy. The spleen large. The patient died of ascites and icterus. 1139 A section of liver, injected. The serous surface is greatly thickened, and an adventitious membrane has formed upon it, which does not adhere very firmly, it is semicartilaginous. There are scarcely any signs of vascularity ; the structure is very dense, the result of chronic inflammation, and depositions of lymph, and hardly any of the natural structure is visible. In some parts of the vena cava, there were osseous deposits of irregular form (not phlebolites), which did not adhere to the internal surface. They are shown in the preparation. Sections of the liver, and its external surface, presented that nodulated appearance, which Mr. Abernethy has denominated the hob-nailed liver,"—cirrhosis.