449 patient imagined he had reduced the hernia, applied the truss, and ordered aperient medicine and clysters to be administered, the latter seemed to relieve the bowels, but the vomiting continued, and it was surprising the quantity that she ejected. She complained of violent pain in the abdomen, which became greatly distended, singultus came on, accompanied with stercoraceous vomiting, and the bowels could not be acted on. At this time I was requested to visit the patient, I thought it right to propose an operation, but from the length of time the bowel had been strangulated, I doubted whether it would prove successful. A small portion of intestine was strangulated ; the coats appeared of a dark red color, but not sphacelated; after dividing the stricture the bowel was easily re- duced. The sickness continued, and she com- plained of great pain in the abdomen, which was distended with fluid and air ; she was extremely restless and anxious. The bowels after the operation were slightly relieved; she died on the fourth day from the time it was performed. On opening the abdomen, an immense quantity of fluid, like gruel, with faeculent matter and air, es- caped. The peritoneum and its reflections were greatly inflamed, the intestines nearly empty. On carefully examining the bowels, an aperture was found in the ileum, about six inches from that por- tion of it which had been constricted ; this ac- counted for the escape of the contents of the bowels into the cavity of the abdomen. The opening in the intestine does not show any signs of a morbid state of the coats previous to the bowel being strangulated, as all the coats, with the exception of the inflammation caused by the hernia, appeared perfectly healthy. In consequence of the preparation having been pre- served in alcohol, to show the inflammatory appear- ances, the coats are corrugated, but on examining them when recent, they appeared to have been greatly dilated and attenuated by the pressure of their contents. I have stated that there was a fluid like gruel mixed with the fagculent matter in the cavity of the abdomen ; it may be well to mention G G