373 The ligatures came away, and the wound soon healed. The child appeared to enjoy good health for about four months from the time of the operation ; after this period a small tumor appeared beneath the scalp, near the posterior angle of the left parietal bone. This tumor daily increased, and acquired the magnitude of an apple ; it felt pulpy, but when pressed upon pain was not excited, and there were no signs of cerebral disease. Subsequently the health of the child began to decline, the digestive organs became disordered, denoting some visceral affec- tion ; the abdomen was tumid, and an enlargement was felt deeply seated in the abdomen. The patient lived only six months from the time the opera- tion was performed. This case was published in the Lancet in 1835. 1469 Section of a testicle which had been converted into a tumor of immense magnitude by fungoid and me- dullary deposits. Not a vestige of the natural structure of the testis was visible. The tunica vagi- nalis was greatly thickened, as was the albuginea. The morbid growth in the testicle had caused ab- sorption of one part of the tunica albuginea, and the disease had protruded through it. The sper- matic cord had not participated in the disease, nor were the glands in the groin enlarged. The dis- eased testicle was removed, but the patient after- wards died. 1470 Testicle, structure affected with fungus haematodes, also the epididymis ; the tunica albuginea at this part was ulcerated. Several other organs were affected with the same disease. 1471 Testicle affected with fungus haematodes, which had produced absorption of the tunica albuginea and vaginalis, and of the integuments of the scrotum ; and formed a fungus externally. 1472 Section of a testicle, with the spermatic cord. The structure of the testis had been completely ab- sorbed from the pressure of a fungoid growth, which had acquired a great size; the tunica albuginea and the tunica vaginalis were immensely thickened, and the morbid action had alfected the whole course of the spermatic cord. The omentum was converted into a congeries of soft