352 through its centre, large enough to admit a mode- rate sized bougie, which was made by too much force having been employed in introducing a ca- theter. The patient, an old man, died of apoplexy. The heart and liver were diseased; the kidneys granulated; the bladder very large; its muscular structure flaccid. 1412 Bladder and vesiculae seminales. There is a tumor about the size of a large orange be- tween the muscular and mucous coats, near the posterior and superior part of the prostate gland. The growth of the disease and superior part of the prostate gland had caused absorption of the mu- cous coat which covered it, and the external surface of the tumor presents a fungoid character; a section shows the carcinomatous structure. The terminations of both ureters are completely ob- literated by the morbid growth ; the disease in the right ureter extends upwards to about a quarter of an inch from the bladder ; the prostatic portion of the urethra is nearly closed, and the right vesi- cula seminalis impacted in the disease. These ap- pearances are well shown in the preparation. The prostate gland is healthy. On dissection, a large accumulation of blood and urine was found beneath the peritoneum, in the right lumbar region, which had been occasioned by the bursting of the ureter. The kidnies were of a pale white color, and the in- fundibula, pelves, and ureters, of an immense size. There were a few fungoid tumors in the lungs. The patient was 68 years of age ; he had suffered nearly eight years from symptoms of a diseased bladder. About six months previous to his death he experienced the most agonising pain in voiding urine, and it was generally mixed with blood; the brain became affected, and he died suddenly. The history of this case is published in the 8th volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. This is a very valuable preparation. 1413 Diseased bladder, with a carcinomatous and fungoid affection of the prostate gland, and a morbid state of the urethra The bladder is considerably contracted, it contained about a wine glassful of fluid mixed with coagulated