94 The pulse was always so frequent and irregular, as to render it impossible to count the number of beats in a minute. Although the body was inspected a few hours after death, it exhibited that green-colored appearance of the skin, and emitted the foetor denoting decompo- sition, similar to that which is noticed in persons killed by lightning. In the pericardium there was half a pint of bloody looking fluid; on the internal surface of this mem- brane, and on its reflected portion lymph was thickly deposited, and adhered firmly ; the effects of chronic inflammation. The muscular structure of both ventricles of the heart was extremely soft, and inflamed, as was the lining of the ventricles. The left ventricle was very capacious, its parietes thick ; the carneae columnae and chorda? tendineae very much enlarged, particularly the former; the mitral valve greatly thickened, but the opening was not con- stricted. The cavity of the right ventricle was also large, but its parietes were thin ; the carneae colum- nae and chordae tendineae were slightly increased in size, and the tricuspid valve was more opaque than natural. The semilunar valves of the aorta were ossified, parti- cularly at their base, which must have impeded their function, and may account for the irregularity of the heart's action. The valves of the pulmonary artery were not diaphanous as they are naturally, but healthy in structure—there was a considerable quantity of water tinged with blood in both sides of the chest. The liver was large and granulated, its structure firm, and it appeared inflamed. The gall- bladder was distended greatly with a black viscid secretion. The spleen very large, firmer in structure than natural; the capsule partly cartilaginous. The mucous coat of the stomach and intestines was surcharged with what appeared to be venous blood; the mucous glands not affected. It appears quite astonishing how life could have been carried on for so great a number of years, with such a morbid state of the heart. This is an unique preparation. The left ventricle of the heart, and a portion of the