73 dense, and ultimately became painful and affected his health. He was seen by several surgeons, and various modes of treatment locally, and generally, were employed in- effectually ; the enlargement extended upwards into the mouth; the lining membrane and gums became affected, a fungous growth appeared, and the perios- teal covering was destroyed. Several of the teeth came away, and spiculse of bone at different times were removed by forceps. After this the integu- ments of the cheek sloughed, and formed an extensive circular opening, which produced an unsightly ap- pearance, and the principal part of the parotid gland was destroyed. The patient had been several months in a hospital; the disease was considered of a malignant character, he was discharged incurable. I was requested to see him, he was greatly emaciated, skin very sallow ; was teased with a cough and diarrhoea ; could scarcely swallow any nourish- ment, and had lost his voice for some time. The discharge from the sore was extremely fcetid ; symp- toms of irritative fever supervened, which caused death. The lungs were loaded with sero-purulent infiltration, and they contained a number of medul- lary tubera; there were several tubercles of the same kind in the liver; and the glandular aggregata? were enlarged in the small intestines, especially in the ileum. A considerable portion of the jaw is destroyed, and only one of the bicuspid teeth remains; there were only two teeth in the upper jaw ; parts of the diseased sub-maxillary and sub-lingual gland are shown in the specimen, they are affected with carcinoma; some of the teeth which were shed are preserved, and the fangs exhibit the signs of periostitis. 264 Fractured tarsal bone of a guinea-hen, firmly united by osseous matter ; a section is made through the bone. 265 Knee-joint of a sheep, the synovial membrane is thickly coated with lymph; the cartilaginous cover- ings are not affected. 266 A portion of the capsule of the knee-joint, with the patella, &c. showing the effects of active inflamma- tion, and sloughing. A man in stitching a shoe, ran the point of an awl into the knee-joint; violent pain and inflammation came