348 The bladder, although its fundus had sloughed to a considerable extent, is contracted into a small com- pass ; the muscular coat extremely thick, the mu- cous surface highly inflamed, the urine had es- caped into the cavity of the abdomen. The pros- tate gland enlarged, particularly the middle lobe, and the lateral lobes are spongy, and contained pus. The prostatic and membranous portions of the urethra are highly inflamed; and slightly ulce- rated ; and in the lateral part of the urethra, on the left side, there is an opening large enough to admit the point of a very large bougie, which I think was made by attempting to pass a catheter into the bladder. The left ureter is greatly dilated, and thickened, and at about an inch from where it terminates in the blad- der, there is a rounded dilatation in the tube, which is produced by an urinary calculus, of about the size andfigure of alarge prunestone. The ureter isgreatly contracted near its termination,, which induced me to imagine that the stone had lodged in this situa- tion for a considerable length of time, and pro- bably it never would have passed into the bladder. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in the abdomen, which smelt like urine. The peritoneum and its reflections were highly inflamed, which had been occasioned by the urine escaping into the abdomen. The kidneys were granulated; the pelvis and infundibula greatly dilated. 1405 A diseased bladder, and enlarged prostate gland. The bladder had been enormously distended with urine; the coats of the bladder are highly inflamed, and a portion of its fundus is lacerated, which allowed of the escape of urine into the cavity of the abdomen. The muscular fibres of the bladder are considerably elongated, and they are very flaccid. The prostate gland is enlarged to about three times its natural size, but the enlargement had originally taken place in the lateral lobes, the middle one not having increased in the same ratio. The left lateral lobe projects into the prostatic portion of the urethra near the veru montanum, which accounted for the difficulty the patient ex- perienced for many years in voiding urine. The