404 1582 Uterus, to show the effects of inflammation and sloughing of the mucous coat; the corpus luteum is shown. The bladder is preserved ; there was a large opening in it at its posterior part, near the termination of the ureters, this communicated with the vagina, and had been produced by the pressure of the head of a child in a former labor. The patient, 32 years of age, was attended by a mid- wife, during the early -stage of the labor; it was a lingering case, and although the liquor amnii had escaped for some time, there did not appear any probability of the poor woman being soon de- livered ; an accoucheur was called in, and the case was found to be an arm presentation, he turned the child, and delivered the patient. After this I was requested to see her. Her countenance was ghastly, and expressive of great anxiety ; pulse 80, but very small; skin hot, tongue foul, body costive ; she complained of violent pain in the abdomen, and had rigors. Symptoms of inflamma- tion of the uterus became very evident, accom- panied with fever and rigors, and occasional vomit- ing. She was extremely restless. The patient informed me of her having been delivered about eighteen months previous to the last labor, and that she had suffered from retention of urine, and was obliged to have it drawn off for five days after the labor; afterwards, instead of passing in the natural way, it was voided through the vagina, which made her very wretched. The febrile action increased, accompanied with delirium, con- vulsions supervened, and she died. The peritoneum was not inflamed. The liver was pale colored, and very soft in structure; the gall- bladder greatly distended. The spleen healthy ; many of the mesenteric glands contained calca- reous concretions. The uterus had not contracted, as much as it gene- rally does after so long a period. The internal surface was nearly destroyed by ulcera- tion and sloughing; and many of the large veins were filled with pus, and the internal coat was highly inflamed. There were several strong bands of adhesion between the left Fallopian tube and the