50 i nicated with the membranes of the spinal canal, and the sac of the tumor. The viscera of the thorax and abdomen were healthy. 2280 Cast of a spina bifida. See Section on Spina Bifida, No. 60. 2281 A cast of the pelvis, and inferior extremities of a woman, showing the gibbous state of the bones of the thighs and legs, the effects of rachitis. She was very diminutive in stature. 2282 Bones of the right half of the pelvis, with the femur, tibia and fibula ; from the subject last described. The thigh bone is slightly gibbous, the parietes ex- tremely thick and very solid, the cancelli greatly developed and very rugged ; osseous matter depo- sited on the external surface of the condyles, and their surface resembles polished ivory. The tibia and fibula are greatly curved and flattened, especially the latter, and osseous anchylosis has been effected between the articular portion of the head of the fibula, and that belonging to the tibia. The parietes of the tibia are extremely thick and solid at the posterior and superior portions of the arch, and the cancelli are large and dense in structure. The articulating surface of the head of the tibia presents the same appearances as those seen on the head of the femur. In the 7th Volume of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, page 404, there is a very valuable communication on Rickets, by E. Stanley, Esq. 2283 Section of a thigh bone, showing the effects of rickets. 2284 Thigh bone of a man ; it is extremely large. 2285 A thigh bone ; the neck and head are placed nearly perpendicularly. 2286 Portion of a thigh bone, showing the effects of ostitis and periostitis. The external surface of the bone is greatly thickened, and rendered rough by small osseous deposits. 2287 Sections of the superior portion of a thigh-bone, showing the most decided signs of ostitis and its effects. The synovial membrane is ulcerated, and a portion of the cartilaginous covering of the head of the femur absorbed. The history of this case is not known 2288 Tibia and fibula, showing the effects of periostitis,