13 mr. churchill's publications. MR. TUSON, F.R.S., F.L.S. Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. ACTATOXUXCAXi BISSECTED PLATES. A NEW AND IMPROVED SYSTEM OF MYOLOGY. Illustrated by Plates on a peculiar construction ; containing, and clearly demon- strating the whole of the Muscles in the Human Body, in Layers, as they appear on Dissection. Second Edition, large folio, £3 12s. " This is the closest imitation of nature that can possibly be effected on paper. Each muscle, coloured and proportioned, can be raised, as in dissection, exposing layer after layer, the various strata, till we come to the bone. The plan is exceedingly ingenious, and the execution highly meritorious."—Medico-Chirurgical Gazette. " In these plates, the muscles, being separately lithographed, are cut out and arranged stratum superstratum, in their proper situation on the bone, so as clearly to demonstrate their origins, insertions, positions, shapes, &c, thus forming, next to actual dissection, the most ready and easy method of learning the human body."—Lancet. BY THE SAME AUTHOR, A SUPPLEMENT TO MYOLOGY. Illustrated by Coloured Plates on a peculiar construction, containing the Arteries, Veins, Nerves and Lym- phatics, the Abdominal and Thoracic Viscera, the Brain, the Ear, the Eye, &c. &c. £4 12s. " We have already.on several occasions, had reason to speak favourably of Mr. Tuson ; on the present occasion, we caDnot resist the pleasure of expressing the very high opinion we entertain of his ability, ingenuity, and industry. These plates do him credit; they are happily conceived, and as happily executed. To the student we recommend the work, as serving all that such deli- neations can—the assisting, not the superseding of dissection."—Medico-Chirurgical Review. " These paintings must not be regarded as mere drawings or paintings, but as dissections of drawings; and, in point of accuracy and utility, are second only to actual dissections of the human body. We feel no hesitation in saying, that this work is evidently a performance of great labour, and that the manner in which it is executed reflects infinite credit on the talents of the author."—Lancet. BY THE SAME AUTHOR, THE ANATOMY AND SURGERY OF INGUINAL AND FEMORAL HERNIA. Illustrated by Plates Coloured from Nature, and interspersed with Practical Remarks. Large folio, 2/. 2s. " This work will be of especial service to the practitioner in the country."—Medico-Quarterly Review. " The plates are so arranged as to shew the mechanism both of femoral and inguinal hemia in a very clear and satisfactory manner ; they are thus calculated to assist in a remarkable degree the labour of the student."—Medical Gazette. BY THE SAME AUTHOR, A POCKET COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. Containing a cor- rect and accurate Description of the HUMAN BODY. Third edition, 7s. 6d. bound. " This is the most complete epitome of modern anatomy that has appeared in this country. It is exactly that kind of work we required when we studied anatomy in the dissecting room of Bartholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Abernethy, and the work we could place in the hands of any person who wishes to understand the anatomy of the human body."—Gazette of Health. " The plan of the present compendium is new, and its execution good. To the student at- tending the hospitals and lecture rooms, the work is useful, being readily carried in the hand or the pocket."—Medico-Chirurgical Review. BY THE SAME AUTHOR, THE DISSECTOR'S GUIDE; OR, STUDENT'S COM- PANION. Illustrated by numerous Wood-cuts, clearly explaining the Dis- section of every part of the Human Body. Second edition, 12mo, 9s. " This work is certainly the dissector's manual, and is better adapted for the use of those who are commencing the study of practical anatomy than any other we have yet seen."—London Medical and Surgical Journal. " This is an excellent manual: the perspicuity and accuracy with which it is written will make it an invaluable guide to students in this most important study. The wood-cuts with which the work is filled are remarkably neat and accurate."—Athenaeum.