173 of great pain in the wind-pipe, and lost her voice. The difficulty in breathing became so distressing, as frequently to threaten suffocation. With a view of affording temporary relief, tracheotomy was performed by the gentleman who attended her. This had the effect of lessening the patient's sufferings ; but she only lived a fortnight from the time the operation was performed. The lungs on both sides of the chest were consolidated with miliary tubercles, and there were several large vomicae ; the bronchial tubes were filled with pus. The lining of the bronchi was greatly inflamed, in some parts ulcerated; the trachea was also con- gested, and the larynx and rima glottidis were thickly covered with coagulated lymph. All the abdominal viscera normal. The opening into the trachea had been made between the inferior part of the thyroid cartilage, and the superior part of the cricoid; this is shown in the preparation. The larynx, and part of the trachea of a man. The right lobe of the thyroid gland was of immense magnitude, and extended downwards below the clavicle ; there was a large artery on its external surface, but from the morbid parts not having been removed properly, it would be very difficult to state whence it had its origin. On cutting through the tumor, it was found to contain coagulated blood, which had formed a cyst resembling that belonging to a large aneurism, and its internal surface was thickly coated with coagulated lymph, which adhered very firmly. On examining the larynx, the internal lining covering the rima glottidis was found ulcerated. The question is, Whether this is to be denominated an aneurism, or a malignant disease ? As there was no cerebral matter mixed with the coagulated blood, I should not consider it was a case of fungus haematodes ; I am therefore inclined to think it an aneurism, occasioned by the bursting of one of the thyroid arteries. The disease was considered by his Surgeon, to be a bronchocele; and as the patient's breathing was greatly distressed, and a sense of fluctuation was