14 large, but not diseased; and the mesenteric glands were healthy. In consequence of the deformity of the spine, the capacity of the thorax was greatly di- minished ; and the ribs were distorted. These causes had, no doubt, occasioned the difficulty of breathing the patient experienced ; and with such impediments, it is wonderful how the functions of the thoracic viscera were performed, and that more disease in them had not been produced. The theca vertebralis and medulla spinalis were healthy; but the latter was very small. Six of the bodies of the dorsal vertebras with the intervertebral substances had been destroyed, and solid anchylosis had been effected; this is seen in the preparation. Section of a diseased spine, with a portion of the medulla spinalis. The disease implicates ten of the dorsal and four of the lumbar vertebrae. A large dense sac, measuring ten inches in length, covered the anterior surface of the bodies of the diseased vertebrae ; and contained a large collection of offensive pus. This sac when cut open seemed to have been filled with pus, which had been secreted beneath the periosteal coverings, and the ligamentous expansion of the bones ; thus denuding the osseous parts. The external surface of the sac had been in- creased in density by the deposition and organisation of lymph. The anterior surfaces of the vertebrae were greatly reduced in substance by ulcerative absorption; and after the cessation of this action, nature seemed to have attempted a reparative process, by covering the roughened surfaces of the bones with lymph. The internal surface of the sac was also thickened by lymph, and there was a great accumulation of pus in the spinal canal, between the bones, and the external surface of the dura mater. On making a section of the vertebrae, it was seen, that ten of the bodies had been affected by the disease ; and nearly all the interver- tebral substances were absorbed ; the bodies had con- sequently been brought in contact with each other, and were placed in such close adaptation, with the ex- ception of the fourth dorsal, which was nearly destroyed, that one might have expected bony union would have been effected, if the diseased action had not been so extensive. And this idea is strengthened