137 the aneurism had commenced at the posterior part of the abdominal aorta, nearly opposite the superior mesenteric artery, the sac of the aneurism is ex- tremely dense, the superior mesenteric artery obli- terated with lymph, and the left renal artery nearly closed. The vena cava is also shown in the prepa- ration. To lessen the size of this specimen, the contents of the aneurism were removed, also a considerable portion of the cyst. 479 An aneurism at the inferior part of the abdominal aorta, between the superior mesenteric artery, and the division into the iliacs. The internal coat of the aorta partly bony and cartila- ginous ; in some parts ulcerated. The history of this case is not known. 480 An aneurism of the abdominal aorta, of great magni- tude ; the sac contained nearly two pounds of coagulated blood; it had not burst. The anterior surfaces of four of the bodies of the vertebras partly absorbed; the intervertebral sub- stances only slightly affected. A man, a coal-heaver, 44 years of age, very robust; there were no signs of disease in any other part of his body. 481 An aneurism of the abdominal aorta, a little above the origin of the cceliac axis, which burst into the abdo- men. The aperture of the aneurism is about the circumference of a sixpence. The aneurism adhered to the inferior surface of the diaphragm; the coats of the sac were sphacelated; this is what has been denominated a diffused aneurism. The patient, a man, about 40 years of age. The heart healthy ; the internal coat of the aorta only partly thickened. In this aneurism, the internal coat had at its commencement, lacerated. 482 The inferior portion of the abdominal aorta, with the iliacs, and a part of the femoral artery. On one side the internal iliac artery is obliterated by coagulated lymph, as are some of the branches of the femoral artery; the main trunk is immensely dilated, and all the coats greatly thickened; there are two large aneurisms in close succession to each other, which are formed by a regular dilatation of all the coats.