44 is a considerable enlargement, and caries has taken place to a slight degree in many parts of its extent; this condition is not unlike the incipient stage of necrosis. This is a beautiful specimen. 175 Section of a femur. The parietes at the posterior surface are extremely thick; the cancelli greatly developed; and the external surface is thickened^by osseous deposits ; the effects of chronic periostitis. 176 An oblique fracture of the femur, firmly united. The fracture was very extensive, it was situated at the superior portion of the bone, at about three inches and a half from the inferior part of the trochanter major. The fracture had united in an oblique direction, one portion of the bone passing over the other, and occasioning a great degree of shortening, which must have produced great deformity. The fracture had united very firmly by an immense quantity of solid osseous matter, which is shown in the preparation. A section exhibits the two ends of the fractured bone, which are rounded off, as in stumps after amputation; it also shows the solid union which had been effected, between the external parietes of the femur, and the fractured portions. 177 An oblique fracture of the femur. The thigh-bone was considerably shortened, in consequence of the riding of one bone over the other. The medullary canal is obliterated, at the extremities of the fractured bones, by osseous deposits ; which I have generally noticed in fractures of cylindrical bones, where the fracture is oblique. There is a spiculum of bone on the external surface of one of the ends of the fractured bone. The fracture must have caused great deformity and lameness. 178 An oblique fracture of the femur, which had produced great shortening, and deformity ; one portion of the fracture having been drawn over the other to a con- siderable extent; there is a spiculum of bone at the extremity of one of the fractured ends. 179 Healthy stump of a thigh-bone, showing the complete reparatory process by which the end of the bone is defended, viz. the deposition of osseous matter, where no irritation exists to prevent this effect. A portion