141 ties, there were firm clots of blood, which proved that the apoplexy was produced by laceration of a number of small vessels. Most of the arteries belonging to the brain were ossified, some obliterated. The patient had been afflicted with symptoms of cerebral disease for a considerable length of time prior to the apoplectic attack. Sudden apoplexy was produced by the bursting of several large arteries. 500 A portion of brain, with the plexus choroides. The arachnoid membrane and pia mater are greatly thickened ; there was a considerable quantity of pus between them, and an abscess on the external surface of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, which extended deeper than the convolutions, and a considerable portion of the brain had absorbed. There are serous cysts in the plexus choroides. The substance of the brain was highly inflamed. The history of this case is not known. 501 A portion of brain, and its tunics. From a man 30 years of age, a confirmed drunkard; he was seized with delirium tremens, which was succeeded with symp- toms of typhus fever ; he became furiously delirious, and died about a week from the commencement of the attack. Inspectio. There was a great effusion of blood between the arachnoid, and pia mater, partly in a fluid state and partly coagulated; these tunics were highly inflamed, as was the substance of the brain ; and there was likewise a considerable quantity of fluid in the ventricles. All the vessels of the brain were greatly distended. These appearances are well ex- hibited in the preparation, the parts having been preserved in alcohol. The liver was greatly enlarged, structure granulated, gall-bladder greatly distended with black viscid secretion; spleen large, and solid; kidnies granulated. This is a very valuable specimen. 502 Two portions of brain affected with fungus hamiatodes. From a child ; the longitudinal sinus was filled with medullary matter, and the inguinal glands were affected with the same disease. 503 A portion of brain, with two fungoid tumors in the