470 elastic, I did not hesitate in stating that I con- sidered the tumor of a malignant kind, and not an aneurism. This opinion was not thought correct by those who had attended the patient, till the thorax was opened, when it was seen that neither the heart nor the arch of the aorta were in an aneu- rismal state. The heart was flaccid, the left ven- tricle rather capacious, and the parietes thickened. The mitral valves were natural, the aortic, at their base, were slightly thickened by semi-cartilaginous and osseous deposits, but not to such a degree as to have interfered with their functions during life. The coronary arteries had undergone a similar morbid change. The aorta at its origin, its arch, and the branches it gave off, were natural in size, but there were osseous deposits between the coats, which are common appearances in old subjects. There were two pints of water in each side of the thorax. The lungs were loaded with melanoid secre- tion. The liver was very large. The kidneys were greatly enlarged, and their struc- ture nearly destroyed by fungus hsematodes and carcinoma. The following are the morbid appearances noticed on dissecting the tumor. On cutting through the integuments, the tumor was found to be composed of fungoid and melanoid matter contained in a cyst formed by the integuments, and by the external surface of a portion of the pleura; these are shown in the preparation. The contents of this cyst were easily separated from its boundaries, coagulated lymph had been thickly deposited on the internal surface of the sac. Six of the cartilaginous extremities of the ribs on each side of the chest had been separated from the sternal attachment of this bone, which had been destroyed by ulcerative absorption (the effects of melanosis on its internal surface), as far as from its superior part to the ensiform cartilage ; the latter was converted into bone, and its apex was curved upwards, a condition probably occasioned by the position of the chest at his work- table. The only parts of the sternum that remained were