85 in this case, the emaciation of the body was not so great as we generally notice where phthisis has run through its different stages. About a fortnight previous to his death, the mucous surface of the trachea and intestines became diseased; he lost his voice, and had symptoms similar to those in cynanche trachealis, and colliquative diarrhoea. The adhesions of the pleurae were so firm, as to render it necessary to remove the lungs and heart to examine them properly. The lungs were completely filled with various sized scrofulous tubercles and vomicae; the bronchial glands were affected with the same disease, and com- pressed the bronchi: the lining of the trachea was inflamed, the bronchi slightly ulcerated. The peri- cardium, extremely dense in structure, was dis- tended with a great quantity of fluid mixed with large flakes of coagulable lymph. The internal sur- face of this membrane was thickly coated with orga- nised lymph, the effect of chronic inflammation. The structure of the heart normal. In the substance of the liver there were a great number of scrofulous tubercles, and many of the mesenteric glands were converted into caseous matter ; the mucous glands of the ileum and caecum were enlarged, some of them ulcerated. The two last preparations are very interesting. Heart of a lady 58 years of age. Symptoms denoting hepatic disease had existed for several years, she had also been troubled with a dry cough. About three weeks previous to her death, she was attacked with symptoms of pneumonia, accompanied with acute pain in the region of the heart, and great difficulty in breathing ; she was extremely restless, and her mind was greatly affected. The symptoms increased in violence, the pain in the chest was very distressing, and she died suddenly. The left side of the thorax was completely filled with pus and large flakes of coagulable lymph; the two lobes of the lung were flattened. The pleurae were thickly lined with coagulable lymph, which did not adhere firmly. There was also a large quantity of sero-purulent fluid with lymph in the right side of the thorax, and the lungs were partially hepatised; the pleurae were thickly coated with unorganised lymph,