224 From a child, who died of phthisis pulmonalis. The lungs contained a great number of miliary tubercles, and several vomicae ; the mesenteric glands caseous. 965 Ileum, part of the caecum, and a portion of the colon; from an adult. The mucous glands enlarged, the mucous surface ulcerated. 966 Ileum and part of the caecum, and its appendix. From an adult, who died of phthisis pulmonalis. The mucous glands in the ileum ulcerated, also those in the caecum, and its appendix. The lungs nearly filled with tubercles and vomicae, and the mesenteric glands diseased. 967 Ileum, caecum, and appendix of an adult; the mucous surface ulcerated. 968 A portion of ileum, with a part of ^the caecum and its appendix, and the mesenteric glands. From a girl, 12 years of age, who died of phthisis pulmonalis. The lungs contained a number of scrofulous tubercles, and vomicae: the spleen was also affected with the same disease ; the mesenteric glands converted into caseous substance, and the mucous glands in the ileum and caecum enlarged. 969 A portion of ileum and mesentery, also part of the colon. The man, 34 years of age, had for a length of time been troubled with cough, and symptoms of chronic dysentery. The lungs were loaded with miliary tubercles, the mesenteric glands scrofulous, the mucous glands of the small intestines enlarged; the serous coat greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and there were an immense number of miliary tubercles beneath it, and in the mesentery ; the mucous coat of the caecum and colon is ulcerated. 970 A portion of ileum, with the caecum, and a part of the colon, affected with fungus haematodes. All the coats of the intestines are extremely thick, particularly the mucous, and the arteries turgid, giving them a very deep-red color, which is fixed by alcohol. The appendix caeci is completely obliterated, and converted into a ligamentous substance. The man had shown symptoms of a diseased liver for several years ; during the last three months of his existence, he had suffered severely from attacks of has-