331 The urine was of a blackish color, as were the faeces. I have several specimens of diseased bladder and prostate gland, showing the various morbid changes to which they are liable; but I never before saw any thing similar to the case I have just described. From the melanoid color of the kidney, the mucous coat of the large intestines, and the state of the prostate gland, I think this was a case of melanosis connected with fungus haematodes. The black appearance of the mucous coat of the bladder is not retained in the preparation, the fluid having escaped by macerating the parts in water. 1389 Diseased bladder, kidney, &c. The bladder is greatly thickened and contracted. There is a calculus in it of moderate size, and of an oval shape, and its external surface presented the mul- berry character. The internal surface of the bladder is remarkably thick, and the muscular fibres greatly developed. The left kidney was healthy, the right retained the lobulated figure, as in the fetus, and there was a small calculus in the pelvis, which is shown in the preparation. The concatenated absorbent glands on both sides of the neck, were enlarged, and converted into caseous matter, and the bronchial glands were affected with the same disease, which lessened the caliber of the bronchi. The lungs contained scrofulous tubercles, but there were no signs of excavations. There was water in both sides of the thorax. There were some small tubercles on the pericardium ; the heart natural. The mesenteric glands were not affected, but the lumbar absorbent glands on both sides, were con- verted into large scrofulous tumors, some of which are preserved in the preparation. The arachnoid membranes and pia mater were highly inflamed, and slightly thickened, and there was a serous effusion between the arachnoid and pia mater, and about an ounce of water in the lateral ventricles. The vessels of the brain were surcharged, as were the sinuses, and the structure of the brain was of a reddish color, but there were no signs of tubercular