457 Being an Irishman, permission could not be obtained to inspect the body. Dissection of the tumor.—Its base was carcinomatous, the rest of the structure fungoid. If the body had been examined, I have no doubt that the lungs and liver would have been found affected with the same disease. 1759 Section of a thigh-bone, from a woman. Carcinomatous and fungoid growths had formed in the cancellous parts of the head of the bone, and trochanters, and down nearly one half of its shaft. These productions had occasioned considerable ex- pansion of the parietes; they were merely covered by what might be termed a thin shell of the natural bone, and a thickened periosteum. At about five inches from the neck of the thigh-bone a spontaneous fracture had taken place, which is seen in the preparation. This is a very valuable specimen. 1760 A tumor of the fungoid and carcinomatous kind, which had its origin from the pleura costalis at the posterior and superior part of the thorax on the left side. It was situated on the first four ribs near their arti- culation with the vertebra?, and had occasioned absorption of the periosteal covering; the bones were carious. From a child, 7 months old, who had from birth shown symptoms denoting an enlarged liver, which in- creased to an enormous size. About three months previous to the death of the child, ascites came on, accompanied with a distress- ing cough, and yet there was no emaciation. There was a large accumulation of fluid in the abdo- men, the liver occupied nearly the whole cavity, it was very firm in texture, and contained a great number of medullary and carcinomatous tubercles, some were distinct, others aggregated. The gall- bladder contained only a small quantity of pale- colored secretion ; the spleen was large, but not dis- eased. All the ot her abdominal viscera were healthy. The lungs were loaded with blood and sero-purulent infiltration, and in some portions were hepatised, but there were neither scrofulous nor fungoid tubercles