314 1329 Section of a kidney, with carcinomatous tubercles in their incipient state ; the structure inflamed; the other kidney was affected with the same disease, as was the liver. 1330 Section of a kidney, affected with carcinomatous tubercles; the internal surface of the pelvis, infun- dibula, and ureter, in a sloughing state. From a woman, who had carcinoma of the mamma; the kidney was affected with the same disease. 1331 A kidney, affected with carcinomatous and small me- dullary tumors ; the infundibula and pelvis greatly enlarged ; the capsula propria much thickened by lymph. The liver of this patient was affected with carcinoma and fungus haematodes ; also the mucous glands of the intestines ; and the gall-bladder con- tained calculi. 1332 Section of a kidney; more than one half of its na- tural structure had been destroyed by the growth of a large fungoid tumor ; it possessed a capsule of condensed cellular tissue, which was covered by the capsula propria, the latter was greatly con- densed, as seen in the preparation. The remain- ing portion of the kidney was healthy; the liver was affected with fungus haematodes. 1333 Two sections of kidnies, affected with fungus haema- todes ; the natural structure of one of them nearly destroyed by the morbid growths. From a man. Many other parts of the body were affected with the same disease. 1334 Kidney, very large (injected), affected with fungus haematodes; the capsule very dense. From a patient who had melanosis in the sternum. The history of this case is given in the Section on Dis- eased Bones. 1335 A portion of a kidney, converted into fungus haema- todes and medullary sarcoma, which weighed nine pounds avoirdupoise; the capsula propria immensely thickened. The disease was supposed to be (from its occupying the principal part of the abdomen) tabes mesenterica. The kidney was injected with size and vermillion. From a young subject. 1336 Section of a kidney, affected with medullary sar- coma and fungus haematodes. The other kidney was diseased.