320 nearly four years from symptoms of nephritis. About six months previous to her death, the symp- toms became more distressing; she complained of acute pain in the region of the right kidney, and great difficulty in voiding urine ; it was sometimes mixed with pus and blood, and her health gradually declined. Every endeavour was employed to miti- gate her sufferings. The secretions from the kidnies began to diminish; the lower extremities became oedematous, succeeded by ascites ; the pain in the kidney was greatly ag- gravated ; she vomited frequently, and had great difficulty in breathing. With a view of affording the patient temporary relief, paracentesis was per- formed, and 26 pints of colorless fluid were drawn off. The dyspnoea and sickness abated after the operation ; but the pain in the loins, more especially in the region of the right kidney, continued; and an enlargement of this viscus could be distinctly felt. The fluid in the abdomen again accumulated, causing the same symptoms ; and, at the request of the patient, I performed paracentesis at the umbi- licus with a lancet, this part having projected to a great extent; in the former instance it was per- formed two inches below this part. The discharge of pus with the urine was very profuse, and the pain in the kidney more distressing, al- though large doses of opium, &c, were given ; she gradually sank, and died. The peritoneum was covered with coagulated lymph in a granulated state, the effects of chronic inflam- mation. The liver was extremely small and solid, and its edges obtuse ; the peritoneal covering very thick ; its substance presented what is termed a " nutmeg" like appearance. The right kidney was of the size and figure of an ostrich egg ; it had as- cended to the concave surface of the liver, and passed downwards as far as the spine of the ilium. In consequence of the magnitude of the kidney, the intestinum ca?cum was pushed from its natural situ- ation, and the right ovarium had formed a firm union with that portion of the peritoneum, which covers the kidney. The kidney weighed, with the pus and the calculus,