35G the inguinal glands were not affected, I thought it right to operate. The disease having affected the tunica vaginalis, I removed the testicle with the disease. A section of the tumor presented a medullary sub- stance with coagulated blood. Although the den- sity was greater than that of brain, moderate pressure with the finger reduced it to a pulpy consistence. The patient appeared to be going on favorably for about a fortnight after the operation, and the integuments had healed, when he began to complain of a pain in the situation of the tuberosity of the ischium, and a considerable enlargement in the perineum succeeded. The swelling increased rapidly, although every en- deavour was employed to check its progress; he complained of great pain, and he had retention of urine, which required the use of a catheter; he had also great difficulty in voiding his faeces. The integuments of the perineum assumed a purple hue, and presented the elasticity characteristic of a fungoid tumor. The pain in the tumor became so distressing, and the distention of the integuments so great, that I thought it right to make an opening into it to moderate his sufferings. After this a fungus of a sloughy appearance protruded. This growth increased, and the integuments surrounding it became absorbed. His health was seriously affected, and the inguinal glands on both sides enlarged; the integuments were discolored. The enlargement in the perineum increased, and bled freely ; sloughing took place, which was succeeded by irritative fever, and he died. The testicle and the disease of the scrotum are pre- served in the preparation. The history of the case is published in the 9th volume of the Koyal Medico- Chirurgical Transactions. 1416 Prostate gland, affected with fungus haematodes, the middle lobe is greatly enlarged, which caused re- tention ; this terminated fatally. The kidneys were affected with the same disease. From a very old man. A sufficient quantity of the bladder and urethra had