57 affection of the hip-joint, which occasioned a .spon- taneous dislocation, and shortened the limb four inches, the foot being turned inwards. She reco- vered from this attack, and was able to walk with a stick, although very awkwardly. I examined the body. There was a large cicatrix on the integuments covering the trochanter ma- jor ; firm adhesions had taken place between the cellular tissue and the periosteum covering this process of the femur, and its size was greatly di- minished. There was another scar in the integuments in the groin, on the side of the diseased joint. The cellular tissue covering the capsule was greatly condensed, as was its internal surface which was thickly coated with organised lymph. The head of the femur had been destroyed by caries; the ace- tabulum was filled by dense coagulated lymph, and the neck of the bone was situated partly on the dorsum ilii, to which it was attached by firm ligamentous bands. The lungs contained a great number of scrofulous tubercles, and the pleura adhered firmly ; there were likewise strumous tubercles in the liver. Blood had been effused between the arachnoid mem- brane and the pia mater over both hemispheres of the brain ; and the convolutions were much flattened. The right lateral ventricle was greatly distended with blood, in a coagulated state ; and the thalamus nervi optici was lacerated. The left ventricle con- tained about three ounces of bloody serum. The internal carotid arteries, and the basilar were par- tially ossified. The preparation of the brain is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. I could not ascertain whether the cicatrix on the inte- guments near the trochanter, had been produced by the application of caustic, or was the effect of scro- fulous disease in the bone The scar in the groin was found on dissection to have been the result of an abscess, which had communi- cated with the hip-joint. 227 The superior part of the femur of a man ; the head of the bone is nearly destroyed by ulceration, as is also a part of the neck. The history of this case is not known.