504 with organised lymph; its structure affected with cirrhosis, the gall-bladder was rilled with dark- colored viscid fluid. Most of the mesenteric glands were converted into pulpy masses, not caseous. The aorta and the vena cava were compressed by the morbid lumbar glands, which must, in some degree have impeded the circulation through them. There was a considerable quantity of milky fluid between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater; the convolutions of the brain were greatly flattened, and the ventricles contained four ounces of water. I merely inspected the body. 2303 Ileum; the mesenteric glands are converted into masses of caseous matter of considerable size. From a child ; the lungs were nearly filled with miliary tubercles, and there were several vomicas. 2304 A splendid specimen of fungus heematodes in the inguinal, pelvic, and lumbar absorbent glands, with a portion of the duodenum ulcerated. Part of the thoracic aorta, vena cava, and iliac vein are preserved in the preparation; the two latter are obliterated by fungoid secretion. The patient had a carcinomatous testicle, which was extirpated. About twelve weeks after the operation, the glands in the groin began to enlarge, and a tumor was distinctly felt in the course of the iliac glands. The growth of these tumors occasioned great con- stitutional disorder, and there was that sallow countenance which is generally noticed in those afflicted with carcinoma or fungus hasmatodes. The digestive organs became deranged, febrile symptoms ensued, which with the progress of the disease exhausted the power of his constitution, and he died. The disease in the lumbar glands had excited inflammation of the peritoneum, and firm adhesion had been effected between the internal surface of this membrane, and a considerable portion of the external coat of the inferior part of the duodenum. The morbid growth had likewise by progressive ulceration caused an opening of communication with this intestine, and its mucous surface was completely destroyed as far as the ductus communis chole-