430 kind, varying in size from a hemp seed to a marble, in the integuments of the chest. The left mamma was reduced to a very small size, the nipple not being depressed. A section of the part showed it to be composed of a great number of cancerous tuber- cles, and no part of the natural structure could be seen. The axillary glands were natual. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in both sides of the chest. Beneath the serous covering of the lungs there were a great number of small scirrhous deposits, which nearly effaced its natural structure ; the same change had taken place on the diaphragm. The lungs were nearly consolidated by sero-purulent infiltration, and there were a great number of minute scirrhous tubercles in the cellular media; the lining of the bronchial tubes and trachea was highly inflamed. Both the kidneys were greatly inflamed. I have given a somewhat lengthy de- scription of this case, as I consider it, in many practical points, to be very interesting. 1691 The diseased breast above described. 1692 Carcinoma of the mamma, the nipple very small and retracted. The breast was extirpated, but the patient died from the extension of the disease to the axillary glands and the lungs. In the same bottle there is a specimen of genuine carcinoma in the breast, with a portion of the pec- toral muscle and integuments; the disease re- curred, and the lungs became affected, which caused death. 693 Mamma affected with carcinoma, the nipple short- ened and retracted. The patient was 50 years of age : she had given birth to four children. The disease in the breast com- menced about two years previous to her death. A small hard tumor was felt in the mamma, near the nipple, it gradually increased, and ultimately became painful, and her health gradually became impaired. Various modes of treatment were em- ployed to disperse the tumor, but without effect, the swelling and pain increased. Four eminent sur- geons were consulted, they considered the disease of a malignant kind, and advised the removal of the