448 In both sides of the thorax there was a considerable quantity of water, the lungs were partly cedematous, and emphysematous. In the pericardium there were four ounces of water ; the heart was very large, particularly the left ven- tricle, its parietes thick, cavity capacious, and the base of the aortic valves thickened. The patient had never mentioned to the professional gentleman who attended him his having had a her- nia ; probably it had been occasioned partly by the accumulation of fluid in the abdomen, and the vio- lent efforts of coughing ? If the rupture had been detected, it might have been easily reduced, but this would not have saved the man's life. 1731 Femoral hernia. A woman, GO years of age, was seized with symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia; means were em- ployed for its reduction, which failed ; an operation was repeatedly proposed, which was obstinately re- fused. Vomiting and singultus became more dis- tressing, tension of the abdomen came on, and she died on the third day from the first symptoms of strangulation. The peritoneal coat of the small intestines was highly inflamed, and there was a con- siderable quantity of dirty looking fluid in the ab- domen. The inferior portion of the ileum was strangulated, mortification had taken place in the bowel at the neck of the sac, and it had burst, which accounted for the fluid in the cavity of the abdomen. Lymph was deposited on the mucous surface of the strictured intestine, which adhered firmly, as is seen in the preparation. If the poor woman had submitted to the operation when it was first proposed, I have no doubt her life would have been saved. 1732 A portion of the intestinum ileum, the coats inflamed, the effects of a portion of this bowel having been incarcerated ; at about six inches beyond this part there is a round opening through all the coats. The appearances are well preserved in the prepara- tion. From a woman, 45 years of age, who for several years had a femoral hernia on the right side, and had worn a truss. Symptoms of strangulated hernia suddenly came on, the surgeon who saw the