423 spinal marrow. The most singular appearances were in the abdomen. The liver was of a mottled bluish red color, and much smaller than we find this viscus in a full grown child. The spleen was very large, and possessed the same appearance seen in the liver, the other viscera healthy. The parts which had occasioned the immense abdominal en- largement were the kidnies, and they were of surprising size, as seen in the preparation. The external surface of the kidneys presented a nodu- lated appearance, but by removing the capsules, it was seen that this deviation from the natural structure was occasioned by the formation of innu- merable serous cysts in the cortical and medullary substance of the organs, a morbid change I never before observed in an infant, but frequently in adults. The organs of generation, the bladder, urachus, and the umbilical cord, are preserved in the preparation. The parietal bones are also preserved in this specimen. The mother of the child produced another monster afterwards, a false conception, although she had previously given birth to several well formed children. A female child, remarkably large, with hydrocephalus and spina bifida. In consequence of the great size of the head, the labor was very lingering, the child was dead. On opening the head, which was easily done, the bones being so much separated, the cerebrum was found not more than an inch in depth, having been expanded by an immense accumulation of water, (12 ounces) in the lateral ventricles, the rest of the brain was extremely soft. There was a free com- munication between the calamus scriptorius, and the the theca of the spinal canal, so that the water could be pressed from the head into the protuberance of the spina bifida. The contents of the cranium were removed; afterwards the cavity was filled with horse-hair, so as to resemble the size and form it bore before the brain and its contents were removed. There was an extensive spina bifida in the inferior dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, and the sacrum was bifid.