28 portion in a comminuted state • and the fractured bones deprived of their periosteal covering ; there were no signs of osseous union. The point of one of the fragments of bone had penetrated a part of the triceps, another the brachialis internus, and the musculo spiral nerve was implicated in the injury, which probably occasioned the severe pain which the patient experienced. If the comminuted state of the fracture had been de- tected, and the absence of an attempt at union; the woman's life might, possibly, have been saved by an amputation. 133 An oblique fracture of the os brachii, about three inches below its head, firmly united. A section of the bone shows the extent of the fractured ends, the line of union, and the cancelli of the head. This is a beautiful specimen. 134 Stump of a humerus, the end of the bone is beautifully rounded off, and defended by osseous deposits. The stump healed favorably, and the patient, lived several years after the operation, without feeling any painful sensations. 135 Ulna; its superior articulating surface is greatly en- larged and altered in figure, by exostosis ; the other parts of the natural structure had been destroyed by chronic ulceration, &c. 136 Ulna and radius, the superior articulating surface of the ulna affected with exostosis. 137 Ulna and radius, with an oblique fracture in the latter ; united. 138 Radius, its superior portion affected with syphilis. 139 Thumb of a man, which was amputated. The patient had a severe attack of osseous paronychia, which had been improperly treated at the commencement of the disease. After suffering agonising pain, the thumb, hand, and fore-arm became greatly swollen, and in- flamed ; accompanied with pyrexia. An accumulation of pus formed in the adjacent parts, and an abscess pointed and burst, a little above the origin of the nail. A black bristle is introduced into the opening. At this period I was requested to visit the patient; the thumb was of immense size, and presented an unsightly appearance, and the integu- ments felt very dense. A probe was introduced into