•207 875 A portion of stomach ; the mucous coat highly inflamed. From a woman who died of diseased liver, and had haematemesis for a considerable time previous to her dissolution. The liver was large, granulated, and very solid in structure, and its vascularity diminished. The gall- bladder filled with a ropy black fluid. The glands in the intestines greatly enlarged, and there was a considerable quantity of dark-colored fluid in the intestines, mixed with coagulated blood. The stomach was greatly contracted, and contained coagulated blood, and the greater curve was highly inflamed; the appearance is well shown in the pre- paration, which is preserved in alcohol. 876 A portion of stomach and duodenum, showing purpura haemorrhagica beneath the mucous coat. 877 A portion of stomach; the mucous coat inflamed. From a man 50 years of age, who had suffered several severe attacks of pneumonia. About a week previous to his death, he was attacked with bilious vomiting, and expectoration of pus. Inspectio. There were old adhesions between the pleura pulmonalis and costalis, in both sides of the thorax ; and there were tubercles and vomicae in the lungs. The liver was large, of a pale yellow color ; the serous covering of the large lobe adhered firmly to the dia- phragm ; an abscess was found between the liver and the diaphragm, and a portion of the latter, to the size of a dollar, was partially absorbed. The mucous coat of the stomach and intestines was inflamed. See Section on Diseased Livers and Lungs. 878 A portion of stomach, with a part of the duodenum. From a man who was a notorious dram-drinker. The mucous surface of the stomach, also the duode- num highly inflamed, which is shown in the prepara- tion, the parts having been preserved in alcohol. He died suddenly of apoplexy. See the description of the brain in the Section on the Morbid Brain. 879 A portion of stomach ; the mucous coat of a deep red color, and partly softened, the effects of colchicum. The patient was a young woman ; it was imagined she had taken half an ounce of the powder.