507 adhered very firmly to the external surface of the pleuras. The bronchial glands were also converted into large masses of a similar character, and their growth had greatly diminished the caliber of the bronchi. A section of the morbid parts showed they were formed by an aggregation of various sized tumors, as dense in structure as carcinoma, and closely connected together by firm cellular media; in some portions of the diseased productions there were a great number of small deposits resembling miliary tubercles. The pleuras and substance of the lungs were highly inflamed, and the latter partly hepatised; the bron- chial tubes were loaded with mucus and pus,andtheir lining inflamed. The pancreas was likewise affected with the disease, and the mucous coat of the ileum and of the large intestines was inflamed, thickened, and in some portions ulcerated. See Section on Morbid Pancreas, and on Morbid Intestines. 2317 Pharynx, and a portion of oesophagus. There is a preternatural pouch in the former, about the size of a small apple, the opening into it is about equal to the area of a sixpence, and its edges are puckered. The internal surface of the larynx and oesophagus is of a brownish color, but there is no sign of lesion or loss of continuity. On examining the sac, the dilatation appeared to have been occasioned by the protrusion of the internal lining of the oesophagus between the fibres of the muscular coat, similar to those seen in the urinary bladder, occasioned by the presence of calculi, or where there had been retention of urine, or an enlarged prostate gland. The gentleman from whom this specimen was taken, had suffered for several years great distress in deglutition, and frequent risks of suffocation; in one of the attacks he died suddenly, owing to an accumulation of food in the sac, which could not be swallowed or ejected. In Dr. Baillie's valuable Work on Morbid Anatomy, there is a description of a pouch in the pharynx, which was produced by swallowing a cherry stone,