124 water in each side of the chest; there were likewise adhesions of the pleurae of old standing. The lungs were emphysematous, the bronchial tubes surcharged with a dark colored secretion, and in some portions of the lobes the air cells were enormously enlarged, as noticed in chronic asthma. The pericardium contained four ounces of water; the heart was healthy in structure ; the valves of the aorta shortened and thickened by cartilaginous de- posits ; the coronary arteries were diminished in caliber by osseous matter. The peritoneal surface of the liver was covered with organised lymph ; its structure was very firm ; the gall-bladder contained healthy bile. The spleen did not possess the least sign of its original structure, being converted into a dense cartilaginous mass. A portion of the tendi- nous surface of the diaphragm was formed into solid bone. The blood-vessels belonging to the thigh presented the following morbid appearances, from the surface of the stump as far as the iliac. The main arteries of the thigh, and to where the external iliac is given off, were obliterated by lymph, and coagulated blood. What is still more singular in this case, is, the veins belonging to the thigh, and as high as the external iliac, where it assists in forming the vena cava inferior, were shrivelled and obliterated. 457 Stump of a thigh, with the ossified arteries, &c, from a patient affected with dry gangrene of the foot. His case is described, with the preparation of the foot. 458 An aneurismal state of the whole of the aorta and its branches. The vessels of the brain were gorged with blood, and blood was effused between the arach- noid membrane and pia mater, but there was none in the substance, or ventricles ; the arteries were in- flamed. The lungs were surcharged with blood, but there were no signs of organic disease, either in them or in the bronchial tubes. There were about four ounces of serous fluid in the left side of the chest. The pericardium contained about two ounces of water; the heart was very large, the parietes of the left ventricle remarkably thick, and the cavity capacious ;