79 small excrescences on their edges. The muscular structure of the heart was inflamed. The liver large, of a pale yellow color, and slightly granulated ; the spleen large, but not diseased. This is a very remarkable specimen of mal-formation of the heart; it is surprising the patient lived so long. 287 Heart of a child 6 months old, who died from pneumonia The structure of the lungs was inflamed, and some of the lobes were consolidated; there was fluid in both sides of the chest. The pericardium contained about half an ounce of serum, it was inflamed as were also the serous covering and muscular structure of the heart: the foramen ovale was widely open, the ductus arteriosus closed. 288 Heart of a child, 13 months old. The child for nearly two months suffered from cough and difficulty of breathing; it died suddenly. The pleurae and external surface of the pericardium were coated with coagu- lable lymph ; there was fluid in the thorax on both sides, mixed with flakes of lymph, and the lungs were partly hepatised. The pericardium contained a considerable quantity of water mixed with coagulable lymph. The bag of the pericardium and the reflected portion covering the heart showed all the appearances of pericarditis. The foramen ovale was very large. The abdominal viscera were healthy. 289 Heart of a girl 7 years of age. This child from its birth had cough and difficulty of breathing; about the second year of its age the color of its skin was observed to be much darker than natural, and its hands and feet always cold. Those symptoms gra- dually increased, the child became extremely irritable ; and a fortnight previous to its death it was seized with variola ; on the 7th day petechias appeared. The pleura? on both sides of the chest adhered firmly, the lungs were consolidated, and the bronchial tubes and trachea highly inflamed. There were about two ounces of fluid in the pericardium. The heart was large, the parietes of the left ventricle thick, and the cavity large; the mitral valve dense, the aortic valves thickened, and fringed with small excres- cences on their sides. The foramen ovale, and ductus arteriosus both open. The aorta and vessels of the