03 tubercle is enlarged; all the bones are extremely hard. 241 The bones of a knee-joint. The inferior part of the femur, near the condyles, is greatly enlarged; and several large processes of bone are formed on each side, and on its posterior surface. The same ap- pearances have also been produced on the posterior surface of the tibia, and the head of the fibula. After making a section of the femur, the parietes were found very thin, but dense in structure; and the cancelli more developed, enlarged, and solid, than I ever before noticed, especially where the enlarge- ment of the femur was so considerable, and these circumstances are seen in the preparation. All the soft parts, and cartilages of the knee-joint, were ab- sorbed. I have not the history of this case, but I have no doubt the morbid changes were produced by ostitis and periostitis; and the expansion of the bones had been occasioned by the increase of size and number of the cancelli. This is a very valuable specimen. 242 A scrofulous knee-joint; all the soft parts and carti- lages absorbed. The bones are extremely soft, and very light. From a young subject. 243 The interior portion of a femur. A considerable portion of the external surface has been destroyed by ulce- ration, and in several parts osseous matter has been deposited irregularly; there is an enlargement re- sembling a node, on the outer surface of the condyle. The capsule of the joint was inflamed, and the car- tilaginous coverings were partly absorbed. Ampu- tation was performed. This was a case of ostitis and periostitis. 244 The inferior extremity of a femur. A section of the bone was made ; its parietes are thin, and the can- celli are filled with caseous matter. The soft parts, the cartilaginous substances, and the ligaments were destroyed. The periosteal covering of the femur was separated from the bones, and converted into osseous matter; the bones of the joint were in- flamed. 245 Bones of the knee-joint of a man, showing the cancelli; the semilunar cartilages, and the synovial membrane are injected, the latter is inflamed.