278 indentations were made by the ribs against the convex surface of that organ; similar facts I have frequently noticed. 1162 Liver, affected with genuine carcinoma. The lungs, &c. of this patient were affected with the same disease. 1163 Liver, affected with carcinoma. The patient died of ascites. 1164 Liver, affected with carcinoma. The liver was nearly filled with various sized tubera; some very large, as may be seen in the preparation. The external surface presented the appearance of a liver affected with medullary sarcoma, and the arteries belonging to the serous covering were very numerous. On making sections of the liver, the structure was nearly as dense as carcinoma. The patient, a man, 35 years of age, became dropsical, this was succeeded by jaundice. 1165 Two portions of liver. The liver was of immense magnitude, and scarcely a vestige of its natural structure was visible, the substance having become carcinomatous. In some parts of its texture, there was a greenish color, which I suppose to have been produced by effusion of bile. The lungs were affected with the same disease. From a woman 60 years of age. 1166 A portion of liver, affected with carcinoma. From a woman, 60 years of age, who had suffered from cancer in the mamma nearly four years ; the inte- guments sloughed, and a cauliflower excrescence formed, which bled freely ; the axillary glands became greatly enlarged with the same disease, and there were schirrous tumors above the clavicle; her health declined, icterus ensued, her arm became (Edematous, and she died. The pleuras were greatly thickened by coagulated lymph, the lungs were partly hepatised, but there were no signs of cancerous tubercles. There were several schirrous tumors in the liver. The sternum was affected with carcinoma ; this spe- cimen, with the diseased breast, will be described. The history and dissection are published in the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Volume 9th. 1167 Carcinoma in the liver, beautifully injected.