116 tous deposition between the internal andfibrous coats, which would shortly have been absorbed, had the patient lived. The arteries were inflamed. 428 Three preparations in one bottle, showing different stages of disease in the internal coat of the aorta and valves. The First specimen displays a slight thickening of the edges of the valves, likewise of the internal coat of the aorta, but to a greater degree; the effects of chronic inflammation. Second; a considerable thickening of the internal coat, from organised lymph, and semicartilaginous deposits of a very irregular figure between the internal, and the fibrous coats ; some portions of the internal coat close to the valves had been absorbed. Third, the aortic valves were converted into cartilage, and in two of them, near their edges, there was a good sized opening, similar to those which I have before described; there are also some organised excrescences on the valves. The aortic valves ossified, and greatly diminished in size. From a man 75 years of age. 429 Arch of the aorta immensely thickened by organised coagulated lymph deposited between the two inner coats ; the internal partly destroyed by ulcerative ab- sorption, and the valves at their base slightly thickened. 430 Aortic valves completely ossified, greatly diminished in size, and altered in figure ; on the centre there is a large calcareous deposit, consisting of granules loosely connected; which must have greatly impeded the flow of blood from the ventricle; the internal coat of the aorta partly ossified; the coronary arteries very small, and on one of these arteries a small concretion had formed, resembling in figure what is occasionally found in veins, named phlebolite. 431 Arch of the aorta, the internal coat greatly thickened by organised lymph, and cartilaginous deposits be- tween it and the fibrous coat: the internal surface partly ulcerated The arteries given off from the arch also diseased. The heart was large, and flaccid; the parietes of the left ventricle thick ,• cavity capa- cious, and the auricle greatly dilated. The aortic valves, and those belonging to the pulmonary artery were not much altered in structure.