211 became gradually enlarged ; and she was frequently very sick, and complained of great pain in the epigastric region, and the bowels were constipated ; symptoms denoting peritonitis supervened, which caused the death of the patient. On inspection it was found, that some of the contents of the stomach had escaped through the ulcerated opening into the cavity of the abdomen ; the perito- neum and all its reflections were highly inflamed. The inferior part of a stomach affected with carcinoma; the pancreas shown. The aperture of the pylorus is greatly constricted by the growth of carcinomatous tubercles between its coats ; there is an ulcerated opening through all the tunics, to about the extent of half a crown, near the pylorus: the edges appear to have healed, and had united to the peritoneal*coat of the pancreas, which had prevented the contents of the stomach from escaping into the abdomen. The lesion is snown in the preparation by the separation by dissection of a portion of the united parts ; at about an inch and a half from the opening near the pylorus, there is another ulcer, about the size of a sixpence, the edges well defined; this only destroyed the mucous and muscular coats, but in a short time the serous coat would have been absorbed. There were several cancerous tubercles on the perito- neal covering of the stomach, and pancreas ; the latter was healthy ; there were also a number of can- cerous tumors in the liver. A woman, 59 years of age, had been for nealy two years afflicted with stomachic affection, accompanied with symptoms denoting a diseased liver. Several months previous to her death she could scarcely keep anything in her stomach, and the bowels were generally costive. A portion of stomach, and a medullary tumor in the liver. A man, 50 years of age, a Baker, had for several years been subject to a disordered state of the stomach and intestines. For nearly a year and a half previous to his death his health declined, he complained of a pain and burning heat in his stomach, and sour eructations, and it was with great difficulty he could retain any thing in his stomach : he became greatly emaciated, and died.