455 part of the morbid growth resembled Chimney Sweeper's cancer, and I have seen the same verrucal appearance in the integuments covering the tibia. 1754 A scirrhous tumor, which was extirpated from the pinna of the ear of a,n old woman. The disease did not recur. 1755 A section of the left half of the face, &c. of a woman, showing a carcinomatous tumor in the antrum High- morianum, which had caused absorption of the bony parietes of this cavity , also of the bones of the inferior part of the orbit and palatine arch, so as to allow the morbid growth to extend into the cheek, orbit, nose, and mouth. From a patient, 55 years of age, who had enjoyed good health for many years previous to the commencement of the disease. The tumor felt very firm, and it was immovable ; little attention was paid to it till pain was felt in the swelling, which affected her eye. In the course of six months the tumor increased, it occasioned great pain, and it felt so dense that it was suspected to be an osseous growth in the antrum. Various modes of treatment, locally and generally, had been employed to mitigate the poor creature's sufferings, but without effect. The integuments of the cheek presented a purplish color, and the capillary vessels were very numerous and tortuous. The eye be- came more painful, and the nasal duct was oblite- rated. The conjunctiva was not inflamed, but the pupil of the eye became gradually dilated, and the retina ultimately amaurotic; the muscles belonging to the eye ceased to perform their func- tion. After this the eye began to protrude from its orbit, the integuments of the cheeks sphacelated, • and there was considerable haemorrhage; the brain became affected, and she died. The arachnoid membrane lining the dura mater, also that covering the pia mater, was highly thickened, particularly on the under surface of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum. The pia mater was greatly inflamed, and pus had been secreted between this membrane and the tunica arachnoidea on the left hemisphere of the brain. The substance of the brain was in- flamed, and the ventricles contained three ounces of water. The dura mater covering the left orbital