418 The decidua shown, and the chorion partly unra- velled. 1649 A foetus, at the 6th month, with the placenta; the decidua is shown, and the foetus is placed in the position it naturally occupies in utero. This is a beautiful preparation. 1650 A foetus, about the 6th month, it is greatly disfigured. There are three placentae in the bottle. The mother was delivered of three children, two were born alive at the full period of gestation, the other had lost its life at about the 6th month, its body was greatly flattened, and the cuticle had separated. The placentae belonging to the living children are in- jected with size and vermillion, and the vessels partly unravelled, but the injection did not enter the placenta belonging to the dead foetus. This is a very curious preparation. 1651 A foetus (male), with the placenta beautifully de- veloped, between the 6th and 7th month. 1652 Skeleton of a foetus, at the 7th month. The bones in- jected with size and vermillion. 1653 A foetus. The following parts are shown in the pre- paration. The thyroid and thymus gland, heart, and lungs, stomach, and some of the intestines. The substance of the liver was removed by pressure, to show some of the vessels. The bladder, ura- chus, hypogastric arteries, and the umbilical vein are preserved, also the kidnies and the renal cap- sules, the testes and gubernacula. For nearly two months previous to the miscarriage, the patient had complained of pain in the abdomen, accompanied with sickness, and her health became affected. It was noticed that her abdomen was not so prominent as it generally is at the 7th month of pregnancy, and she had not felt the sensation of quickening. At the 8th month symptoms of labor commenced, accompanied with profuse haemorrhage ; the foetus, with the placenta were expelled, and the uterine haemorrhage was so great as to threaten extinction of life. A bandage was applied to the abdomen, and cloths with vinegar and water, and a sponge with the same fluid were frequently introduced into the vagina. This plan of treatment was employed for a considerable length of time ; it had the