330 of the urethra is sphacelated. The kidnies were highly inflamed, and the infundibula and pelvis greatly dilated, and their internal surface presented nearly the same morbid appearances noticed in the mucous coat of the bladder. The history of this case is not known. 1387 Section of a diseased bladder, prostate gland, and part of the urethra. The coats of the bladder are greatly thickened, the membranous portion of the urethra contracted, and the bulb rendered solid by coagulated blood, presenting an appearance of fungus hsematodes. 1388 Bladder, prostate gland, and diseased urethra. The bladder was greatly distended with a thick dark- colored fluid, which emitted a very unpleasant stench. The whole of the mucous coat is separated from the muscular, as if sphacelated, and when put into water, a considerable quantity of black-colored fluid was given out, as in melanosis. The prostate gland is affected with melanosis, and fungus haematodes, and the whole of the urethra is in a melanoid state. The right kidney was very soft, and of a blackish color, as was the lining of the infundibula, pelvis, and ureter ; and there was a large quantity of dark-colored fluid in the pelvis of the kidney. The left kidney was not much diseased. The mucous coat of the large intestines had a melanoid appear- ance. The patient, 63 years of age, had been afflicted with disease in the urinary organs and prostate gland for several years. The symptoms increased, and he complained of great pain in the bladder, and con- siderable trouble in voiding urine, which was always loaded with mucus, and sometimes with a darkish fluid. About a fortnight previous to his death, he complained of excruciating pain in the region of the right kidney, and the difficulty in voiding urine became more distressing. Retention of urine came on, and it was necessary to introduce a catheter, and this was effected with great difficulty, the urethra being so extremely irritable from disease. In this state the poor fellow continued twelve days.