340 the urine. The third lobe of the prostate gland is greatly enlarged; the urethra not diseased, but a part of the membranous portion had been lacerated by too great force having been employed in attempting to draw off the urine with a silver catheter. The kidneys are greatly enlarged, one half of the right is converted into fungus ne- matodes, the other portion healthy ; and there are some serous cysts on the external surface near the morbid mass, which are seen in the preparation. The other kidney is not much altered in structure, but there are several serous cyts, beneath the capsula propria. The pleura3 adhered firmly, but the lungs were healthy; there were three ounces of water in the pericardium; the heart was very large, the left ventricle capacious, parietes extremely thin, and structure very soft; the valves normal. The arch of the aorta was greatly dilated; the coro- nary arteries partly ossified. The liver presented a nutmeg-like appearance; the spleen was very large, and its capsule was partly cartilaginous. The abdominal aorta, and the ves- sels given off by it, were remarkably large, as were the iliacs, and the internal coat had a pearly white appearance, and was easily detached from the fi- brous, which I consider to be the incipient state of aneurism. There was an aneurism by dilatation of all the coats in the right femoral artery, just where it gives off the profunda, &c. The patient, 64 years of age, had been afflicted with difficulty in voiding urine nearly two years; the water was frequently mixed with blood; he had also experienced great pain in the loins. He was suddenly attacked with retention of urine ; several attempts had been made to draw off the urine without the desired effect, and a considerable hae- morrhage from the urethra was produced. The bladder became greatly distended, and the patient was in great agony. I was requested to visit him : on examination I found the prostate gland diseased, and there was a considerable flow of blood from the urethra; as the bladder was so greatly dis- tended, I thought the only chance of affording