42 with osseous deposits, similar to that which takes place at the extremities of stumps. The history of this case is not known : there must have been great deformity, and shortening; and the fibula must have been fractured. 1G7 An oblique fracture of the thigh-bone, about six inches from the condyles. In this instance, the inferior portion of the femur, at the fractured part, is drawn obliquely under the surface of the shaft of the superior portion, where firm osseous union has been effected, and has caused great deformity, and shortening of the bone, as is seen in the preparation. The external surface of the remaining portion of the femur shows the effects of periostitis, having become scabrous from small osseous deposits. The history of this case is not known. 168 A section of the inferior part of a thigh-bone. At about four inches from the commencement of the condyles, the shaft of the bone is of immense mag- nitude ; and its external surface shows the effects of chronic periostitis. Its anterior parietes are ex- tremely thin; but the posterior wall is surprisingly thick, the bony substance is irregularly deposited, and is as dense in structure as the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The medullary cavity is very capacious, especially near the condyles. This bone having been found in a burial ground, it would be a difficult point to decide whether these morbid changes were the result of necrosis, carcinoma, fungus haematodes, or abscess in the interior of the femur. Before I made a section of the bone, I imagined the disease was necrosis, but not finding a sequestrum, I am unable to state how the morbid appearances have been produced. 169 The inferior portion of a femur, which had been fractured about three inches and a half from the commencement of the condyles. Every attempt was made to save the limb, but without effect. The knee-joint became inflamed, and en- larged ; and the patient complained of distressing pain; fever supervened.—It was thought advisable to amputate. The capsule had been lacerated; it was greatly inflamed, and contained pus. The fracture was oblique, and comminuted; osseous