41 Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, a paper of mine is published, on Fractures of the neck of the Thigh- bone within the capsular Ligament. Ten cases were described, nine of them united by ligament, one by bone. This case is also alluded to in Sir Astley Cooper's Work on Fractures, &c. 163 The superior portion of the femur, with an oblique fracture united. The parietes of the thigh-bone are very thin ; and the terminations of the medullary canal at the ends of the fractured bones are seen. About six months after the accident, an abscess formed in the hip-joint, which destroyed the synovial membrane, the capsule of the joint, the cartilaginous covering of the head, and epiphysis, and the periosteal covering of the neck, as far as the trochanter major. From a boy, 12 years of age ; the lungs contained scrofulous tubercles ; and the mesenteric glands were much enlarged,and converted into caseous substances. 164 An oblique fracture of the femur, firmly united. One end of the fractured bone passes over the other to a considerable distance, and on one side of the external surface, a large spiculum of bone has formed, which must have produced considerable irritation in the adjacent soft parts. A section of the bone shows termination of the medullary canal of the fractured portions. 165 Sections of the superior portion of the thigh-bone, showing the most decided signs of ostitis, and its effects. The synovial membrane was in a sloughy state. The real nature of the disease was not detected during the life of the patient; fever came on, and caused death. 166 An oblique fracture of the femur near its centre. From the circumstance of the limb being placed in an im- proper position, the inferior portion has been drawn by the muscles under the superior extremity of the bone to the extent of two inches ; where solid union has taken place, in an oblique direction ; so that the condyles instead of occupying their usual position are turned outwards. These appearances are seen in the specimen; and a section of the fractured portion exhibits the termi- nation of the ends of the bones, which are covered