390 1548 Uterus, vagina, and rectum, affected with genuine carcinoma. The uterus was extremely large, the peritoneal sur- face very dense in consequence of chronic inflam- mation, and there were several scirrhous tumors of a small size beneath it, at its anterior surface. The parietes of the uterus, about an inch thick, presented all the signs of carcinoma. The cavity was very small, and there was a cancerous tumor, about the size of a pea, beneath its surface, an inch from the commencement of the cervix uteri. The whole of the cervix and a portion of the vagina were dest royed by cancerous ulceration, and an opening of commu- nication had been established between the vagina and a portion of the rectum. The ovaria were affected with the same disease. From a patient 65 years of age. 1549 Uterus, vagina, and bladder affected with carcinoma, the kidney diseased. The uterus appeared nearly as large as at the third month of pregnancy; the parietes not very thick, but dense in structure : the cavity near the fundus very capacious ; the mucous surface destroyed by cancerous ulceration, as was the vagina; and the disease had extended into the anterior part of the bladder, between the ureters and the cervix. The right ureter, near its termination in the bladder, was obliterated, which had caused this tube to be greatly dilated, as were the pelvis and infundibula; the structure of the kidney was destroyed, and the capsule alone remained, which was greatly thick- ened. The other kidney healthy. The peritoneum was thickened by chronic inflamma- tion ; there were several medullary tubera in the liver; all the other viscera healthy. From a woman 59 years of age, who had suffered dis- tressing agony for nearly two years. This is a very remarkable case of medullary sarcoma, the shaggy appearance of the remains of the cervix uteri and the vagina are seen, presenting an appear- ance like an unravelled spleen. 1550 Uterus, vagina, and rectum. Nearly the whole of the natural structure of the ute- rus and vagina are destroyed by cancerous ulcera-