13 diminished, as is well shown in the specimen. The history of this case is not known. A remarkable specimen of angular curvature of the spine, from a hoy 12 years of age. He had, from an early period of his life, been afflicted with rachitis; was remarkably delicate, diminutive in size, and greatly deformed; but his mental capacity was surprisingly active. The deformity was caused by an acute angular curvature in the upper dorsal vertebrae; which had elevated the scapulaj as high as the occiput. The thorax was contracted, and elevated, and the chin rested on the sternum, so that he had no appearance of a neck. About four months previous to his death, symptoms of diseased liver occurred, his digestive organs were greatly disordered, his health declined, the secretion from the kidneys diminished, and jaundice supervened. Every endeavour was used to check the progress of the disease, but ineffectually; he complained of great pain in the region of the left lobe of the liver, and this viscus protruded considerably beyond the margin of the ribs. Ascites came on, accompanied with oedema of the inferior extremities, and he had such great difficulty of breathing, that I thought it right to perform paracentesis abdominis. He was much relieved by the operation ; but in the course of six weeks fluid again accumulated, and it was necessary to repeat it; after which he gradually sank, and died. Inspectio Cadaveris.—Although the head was dispro- portionably large as compared with his body, there was no appearance of disease in the brain, or of its membranes ; and I never examined a brain more beautifully developed. The contents of the thorax seemed too large for their cavities, for the heart and part of the lungs protruded to a considerable distance as soon as the sternum was removed. The heart was large, but healthy. The lungs were greatly distended with air, infiltrated with a serous fluid, and in some parts hepatised; there were no signs of tubercles. The liver was of enormous size, and nearly filled the abdomen ; it was of a pale yellow color, but appeared healthy in structure. The gall-bladder was distended with an orange colored secretion ; the spleen was