•283 greatly distended with faeces condensed into scyba- lae. On searching for the cause of the escape of the feeculent matter, it was found to be an ulcerated opening of the coats in one portion of the caecum, from having been over distended. The peritoneum and all its reflections over the viscera were highly inflamed. The liver (particularly the left lobe) was converted into genuine carcinomatous tubera of various sizes; the right into medullary tumors. The kidnies were affected with small tumors of a schirrous density ; the uterus was healthy, but the right ovarium was converted into a carcinomatous tumor, as large as a small turnip. On carefully examining the rectum, it was found that the malignant disease had commenced in the cellular tissue connecting the coats of this intestine; its growth had progressively made its way into the cavity by ulcerative absorption of the muscular and mucous coats. The tumor was situated about four inches from the verge of the anus ; its structure was strictly cancerous, of considerable density, and it had nearly obliterated the natural canal. The internal surface of the bladder was greatly inflamed. 190 Medullary sarcoma of the liver, injected. 191 Liver affected with medullary sarcoma. 192 Liver affected with medullary sarcoma. The history of this case and the dissection, are published in the 9th Volume of the Royal Medico- Chirurgical Transactions. A man, 56 years of age, had been afflicted with diseased liver for several years ; jaundice came on a few months previous to his death. The gall-bladder did not contain much bile, it was of a blackish color ; the cystic duct, as well as the hepatic and the common duct, were tilled with fungoid matter. 193 Twoportionsof diseasedliver. Theliverwas very large, and there were an immense number of medullary tumors in its substance ; the serous membrane was greatly thickened, and there were long thick adhe- sions between the upper surface of the liver and the diaphragm ; these are shown in the preparation. The pulpy matter was pressed out of the tumors, to