336 by tubercles of a pulpy substance ; the ureters were inflamed. The liver was very pale colored, soft in texture, and there was an hydatid in the left lobe of a moderate size. See the Section on Morbid Livers. The membranes of the brain were highly inflamed, and there were six ounces of water in the ven- tricles. The kidneys were injected with size and vermillion ; the injection had not penetrated the depositions. It would be difficult to give a name to those morbid appearances; they had not the character of the medullary, or of the scrofulous tubera. Probably they were the result of chronic inflammation, which had been excited by the irritating causes which the calculus in the bladder had produced. In con- sequence of the extreme smallness of the vagina, and the minute opening of the meatus urinarius, the high inflammation, and the great sensibility of these parts, it was impossible to introduce the smallest sound into the bladder, to ascertain the presence of a stone; yet there had been all the symptoms denoting this affliction. If the operation of lithotomy could have been performed, the child would have died from the effects of the diseased kidneys ; but if the operation could have been had recourse to before these viscera had become sympa- thetically diseased, the life of the child might have been saved. The child was eight years of age; the calculus was about the size of a large nutmeg. Might not the hydatid in the liver and the calculus have been con- genital ? I once found a stone in the bladder in a still-born child. The child died from the effects of the disease in the kidneys, but it had all the signs of hydrocephalus. 139G A diseased bladder and urethra. The bladder was greatly distended with a dark cho- colate-colored fluid, mixed with a large quantity of coagulated lymph, and there were several calculi in it; both ureters were dilated, and the internal surface of the right was incrusted with calcareous matter. Description of the preparation. The mucous coat of