7 65 A portion of the left parietal bone, with an indentation on its external surface near its posterior inferior angle, the effects of an injury at some remote period; the internal table of this bone, corresponding with the indentation on the external surface, protrudes consi- derably, and must have pressed on the dura mater and brain. The structure of the bone is very solid, and the parietes thick. The history of the case is not known. 66 A portion of the calvarium, including a part of the os frontis, and of the parietal bones ; the arteries of the scalp are injected with wax, &c. On the convex surface of the frontal bone, and near to its posterior border, is an ulcerated opening of considerable size ; produced by the destruction of both tables of the bone from syphilis. The morbid action had extended as far as the coronal suture, and two branches of the temporal artery are seen near the edges of the dis- eased bone. On the internal surface of the bone, the disease had destroyed one of the branches of the meningeal artery ; the dura mater was ulcerated, and the brain inflamed. There were other traces of syphilitic dis- ease. 67 Calvarium. The whole of the external table of the frontal bone has been destroyed, apparently by ulcer- ation, together with a part of the parietal bones, near the sagittal and coronal sutures. The ulcerated surface has subsequently been filled up with a deposit of very dense osseous substance, which presents the appearance of the cells of a honey-comb. The disease has also affected in a less degree, the inner table of the temporal bone, and parietal bones. The rest of the bones are thick and heavy. This disease probably originated in some injury to the scalp. 68 Calvarium. A considerable portion of the superior part of the frontal bone, and portions of the parietal bones are destroyed by syphilis. The coronal and sagittal sutures are remarkably serrated. Was the destruction of the osseous parts really the effect of venereal disease, or the imprudent use of mercury? 69 Calvarium. The external table of the frontal bone had been destroyed by ulceration ; and osseous matter had