412 The decidua, chorion, and amnion are shown, as is the fetus in situ. The corpus luteum is likewise ex- hibited. This is a beautiful preparation. The history of the case is not known. 1617 A gravid uterus, at about the 5th month, minutely injected. The decidua, chorion, and amnion shown. The fetus was removed from the uterus, and is seen at the bottom of the bottle, with the umbilical cord. The right kidney is also preserved; it is affected with fungus haematodeS, and is injected. This is a very magnificent preparation. The patient, 36 years of age, had been suffering severely for nearly four months with great difficulty in voiding urine, accompanied with violent pain in the loins, and frequent sickness, the latter was supposed to be occasioned by pregnancy; it was frequently mixed with blood. Her health became affected, countenance sallow, and she was emaciated; on examining the hypogastric region, there was not that degree of prominence felt, which is noticed in pregnancy at the 5th month. The difficulty in voiding urine increased daily, re- tention came on, and it was necessary to draw off the fluid; this was effected with great difficulty, owing to misplacement of the meatus urinarius. There was a considerable quantity of blood mixed with the urine. With a view of ascertaining the real cause of this obstruction, I examined the vagina carefully, and found the uterus to be retroverted. Having been so fortunate in two cases of retroversio uteri as to succeed in replacing the fundus of the uterus above the brim of the pelvis, and the patient having afterwards completed the period of gestation, I formed strong hopes of being successful in this instance. But in the present case the uterus was so completely impacted, that I found it quite impossi- ble to alter its position. As it was not likely that the changes which this organ undergoes in the gravid state, would be carried on in the pelvis, and the patient's state of health be- coming daily more seriously affected, I deemed it prudent to bring on, if possible, premature labor, by letting out the liquor amnii. In a few days after this, symptoms of labor seemed to be coming on