250 All the symptoms, and the death of the child were oc- casioned by a strictured state of the termination of the intestinum rectum, and of the sphincter ani, the external opening being only large enough to admit the end of a small female catheter ; this contraction had in all probability been formed at an early stage of the developement of the foetus in utero. The pia mater was highly inflamed; there was effusion between this membrane and the arachnoid, and there were nearly three ounces of water in the ventricles. All the other viscera were healthy. The uterus is shown in the preparation. It would be difficult to decide whether the hydroce- phalus was congenital, or occasioned by the symp- toms which the stricture excited. If timely attention had been paid to the unnatural appearance at the verge of the anus and the symptoms, the aperture might have been dilated, by the employment of different sized bougies, or by dividing the sphincter ani; and the life of the child saved. I have seen the large intestines of idiots and incurable maniacs immensely thickened and dilated, occasioned by long retention of the fasces. This is a most remarkable and valuable preparation. 1026 A portion of the transverse arch of the colon, aftected with carcinoma. A man, 46 years of age, had suffered for nearly three years from pain in the abdomen a little below the umbilicus, which frequently caused vomiting, and his bowels were very costive. He had consulted a number of professional men, but had not derived any benefit from any of the reme- dies prescribed. The disease gradually increased, his health declined, andabout twomonthspreviously to his death, he had frequent attacks of vomiting, accompanied with violent pain in the abdomen ; it was with great difficulty that the bowels could be relieved. At last symptoms of enteritis commenced; he was seized with sickness, and obstinate consti- pation ; his abdomen became distended, singultus, with st ercoraceous vomiting came on, similar to what takes place in introsusception, or in internal strangu- lated hernia. The peritoneal coat of the intestines was highly in-