396 This is a splendid specimen. See the Section on Diseased Joints and Kidnies. 1571 Uterus and ovaria diseased. The peritoneal surface of the uterus was thickly coated with organised lymph; the internal surface was ulcerated, and presented the appearance of me- lanosis. There was a small osseous tumor in the cavity, and a small polypus. The right ovarium had been completely destroyed by the growth of a medullary tumor, which had acquired a considerable size. Firm adhesions had taken place between the serous surface covering the ovarium, and that portion reflected over the anterior part of the rectum, and by ulceration an opening of communication had been effected between them. The left ovarium was also affected with the same disease. The whole of the peritoneum and its reflections were thickly covered with lymph, and all the intestines and pelvic viscera were agglutinated. On examining the rectum, an ulcerated opening was seen, which communicated with the right ovarium ; unfortunately the person who inspected the body separated the rectum from the morbid parts. There was a large collection of water mixed with flakes of lymph in the abdomen, and there was fluid in both sides of the chest. The patient, 36 years of age, had been married several years, but had never been pregnant. The menstrual periods had never been regular from their commencement, and were always accompanied with distressing pain. About two years previous to the death of this patient her health began to decline ; she complained of great pain in the region of the uterus, and was annoyed with leucorrhoea. Various modes of treatment were employed to check the progress of the disease, but without the desired effect. The pain in the pelvis continued, she com- plained of a dull pain in the region of the right kidney, and had some difficulty in voiding urine. Symptoms of fever came on, accompanied with frequent rigors, which continued nearly a week. She was suddenly attacked with symptoms of diarrhoea, and a considerable quantity of pus was mixed with the faeces, which smelt offensively. The bowel