297 ulceration, and its place supplied by coagulated lymph. The liver occupied nearly the whole of the abdomen, and weighed twenty pounds; itwas remarkably dense in structure, of a deep yellow color, and its bulk chiefly composed of medullary and carcinomatous tumors ; the cellular tissue was of a yellow color. The following parts of the body were affected with the same disease in this individual, they will be described in their appropriate places, viz.—the dia- phragm, omentum, and pancreas. 1236 Gall-bladder, with the biliary ducts; also a portion of the duodenum, showing the termination of the ductus communis choledochus. The liver was very solid in texture, of a deep yellow color, and granulated ; the spleen very large, capsule thickened, structure very firm. The gall-bladder was completely filled with large biliary calculi, in external appearance resembling & mulberry ; the hepatic duct and ductus communis choledochus were greatly dilated by the same kind of calculi as those seen in the gall-bladder; the latter duct was obliterated. The opening of the common duct is very large, which must have been caused by the passage of a calculus or calculi at different times, from the duct into the duodenum ; and what is most singular in this speci- men is, that a portion of the hepatic duct had become adherent to the serous surface of the duo- denum, and an opening of communication between them had been effected,—this is shown in the preparation. It is probable that the presence of a calculus in this duct, was the cause of the formation of the aperture, and this and more might have escaped into the duodenum. In consequence of the morbid parts having been re- moved roughly by the person who made the post- mortem examination, some of the adjacent portions are wanting to illustrate the appearances. This is a very remarkable preparation. 1237 A gall-bladder, with an immense number of various sized calculi. From a woman who died from the effects of a diseased liver, with ascites. The liver was granulated, very solid in texture ; spleen greatly enlarged, and very firm.