110 Inspectio. The heart was extremely large, the left auricle and ventricle very capacious ; the parietes of the latter were very thick; the mitral valve healthy. The aortic valves were slightly thickened and short- ened, and inflamed, and one of the coronary arteries was completely obliterated by lymph. The whole of the aorta was highly inflamed, and some portions of the internal coat ulcerated. There were signs of purpura hasmorrhagica beneath the pleura pulmonalis, and the lungs were congested by sero-purulent infiltration. All the viscera of the abdomen surcharged with blood; the serous coats affected with purpura, and there was a considerable quantityof coagulated blood in the intestines. There was likewise a great collection of fluid in both sides of the thorax, in the pericardium, and abdomen. This was a case of arteritis, excited by the magnitude and power of the heart's action; which probably might have been subdued by depletion and digitalis, if the heart had not been affected. The specimens are preserved in alkohol. 394 Two portions of aorta, showing arteritis. From a man who died of typhus fever. 395 Inflamed arteries, taken from a patient who died in the incipient stage of typhus fever, at the fever hospital. 396 A portion of aorta, showing arteritis. The membranes and substance of the brain were highly inflamed. From a patient who died in the fever hospital. 397 A portion of aorta inflamed, and lymph deposited on the internal surface, which had become organised. From a man who died from the effects of acute rheumatism. 398 The arch of the aorta, with the thoracic and iliac arteries. The coats highly inflamed , the internal coat greatly thickened by coagulated lymph ; in some portions presenting a tuberculated appearance ; and in one part, this tunic is partially detached. The sigmoid valves are also thickened, and slightly shortened ; the arteries at the arch very large. This is a state of artery likely to terminate in aneurism. The patient, a man 34 years of age, of a very plethoric habit, had suffered from the effects of acute rheu- matism. There was water in the chest; the pleura inflamed; there was also water in the pericardium,