438 The lungs in several parts were hepatised, and the air-cells greatly enlarged. The heart normal. The hernial sac presented a more healthy and natural appearance than I ever saw in such an old and large hernia. The omentum was formed into a hardened mass, about the size of a cricket-ball. 1713 The umbilical ring dilated, and the appearance of a hernial sac, the effect of ascites ; the operation of paracentesis was twice performed at this part, also an inch below the umbilicus. The patient died from the effects of a diseased liver. 1714 Umbilicus, with a portion of omentum in the hernial sac, which had prevented the recurrence of hernia. The patient, a very corpulent man, had all the symp- toms of a strangulated omental hernia; with great difficulty the intestine was reduced, but a portion of omentum could not be returned. From wearing a well constructed truss, further protrusion of the bowel was prevented. This patient died from cerebral disease, excited by arthritis, which is noticed in the history of morbid brains. 1715 A hernial sac of an exomphalus, with a portion of the integuments, abdominal parietes, and peritoneum. This preparation shows the altered state of the internal surface of the hernial sac, also the extent of the incision (about an inch) which was made to reduce the rupture. The patient was a woman, 50 years of age, the hernia had existed for several years, and she had never experienced any difficulty in reducing it until it was strangulated. The hernia had been strangulated for several hours before advice was requested. The contents of the hernial sac were, a considerable portion of the transverse arch of the colon, with a large quantity of omentum, which adhered firmly to the hernial sac, near the ring. The adhesions were carefully separated, and the protruding parts were returned into the abdomen. The intestine was very dark-colored, and some parts highly inflamed, which may be attributed to the smallness of the umbilical aperture, and the length of time the parts had been incarcerated.