•221 0 that exists between the vessels of the integuments, and those belonging to the mucous surfaces. Similar appearances I have seen as the effect of extensive burns. 940 A portion of ileum, inverted, the mucous surface highly inflamed. The patient had intestinal haemorrhage. 941 Two portions of ileum, inverted, showing acute inflam- mation of the mucous coat. A woman, 51 years of age, had been suffering from the effects of a diseased liver for several years; ascites supervened, followed by jaundice, and her bodily powers were greatly reduced by occasional attacks of intestinal haemorrhage. She was tapped thrice. The liver was greatly enlarged, the edge of the right lobe extended as low as the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Its substance was firmer than natural; a section exactly resembled that of a nutmeg; all the blood-vessels were greatly distended. The gall-bladder contained a very dark green-colored bile, also several biliary concretions, each about the size of a pea. Spleen large. The small intestines were highly injected with blood, particularly the jejunum and ileum, and there was a great quantity of coagulated blood, mixedwith mucus, in them, and in the large intestines, but there were no signs of ulceration, nor were there any appearances of disease in the mucous glands. The heart was healthy, the auricles greatly gorged with blood, as were the coronary veins. The coats of the aorta highly inflamed, the vasa vasorum very nume- rous and large. The lungs were free from organic disease, but their blood-vessels were greatly distended, and the bronchial ramifications loaded with mucus. Might not the diseased condition of the liver have occasioned a state of plethora and arteritis, which caused the serous effusion, and the haemorrhagic action of the minute arteries ? 942 Ileum, inflamed, the mucous coat thickened by inflam- mation and coagulated lymph. From a patient who died of phthisis pulmonalis. 943 Ileum, inverted, to show the effects of inflammation and ulceration. The patient died of phthisis pulmonalis. 944 A portion of ileum, with hypertrophy of the glandules