338 1399 Diseased bladder, prostate gland, and a portion of 1397 Diseased bladder and urethra, &c. The bladder is thickened and sacculated; the mu- cous coat inflamed ; the prostate gland, and the in- ferior portion of the prostatic urethra is nearly destroyed by ulceration. There is a stricture of old standing in the membranous part of the ure- thra, and there were fistulas in perineo. The crura penis are filled with alcohol. The patient had been subject to stricture for several years. In consequence of effusion" of urine into the cellular tissue of the perinaeum and scrotum, sphacelation was occasioned, succeeded with fever, which caused death. If the integuments had been freely opened when the effusion first commenced, the urine would have escaped, and the stricture might have been divided, and the stricture cured. I have been successful in two similar cases, by this mode of treatment. 1398 A diseased bladder and prostate gland, one of the ureters is partly obliterated. There was a considerable quantity of pus in the bladder. The mucous surface is highly inflamed, and partly ulcerated. The left ureter is completely obliterated by organised lymph to the distance of three inches from its entrance into the bladder. The prostate must have been of considerable size, but unfortunately the person who performed the post-mortem examination only removed one half. The structure is more dense than natural, but not of a malignant character; the middle lobe is enlarged, and the right vesicula seminalis and vas deferens are completely obliterated by the growth of the diseased prostate gland. The left kidney was highly inflamed; the infundibula, pelvis, and ureter greatly distended by urine and pus, occasioned by the obliteration of the ureter near the bladder. The patient, 30 years of age, had suffered severely for a considerable length of time, from a stricture at the membranous portion of the urethra. In- flammation of the bladder came on, which occa- sioned fever, and he died on the seventh day from the commencement of the attack.