190 and iliac glands, and scrofulous tubercles existed in the pancreas, a viscus rarely affected with disease. 780 A portion of lung, from a patient who died of phthisis pulmonalis. Some of the branches of the pulmonary artery are obliterated by coagulated lymph. In consumptive patients affected with vomicae, nature adopts various means of preventing ulceration of the branches of the pulmonary artery. When the vessels are insulated in a vomica, the external coat receives a covering of lymph, and is thus protected from the effects of ulceration. I have several preparations to show this fact in the lungs, also a specimen where the femoral artery and vein in the groin had been insulated by cancerous ulceration; the coats of the vessels were thickly coated with organised lymph, and the whole of the penis was destroyed. The description of these morbid specimens will be given in the Section on the Diseases of the Genital Organs. 781 A portion of lung; its structure destroyed by scrofulous abscesses ; the pleura greatly thickened by organised lymph ; fistulous openings in the pleura, &c. The patient, a girl 14 years of age, of a strumous diathesis, during the last two years of her life had been affected with cough, dyspnoea, copious expectoration, and occasional attacks of haemoptysis ; she was greatly emaciated. On examining the chest, I discovered a considerable enlargement on the right side, between the fourth and fifth ribs, which I imagined to be produced by pus which had escaped from the lung. As the patient complained of excessive pain in the chest, and the difficulty in breathing was so distressing, and the expectoration had ceased; I thought it prudent to make an opening into the chest, to afford temporary relief, when an immense quantity of pus escaped which smelt offensively. This afforded great relief, the hectic symptoms subsided, and pus conti- nued to flow from the aperture for a considerable length of time; it closed however gradually. After this the hectic symptoms recurred, accompanied with diarrhoea, which eaused death. Inspectio. On the right side of the chest the pleura pulmonalis and costalis adhered very firmly; the