4 368 Testis.—Normal and Morbid. 1445 Testicle, the tunics, and part of the spermatic cord. 1446 Testicle, the tunica vaginalis, and albuginea opened, to show the structure of the testis. 1447 Testicle, tubuli seminiferi, partly unravelled; the tunics and spermatic cord shown. 1448 Testicle, the tunica vaginalis and albuginea shown ; also the dense cellular tissue which surrounds the external surface of the. tunica vaginalis and sper- matic cord. The globus major and minor are shown ; also the vessels and nerves of the cord and the vas deferens. 1449 Testicle, tubuli seminiferi unravelled, &c. 1450 Testicle injected with quicksilver. 1451 Testicle, the vas deferens, and epididymis injected, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. 1452 Testicle, vas deferens, and epididymis injected, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. 1453 The inferior parietes of the abdomen, with a testicle within the cavity. From a child, 5 years of age, whodied on the lOthday from the commencement of an attack of acute hy- drocephalus. The arachnoid membrane and pia mater were highly inflamed, and pus had been secreted hetween them. There were four ounces of water in the ventricles of the brain. The liver was not diseased, but the peritoneal cover- ing of this viscus, as well as that of the rest of the abdomen, were studded with small scrofulous tuber- cles. There were several similar tubercles in the liver and pancreas. The left testicle was found in the abdomen about an inch ahove the internal ring; the opening was very large, as is seen in the prepa- ration, and a process of the peritoneum had pro- truded through the external ring. Probably the testicles had occasionally passed through the rings, and receded, as they sometimes do in young boys. The right testis was considerably more developed, and had descended into the scrotum. The anatomy of the parts is shown in the specimen. 1454 A testicle, with its tunics and the spermatic cord; the tunica vaginalis cut open, to show the figure of the testis, &c. and a small growth on the tunica albu- ginea, near the base of the globus minor.