461 the integuments of the arm were so much at tenuated in some parts previous to death, that it was expected sphacelation would take place. What appears to be very singular in this case is, that although the arm was so surprisingly enlarged, and the axillary glands, vessels, and nerves were so greatly compressed, the hand was not increased in size ; this is shown in the preparation. On making a section of the tumor, it was found to be composed of medullary and fungoid matter, mixed with a dense fibrous structure, but it was not much colored by the injection. Scarcely any of the muscles, vessels, or nerves, could be traced in the fore-arm, from being so completely impacted in the morbid mass. The axillary glands were converted into medullary and fungoid tumors of an immense magnitude. See No. 1769, the diseased Axillary Glands. On dissection, the disease seemed to have commenced on the interosseous ligament, as in a case which I had an opportunity of seeing in the arm of a man with the same kind of growth, it was extirpated, but the disease recurred, and the operation was repeated with the same want of success; a tumor of immense size formed. The arm was amputated, and the patient died shortly after the operation from the effects of phlebitis; what produced inflammation of the veins I could not ascertain. In amputating an arm or leg affected with fungus hasmatodes, the veins are sometimes so much en- larged, and bleed so profusely, that it is necessary to tie them. In this case the disease had not affected any other part of the body. The whole of the ulna was completely deprived of its periosteal covering, and the inferior extremity was enlarged to the extent of four inches, its surface was thickly covered with irregular osseous deposits and coagulated lymph, and at this part a spontaneous fracture had taken place, which is seen in the preparation; the bone is injected, but the remaining portion of the ulna appears to have lost its vitality. The radius was not affected. The axillary nerves are shown in the preparation, also a portion of the ulnar and median nerve.