343 the penis, with the ossa pubis, part of the recti muscles and integuments. From a man who had his bladder tapped above the pubes. The liver was large, of a deep yellow color, and gra- nulated, and its vessels were greatly gorged. The gall-bladder large, and it contained three large calculi, and several small ones. See the Section on Biliary Calculi. The spleen was large, structure firm. The lungs healthy. The heart natural, the aortic valves at their base slightly ossified, as was the internal coat of the aorta. The bladder is much contracted, yet its fundus is nearly three inches above the pubes. The muscu- lar fibres of the bladder are extremely large, the mucous coat appears healthy, but formed into large rugae; and there are several moderate sized calculi. The bladder contained about six ounces of what appeared to be mucus, mixed with calcareous mat- ter in small granules. Description of the preparation. At the posterior and inferior part of the bladder there is a pouch, which contained a calculus about the size of a walnut. This was removed, and is de- scribed in the Section on Urinary Calculi. The prostate gland is greatly enlarged, its structure ex- tremely dense, but not carcinomatous ; the middle lobe protrudes into the prostatic portion of the urethra. The ureters, pelves, and infundibula of the kidneys were greatly distended with urine mixed with pus, and the lining of these parts was highly inflamed; there were likewise calcareous depositions on it. The opening of communication between the integuments and the bladder, which was made by the operation, is shown in the preparation ; likewise a tube or sinus, formed of dense cellular tissue, which surrounded the canula in the bladder, and prevented the urine escaping into the adjacent cellular membrane. The patient, 70 years of age, had enjoyed a good state of health the greater part of his life. Tn 1817, symptoms denoting diseased prostate gland came on ; he had difficulty in voiding urine, ac- companied with pain in the rectum, These symp-