30 114 Fracture of the humerus of a hawk, which had united in an angular direction; the lower portion having been drawn over the superior. 145 A portion of ilium showing the effects of periosteal irritation, excited by the pressure of a fungoid tumor of considerable magnitude, which grew from the pe- riosteal covering of the dorsum ilii. The kidnies were affected with carcinoma. This preparation was removed from a man, 70 years of age. 146 An oblique fracture of the femur, between the two trochanters, which had united by osseous depo- sition. From a woman, 55 years of age, very cor- pulent, and plethoric; she was knocked down by the wheel of a cart, which struck against her left hip; and was admitted into Cripplegate workhouse. On examining the limb, I found it shorter than the other by an inch and a half, and the foot turned inwards; from which I inferred the case to be one of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, external to the capsule. The thigh became greatly swol- len, and the integuments discolored and inflamed. The patient was laid on a mattress, and the limb placed in a straight position by means of bolsters ; and great care taken to prevent the foot inclining to one or the other side. Leeches and cold lotions were used; and the inflammatory symp- toms gradually subsided. She was kept on the mattress for four months; at the end of which period she was enabled to elevate the limb, and began to walk with crutches ; and in three months more, the patient could walk without any assistance. There was but little shortening of the limb. About 12 months from this period, she was re-admitted, with all the symptoms of organic disease of the liver, accom- panied with ascites, which terminated fatally. Inspectio cadaveris.—The liver was greatly enlarged, and its structure very solid, from the effects of chronic inflammation; the gall-bladder was filled with a dark colored viscid secretion. The spleen large and solid; the peritoneum was coated with organised lymph. Appearance of the fracture. The thigh-bone was fractured obliquely close to the neck ; one portion of the bone was driven into the cancellous structure between the trochanters; and a solid, thick semi-