210 to commence in the cellular tissue of the different tunics, near the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The tumors are very large in this situation, as is shown in the preparation. The liver was affected with the same disease. This is a splendid specimen. 894 Stomach affected with carcinoma and fungus haemato- des, with a portion of the transverse arch of the colon. The peritoneum showed the effects of chronic inflam- mation, there were firm adhesions hetween the under surface of the great lohe of the liver, the small curve of the stomach, and the transverse arch of the colon. The liver was large and tuberculated, as is noticed in dram-drinkers ; the spleen large. There were a great number of schirrous tubercles in the omentum, and the principal parts of the small curve of the stomach and the pylorus were affected with carcinoma. The cancerous growths seemed to have commenced in the cellular tissue between the serous and mus- cular coats, and had proceeded inwards, destroy- ing a considerable portion of the muscular and mucous coats (as seen in the specimen); and, had the patient lived a few days longer, the peritoneal coat would have sloughed. The mucous glands of the ileum and caecum were greatly enlarged. A man 60 years of age, had suffered from stomachic disease for nearly three years, which had reduced his constitutional powers, and he was greatly emaciated. Six months previous to his death, he was tormented with vomiting, and jaundice came on. The pulsations of the aorta were distinctly felt, as if that vessel were in an aneurismal state. 895 A portion of a stomach, and part of the duodenum. Small carcinomatous tubercles had formed between the coats of the stomach close to the pylorus, which had destroyed by ulceration the mucous surface, and produced a small opening, which is shown in the preparation by a black bristle. The pylorus was also affected with the same disease ; it is greatly thick- ened, and its orifice diminished. The liver affected with carcinoma. From a woman, who had for a length of time suffered from hepatic and stomachic disease. Her abdomen