460 increased, and acquired the magnitude of a very large orange. There was a copious discharge of blood and ichor from the diseased part, the external surface appeared likely to sphacelate, and the health of the patient was seriously affected. The removal of the first growth having terminated unfavorably, I did not think it prudent to repeat the operation. I informed the patient of the nature of the disease, and of the uncertainty of preventing it from attacking some other part of the body, even if the leg were amputated. This did not lessen his courage, he felt anxious to live, and particularly desirous to have the leg removed, I therefore gratified his request. The stump nearly healed by the first intention, and his health gradually improved ; after this he went into the country, and although it is many years since the operation was performed, I have not learnt whether the disease had attacked any other part. 1768 An immense medullary and fungoid tumor, in the right arm of a boy, 7 years of age; the arteries injected with size and vermillion. The tumor extended from a little above the wrist, nearly as far as the axilla. At the age of two years, a small growth appeared beneath the integuments covering the radius and ulna on the outer surface of the arm, about two inches from the carpus. The tumor increased, although means had been em- ployed to disperse it, the tumor gradually acquired the size of a walnut. It felt elastic, and presented all the other signs of a malignant growth; it was extirpated, there was considerable haemorrhage, which was probably caused by the interosseous artery being divided in the operation. About six months after the operation, the disease recurred in the same place, and continued to increase for eighteen months. The tumor presented a nodulated appearance, it felt elastic, the integuments were of a deep red color, and the superficial veins were greatly enlarged and meandered over the tumor, as is generally noticed in fungus haematodes. The axillary glands became immensely enlarged, and