136 annoyed with cough and difficulty of breathing; he became extremely irritable, and expired very suddenly. The brain was natural ; the blood-vessels empty. There was a considerable quantity of coagulated arterial blood, in both cavities of the thorax. The heart and lungs were perfectly healthy, but without blood. On carefully examining the course of the aorta, an aneurism was detected in the descending portion, about two inches below the point at which the left subclavian artery is given off, and the sac had ulcerated. This lesion was found upon dissection, to have been produced by a large spiculum of bone, which had its origin from the anterior surface of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, and had occasioned ulceration of portions of the pleurae which allowed the blood to flow from the aneurism into both cavities of the thorax. All the abdominal viscera were healthy, but appeared blanched from the loss of blood. The internal coat of the aorta is thickened by coagu- lated lymph; the aperture of the aneurism large, but the sac small, and its ulcerated condition is well exhibited in the preparation. This specimen is interesting in two respects, firstly, as regards the situation of the aneurism ; and secondly, as displaying the real cause of its formation. The following question naturally suggests itself to the mind of the pathologist on viewing it, viz : Did the morbid state of the aorta cause the spiculum of bone to be formed, or did the presence of the bone give rise to the aneurism ? 478 An aneurism of great magnitude in the abdominal aorta. The patient, a man 58 years of age ; the disease had existed two years ; during its incipient stage symptoms denoting aneurism were present, but these became in timeless distinct, and at last ceased altogether, which induced the medical attendant to suspect the disease to be a tumor of some kind, and not an aneurism. The cyst of this tremendous aneurism, with the fibrine and coagulum, weighed pounds avoirdupoise. The whole of the internal coat of the aorta was of a semicartilaginous density;