17S were condensed by coagulable lymph; the lungs nearly tilled with miliary tubercles. There were five pints of water in the chest. The heart normal, all the abdominal viscera healthy, but the peritoneum was inflamed. , ,wl:„t, 796 Pleura pulmonalis, thickly covered with lymph which 726 had become organised, and had formed an adventi- tious membrane, which adhered very firmly. In one of the lobes of the right lung near its superior and external surface, an abscess had formed, which had caused absorption of a portion of the pleura. and also made two large apertures in the adventitious coat, which allowed the pus to escape from the abscess, into the cavity of the thorax producing • empyema. Several of the small bronchial tubes open into the cyst of the abscess. The pleura pulmonalis and costalis were thickly coated with coagulated lymph, and firm adhesions had formed between them ; the lungs were greatly com- pressed, and the internal surface of the mam bronchial tubes were greatly thickened by coagulable lymph part icularly near the abscess, which is also preserved The SeuiSTThe left side were thickly coated with lvmph, and there were a great number of scrofulous tubercles in the lungs. The abdominal viscera, 727 Pleura^ulmonalis covering the diaphragm, thickly lined with organised lymph. \ portion of liver and diaphragm shown. The patient, a man 40 years of age, died from the effects 728 Two portioTs^of lung, showing lymph on the pleura pulmonalis, also long delicate adhesions between the surfaces. The effects of pleuritis in a child. 729 Pleura pulmonalis, thickened by organised lymph. There were firm adhesions between the pleura pul- monalis and costalis on both sides The lungs were nearly consolidated by sere-purulent infiltration, and there were several abscesses, off different sizes, in the substance of the lungs. A portion of the cyst of one of them is seen m the Reparation ; its internal surface exactly resembles that of a vomica. The history of this case is not known.