27 years of age. The perichondrial covering of the two first ribs is converted into solid bone. 127 Sternum of a young man, who died of phthisis pulmo- nalis; the bones are very soft, and light, and the cancelli are filled with a caseous secretion. On the internal surface a portion of the bone has been ab- sorbed in consequence of the existence of a large vomica in one of the lobes of the lung, near the surface of the pleura ; union had taken place between this covering and the periosteum of the sternum; and ulceration of the parts was the consequence. 128 Scapula and radius, from a cyprian, who had lost the turbinated bones of the nose. Several other of her bones were affected with syphilis. The acromion is diseased, as is the end of the radius. 129 Scapula and humerus of a large bullock. From injury implicating the shoulder joint, all the soft parts and cartilaginous substances are destroyed; and the head of the humerus, and glenoid cavity are as highly eburnated as if polished by the lapidary. This ap- pearance has been produced by walking, and is occa- sionally noticed in the joints of the human subject. Ossific matter is deposited in great abundance around the neck of the humerus, and scapula ; which would in time have anchylosed the joint. A section of the head and neck of the humerus is made to show the cancellous structure. 130 A portion of the scapula of a horse, with an osseous tumor, which contained medullary matter in its centre. 131 Bones of the right arm of a boy, who died of phthisis pulmonalis ; they are extremely small. The head of the humerus is greatly expanded, and all the soft parts, cartilages, ligaments, &c. had been destroyed by ulcerative absorption. The same morbid changes had affected the elbow joint; and the carpal, and metacarpal bones were filled with caseous matter. 132 A fractured humerus which had not united. From an old woman, who was in an hospital for several months. She complained of pain in the arm whenever it was moved; and it continued painful till her death; which was occasioned by an affection of the brian. I dis- sected the arm, and found the humerus at its upper