66 the ileum and caecum were enlarged, and the vessels of the surface of these intestines congested. The thoracic viscera were healthy ; the coats of the aorta were ossified. On examining the diseased elbow-joint, it was seen that the whole of the soft parts and cartilaginous cover- ings had been destroyed, as were the ligaments and the capsule; lymph had been deposited, which had become organised, and formed slight adhesions. The thigh and leg were removed, and the arteries injected with size and vermillion. On cutting open that part of the knee-joint which originally formed the capsular ligament, scarcely a vestige of its natural structure could be seen, from the ravages of ulceration. The cyst, if so I may call it, had extended upwards on the anterior part of the thigh, to the distance of six inches above the condyles, and had caused a separation, and partial absorption of the cruraeus and vasti muscles, exposing the peri- osteal covering of the femur, which was highly inflamed. The internal surface of this cyst seemed to be formed principally of the cellular tissue of the capsular ligament, which was in a sloughy state. Nearly the whole of the cartilages which covered the con- dyles and the head of the tibia were absorbed ; only a few portions remained, which were extremely thin. The semilunar cartilages, as well as the crucial and lateral ligaments were destroyed. The articular surfaces of the bones were highly in- flamed, and the ulcerative process had commenced in them. The cartilage of the patella was absorbed, together with the head of the fibula. The posterior tibial, and interosseous arteries were obliterated by lymph. The bones were minutely injected ; but there does not appear any sign of vascularity in any of the re- maining cartilages. From the bad state of health of this patient, and her advanced age, I did not think it prudent to pro- pose amputation. In a case of considerable effusion of synovia into the capsule of the knee-joint in a healthy young person, I should not hesitate in making an opening into the joint, which might prevent