245 The large intestines were loaded with meconium, particularly the rectum ; this intestine was found to terminate in a cul de sac, about half an inch from the verge of the anus. Probably the life of this infant might have been saved by an operation. 1015 Rectum of an infant, terminating in a large cul de sac; the intestine inverted, to show the mucous coat, which is tinged with the meconium. The child lived four days, suffering severely from vomiting, and violent efforts to relieve the bowels. There were no signs of an anus, and as no impulse could be felt when the child was making strong efforts to relieve the bowels, the Surgeon who had the ma- nagement of the case, satisfied himself by allowing the child to die without attempting to make an artificial opening. The large intestines were enormously distended with excrementitious matter and meconium, and the mucous coat was tinged by the latter. The rectum terminated at the brim of the pelvis, and was con- nected to the superior part of the sacrum only by a kind of meso-rectum. The mucous coat of the stomach and small intestines was of an unhealthy brownish color, which seemed to be occasioned by a morbid secretion from these parts, the child having frequently vomited a dark- colored fluid. The post mortem inspection clearly proved the correct opinion the Surgeon had of the nature of the case, which induced him not to propose an operation. 1016 The inferior part of the rectum. The mucous coat greatly thickened, the effect of haemorrhoids. 1017 The inferior portion of the intestinum rectum, showing internal and external haemorrhoids. 1018 The lower part of the intestinum rectum, with the prostate gland, the vesiculae seminales, and vasa deferentia. The mucous coat of the rectum greatly thickened; there are a number of large piles at the verge, and several long fistulae, which are shown in the preparation by bristles, and pieces of colored glass. The patient had been operated on for fistula in ano, but the disease some months afterwards came on,