•287 203 Liver affected with fungus hasmatodes and carcinoma. From a man 65 years of age, who had been afflicted with a diseased liver for several years. A few months previous to his death, his health became seriously impaired; the liver projected considerably beyond the ribs, and from his being greatly emaciated inequalities on the surface of the liver were distinctly felt; his bowels were disordered, the urine deficient in quantity, and he occasionally vomited blood ; jaundice and ascites supervened. There were nearly two gallons of water in the abdo- men ; the peritoneum was greatly inflamed, and thickened by coagulated lymph ; firm adhesions had been effected between the peritoneum and the serous surface of the convex part of the liver ; and all the intestines were agglutinated. The serous covering of the liver was greatly thickened, and the external part of this viscus presented a nodulated appearance (as seen in the preparation) ; its structure was composed of fungus haematodes and carcinoma. The vena cava and most of its ramifications were filled with medullary matter. The gall-bladder was shrivelled and empty, and the cystic duct obliterated. The spleen was large and dense in structure. There was a large coagulum of blood in the stomach, which had been produced by the minute vessels* belonging to the mucous surface having poured out their contents; this accounts satisfactorily for the attacks of hasmatemesisfrom which the patient had suffered. All the other viscera healthy. The history of this case is published in the 8th Volume of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions. 204 A portion of liver. A boy, 19 years of age, who had lived in the Hundreds of Essex ever since his birth, had suffered from repeated attacks of ague, connected with an hepatic affection. His health became seriously impaired, jaundice came on, followed by ascites, and eedema of the lower extremities ; paracentesis was performed, merely to afford temporary relief. There was a large quantity of water in the abdomen ; the peritoneum was inflamed, and was slightly thickened by coagulated lymph.