424 I6G3 A malformed foetus, between the 6th and 7th month. The head and superior extremities were perfect, the inferior deformed, and the legs turned round on the lower part of the spine. There was a large spina bifida between the lumbar vertebrae, and the canal of the sacrum. The heart was of an irregular figure, its apex, instead of being acute, was obtusely rounded, as in some animals. The abdominal parietes were imperfectly developed near the umbilicus, which allowed a por- tion of the stomach and intestines to protrude as in hernia. The placenta is shown; the cord not separated. This is a very whimsical looking monster. 1G64 A malformed foetus, sent from Calcutta. The child died soon after birth, it was of the usual size noticed at the 9th month; the skin was of a dingy brown color, and the hair on its head of a brownish black hue, and long. The principal defects in its external figure were its appearing to have only one leg, the left, the toes being irregularly placed, and six in number. At the posterior part of the leg, in a line with the fibula, there was a projection, not unlike an imperfect great toe, which extended as low as the heel. What was most singular, was an elongation of the integuments, resembling a tail inclined upwards, and about an inch and a half in length, near the situation of the verge of the anus, but that aperture had not been formed. There were no signs of genital organs. The umbilical cord was very small. The following are the appearances which presented on examining the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The heart was very small, and its apex obtuse, the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus were widely open. The lungs solid, there were no signs of a diaphragm, nor any appearance of liver, spleen, or kidneys. The stomach and small intestines were natural. The caecum with its appendix on the right side, the transverse arch of the colon terminated abruptly in a cul de sac, in the right iliac fossa, and there were no signs of a rectum. There was no appearance of a penis or scrotum, but there was one testis within the abdomen.