369 1455 A testicle ; the tubuli seminiferi partly unravelled; the tunica vaginalis and albuginea considerably thickened, and firmly united; the epididymis de- stroyed by mortification. The vessels of the sper- matic cord are shown in the preparation. 1456 A testicle and spermatic cord ; the structure of the testicle rendered solid by inflammation, &c, the effects of an injury. 1457 A testicle affected with scrofula and carcinoma, and serous cysts in the spermatic cord. The parts were injected with size and vermillion from the sperma- tic artery ; there were several large serous cysts (not hydatids) in the spermatic cord. On cutting open these cysts, their internal surface was found to be minutely injected ; this great vas- cularity accounts for the rapid secretion of the fluid which so frequently took place. The spermatic artery was very large, and the vas deferens was pervious as far as the epididymis. The tunica vaginalis and albuginea were greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and they were firmly adhe- rent. There were no signs of the natural structure, and scarcely any appearance of vascularity. The morbid productions were composed of scrofulous tumors, and the external surface presented all the characteristic signs of carcinoma. The patient was 30 years of age ; the disease in the testicle had been progressively increasing for nearly twelve months, and had affected his health, although he had had the advice of some of the most distin- guished surgeons in London, and various means had been adopted to cure the disease, but without effect. When I saw the patient the testicle was of an immense size, and felt dense and ponderous. There was considerable enlargement of the whole of the spermatic cord; the integuments of the scrotum were of a purple color, the veins were greatly distended, and very tortuous, and mean- dered over its surface, similarly to what T have generally noticed in fungoid tumors. The inguinal glands were not affected. Leeches were applied frequently; iodine was taken, and employed externally for a considerable time, and his digestive organs attended to, but without producing any beneficial effect, B B