313 1320 Sections of two kidnies injected; structure granu- lated. There are also two kidnies, with the renal capsules, from a foetus, in the same bottle. 1321 A kidney injected ; structure granulated. From a man, a gin-drinker; the liver was granulated ; there was a considerable quantity of water in the abdo- men ; the spleen was very large and dense in structure. 1322 Two kidneys, injected with size and vermillion, showing the granulated appearance which has been described by Dr. Bright, in his work on Disease of the Kidney. From a dram-drinker. 1323 Section of a kidney, injected with size and ver- million. The principal part of this viscus was con- verted into a solid vascular tumor, the size of a very large orange, and was only covered by the capsula propria, which was thickened. I have never seen a specimen like this. Is it the vascular sarcomatous tumor of Abernethy ? 1324 A kidney, affected with scrofulous tubercles. The patient, a young woman 19 years of age, had a diseased spine, and psoas abscess. The lungs were filled with scrofulous tubercles, and the me- senteric glands were affected with the same disease. Both kidnies were very large, and they contained tubercles of a scrofulous kind. Symptoms of the disease had existed from the time of her birth. 1325 A kidney; natural structure nearly destroyed by chronic inflammation and scrofulous deposits. From a man, who died of phthisis pulmonalis ; the other kidney was affected; also the mesenteric glands. 132G Section of a kidney, with scirrhous tubercles. From a man 60 years of age. There was a large fungoid tumor near the dorsum ilii, on the right side. The mucous glands of the small intestines were affected with fungus hcematodes; and the ileum and both the kidnies contained cancerous tubercles. 1327 Kidney of a Cat, with a large scirrhous tumor on its externa] surface. The omentum was affected with the same disease. 1328 A kidney divided, to show small carcinomatous tu- bercles in its internal and external structure. From a woman, who had cancer of the uterus.