35 From a man, G5 years of age, who was thrown from a gig; he was confined to his bed for nearly twelve months ; and at the end of this period could only walk with the aid of a crutch. For several years previous to his death, he had been afflicted with diseased urinary organs ; and voided, at different times, several small calculi with the urine, which was sometimes tinged with blood. Three weeks before his dissolution, he was attacked with excruciating pain in the right kidney, accom- panied with great difficulty in voiding his urine; which was generally mixed with blood. These symptoms increased, although every endeavour was made to lessen the patient's sufferings. T was requested to inspect the body. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy, but the peritoneum in the right hypochondriac, and lumbar regions was highly inflamed; which could not be accounted for, until the kidney on this side was examined. This organ was found to be greatly enlarged; its struc- ture very soft, and highly inflamed ; and the infun- dibula, pelvis, and ureter greatly dilated, [ts in- ternal surface was in a state of sphacelation ; which had been occasioned by the obliteration of the ureter by coagulated lymph, about midway between the kidney and bladder. A considerable portion of the pelvis of the kidney was destroyed by ulceration; and the renal artery and vein, were laid open by the same process ; which accounted for the blood and fluid found behind the peritoneum. The other kid- ney was large and flabby; the urinary bladder had its muscular coat greatly increased in size; the mucous coat was sphacelated; and there were se- veral large sacculi in the bladder; all these changes were, no doubt, occasioned by the violent efforts of the urinary bladder to expel its contents. A plate of this preparation is given in Sir Astley Cooper's Work on Fractures and Dislocations. The history of the specimen was published in the Transactions of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical So- ciety. A comminuted fracture of the thigh-bone, at its supe- rior portion, between the trochanters; it extended