252 the abdomen; had great difficulty in breathing, and expelled from his stomach an immense quantity of air and fagculent matter ; he lived six hours only from the time of his admission. The bowels could not be acted on. On opening the abdomen about a pint of yellowish fluid escaped. The peritoneum and all its reflections over the viscera were highly inflamed. The accumulation of air was quite surprising; the caecum and colon were equal in diameter to those of a horse. The transverse arch of the colon had forced up the liver and dia- phragm so as to lessen considerably the thoracic cavity, which accounted for the distressing dyspnoea. The rectum was greatly dilated by hardened feces. The small intestines contained a considerable quantity of fluid feculent matter, and the ileo-caecal opening was immensely wide. On examining the rectum, a dense stricture was detected, about four inches from the verge of the anus ; the stricture was produced by the growth of small carcinomatous tubercles between the serous and the muscular coats, and the caliber of the bowel scarcely admitted the broad end of a blow-pipe ; the mucous coat, at the strictured part was not diseased, but formed into rugaa ; the cellular coat is very dense, and presents an appearance as if a ligature had been applied around the intestine. The liver was remarkably small, very firm in texture, and tuberculated ; the lungs healthy, the internal coat of the aorta ossified. It has been said that females are more liable toaschirro- contracted rectum than men : from a comparative table kept at the " Hotel Dieu," this would appear to have been the case in the proportion of 11 to 1. I have seen five cases of strictured rectum in men. 1029 Intestinum rectum, affected with carcinoma; and me- dullary sarcoma; a portion of the ceecum was lacerated by an accumulation of feces, occasioned by a stricture in the rectum. This is a splendid specimen. There was an immense quantity of feculent matter in the abdomen; the caecum and colon were loaded with feces, in the form of scybafe; the cause of this accumulation in the bowels, was found to have