442 Poultices were ordered to be applied frequently, and as the pulse was very full and hard, she was bled freely, such medicines prescribed as were likely to relieve the distressing pain and sickness, and the bowels were strictly attended to. About twenty-four hours from the time of seeing the patient, the integuments covering the hernia sloughed to a con- siderable extent, and there was a small opening in the sac and intestine, from which fasculent matter was discharged, this was generally prevented when the body was kept in a horizontal position. After this the symptoms of enteritis gradually subsided, the bowels performed their functions correctly, but there was occasionally an oozing of faeces through the aperture for nearly three weeks. Granulations formed, cicatrisation took place, and in the course of a few weeks the whole was perfectly healed, and the patient recovered her former state of health, which had not for a length of time been very good. She had been afflicted with an hepatic disease for several years, and had voided several gall-stones. Nine months after the attack, which was occasioned by the hernia, symptoms of ascites came on, suc- ceeded by jaundice, and ultimately hydrothorax, which caused her death. There was a considerable quantity of water in the abdomen, the liver was extremely large, very yellow, and granulated ; the veins were gorged with blood, as were all the veins belonging to the chylopoietic viscera. The gall-bladder was filled with various calculi, the spleen nearly double the natural size. There was a great quantity of water in both sides of the thorax, the lungs were oedematous, and the bronchial tubes were loaded with mucus. The pericardium contained about four ounces of water, the aortic valves were slightly ossified, all the other parts of the heart were healthy. The following are the appearances of the parts con- cerned in the hernia. The hernial sac contains a large piece of omentum, which adheres very firmly ; a portion of the trans- verse arch of the colon, is united to the internal