288 The liver was enormously enlarged, and its external surface presented an accumulation of white colored tumors of different sizes, which did not project far; the serous coat was not much altered in texture. On cutting through the liver, it was found to be con- verted into tumors of a schirrous density; the re- mainder of the liver resembled fungus haematodes ; these appearances are seen in the preparation. The gall-bladder contained a small quantity of bile; the spleen was of an immense size, the capsule greatly thickened, and its substance exactly resem- bled that seen in the liver. The pancreas was not affected. Most of the absorbent glands on both sides of the abdomen were greatly enlarged by the same morbid changes observed in the liver and spleen. The mucous glands in the intestines normal. There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest, and the lungs were oedematous. There were about four ounces of water in the pericardium ; the heart was healthy. This is a very remarkable case. It would be a difficult pathological point to decide whether the disease had its origin from birth, or whether the morbid appearances had been produced by numerous attacks of intermittent fever, causing consolidation and serous effusions into different cavities. 1205 Two portions of liver affected with medullary sarcoma, and fungus haematodes. The patient, a man, died of ascites and jaundice. History not known. 120G Two portions of liver affected with medullary sarcoma, and fungus haematodes; the lungs and the bronchial glands affected with the same morbid changes. 1207 Liver affected with medullary sarcoma, and fungus haematodes. From a man 50 years of age ; he had lived very irregularly, andbecameaffectedwithadis- eased liver. For nearly six months previous to his death, he had occasionally been subject to attacks of diarrhoea and intestinal haemorrhage, which were succeeded by jaundice and ascites. There was half a gallon of water in the abdomen, the liver was not much enlarged; its serous covering was greatly thickened, and in some parts semicarti-