315 1337 Section of a kidney. The kidney was of an im- mense magnitude, and was converted into me- dullary and fungoid tumors; all the natural structure had been absorbed. The capsule was greatly thickened, and externally resembled fascia. From a patient 16 years of age, who had been out of health for several months. From the enlarged state of the abdomen, and the great emaciation of the body, the disease was considered to be tabes mesenterica by the physician who attended. 1338 A kidney, affected with medullary sarcoma. The right kidney seemed to occupy the greatest portion of the abdomen ; the inferior part of the diseased mass rested in the concavity of the ilium, and the superior portion pressed closely against the under surface of the large lobe of the liver, and partly beneath the left, compressing the gall-bladder and ducts; the intestines were greatly displaced, but not diseased. The liver was pale-colored, but not unhealthy; the spleen much enlarged, and firmer in texture than natural. The pelvic con- tents and the thoracic viscera were normal. The kidnies were removed for more minute inspection. The right kidney weighed eleven pounds, thirteen ounces ; it was formed into irregular protuberances, with the exception of a small portion, which re- tained the character of kidney. The capsula pro- pria was greatly condensed; on cutting through the morbid parts, the cavity of the kidney seemed to be formed into an immense sac, containing a coagulum of blood (which weighed three pounds), and it was formed into concentrated laminae, similar to that which is seen in large aneurisms ; there were also nearly two pints of fluid in the cyst, which ap- peared like half-dissolved blood mixed with pus. The internal surface presented a ragged flocculent appearance, which was found to arise from coagu- lated lymph and numerous long and delicate blood- vessels. The veins were filled with medullary matter ; the re- maining part of the kidney was composed of various sized medullary tubercles. The left kidney possessed only a small portion of its natural structure, the other part being occupied by