46 of the heart. These symptoms had increased during the last six months of his life, his health began to decline, and the sore on the leg showed signs of sphacelation. The action of the heart and arteries became very power- ful, and the pulsation was invariably irregular; he complained of great constriction of the chest, of a pain in the left ulnar nerve, and his lips were of a purple color; all of which symptoms denoting or- ganic disease of the heart. The function of the kidnies "daily diminished; the inferior extremities became cedematous, and he died suddenly. There were ten ounces of water in the pericardium; the heart was cf enormous magnitude ; the auricles were greatly dilated, the left ventricle very thin, and its cavity very capacious ; and resembling the passive aneurism of Corvisart. The aortic valves were thickened by cartilaginous and osseous deposits. There were three coronary arteries; but they were not much altered in structure. The left side of the chest contained four pints of water, and there were two pints and a half on the right. The lungs were emphysematous, and some of the cells very large ; the liver was healthy. The ulceration of the tibia was on the external side of the bone, next the fibula; the excavation was deep and extensive, but had not penetrated the medullary cavity. The absorbents had rounded off the spine of the tibia as far as the disease had extended; and had not the patient been so far advanced in years, and affected with organic disease, the diseased action would probably have terminated ; for the ul- cerative action had nearly ceased, and the vessels of the internal periosteum had begun to deposit new bone on the remaining portions of the tibia and fibula; and the same deposition had taken place in several parts of the interosseous ligament. The bone appeared more solid than natural; some of the se- questra are in the bottle. This specimen shows satisfactorily the effects of ulceration in bone, which is similar to those changes which take place in the soft parts of the body; and the reparatory process is nearly the same, allowing of course for the differ- ence in chemical composition. From the appearances