4G4 the tumor had protruded outwardly, under the biceps and vastus externus muscles, so as to expand and elongate their muscular fibres considerably. The popliteal nerve and vessels were greatly compressed by the growth of the tumor, and the nerve was flattened considerably, which accounted for the pain the man had endured. A section of the tumor showed that it was principally formed of fungoid and medullary matter; at its" base, where it was attached to the periosteum, there were several scirrhous tumors, and one of these tumors was seen on the external surface of the capsule, which is shown in the preparation. The internal surface of the cyst was extremely vascular. The thigh-bone was sawn through, there were no signs of disease in the internal part, but that portion of the bone covered by the periosteum, where it was in connection with the capsule of the tumor, had undergone great irritation, and osseous depositions had taken place as in exostosis. The stump healed favorably, which was more than I expected, con- sidering the nature of the disease. He enjoyed good health for nearly three years, after this he was attacked with organic disease in the lungs ; he be- came greatly emaciated, the glands in the groin became enlarged, and colliquative diarrhoea finished his existence. Inspection. The absorbent glands in the pelvis and abdomen were affected with carcinoma. The liver contained medullary tubera, and there were carci- nomatous tumors in the lungs ; the mucous glands of the small intestines were enlarged, and the mu- cous coat was in parts ulcerated, particularly in the ileum. The mesenteric glands were likewise dis- eased. The result of this case, and many others I shall have occasion to relate, demonstrate decidedly that operations do not prevent the recurrence of malig- nant disease, or its attack on some important viscus. 1775 A splendid specimen of fungus liEematodes in the head of the tibia. From a patient 20 years of age, who had complained of pain in the ham and knee for several months, which had not prevented his walking, yet he felt