439 Symptoms of enteritis and peritonitis were very evident the day after the operation, which could not be subdued by the most active treatment; the abdomen became greatly distended, and she ex- perienced agonising pain, accompanied with bilious vomiting and singultus; she sank gradually, and expired on the fourth day after the operation. The whole of the peritoneum was greatly inflamed, as were all its reflections ; the transverse arch of the colon, which had been strangulated, was in a sphacelated state. The internal surface of the hernial sac is greatly thickened. 1716 An umbilical hernia, a portion of omentum in the hernial sac. From a man 57 years of age, remarkably corpulent. The hernia became strangulated, and with great difficulty the intestine was reduced with a conside- rable quantity of omentum, but a part of the latter adhered so firmly to the hernial sac, as to prevent its return into the abdomen. After this he was able to wear a truss, which prevented the parts from again protruding; he was very plethoric, and had been for several months troubled with an ulcer on one of his legs. He was suddenly seized with haematemesis, and vomited nearly two small wash- hand basins full of blood of a very black color. As he did not appear much exhausted by the haemorr- hage, and his pulse was full and hard ; sixteen ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which soon evinced an inflamed appearance. About twenty-four hours from the attack of hagmatemesis, another attack more violent came on, accompanied with profuse intestinal haemorrhage, which caused immediate death. The adipose substance of the abdomen was nearly three inches in thickness ; there were scarcely any appearances of recent inflammation in any part of the peritoneum ; and there were nearly two gallons of water in the abdomen. The omentum was loaded with fat, and the appendices epiploicag of the colon and rectum were more con- spicuous than I ever recollect seeing them. The liver was affected with what is denominated cirrhosis,