93 310 Heart of a man 45 years of age. He had suffered for several months from symptoms denoting organic disease of the heart, which occasioned hydrops pericardii, of which he died. The left ventricle extremely capacious ; the parietes moderately thick; the semilunar valves of the aorta immensely thickened and considerably shortened by cartilaginous and osseous products. The right side of the heart was perfectly healthy. There were three coronary arteries; they were large in size, but healthy in structure. There was an accumulation of fat beneath the serous covering of the heart. The pericardium contained a pint and a half of water, and there was fluid in both sides of the thorax. 311 Heart of a man 40 years of age. The patient had been troubled with diseased liver a considerable length of time; he had also symptoms of organic lesion of the heart; ascites supervened, and he died. The two surfaces of the pericardium were firmly agglu- tinated. The left ventricle was immensely dilated, but its parietes were not very thick. The aortic valves greatly thickened and shortened, the coronary arteries remarkably large, but not diseased ; the aorta, and the arteries given off from its arch were also so very large, that they might be termed aneurismal, and their internal coat was inflamed. The right auricle was much larger than natural; its parietes greatly thickened. There were firm adhesions between the serous surface of the liver, and the anterior part of the peritoneum. The structure of the liver presented the nutmeg ap- pearance, and was very dense. The gall-bladder filled with green-colored fluid. Spleen large. 312 Heart of a gentleman 55 years of age. For several years the patient had shown symptoms denoting he- patic disease ; his countenance was sallow, and the conjunctiva yellow ; his bowels were generally con- stipated, and he suffered from dyspepsia. Symptoms denoting organic lesion of the heart pro- gressively came on, which increased in violence ; the breathing was laborious, accompanied with great anxiety of mind, and sometimes followed by a state of syncope, making him appear lifeless ; in one of these paroxysms he suddenly expired.