92 of the blood into the ventricle. It is very remark- able, that there were three coronary arteries, and they were not diseased, which satisfactorily shows that angina pectoris is not always caused by ossifica- tion, or any other morbid state of these vessels. The right side of the heart healthy. The liver granu- lated, it was of a deep yellow color, and felt soapy. Spleen large. This patient had for several years been afflicted with a disease in the tibia and fibula ; several spiculaa were removed during his life. 309 The left ventricle of the heart of a man 73 years of age, he had been troubled with asthma and palpita- tion for several years ; during the last eight months of his existence, the symptoms became more serious, and signs of hydrothorax ensued. The pulse was generally intermittent, the breathing laborious, and he was occasionally attacked with paroxysms of dyspnoea, which threatened complete suspension of respiration. The heart's action was very powerful, and it could be felt extensively on the chest, and nearly as low as the umbilical region; from his being so greatly emaciated, the abdominal aorta could be distinctly felt as far as the iliac arteries. His legs and thighs became cedematous, the action of the heart more distressing, and he was deprived of life suddenly. The pericardium contained six ounces of water ; the left ventricle was extremely capacious, the parietes remarkably thin, the muscular structure very flaccid; (the passive aneurism of Corvisart.) At the base of the left ventricle, close to the coronary artery, osseous matter had been deposited, which had caused a partial absorption of the ventricle and its internal lining. The aortic valves were only slightly thickened at their edges. The aorta from its arch and through the whole of its course, was thickened partly by cartilaginous and partly by bony deposits; the coronary arteries were very small, and their internal coat was thickened in a manner similar to that noticed in the aorta. The right side of the heart normal. The liver in structure was (what is called) granulated. The spleen nearly the natural size, and its structure healthy.