310 From a man 60 years of age, who had experienced great difficulty in voiding his urine ; at last he was distressed with retention, succeeded by inconti- nence. The incontinence,and the difficulty in voiding the urine became so distressing as to oblige him to apply to a surgeon, who prescribed for him tinctura ly ttce in large doses. The symptoms became more dis- tressing after this medicine; he had complete re- tention, and he was allowed to remain in this state nearly two days. I was then requested to visit the patient; he appeared to be in agonising pain; the bladder had ascended considerably above the pubes, and he complained of great pain when even slight pressure with the hand was made on this part of the abdomen; he also said, " that the pain in his kidneys was very distressing." A catheter was introduced, and a considerable quantity of urine, mixed with blood, was drawn off; it was very foetid, and afforded great relief. The pain in the bladder and kidneys still continued, although various means were employed to lessen his sufferings ; the urine was drawn off twice a day ; it was generally mixed with pus, and the odour was extremely offensive. The patient continued in this miserable state for nearly three weeks; irritative fever came on, which caused death. The liver was very large and granulated. The blad- der was very capacious, and contained about a pint and a half of an excessively foetid fluid, which seemed to be urine mixed with putrid pus. The mucous coat of the bladder was sphacelated; the prostate gland was greatly enlarged, particularly the middle lobe ; and the urethra was thickened by lymph. The kidneys were very large ; their cap- sules inflamed; and they were separated from the parts they covered by pus. The cortical and me- dullary substances were softened, and appeared like a half unravelled placenta; this morbid change had been effected by pus deposited in the cellular tissue. The infundibula, pelvis, and ureters, were in a sloughing state. I never before examined such extensive lesion from the effects of inflammation and sphacelation in the urinary organs. How the