311 patient survived so long is quite surprising. I have always considered the administration of cantharides as a very dangerous practice, even in paralysis of the bladder. At the Veterinary College, horses have died from in- flammation of the kidneys and bladder from blis- tering with cantharides ; and the urinary viscera, on inspection, have exhibited the same morbid appearances as noticed in this case. 1306 A large kidney. The structure was highly inflamed, and there was a large collection of pus in the pelvis, and in the ureter. Pus was also found between the external surface of the kidney and the capsula propria ; and the former was ulcerated, as seen in the preparation. The other kidney was affected in the same way. From a man who had a diseased bladder and prostate gland, which will be described. 1307 A kidney, the infundibula greatly dilated; as was the ureter ; the internal surfaces immensely thickened by organised coagulated lymph. The infundibula, pelvis, and ureter were filled with pus, and scarcely any of the natural structure re- mained. From a man. The bladder was highly inflamed, and there was a stricture in the urethra. The history of the case is not known. 1308 A kidney injected; its natural structure nearly effaced by chronic inflammation; there is a large serous cyst on the external surface, and scarcely a trace of the injection is visible. 1309 A kidney, the capsule greatly thickened, and its structure nearly destroyed by ulceration; the in- fundibula and pelvis greatly dilated by calculi. 1310 A kidney, the infundibula dilated, the internal surface greatly thickened, and scarcely any signs of the natural structure seen ; the ureter, at its commence- ment, obliterated, which had caused the dilatation of the infundibular part; the renal artery was converted into bone, and impervious. From a man 70 years of age ; the history of the case not known. 1311 A kidney, its natural structure completely destroyed; the infundibula dilated, and the internal surface greatly thickened ; the ureter obliterated at its