•239 matous ; it had its origin between the muscular and mucous coats, and by progressive absorption had made its way into the bowel. The growth of this tumor had produced a dense stricture ; the aperture was very small, as shown in the specimen by the insertion of a piece of glass ; this constricted portion of the canal not admitting the faeces to pass in the ordinary way, and violent efforts being made to evacuate their contents, gave origin to what might be denominated an introsusception. This is a very remarkable case, and from the appearance of the morbid parts, it is evident that the employment of bougies would have been highly injurious. They ought never to be used in malignant strictures of the rectum, or oesophagus,but only in cases causedby con- densation of the sub-mucous tissue, as in strictures of the urethra. The fungus growth greatly resem- bles cancer scroti. 399 A portion of the transverse arch of the colon of a child, the coats greatly thickened, the mucous surface inflamed, and the bowel much contracted. The child had violent diarrhoea, attended with tenesmus, which produced convulsions, and death. 1000 A portion of colon, from a native of Calcutta. The mucous coat greatly thickened, and formed into rugag ; the mucous glands numerous, the effects of dysentery. 1001 A portion of colon, the mucous coat greatly thickened. and in parts sphacelated, the effects of chronic dysentery ; the cascum was also affected. 1002 A portion of the transverse arch of the colon; the mucous coat thickened, the glandules solitarias very distinct. The patient died of dysentery. 1003 A portion of colon, from a man who died of dysentery, in Calcutta. The mucous coat greatly thickened, and ulcerated. 1004 Ulcerated colon. A man, 40 years of age, had long been afflicted with all the symptoms denoting organic disease of the liver ; dysentery came on about three months previous to his death; he was greatly emaciated. The liver large, very solid and granulated, as in dram- drinkers, the gall-bladder filled with green viscid secretion ; spleen large.