23 cough, and difficulty of breathing ; and his digestive organs were disordered. The discharge from the abscess continued as usual, and there were no unfavourable symptoms for nearly twelve months from the time of his admission, when he began to complain of pain in the spine, and head; the pupils of the eyes became greatly contracted, and he was unable to support the rays of light. The pulse being full and hard, and the skin hot; fourteen ounces of blood were drawn from the arm ; active purgatives, and saline medicines were exhi- bited, and as the evacuations were offensive, and of deep green color, mercury was prescribed. This plan of treatment for a time relieved the symptoms, but they recurred to a greater degree, and the same mode of treatment was repeated, but without the previous satisfactory results. The pupils of the eyes became greatly dilated, and there was occasionally strabis- mus ; convulsions came on, and he expired. Inspectio cadaveris.—The arachnoid membrane and pia mater were highly inflamed; and there was a considerable quantity of water between them ; the substance of the brain was also inflamed; and there were upwards of four ounces of fluid in the ventricles. The lungs were greatly congested, and partly hepatised, but there were no signs of scrofulous tubercles ; the abdominal viscera were healthy. The whole of theca vertebralis was highly inflamed; but more evidently, near the diseased vertebra?, where coagulated lymph had been deposited, both on the internal and external surface. The medulla spinalis for some distance beyond the diseased bones was extremely soft; and the remaining part was inflamed. The lumbar vertebrce and sacrum were removed, the bodies of the third and fourth lumbar vertebras, and part of the fifth were found destroyed by ulceration. The base of the sacrum was also partly absorbed, and the periosteal covering of the whole of the con- cave surface denuded. Although so much mischief had been going on for such a length of time, so close to the nerves passing through the foramina of the sacrum ; yet the theca covering these was merely coated with lymph, and the nerves appeared healthy. The two remaining