293 This preparation was taken from a man who had a very large calculus in his urinary bladder; he committed suicide. 1229 A portion ofliver,with the gall-bladder andbiliaryducts. There were about six pints of water in the abdomen; the liver was firmly adherent to the anterior part of the sac of the peritoneum; it was enormously enlarged, and extended so low into the abdomen as to hide all the other viscera. The peritoneal covering was thickly coated with lymph, the substance was of a blackish green color, and so extremely soft as to be lacerated by the slightest pressure with the fingers. The coloring matter which was expressed from the substance of this viscus was of a blackish green hue, as if mixed with bile and melanoid matter. The gall-bladder was not thickened, nor was the reti- culated internal surface; its coats were tinged of a blackish green color, and it was completely filled with various sized biliary concretions; one of these was as large as a nutmeg, and a small one closed the com- mencement of the cystic duct. The spleen was large, and nearly of the same color as the liver; all the abdominal viscera had a blackish hue, as had also the kidneys. Both sides of the chest contained a large quantity of bloody looking fluid ; there were about six ounces of water in the pericardium. The heart was large, left ventricle greatly dilated; parietes thin, and the muscular structure remarkably soft, and of a blackish color. The lining membrane of the auricles and ventricles thickened by organised lymph ; the internal coat of the aorta and pulmonary artery inflamed; the left coronary artery nearly obliterated by lymph ; the right, at its origin, aneurismal. From a man 50 years of age, who had been for many years accustomed to dram-drinking, for upwards of three years he had been subject to dyspepsia ; his bowels were constipated, and his conjunctivae and skin showed, from their yellow color, a diseased liver. Six months previous to his death, his health became much affected: the fasces of a blackish green color, the urine high colored, and deficient in quantity;