•21 were paralysed; the urine and faeces were voided in- voluntarily, and the man lived only 48 hours after the accident. 99 A fracture of the body of one of the dorsal vertebra?, which occasioned inflammation of the theca verte- bralis. The man lived 12 days after the accident. 100 A fracture of three of the spinous and transverse pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae, and of one of the bodies, which had lacerated the theca vertebralis and medulla spinalis and occasioned immediate death. A portion of the vena cava is shown in the preparation. 101 A fracture of one of the dorsal vertebras, which caused immediate death. A portion of the theca vertebralis and medulla spinalis is shown in the specimen. 102 Two dorsal vertebrae of a horse. Anchylosis had been effected between two of these vertebrae on the inner surface ; the osseous deposit must have compressed the intervertebral substance considerably, which is seen in the specimen ; one of the transverse pro- cesses projects beneath the other. 103 Fracture of the spinous processes of two of the lumbar vertebras, and of the body of one ; the theca verte- bralis, and medulla spinalis were lacerated, producing immediate death. 104 The inferior part of the spine, with the sacrum. From a boy 10 years of age, who from his birth had symp- toms denoting tubercular disease of the lungs. About eight months previous to his death, he began to complain of pain in his back, between the inferior dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. He was kept in bed, and every endeavour made to check the progress of the disease, without avail. The spinous processes began to project, and a lumbar abscess formed, which ulcerated, and gave rise to a profuse discharge of scrofulous matter. At different times spicules of bone were discharged with the pus, from the abscess. The phthisical symptoms increased, and ultimately he became affected with colliquative diarrhoea, which produced death. Inspectio cadaveris.—The lungs were nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles, and vomicae. The liver was very large, and of a pale color ; most of the mesenteric glands were enlarged by caseous deposits: the mucous glands of the in- testines were greatly increased in size, and many of