367 sequence of the patient's bad state of health, an operation was not proposed. 1442 A chronic hydrocele, the internal surface greatly condensed by chronic inflammation, and there are two solid tubercles on it, about the size of a hemp- seed, which are shown in the preparation; the tes- ticle is carcinomatous. 1443 A large collection of fluid in the spermatic cord, which in figure and size exactly resembled a large hydrocele, extending as high as the ring of the ex- ternal oblique muscle. This was previous to the man's death considered a hydrocele, and tapping was proposed, but he would not give consent. The tunica vaginalis having been cut open, that and the tunica albuginea were seen in their natural state without any fluid between them ; the testicle was healthy. The testicle was not situated at the posterior part of the sac containing the fluid, as is mostly noticed in hydrocele, but it was in the most inferior part. The vas deferens and spermatic vessels were widely separated, the cremaster was not expanded. If the collection of fluid had been evacuated, and after- wards injected, as for hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, the inflammation of the cellular mem- brane would probably have occasioned serious mis- chief? 1444 A haematocele. There was a large quantity of co- agulated blood and lymph in the tunica vaginalis, and the internal surface was thickly coated with lymph; this is shown in the preparation. The tunica vaginalis was remarkably thick ; and what is very singular, the testicle was situated at its superior and posterior part, it was healthy, but ex- tremely small, a change produced by age. This patient had a diseased prostate gland, which occa- sioned retention of urine; the bladder gave way at its fundus, which caused death. See Section on Diseased Bladders. The hematocele was considered to be an hydrocele, by a surgeon of considerable eminence, who pro- posed tapping. A consultation took place, it proved a case of hasmatocele, and an operation ought not to have been performed. This is a very valuable preparation.