299 white color ; the external appearance similar to that of a mulberry. From a man, 59 years of age; the liver affected with cirrhosis, the spleen en- larged. 1244 Biliary calculi of various sizes; the patient died of diseased liver. 1245 Biliary calculi of various sizes in great number; from a man who died of diseased liver, and organic disease of the heart. 1246 Biliary calculi of various sizes, in great number. From a woman 48 years of age; the liver was extremely large, color very yellow, structure granu- lated, veins gorged with blood. The spleen was nearly double the natural size. The patient had a large exomphalus, which had occa- sioned ulceration of a portion of the transverse arch of the colon ; this will be described in the history of hernia?. 1247 Biliary calculi. From a man 60 years of age, who died of diseased liver and ascites. 1248 Biliary calculi, cholesterine. From a man 40 years of age, who died of a diseased liver and spleen. 1249 Biliary calculi; two large, and several small ones. From a woman 59 years of age, who had long been ac- customed to dram-drinking ; she became dropsical, and icterus supervened, which caused death. The liver was greatly enlarged, its structure extremely flaccid, and highly tinged with bile; the biliary ducts were very capacious, and the gall-bladder greatly distended with green-colored bile; it con- tained several biliary calculi of various sizes ; the largest, of an elliptical figure, resembled a plum stone, it is rough externally, as is seen in the preparation. The spleen was large, structure extremely soft, and its blood-vessels were loaded with a blackish fluid, which might be denominated melanoid. The lungs were surcharged with dark-colored blood in a fluid state. The heart was large, its structure extremely soft, and easily lacerated. The venae cava? greatly dilated with blood, similar to that noticed in the lungs, as was the right auricle and ventricle; the tricuspid valve slightly thickened. The left auricle and ventricle were greatly distended with dark-colored blood in a fluid state ; the mitral valve