199 destroyed by minute miliary tubercles and abscesses; the pleura greatly thickened by coagulated lymph, which adhered firmly. The lungs generally presented the same morbid appearances. The liver and spleen were nearly filled with small tubercles; the mesen- teric glands, and the mucous glands of the small intestines were affected with the same disease. Monkeys are as liable to be affected with scrofula as human beings, particularly in this climate. 807 Lungs of a monkey, nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles ; the bronchial glands were also affected. The liver, spleen, mesenteric and mucous glands of the intestines were in a scrofulous state. 808 A portion of lung of a bullock, filled with various sized scrofulous tubercles, some of them very large and contained in cysts ; the external surface of the pleura is only slightly thickened. A portion of the serous covering is reflected to afford a view of the aggregated tubercles. Scrofulous tubercles are seldom contained in cysts. 809 A portion of the trachea of a very young calf, internal lining minutely injected. 810 A part of the tongue, larynx, and thyroid gland of a young calf; the internal lining of the trachea, larynx, and epiglottis, minutely injected; also the thyroid gland. 811 Lung of a New Holland Cassowary. 812 Tongue, trachea, and bronchi of the Struthio or New Holland Cassowary. The tongue is very small and thin, and there are several processes of different sizes along its edges. The rima glottidis is very capacious, and the internal lining at its edges is formed into two large folds. About eight inches from the division of the trachea into the bronchi, the annuli cease to be circular, to the number of seventeen ; which allows the internal lining to protrude, and forms an immense sac when filled with air. 813 Trachea of a Cassowary, the inferior portion showing the sac cut open. In the first specimen the sac is filled with cotton. 814 The inferior part of the trachea of the Crax or Curassow; it is greatly dilated. 815 Tongue, larynx, trachea, bronchial tubes, and the