384 the effects of a prolapsus uteri. She had not ceased to menstruate, the discharge from the vagina in- creased, and it was frequently mixed with blood. She complained of violent pain within the vagina, experienced great difficulty in voiding urine, and the external parts of generation were greatly in- flamed and swollen. Pains like labor came on, the tumor protruded externally, and on examination it was ascertained that it had a neck or peduncle, like a polypus, at the neck of the uterus. It ap- peared that the only chance of saving the life of the patient was by separating the tumor from the con- necting parts, and the question was, Whether the peduncle should be removed by ligature or the knife ? Finding the neck of the tumor so very dense in structure, it was considered right to divide it with a scalpel. There was considerable haemorrhage after the ope- ration, and for several days, which was suppressed by vinegar and water, and the patient recovered. The tumor was more vascular than any of the kind I ever examined. The blood-vessels are shown in the prepartion. 1529 A section of an uterus. There is a large serous cyst in the broad ligament, the serous surface is greatly thickened by chronic inflammation ; there is a small dense tumor on its external surface, and a pendulous serous one near the extremity of the Fallopian tube ; this tube is obliterated. 1530 Uterus of a very old woman, with a number of various sized pendulous osseous tumors beneath the serous membrane. The parietes of the uterus immensely thick. The tumors probably had been originally of the fibrous kind, as described by Baillie, and had been converted into bone. I have several speci- mens of the kind to illustrate this morbid change. 1531 Section of an uterus, with a large serous cyst in the broad ligament; the Fallopian tube pervious ; the ovula Graafiana shown. 1532 A section of an uterus. There is a large serous cyst in the broad ligament, containing a transparent fluid, and the Fallopian tube is obliterated. These cysts have been described as hydatids.