39 capsule, which had united by ligament. From a woman, 75 years of age, who had been bed-ridden for several years, and who in attempting to get out of bed, fell upon her hip : she complained of great pain in the joint, and near the trochanter major. The limb was examined carefully, no crepitus could be felt, nor were there any signs of dislocation ; yet there seemed to be considerable mischief done to the joint. The patient was put to bed, leeches were applied, and fomentations frequently employed. On the third day after the accident, the foot was observed to turn outwards, and there was a shortening of the limb ; which denoted a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. After this the patient was placed on a mattress, and the limb was adjusted in the straight position, with pillows, &c. About six months after the accident, she appeared to be free from pain ; and as she was too infirm to be ever able to walk, all attempts to produce union of the fracture seemed useless. She died from the effects of age. Post-mortem examination. The capsular ligament was thickened; the neck of the femur had been fractured close to the head of the bone; the rest of the neck was destroyed; and lymph had been deposited on the fractured surfaces. Firm bands of adhesion united the fractured extremities; but no bone had been deposited between the trochanters. A fractured neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, which had not united. From a man, 82 years of age, who was knocked down by the wheel of a cart running against him in Smithfield. He was immediately conveyed to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he remained for six months ; it was not clearly ascertained whether there was a fracture within the capsule, or externally to it; but the limb had been placed in long splints. After this he was admitted into Cripplegate workhouse. I found the limb short- ened, the foot everted, and the trochanter major drawn upwards and backwards, on the dorsum ilii, so as to resemble a dislocation of the head of the femur in this situation; but by carefully examining the joint, I had no doubt the neck of the bone was fractured within the capsule. The limb was placed in a straight position for six