3-23 Renal calculi. From a man, 55 years of age, who had suffered severely for several years from symp- toms of diseased kidneys and bladder. Several distinguished surgeons had seen the patient, and each of them had introduced a sound, but did not ascertain the presence of a stone. The symp- toms were imagined to be occasioned by an enlarge- ment of the prostate gland. I was requested to examine the body. The serous covering of the liver was thickly coated with or- ganised lymph; its structure not much affected; there were several calculi in the gall-bladder. The right kidney was greatly diminished in size, and its structure nearly destroyed by various-sized cal- culi ; the internal surface was highly inflamed, as was the ureter. About an inch from the com- mencement of the ureter, an ulcerated opening was found, and several calculi had escaped from this opening beneath the peritoneum; an abscess had formed near the psoas muscles. There were two calculi in the left kidney; the struc- ture healthy. The bladder was greatly distended with a dark-colored fluid, mixed with a great quan- tity of coagulated lymph, and there were several calculi similar to those seen in the kidneys. The internal surface of the bladder was highly inflamed, also the ureters; the latter were greatly dilated, and calcareous concretions were deposited. The prostate gland was perfectly healthy; the urethra was thickly coated with lymph, and there were se- veral small calculi in it. Calculi from a kidney. From a man, 74 years of age, who died of apoplexy. The infundibula and pelvis of the kidney were greatly dilated ; the structure nearly absorbed, and the ureter obliterated by a large calculus which occupied a part of the pelvis and ureter; and there was also another calculus with sharp processes in the cavity of the kidney. The liver granulated ; and there were several cal- culi in the gall-bladder ; one the size of a pigeon's egg, weighed 310 grains, the other calculi weighed 8 grains. The arachnoid and pia mater were thickened, and there was a considerable quantity of water between