401 but rigors came on, accompanied with febrile symp- toms ; the abdomen became greatly distended with air, and she expired. The peritoneum was inflamed, and most of the intes- tines were agglutinated by coagulated lymph. There was about a pint of fluid in the cavity of the abdo- men ; the intestines were distended with air. The uterus was as much contracted, as it usually is at the third week after delivery. The posterior part of the uterus, where the placenta was attached, was in a sloughy state. The left Fallopian tube and ovary were organically diseased. The abdominal and thoracic viscera were healthy. As no cerebral affection had been manifested, it was deemed unnecessary to inspect the brain. Uterus, the internal surface was ulcerated, the peri- toneal coat greatly thickened by lymph, the right ovarium converted into an abscess, the effect of inflammation after parturition. The stomach and intestines were greatly distended with air; there was a great quantity of fluid in the abdomen, mixed with flakes of lymph. The peritoneum was highly inflamed, and the pelvic portions considerably thick- ened by coagulated lymph. Most of the convolu- tions of the intestines were agglutinated. The uterus had contracted nearly to its natural size, its cavity contained pus ; its surface was inflamed and ulcerated. The Fallopian tubes were inflamed, and filled with pus, and a large abscess had formed in the right ovarium. The mucous coat of the bladder was also inflamed. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy. The patient was 40 years of age ; she appeared to be doing well till about the 10th day after parturition, when she began to complain of pain in the lower part of the abdomen, which was accompanied with sickness and rigors. The pulse was scarcely ever less than 130 in a minute, and she had febrile paroxysms, which came on at various periods daily. The patient was attended by a distinguished ac- coucheur, who did all in his power to save her, but in vain ; the abdomen became distended, she sank D D