122 the popliteal artery was obliterated by bone, and coagulated blood, and the anterior and posterior tibial arteries were obliterated. 447 Inferior part of the abdominal aorta, with the iliac arteries, converted into bone and cartilage ; the iliacs greatly dilated. 448 Aorta and iliac arteries, the'inner and middle coats converted into cartilage, and bone ; and a portion of the internal coat, near the origin of the iliac arteries, has been absorbed. 449 Abdominal aorta and the iliac arteries converted into bone; the caliber of the arteries very large (aneu- rismal), those belonging to the inferior extremities were obliterated, partly by coagulated blood, and by ossific matter deposited on the internal coat; which occasioned gangrena sicca, and the death of the patient. From a man 80 years of age. 450 Aorta and iliac arteries converted into bony tubes. From an old subject. 451 Fungoid tumors on the external coat of the abdominal aorta, and the vena cava. The internal coat of the artery and the vein, are affec- ted with the disease. From a patient who had fun- gus hsematodes in the liver. 452 Iliac artery and vein; a fungoid tumor in the latter of considerable size, which adhered very firmly to the internal surface; the artery healthy. The iliac absorbent glands were also in a fungoid state. The patient was a woman 49 years of age ; the uterus was also affected with fungus hasmatodes. 453 Femoral arteries ossified and completely obliterated by coagulated blood. 454 Femoral artery ossified, external coat highly inflamed; the profunda at its origin, and to some distance beyond, obliterated by fibrin and coagulable lymph. Several other large arteries in the same subject had under- gone a similar change. The patient, a robust man, 50 years of age, died in a fit of sanguineous apoplexy. 455 Femoral arteries converted into bone. 456 The external iliac artery and vein, also the femoral artery and vein ; from a man 70 years of age. He had enjoyed good health for many years, although he was troubled with a large foul ulcer, with thickened