411 structure of the liver had been superseded by the production of medullary and fungoid tubera, which projected considerably from the external surface of the organ, and many of which had acquired the magnitude of moderate sized oranges. A section of the liver showed that the tumors were contained in dense and highly vascular cysts, a fact which was more distinctly seen, from the arteries having been injected with size and Vermillion. The gall-bladder contained a small quantity of a viscid dark-colored secretion. In the substance of the pancreas there were moderate sized tumors, and several small ones of a scirrhous structure. Some of the mesenteric glands were converted into medullary tumors. The spleen retained its natural appearance, and in the right kidney there were medullary tubercles. The uterus was healthy, its mouth widely open, and the placenta partially detached. The right ova- rium was considerably enlarged, and its natural structure was destroyed by fungoid and scirrhous tumors and serous cysts. The left ovary was nearly as large as the other, and similarly affected. The Fallopian tubes were per- vious. The patient, 30 years of age, had borne several children, and had enjoyed good health until within the two last years of her life, when symptoms of disease in the liver came on, accompanied with a disordered state of the digestive organs generally. During the last four months her health declined ra- pidly, and she became greatly emaciated, without however showing any signs of ascites, oedema, or jaundice. About a fortnight, previous to her death, the bodily powers gradually sank, her mind became perturbed, she took little nourishment, and the pulse was 150, and extremely weak. Twelve hours before her dissolution uterine haemorr- hage commenced, and a foetus between the 3d and 4th month was expelled, which was in a putrid state. The history of this case, with observations, were pub- lished in the Transactions of the Royal Medico- Chirurgical Society, Vol. 18. Gravid uterus, at about the 4th month.