72 Appearances noticed on examining the stump. The asperities of the sawn bone were all removed by the absorbents ; the medullary cavity was well defended by osseous depositions ; and there were no spiculae of bone, such as I have seen in bad stumps. The periosteal covering of that portion of the thigh-bone which was amputated was highly vascular ; but the cancelli were perfectly natural in structure. The osseous growth had its origin from the external surface of the periosteum, on the inner side of the thigh-bone, and extended posteriorly to a level with the linea asrera. The inferior part of the exostosis is (in the preparation) about an inch from the base of the stump ; and the growth extends perpendicu- larly for about four inches in a line with the shaft of the bone, and transversely the same number of inches. The external part of the femur not having been affected, proves that the osseous depositions were the effects of periostitis. The bony deposits are extreme- ly solid, and very irregular in figure ; appearing like clumsy branches of coral. The femoral artery at its extremity, and several of the branches given off by the profunda, also many veins were obliterated by coagulated blood, and fibrin ; and the two branches of the ischiatic nerve* weregreally enlarged at their extremities, the whole having been surrounded and compressed by the osseous matter. The surfaces of these structures were thickly covered with cartilage which would ultimately have been con- verted into bone; and thus have increased the tumor. Had this been the case, it would have been necessary to have removed the remains of the femur from its articulation. 262 Stump of a thigh with exostosis, &c The particulars of this preparation are related in the history of No. 261. 263 Necrosis of the left portion of the inferior maxillary bone, showing a spontaneous fracture through its centre; caused by a diseased sub-maxillary gland. A man 45 years of age, of a very delicate constitution, had an enlargement of the sub-maxillary gland, which gradually increased for nearly a year ; it felt * See the Preparation in the Section on the Nerves.