10 collection ; and they are not defaced in monkies. I have the cranium of a baboon, showing this fact, there is besides great expansion of the upper and lower maxillae, with caries of the external surface of the skull, and exfoliation of the inter-maxillary bones, with both the temporary and permanent teeth. The animal died during dentition; the fate of many of the monkey tribe in this country. The bones were found on dissection to be remarkably soft; and the lungs, liver, and spleen, contained numerous scrofulous tubercles. 80 A portion of the inferior maxillary bone, from a boy six years of age, exfoliated through the effects of mer- cury. Several of the deciduous teeth came away; some of the permanent are seen in their alveoli. The patient died some time after of phthisis pulmonalis. 81 A sequestrum from the inferior maxillary bone. This preparation was removed by the aid of the forceps, from the jaw of the late Mr. Joseph Grimaldi, the celebrated clown. He received a severe blow on the right side of the lower jaw ; an abscess formed in the gums, and suppurated; the molar teeth on the affected side became loosened, and it was found necessary to extract them. Spicules of bone were afterwards re- moved by the forceps, and several fragments exfoliated spontaneously. I soon discovered that there was a complete separation of a portion of the maxilla, at about half an inch from its angle. The patient's health was very seriously disordered by the pain and misery he had experienced for several months. Some time after the removal of the carious bones, the gum closed, and his health began to improve ; but he was unable to eat solid food, and was obliged to live on broth, milk, and other nourishing liquids. 82 A portion of the inferior jaw-bone of an ox, greatly ex- panded, and immensely thickened ; occasioned by a medullary tumor in the cancellous structure. The liver was likewise affected with the same disease. 83 A portion of the inferior jaw-bone of a bullock; the cancelli enlarged, very dense in structure, and the external parietes greatly expanded by abscess which formed within the jaw, and loosened three of the teeth. 84 The anterior portion of the lower jaw-bone of a horse.