98 chest, and nearly the same quantity in the left. There were two pints of water in the pericardium, but not the least sign of inflammation of its internal surface, and no lymph deposited. The right auricle of enormous capacity; the musculi pectinati extremely large. The cause of the dilata- tion of the auricle, was a strictured state of the annulus venosus, its edges having been converted into cartilaginous and osseous matter, and the aperture formed into a fissure. The ventricle not altered in structure, but its parietes extremely thin; the valves of the pulmonary artery natural. The left auricle very capacious,parietes greatly thickened. The annulus arteriosus constricted by semi-cartila- ginous and osseous depositions; the ventricle dilated, parietes thin. The aortic valves were natural, excepting the corpora sesamoidea, which were converted into bone. The aorta was very small, as were also the pulmonary artery and its two branches; but the arteries given oif at the arch of the aorta were very large. The lungs were loaded with sero-purulent infiltration, and were partly hepatised ; from their flattened appearance, they seem to have been compressed by the heart, and water in the pericardium. The liver was of an enormous magnitude; its edges rounded; structure granulated, and extremely soft; vessels surcharged with blood; gall-bladder distended with bile. It is a rare occurrence to see disease in the right side of the heart, and it is difficult to account for the dis- proportionate size of the aorta and heart. 318 Heart, with an aneurism at the base of the left ventricle. From a woman 52 years of age, a dram- drinker ; symptoms of diseased heart had existed for nearly two years ; her breathing was performed with great difficulty, her lips were of a purple color; pulse quick and strong, but quite regular. Symptoms of hydrothorax came on, followed by ascites and oedema of the lower extremities, and she died. There were nineteen pints of water, of a yellow color, in the abdomen. The liver was of immense size, and granulated; its structure soft, and the blood-vessels were gorged.