121 leg, ossified; some of them completely obliterated. A man 77 years of age, who had enjoyed excellent health during the greatest part of his life; about three years previous to death, suffered several attacks of erysipelas in the right leg and foot. In April, 1814, the toes became extremely painful, and distur- bed his rest in the night; at last they began to show- signs of want of vitality, and the integuments of the foot and leg became cold and discolored; no pulsation could be felt in the anterior or posterior tibial arteries, and sphacelation super- vened. The mortification proceeded very slowly to the plantar fascia, and destroyed the integuments of the sole of the foot; the discharge of pus was ex- tremely offensive. Irritative fever came on, which affected the brain, and terminated the life of the patient. Inspectio. There were about three pints of water in the right side of the chest; the pleurae slightly inflamed; the lungs healthy; the bronchial tubes were loaded with dark colored mucus. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in the peri- cardium, the muscular structure of the heart was very soft. Osseous matter had been deposited on the chordae tendineae of the mitral valve ; also on the internal surface of the ventricle near the base of one of the semilunar valves of the aorta; but the structure of the valves was only slightly altered by small osseous deposits. The coronary arteries were greatly diminished in their caliber by bony matter, and some of the branches were obliterated. The patient never had any symptoms of angina pectoris. The internal coat of the thoracic and abdominal aorta was ossified in irregular dense plates, and the inter- costal arteries were ossified. The iliacas communes were partly bony, and cartilagi- nous, and firm portions of coagulated blood were found in them; similar to that seen in aneurismal sacs. A portion of bone extended from the iliaca externa, into the iliaca interna, and the latter was completely obliterated by solid bone for nearly an inch ; which is shown in the preparation. There was not much disease in the arteria femoralis, till about an inch below where it gives off the profunda, but from this part to the ham it was a complete bony tube;