235 Ultimately the iliac glands enlarged, and the thigh, leg, and foot, became greatly swollen, as in phleg- masia dolens. The discharge of pus with venous blood, from an ulcer in the groin, and from the verge of the anus, was profuse, which greatly reduced his bodily powers ; he became jaundiced, irritative fever supervened, and the patient died. The iliac absorbent glands, and those extending to the diaphragm, were in a sphacelated state; the iliac and femoral veins were obliterated, and the external iliac artery and vein contracted by the cancerous growths which surrounded them. The viscera of the thorax and abdomen healthy, except the CEecum, which was slightly affected with mela- nosis. 992 A portion of duodenum and cascum of an adult; the valves of the former very large, and slightly thickened by chronic inflammation; the mucous coat of the latter melanotic. 993 A portion of colon; a ligamentous band had formed round its circle, which had constricted the caliber of the intestine ; the same morbid change had also affected several of the intestines; lymph is thickly deposited on the mesentery; the stomach was affected with carcinoma. I have seen this constricted state of bowel in a greater degree in internal strangulated hernia. 994 Incipient introsusception. The child from whom this specimen was taken, was fourteen months old; the bowels, from its birth, had generally been in a dis- ordered state. Symptoms of obstructed intestines came on, which could not be relieved by medicine; vomiting and symptoms like internal strangulated hernia succeeded, and i he child died convulsed. The stomach and small intestines were greatly distended with air. The ileum had not traversed more than two inches into the colon, and only a part of the ceecum had followed it, the appendix remaining on the outside of the volvulus, as seen in the preparation. But the protru- ding parts were highly inflamed, appearing almost in a sphacelated state; there were also a great number of scrofulous tubercles beneath the mucous