248 lungs were loaded with scrofulous tubercles, and there were several excavations; the lining of the trachea and ramifications of the bronchi was in- flamed, and in some parts ulcerated. The liver wa s slightly granulated,the mesenteric glands converted into scrofulous masses; the mucous glands of the ileum greatly enlarged, and several of them ulcerated; the mucous surface of the ceecum was also ulcerated. The internal surface of the colon, and superior portion of the rectum was thickened by chronic inflamma- tion, more especially where it is reflected over the pelvic viscera. The anterior part of the body of the uterus appeared healthy, also its mucous surface ; the ovaria were formed into large solid masses, the right ovarium the largest, being of the size of a large orange. The morbid action in these parts had produced firm adhesion between the peritoneal surface covering the fundus and posterior part of the uterus, and that portion which is reflected over the anterior part of the intestinum rectum. The depositions of lymph on these parts were remarkably thick and irregular in figure. The growth of the ovaria had produced inflammation of the coats of the rectum, and an ulcerated open- ing of communication had been formed between these parts, at about six inches from the verge of the anus ; it is about the circumference of a six-pence (as seen in the preparation), and has well defined and healed edges. The caliber of the rectum was constricted, the mucous surface ulcerated. On cutting through the ovaria they appeared fibrous, similar to those often seen in the substance of the uterus, but not of a malignant kind. A daughter of this woman died at the age of 26 years, of phthisis pulmonalis. 1022 A part of the intestinum rectum, inverted. Several portions of the mucous coat extensively ulcerated, and lymph had been deposited on the muscular coat; this had become organised, and appears to have put a stop to the ulcerative process. From a man who had been afflicted with chronic dysentery for several months.