444 tine and the internal surface of the hernial sac. The tunica vaginalis is very thick, the sac not large, its inferior part adheres firmly to the superior portion of the tunica albuginea. Firm union was effected between the tunica albuginea and vaginalis, and careful dissection was required to separate them. These conditions are seen in the prepa- ration. There was also an old stricture in the urethra, and the bladder was diseased ; the prostate gland and the vesiculae seniinales were nearly destroyed. These have been described in the history of mor- bid bladders, &c. 1721 An inguinal hernia, relative situation of the parts shown, also the spermatic cord, testis, and tunics. The epigastric artery is seen along the inner edge of the neck of the hernial sac. The hernia had only protruded a little way through the external ring, but it occasioned all the symp- toms of a strangulated hernia, which was easily reduced. And by the employment afterwards of a well-constructed truss, future protrusion of the bowel was prevented. He died several years from the time of the reduction of the hernia, of phthisis pulmonalis. 1722 An inguinal hernia, showing all the parts belonging to this species of rupture ; the spermatic cord, the testis and its tunics are also preserved in the pre- paration. The intestine was strangulated, it was found in a sphacelated state ; an operation had not been performed. The internal surface of the her- nial sac is thickly coated with coagulated lymph, and all the other investments of the hernia are thickened. 1723 A large scrotal hernia on the left side (a dry prepa- ration). The external and internal rings are ap- proximated closely, in consequence of a large mass of omentum, and a considerable portion of the ileum having passed through them into the hernial sac ; the aperture was very capacious, and the pro- truded parts were easily drawn out, adhesions not having formed. The patient had never worn a truss, nor had he, at any time, suffered symptoms of strangulated hernia.