.97 The aortic valves were inflamed, but not altered in structure ; the aorta and the vessels given off at its arch were remarkably small; the internal coat infla- med. The fossa ovalis extremely large, the foramen closed; and also the ductus arteriosus. As the structure of this heart is natural, being only too large in size for the age of the patient, it cannot be denominated a congenital mal-formed heart. The sister of this patient, 8 years of age, has had symptoms, ever since her birth, of an enlarged heart. 316 Heart; the parietes of the left ventricle greatly attenu- ated, the cavity large for the size of the heart; what Corvisart denominated passive Aneurism. The ostium ventriculi nearly closed by the production of cartilaginous and osseous deposits beneath the serous covering of the mitral valve. The semilunar valves of the aorta were also converted into bone, and the aperture nearly obliterated; the internal coat of the aorta and coronary arteries was osseous. It is quite astonishing how the circulation could have been carried on, with such impediments to the entrance of the blood into the ventricle, and its pass- age through the aorta. I consider this preparation rare and very valuable. The history of the case not known. 317 Heart, extremely large, a portion of lung which was hepatised adhered to the pericardium. The patient, a woman 33 years of age, had been troubled with symptoms denoting a diseased heart and liver, for nearly five years. Her lips and face were as blue as I have seen them in cases of mal- formation of the heart ; the heart's action was bounding and could be felt to a great extent; it was generally irregular. She was teased with a cough, and great difficulty in breathing. Symptoms of icterus came on, which were shortly succeeded by ascites, and the accumulation of fluid was so con- siderable as to require the performance of paracen- tesis twice, merely to afford temporary relief, her breathing being performed with such distressing difficulty. Haemoptysis came on, and she expired suddenly. There were two pints of water in the right side of the H