398 greatly inflamed, as was the mucous lining of the va- gina, and the fundus of the uterus, where the placenta had been attached, was nearly in a sphacelated state. Most of the uterine veins were filled with pus, and their internal surface highly inflamed, as was the internal lining of the Fallopian tubes. An abscess had formed in the right ovarium, and from the ex- treme thinness of its serous surface, I think it would (had the patient lived a few days longer), have burst into the abdomen. The brain was not examined, if this had been done, I have no doubt that the arach- noid membrane,pia mater, and the substance of the brain would have been found highly inflamed, ap- pearances I have seen in similar cases. 1574 Uterus of a woman, who died a few days after delivery. Inflammation of the uterus came on, accompanied with fever and delirium, which caused death. The internal surface of the uterus and all the veins highly inflamed, and a portion of the placenta near the fundus was found adhering, which probably gave origin to all the symptoms. 1575 Uterus, and a portion of the urinary bladder, injected with size and vermillion; from a woman who died on the 12th day after parturition. The patient, 26 years of age, was delivered by the forceps of her first child. The labor was extremely lingering, and the extraction of the child (which was dead) was rendered difficult in consequence of a lessening of the pelvis, by the approximation of the ossa pubis too closely to the base of the sacrum. The placenta was expelled about half an hour after the removal of the child. Every thing went on favo- rably until the fourth day, when the patient began to complain of pain in the lower part of the abdo- men, and a burning sensation in the vagina. The pulse became full and hard, 99 in a minute. Twenty ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which was highly inflamed, purgatives and saline medicines were prescribed, and fomentations employed. The symptoms increased, although repeated bleeding, generally and locally, was had recourse to. The lochial discharge ceased, and the milk left the breasts ; fever came on, and the patient complained of violent pain in the head, and vomited freqently.