227 the abdomen again came on, with vomiting, purging, and the discharge of hydatids, and ascites with peritoneal inflammation, completed her misery. On opening the abdomen, no cavity was seen, the peritoneum having formed firm adhesions with the reflected coverings on the viscera, andmuch dissection was required to discover the different intestines. The liver occupied the front of the abdomen, both the right and the left lobes having descended as low as the anterior superior spinous processes of the ossa ilia; it completely obstructed the view of the intes- tines, and the convex surfaces of the liver had pushed up the diaphragm, and lessened the capacity of the thorax. The peritoneal covering of the liver was semicartilagi- nous, the external figure of this viscus very irregular. On cutting into it, the natural .structure appeared nearly destroyed, and it seemed like an immense cyst, containing myriads of various sized hydatids, and there were a great number which had burst, and which appeared to have been of an immense size. The cysts of the hydatids were dense, and some of them thickly covered with coagulated lymph. Firm adhesions had taken place between the under surface of the liver, and the colon, and an opening of communication was formed between these parts, which allowed the escape of the hydatids during the life of the patient. On some of the small and large intestines, the serous coat was thickly beset wi th small hydatids, and there were also large hydatids on the mesentery and omentum. The spleen was not diseased. The heart and lungs were so greatly intruded upon by the ascent of the liver and diaphragm, that it appeared astonishing how their function had been carried on. The thoracic viscera were healthy. On dissecting some of the hydatids, I found that the real hydatid was surrounded by four coverings of a gelatinous consistence, and transparent. This was a very remarkable case. 978 Ileum, caecum, and part of the colon, inverted. A man, 36 years of age, had shown symptoms of organic disease in the lungs, for several years ; about four months prior to his death, he occasionally voided