260 1046 The inferior part of the stomach, with a portion of the duodenum. A man, 40 years of age, robust, and very healthy, whilst unloading a cart with bricks, was suddenly seized with pain in the abdomen, < which became extremely severe ; he perspired profusely, and was very sick and faint. Every thing was done for him by his professional attendant, \ without effect. The abdomen became distended, and he complained of great pain over its whole surface; he vomited violently, and perspired profusely ; the breathing was oppressed, pulse very small and quick; dysuria ensued, with singultus, and he died about twenty four hours from the commencement of the attack. There was a considerable quantity of air in the abdo- men, and fluid which looked like the drinks he had swallowed, such as tea, gruel, &c. The cause of death was a small ulcerated opening at the commencement of the duodenum, only large enough to admit the point of a moderate sized bougie. The mucous coat of the duodenum was considerably thickened, as was the serous coat, and lymph which had become organised, was deposited on it; this leads me to suppose that some portion of the omen- tum or the mesentery had adhered to the aperture, and had been disunited by the violent efforts of vomiting. From the appearance of the opening, I should say that the ulcerative action had long ceased, and that a temporary cure had been effected by some part in the abdomen closing the aperture, an instance of which I shall have to describe in the history of the following preparation. 1047 The inferior portion of the stomach, and a part of the duodenum. All the coats of the stomach greatly thickened, parti- cularly the serous and muscular ; the mucous coat was also thickened, and appeared in some parts, particularly near the pylorus, of a blackish color. The pylorus was formed into a small pouch, which had been produced by a stricture at the commencement of the duodenum ; the aperture only admitting a small piece of the quill of a Porcupine, as seen in the preparation. The duodenum very capacious, the mucous coat thickened.