292 ventricles of the brain did not contain more fluid than natural. There were old standing adhesions of the pleura?, and there was a pint of water in each side of the chest: the lungs were natural, as was also the heart, with the exception of a softened state of its structure. From a man who had experienced several reverses in fortune, and had lived freely; he had long been suffering from the miseries occasioned by a morbid condition of his digestive organs ; the faeces were of a dark color, and he frequently vomited a fluid like coffee-grounds ; he died suddenly. 1226 Gall-bladder, greatly lessened in size, and much shrivelled; it contained a small quantity of puru- lent fluid and coagulated lymph. There were no signs of its natural reticulated arrangement, nor the least appearance of being tinged with bile; the ductus cysticus obliterated. The history of this case not known. 1227 A portion of liver with the gall-bladder. A woman, 50 years of age, who had been accustomed to enjoy the good things of this world, had suffered for a considerable time from hepatic disease, and for some months previous to her death symptoms of organic disease of the heart came on, which were succeeded by hydrothorax. There were about six pints of water in the abdomen; the liver was large, very firm in texture, of a very yellow color, and granulated. The gall-bladder was enormously distended with a thick deep green-colored secretion; its internal surface was ulcerated, and all the coats greatly thickened. The cause of the detention of the contents of the bladder, was the obstruction of the cystic duct by inspissated bile. This is a proof, added to many I possess, that disease in the liver may occasion organic lesion in the heart, and effusion into the pericardium and chest. The description of the heart will be given. 1228 Gall-bladder, with the biliary ducts. The gall-bladder is completely filled with biliary calculi of various sizes, of a pale white color, which are shown in the preparation; the ductus hepaticus and communis choledochus very capacious.