29 the joint, and the bones were found denuded of their periosteum, and as there was no chance of curing the disease which was seriously disordering his health, I thought it right to propose the removal of the thumb; which I amputated at the second phalanx. The wound healed favorably, and his health was soon restored. On dissecting the diseased thumb, the . first phalanx, and a portion of the second was found in a carious state, and the cellular tissue sphacelated; a free incision at an early period of the disease might possibly have saved the thumb. 140 Index finger; the bones of the second, and third pha- lanx are nearly destroyed by scrofulous ulceration. The finger was amputated. 141 A diseased state of the index finger, occasioned by osseous paronychia; requiring amputation. From a man, 70 years of age ; he did not apply for relief until the finger, hand, and arm, were greatly swollen, and inflamed. Symptoms of sphacelation came on, accompanied with violent pain and fever. All the parts being in such an unfavorable state, I did not think it prudent to remove the finger ; but as an accu- mulation of pus was distinctly felt beneath the fascia of the palm of the hand, I carefully made an open- ing, and an immense quantity of very fetid matter escaped; which afforded temporary relief. By fo- mentations, poultices, and attending to his health, the inflammation, and swelling of the hand and arm subsided, and his health improved; but the integu- ments of the diseased finger mortified ; the flexor tendons sloughed, and the bones were deprived of their periosteal covering. I removed the finger near the superior part of the me- tacarpal bone ; the wound healed favorably, and he was soon able to use the hand as a shoe-maker. 142 Humerus and carpal bones, &c. of a dog; affected with exostosis. All the bones of the body were similarly affected. The viscera were healthy. 143 The anterior portion of the pelvis of a horse. One side of the pubis has been fractured, and remains disu- nited : exostosis is seen on the left side of the ramus of the pubis, and to a greater extent on the ischium (of both sides) near the inferior and posterior edge of the acetabulum.