•241 valves and the aortic valves thickened by chronic inflammation. Liver very pale-colored, and bloodless, and there were a few serous cysts in its substance. The gall-bladder contained a small quantity of fluid, which was not much tinged with bile ; the spleen large, and remarkably soft, the pancreas healthy. The external surface of all the intestines presented a dark livid hue, and they were firmly agglutinated by lymph. The mucous coat of all the small intestines, especially the ileum, was in various parts destroyed by ulce- ration (in all probability produced by the morbid state of the glands J, but the greatest degree of disease was seen in the caecum, colon, and rectum ; the mucous coat having been partly destroyed, and sphacelation, and fistulous openings produced, com- municating with the abdominal cavity. In the caecum and colon, several large portions of solid fceculent matter were found, which from their density, must have remained there a considerable length of time. The muscular structure of the large intestines was flaccid, which perhaps might have been occasioned by their not having the power of performing their peristaltic action naturally. The mesenteric glands normal, also the pelvic viscera, and kidnies. Was the disease, in this case, caused by a morbid state of the mucous glands of the intestines, or was it produced by a frequent state of constipation, which lessened the power of the muscular fibres, and prevented the expulsion of the alvine excretions ? 1008 A portion of the transverse arch of the colon, showing extensive ulceration of the mucous coat, and there appears to have been an attempt of nature to repair the injury, by depositing lymph on the muscular coat, which had become organised. The remains of the ulcerated part, at its edges, present a shaggy appearance. From a woman who died of phthisis pulmonalis, who had suffered dysenteric symptoms for a number of months. This is an interesting preparation. 1009 A portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; an immense carcinomatous and fungoid tumor had R