509 From a man, 45 years of age, who was admitted into the Sick Ward of Cripplegate Workhouse. He was the most miserable looking creature I ever beheld ; his skin was affected with icthyosis, which he said had " existed ever since his birth." See Section on Tegumentary Textures, No. 692. There did not appear the least chance of succouring him beyond endeavouring to mitigate his sufferings. The symptoms were, almost constant pain in the bowels, particularly in the situation of the transverse arch of the colon. He was distressed with diarrhoea and tenesmus, and the evacuations were generally mixed with scybake, sometimes with pus and blood ; these symptoms increased, he gra- dually sank, and died a month after his admission into the Workhouse. Inspection. The thoracic viscera were healthy ; the peritoneum was thickened with organised lymph. There were several large medullary tubera in the liver, mesentery, also beneath the serous surface of the intestines, but they were more abundant at the inferior part of the ileum, about the caecum, and along the whole course of the colon. The mucous coat of the ileum was greatly inflamed, but not ulcerated. There was a considerable quantity of fcetid pus and coagulated blood in the caecum, also in the principal portion of the colon. The sigmoid flexure and the rectum were loaded with hardened fasces. The cascum, its appendix, and the colon to as far as the descending arch, had their mucous surface completely destroyed by ulceration ; long shreds of this coat were alone discernible. This state of the mucous membrane had been occasioned by medullary tumors making their way from beneath the serous coat into the cavity of the intestine. 2330 A portion of colon. The internal coat is thickened, some of the follicles of the mucous glands are shown. 2331 Transverse arch of the colon ; the mucous coat thickened, and some portions sphacelated. From a patient who died of typhus fever. 2332 A portion of intestinum rectum. All the coats greatly thickened, more especially the mucous surface. From a man who died of dysentery in