441 the want of the proper circulation of the blood in the liver ; this had excited inflammation of the arteries, and the same operated in determining the superabundant blood to the mucous surfaces from whence it was poured out into the cavity of the sto- mach and intestines, and caused the death of the pa- tient. In a practical point of view the dissection of this hernia is highly important, and it shows the neces- sity of securing all the arteries that are divided in removing a large portion of omentum which cannot be returned into the abdomen ; for some of the arteries in this case were nearly as large as the carotid. In a case of strangulated omental hernia on which I operated, where the transverse arch of the colon was strangulated, it was necessary to remove some of the protruded omentum, which weighed sixteen ounces. Five arteries of considerable size were secured, the ligatures were cut off close to where they were tied, and the remaining portion of the omentum was returned into the abdomen; the patient recovered. An exomphalus, with ulceration of the colon. From a woman, 48 years of age, extremely corpulent, shehadbeen subject to an umbilical hernia ever since the birth of her last child ; this took place about two years previous to her death. Although the hernial contents occasionally protruded to a considerable distance, she had not sought the advice of a Surgeon, nor had she worn a truss. The patient, from mistaken modesty, had never con- sulted any professional person during the time she had been afflicted with this disease. At last the hernia became greatly increased in size, and she was attacked with violent sickness, but the bowels were not constipated. These symptoms continued to increase for nearly four days, and at last became so alarming, that she consented to have the advice of a Surgeon. The integuments covering the hernia were highly inflamed, and partly sphacelated, and the tumor was extremely tense. As the patient had evacuations from the bowels, and the state of the hernial parts were not favorable for an operation, it was not proposed.