126 The internal coat immensely thickened hy dense cartilage ; there is an aneurism of the ascending portion of the aorta, with dilatation of all its coats; a small rupture took place, and caused death. The aperture is shown by a black bristle. The aortic valves were only slightly thickened by lymph. The left ventricle very large, the parietes thick, all the other parts of the heart normal. The patient a man 40 years of age. 461 Arch of the aorta, with a portion of the trachea, bronchi, and bronchial glands. The internal coat of the aorta is slightly thickened by lymph; and at the anterior part of the aorta, and nearly opposite the origin of the left subclavian artery, there is an aneurism ; its aperture large, but the sac very small. What is most remarkable in this prepa- ration is, that by adhesive inflammation of the cel- lular tissue belonging to the bronchial glands, and the external coat of the inferior part of the aorta, a firm bond of union has been effected, and covered the sac of the aneurism; which no doubt prevented the increase of the tumor. May not this be consi- dered an effort of nature to effect a spontaneous cure ? The patient, a woman 23 years of age, died from the effects of phthisis pulmonalis. The lungs were filled with miliary tubercles, and vomica?. I do not recollect to have ever seen an aneurism in the inferior part of the arch of the aorta before. 462 An aneurism m the arch and the whole course of the descending aorta; it is of an immense size, and burst into the right side of the thorax. The aneu- rism was formed by a regular dilatation of all the coats; they are greatly thickened, particularly the internal one, by cartilaginous deposits, and organised lymph; the aortic valves healthy; the arteria innominata is very large. The sac of the aneurism contained a lamellated coagulum ; and a considerable portion of the internal surface is thickly covered with lymph, which had become organised, and adhered very firmly. The pleura pulmonalis of one of the lobes of the lungs on the right side adheres firmly to the external sur- face of the aneurismal sac ; which is shown in the preparation.