133 sac is partly filled with coagulated lymph and blood; firm adhesions had been formed between it, part of the left bronchus, and the oesophagus, and in consequence of ulcerative absorption of the parts, the aneurism burst into those tubes. The aperture of the aneurism is large for the size of the sac. The liver was much increased in magnitude ; structure dense, and granulated; the gall-bladder was filled with viscid fluid; the spleen large and firm. There was a considerable quantity of blood in the intestines. What is very singular in this case is, that there were no diagnostic symptoms to de- note the existence of an aneurism. Perhaps the situation of the aneurism, the smallness of its sac, and the latter having been partly filled with coagu- lated blood and lymph, might account for the absence of that peculiar pulsation which is generally noticed in aneurisms. In aneurisms situated in the abdominal aorta, it is in some cases very difficult to decide correctly their existence, either by the aid of the ear, or the stetho- scope. At an early stage of the disease, before the sac is either filled with coagulated blood, or fibrine, the real nature of the disease can be generally de- tected ; but in the latter state of the artery, there is very great uncertainty. Sometimes a pulsation is felt in the abdominal aorta, exactly similar to that produced by an aneurism ; which is often caused by a disordered state of the digestive organs, or some organic lesion of the liver ; and when the health of the patient is re-established, the sympathetic pulsa- tion ceases. This is a very valuable preparation. 471 An aneurism at the arch of the aorta. The valves of the aorta healthy ; the internal coat thickened by bone and cartilage ; the ascending portion dilated ; there is a large aneurism at its arch, and the arteria innominata is aneurismal; the rest of the arteries are greatly enlarged in caliber, and their internal coat is similar to that of the aorta. The sac of the aneurism had adhered firmly to the superior and central part of the sternum ; it had sloughed at this part, and a portion of the sternum and ribs had been removed by ulcerative absorption; had the