363 glandis ; he complained of great pain, and the glans was greatly swollen and inflamed. The part was fomented and poulticed, and mercury given till salivation was produced, which did not check the morbid action ; the ulcerative process increased, the whole of the glans penis became greatly en- larged, the integuments were highly inflamed, and his health was seriously affected. The patient was removed from the venereal ward ; the mercury was discontinued, and cinchona, acids, &c. were pre- scribed, with nourishing diet. Sloughing of the glans penis supervened, and in the course of a few months the whole of the penis as far as the pubis was completely destroyed. The absorbent glands in both groins became painful, and enlarged; the integuments were greatly in- flamed ; mortification ensued, and exposed the femoral arteries and veins, but their external coat being well defended by organised lymph, was pro- tected from idceration; some of the arteries were obliterated by lymph, and the internal iliac vein was filled with coagulated lymph, which adheres firmly to the internal coat. Atthis time the disease was considered to be of a ma- lignant character. He was discharged from the hospital incurable, and afterwards admitted into the sick ward of Cripplegate Workhouse. The poor fellow was in a very deplorable state; all that could be done in this case, was to sooth his suffer- ings by opium. Carrot poultices were applied to the sores, and he was allowed nourishing food. In this state he remained nearly four months, when symptoms of disease of the lungs came on, which caused death. Inspection, The absorbent glands on both sides of the pelvis and spine were affected with carcinoma, and there were tubercles of a similar kind in the lungs. The remaining portion of the penis, with the membranous and the prostatic part of the urethra, and the prostate gland are shown in the preparation. The gland is not diseased. The testes are also preserved, they are rather small, but their structure appears natural ; and in conse- quence of the right spermatic chord having re-