54 abscess formed on the upper surface of the wrist, which communicated with the joint; a probe was introduced, and the bones were felt to be denuded. There was a considerable discharge from the opening, which continued for several months; the disease progressively increased, and caused considerable pain ; then the hand and arm became greatly swol- len ; and the patient's health was so much affected, that it was considered necessary to amputate the arm. The stump healed favorably; and the man soon recovered. The disease was produced partly by a blow on the wrist, and partly by the effects of gout. 219 A hand; the carpal and metacarpal bones, and the joint affected with chronic inflammation, &c. From a female, 19 years of age, who had suffered nearly two years with a disease in this joint, which com- menced without any assignable cause, and did not appear of a strumous origin. Pain was at first felt in the wrist, which increased slowly; inflammation of the joint came on, and the hand became swollen. The patient had been seen by several able surgeons at the commencement of the attack; but the disease continued to make progress, although means had been employed to check its course. Ultimately pus formed in the joint, and an abscess presented beneath the integuments, on the upper surface of the wrist, which was opened. At different periods, other collections and openings formed, and occasion- ally small spiculas of bone exfoliated. In consequence of the arm and hand not being kept in a splint, the remaining portions of the carpal bones were drawn under the ends of the ulna and radius by the action of the flexor muscles, which caused a very unsightly appearance, and occasioned great pain. The discharge was very profuse ; her health became affected; and she had symptoms of con- tinued fever, not hectic. A consultation was held ; there seemed no probability of saving the arm, and her health being affected, the opinion was unanimous that the arm ought to be removed to save the life of the patient. I performed the operation ; the stump healed by the first intention, and the ligature came away in about, a fortnight. She soon recovered her health;, and was able to use an artificial hand.