469 A tumor extirpated from the breast of a Bitch Terrier. Previous to its removal it felt nodulated and elastic, the central part projected in a conical form, and from the thinness and discoloration of the integu- ments, it appeared as if it would soon slough, or ulcerate. On cutting open the tumor, it was seen to be composed of an aggregation of various sized fungoid tumors, mixed with melanoid secretion. The tumor was very vascular, and several large arteries required to be tied during the operation. Twelve months after the removal of the diseased part, the animal became very ill, and died from the lungs becoming affected with the same disease. A splendid specimen of melanosis in the sternum. From a man 70 years of age, by trade a watch- maker, who had been indisposed nearly three years. He had been attended by several professional gen- tlemen, who, from his sallow countenance, and other symptoms, decided that the disordered state of health was occasioned by a diseased liver. During the last nine months of his life his health became more seriously affected, he was troubled with frequent cough, and great difficulty in breathing, accompanied with palpitation of the heart, which rendered him incapable of attending to business. The palpitation of the heart, and the violence of the cough increased, he became greatly emaciated, his inferior extremities were cedematous, and he occasionally voided bloody urine. For several months previous to his dissolution, the beating of the heart was distinct and violent, and there was an appearance of enlargement of the sternum. These symptoms induced the medical attendants to suppose that an aneurism at the arch of the aorta existed, and it was expected that it would soon ulcerate, or burst; this, however, did not take place, the patient died from the effects of pro- fuse hematuria. I did not see the patient during his illness, I was merely requested to make the post-mortem examination. On looking at the enlargement, and seeing the skin covering it of a deep purple color; from its having a nodulated appearance, and feeling