114 ossified in patches ; the coronary arteries very large, but not diseased. The patient 19 years of age, had violent palpitation of the heart, and irregular pulse, with great difficulty in breathing ; he became dropsical, and jaundiced, and died suddenly. There was water in both sides of the chest, and in the abdomen; the liver was large, soft in structure, and deeply tinged with bile ; the gall- bladder greatly distended with viscid green-colored secretion. 420 Aortic valves, greatly thickened and shortened by osseous deposits ; the internal coat of the aorta also partly ossified; the coronary arteries very capacious, and their internal coat slightly ossified. The patient, a man 60 years of age, had been afflicted for several years with symptoms of diseased heart and liver. 421 Aortic valves, considerably thickened and shortened by osseous matter between their laminae. A portion of the sides of two of the valves had become aggluti- nated, and a large calcareous concretion had been de- posited in this situation, which had caused the removal by absorption of portions of the valves. The internal coat of the aorta partly ossified ; coronary arteries very large. The patient, a man 34 years of age, had symptoms de- noting organic lesion of the heart and lungs nearly 18 months. The left ventricle of the heart of an immense size, the parietes greatly thickened, the auricle considerably dilated, and the auriculo-ventricular aperture con- stricted. The right side of the heart healthy. The pleurae in both sides of the chest adhered firmly ; and the lungs were filled with miliary tubercles and vomicae. 422 Aortic valves, thickened and shortened by chronic in- flammation ; there is an aperture in the middle one (which is shown in the preparation, by a black bristle) which is an occurrence occasionally seen in the aortic valves of young persons and adults, this imperfection I consider congenital, and not the result of any morbid action. In some instances two or three of the valves present the same appearances. The internal coat of the aorta greatly thickened by chronic inflammation, and the coronary arteries nearly obliterated. The history of this case not known.