•254 siderable pain. It was very evident that this case would terminate unfavorably, all that could be done was to endeavour to act on the bowels by mild aperients and clysters, and to relieve the excrucia- ting pain experienced in voiding motions, by suppo- sitories, and large doses of opium. About six months previous to her death, great pain was complained of in the situation of the caecum, and along the course of the transverse arch of the colon, and when pressure was made in the right iliac region, great pain was complained of, and a protube- rance of considerable size felt. The patient was also greatly annoyed by dyspepsia and flatulence ; the latter when passed alone or during the dis- charge of fasculent matter, was more distressing than by eructation. The disease after this time began to make rapid progress, foetid pus and blood passed with the evacuations, and her health became seriously affected; the only comfort she could have, was from the effects of opium and opiate injections. The tumor in the rectum protruded into the pelvis, towards the inferior part of the rectum, which greatly impeded the discharge of the contents of the bowels, also the flow of urine. A short time previous to her death, great pain in the back was complained of, also in the stomach, accompanied with tenesmus ; the abdomen became greatly enlarged, fever came on, which affected the sensorial functions, and she expired. 1030 Carcinoma in the rectum, uterus and bladder. The woman, 50 years of age, had suffered nearly two years with this terrible and incurable disease ; during the latter part of her life she had great diffi- culty in voiding urine or faeces ; there was a profuse discharge of pus, sometimes mixed with blood, and an ichorous secretion, which smelt offensively, cha- racteristic of this disease. Her health gradually declined, she became greatly emaciated, jaundice came on, and effusion into the abdomen, which finished her existence. The peritoneum was inflamed, and covered with coa- gulated lymph ; but these appearances were more evident on the serous coat of the pelvic viscera.