329 a day. Symptoms of cystitis came on, he com- plained of violent pain in the region of the bladder and kidnies ; pulse extremely full. General and local bleedings, fomentations, &c. were employed. Irritative fever came on (which is an occurrence fre- quently noticed in patients afflicted with diseased kidnies, or bladder), and caused death. 1385 Bladder and prostate gland. There is a large calculus in the bladder, the other portion is described in the Section on Urinary Calculi. The calculus is of an oval shape, it was placed with its long axis in the posterior and inferior part of the bladder, where it had formed a kind of pouch, which would have made the removal of it very difficult, if lithotomy had been performed. The calculus was composed of the oxalate of lime. The patient, 59 years of age, had suffered from the effects of a calculus in the bladder for nearly ten years, but could not make up his mind to have an operation performed. During this period of time, he was so unfortunate as to lose the sight of both eyes ; his mind became affected, and he committed suicide. The vessels of the brain were very turgid with blood; the thoracic and abdominal viscera were very healthy. The bladder was firmly contracted, it contained three ounces of turbid, icetid urine, aud a calculus the size of a hen's egg. The muscular coat of the bladder is very thick, the mucous surface not much altered in structure ; the prostate gland is healthy. The kidnies were granulated, and the infundibula, pelvis, and ureters are greatly dilated. 1386 A bladder, prostate gland, and a portion of the penis. The mucous coat of the bladder is ulcerated, and in some parts sphacelated, and there are several sacculi in it; and in one of them on the right side, there is a calculus about the size of a large marble, which is shown in the preparation. The prostate is not much enlarged, but in the right lateral lobe there is a renal calculus, which had caused ulceration of a portion of the prostatic urethra, and the stone is impacted in the sub- stance of the gland. I have other specimens of a similar kind, which will be described. The whole