290 The liver was injected, but scarcely any signs of vascularity were seen on making sections of it. The gall-bladder was empty, the spleen large and dense in structure. The patient, 60 years of age, died of ascites and jaundice. 1214 Fungus hasmatodes in the layers of the mesentery; there were several tubera of the same character in the liver; a few of them are shown in the preparation. 1215 Liver affected with fungus hasmatodes ; some of the absorbents are shown, also the gall-bladder ; its internal surface of a deep'green color, produced by a morbid secretion within it. Several parts of the body were affected with the same disease. The history of this case is related in the 9th Volume of the Transactions of the Royal Medico-Chirur- gical Society. 1216 Punctiform melanosis in the liver; the lungs and several other parts of the body were affected with this disease. The patient died of jaundice and ascites. 1217 Liver affected with melanosis ; the internal surface of the serous covering is discolored with the pigment, as is shown in the preparation. It is reflected from the surface of the liver. The patient died of jaundice and ascites ; several other viscera were affected with this disease. Sometimes the melanoid tumors in the liver are en- cysted. There is a preparation from my collection in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, of a liver affected with melanosis, showing this fact. The history of the case and dissection are published in the 3rd Volume of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. 1218 Liver affected with carcinoma and melanosis ; the lungs were also affected. The patient died of ascites. This preparation shows admirably the different stages of melanosis ; it was put up 25 years ago. In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, there are a number of preparations of melanosis in various parts of the body, which were selected from my Collection. 1219 Liver affected with melanosis. There is in the same bottle, a portion of the parotid gland affected with carcinoma.