76 Might not the morbid changes have existed previous to the birth of the child ? 280 Heart of a boy 8 years of age. Showing the natural external appearances, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the Eustachian valve : the foramen ovale was not completely obliterated. The patient died from the effects of acute hydrocephalus, on the thirteenth day from the commencement of the attack. 281 A portion of the right auricle and ventricle of the heart with the foramen ovale widely open, and the internal surface of the auricle greatly thickened by coagulated lymph; the valve of the coronary vein is shown in the preparation. The patient had suffered severely from the effects of acute rheumatism ; he died suddenly. There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest; the pleurae and the lungs were inflamed; and there were about four ounces of fluid in the pericardium. 282 Heart of a boy 8 years old, the cavities are very large, and the muscular structure very firm. There were nearly three ounces of water in the pericardium. The foramen ovale is widely open; valvulae mitrales shortened and thickened; the Eustachian valve ex- tensive and reticulated. The aorta and its vessels are very large ; the sigmoid valves of this vessel and pulmonary artery are thickened; but those of the latter are affected in a less degree. From birth he had all the signs of hydrocephalus, with symptoms denoting mal-formation of the heart; his lips were of a purple color, skin rather cold; pulse full and irregular; these signs were attended with dyspnoea. He was attacked with pertussis, and although active treat- ment was employed, convulsions came on, and ho expired in one of the paroxysms. The head was immensely large ; the arachnoid mem- brane and pia mater were greatly thickened, and a milky fluid was effused between them; the vessels of the brain were surcharged with blood, and the structure of the cerebrum was remarkably dense; the septum lucidum and fornix were softened ; and there were four ounces of fluid in the lateral ventricles, the third ventricle being dilated with water, which pro-