12 The theca vertebralis was exposed; it was highly in- flamed, and the inflammatory action had extended to the membranes of the brain; there was a consi- derable quantity of fluid in the ventricles, which caused death. The bones of the vertebrae were very much inflamed; as were the arch of the aorta, and the pulmonary artery. There was a considerable quantity of fluid between the arachnoid membrane, and the pia mater; and nearly four ounces of fluid in the ventricles. The lungs were filled with miliary tubercles. Similar depositions were found in the spleen, and mesenteric glands ; and the mucous glands in the small intestines were greatly enlarged. The mother of the child was scrofulous. This is an interesting specimen. 89 A scrofulous spine, with an angular curvature. The disease had commenced in the bodies of the three upper dorsal vertebra?, and has destroyed nearly the whole of their anterior surfaces. The theca vertebralis, and medulla spinalis became inflamed, and the inflamma- tion extending to the brain, caused death. The rest of the bodies of the vertebrae were inflamed and con- tained scrofulous matter, and their structure was very soft. There were scrofulous tubercles in the lungs. 90 A diseased spine, with an angular curvature. Three of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae have been destroyed by ulceration, together with the intervertebral sub- stances ; and it is very remarkable, that there had been an attempt to produce anchylosis between the approximating surfaces of two of the vertebras. This effort of nature has been interrupted in being carried fully into effect, by fragments of the diseased bone compressing the theca vertebralis, and medulla spina- lis, and giving rise to inflammation ; the brain subse- quently became affected, and the patient died. The rest of the vertebrae were soft, and caseous ; the lungs contained scrofulous tubercles ; the mesenteric glands were converted into tuberculous substance, and the mucous glands in the small intestines were enlarged. 91 A diseased spine, showing considerable angular curvature. Some of the bodies and intervertebral substances of the cervical and dorsal vertebrae have been destroyed by ulceration, and perfect anchylosis has been effected ; the spinal canal, near the angular projection, is greatly