40-2 and died on the 22d day from the time of her con- finement. 1579 An uterus, the internal surface and vagina in a sloughy state ; the corpus luteum shown. The patient had a deformed pelvis, she was attended by a midwife, and had been in labor for three days. The motions of the child had not been felt for two days ; the discharge from the vagina was extremely offensive, which denoted that the child was dead. On examination it was found that the deformity of the pelvis existed between the pubis and the sacrum, and there was a curvature of the spine. The labor pains having ceased for several hours, the os uteri being fully dilated, and there being every reason to believe the child to be dead, embryotomy was performed, the narrowness of the pelvis being so great as not to allow of the use of the forceps. The child and the placenta were very putrid. The day after delivery, pain was complained of in the abdomen, which felt nearly as large as before the birth of the child, there was a very offensive dis- charge from the uterus, and it was necessary to draw off the urine. The abdomen became greatly distended, and all the symptoms of peritonitis, accompanied with fever, supervened. Every endeavour was made to save the patient, but without success; the fever increased, the brain became affected, and she died on the 7th day from the time of the delivery. There was a considerable quantity of pus, mixed with coagulated lymph, in the abdomen. The uterus had not contracted con- siderably. The superior part of the pelvis measured only two inches and a half from the pubis to the sacrum ; the long axis or diagonal four inches. The peritoneum was highly inflamed, more particu- larly where it covers the pelvic viscera. The whole of the internal surface of the uterus and vagina were sphacelated. The liver was granulated; the heart and lungs healthy. The spine had three lateral curvatures, one in the cervical, another in the dorsal, the last in the lumbar. 1580 Uterus, the mucous surface inflamed, the whole of the vagina sphacelated. The patient died of peritonitis, accompanied with