406 labor pains had ceased for six hours, she was greatly exhausted, and had not voided urine or faeces for twenty-four hours. An accoucheur was called in, who found the presentation of the child to he the face to the pubis, and as the bladder felt greatly distended, a catheter was introduced; four pints of very offensive urine were drawn off; she was delivered of a dead child. There was considerable haemorrhage after the expulsion of the placenta. The day after her confinement she had a dejected countenance, and complained of great pain in the hypogastric region ; she had not voided any urine, a catheter was employed, and about a pint of very offensive fluid was discharged; there was an offensive secretion from the vagina, showing that considerable mischief had been produced by the head of the child having been so long impacted in the pelvis. Great swelling of the external parts of generation came on, the integuments were highly inflamed, as was the vagina, and there was a very copious dis- charge of foetid matter, mixed with blood. The urine requried to be drawn off twice a-day, and the bowels could not be relieved except by clysters. Every endeavour was made to benefit the patient without effect; she experienced agonising pain, the external organs began to slough, as did the vagina, neck of the bladder, and the inferior part of the rectum, so as to form a kind of cloaca for the faeces and urine, which caused the greatest misery and distress. Fever of a typhoid type came on, which affected her brain. The nates mortified, although the greatest care was taken to prevent it; she died on the 14th day after delivery. If a practical accoucheur had attended at the commencement of the labor, all the dreadful consequences caused by ignorance would have been prevented. 1584 External and internal organs of generation, with the vagina, rectum, &c. The labia, clitoris, and hymen shown, also the verge of the anus, the vagina, rectum, bladder, and the uterus ; there is a pendulous serous cyst near the fimbriated extremity of the left Fallopian tube. From a subject 14 years of age.