261 Comparative Anatomy.—Alimentary Canal.—Normal. 1048 Ileum, caecum, &c. of the Cercopithecus Seniculus, or Howling Monkey. The appendix caeci in this very curious animal is wide, long, and its extremity obtuse. 1019 Duodenum of a Mongoz, inverted. The villi very short, and delicate. There is scarcely any distinc- tion between the small and large intestines in this animal, except the caecum, which is very small, but the appendix long, large, and curled. 1050 Stomach, duodenum, gall-bladder, pancreas, and spleen of the Erinaceus Europceus, or Hedge Hog, injected with size and vermillion. The pancreas is extensive, and the spleen large in this animal. 1051 Duodenum of the Lutra Vulgaris, or Otter, showing the villi belonging to the internal coat, which are extremely numerous, short, and very minute, re- sembling those in the duodenum of a Dog. 1052 Pyloric extremity of the stomach of a Dog, dried, and preserved in spirit of turpentine. 1053 A portion of the duodenum of a Dog, the villous structure is shown. 1054 Ileum and caecum of a Dog, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine, the valve shown. 1055 Ileum and caecum of a Dog, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine, the valve of Tulpius is shown. 1056 Ileum and caecum of a Dog, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine, the valve shown. 1057 Ileum and caecum of a Cat, inverted; the villi of the ileum exhibited, also the valvula coli. 1058 Ileum and caecum of a Cat, injected; the valve shown. 1059 Stomach of a Phoca or Seal, injected and inverted, showing a large mucous gland, situated about two inches from the pylorus. 1060 Ileum and caecum of a Phoca or Seal, inverted. The caecum in this animal is very small like that of the Dog ; it terminates in the rectum. 1061 Stomach of a Virginian Opossum, inverted. The internal surface of the oesophagus presents an appearance like the valvulae conniventes in the human duodenum. The cardiac and pyloric aper- tures are not more than two inches and a half apart. The mucous glands of the stomach are very large and *