452 the tumor to be adipose sarcoma, and advised its removal; I performed the operation. The tumor being so very large, it was found necessary to make an incision ten inches in length through the integuments, and in consequence of very firm adhesion existing between the external surface of the sac, and the surrounding cellular tissue, the operation was rendered very difficult and painful, and a number of arteries required to be tied. The integuments were brought together with sutures and adhesive plaster ; the wound healed by the first intention, and the patient soon recovered. On opening the cyst, it was found filled with an aqueous fluid mixed with pus, and large flakes of coagulated lymph ; its internal surface was highly vascular, like a secreting membrane, and there were a great number of processes of organised lymph, projecting from its surface. This is a proof of the great difficulty of giving a correct diagnosis in some local tumors which I shall have occasion to notice when I describe some of the malignant kind. I am inclined to think that this enlargement was produced by a serous cyst, and not by an hydatid. 1740 A melicers encysted tumor, which was extirpated from the thigh. 1741 A lobulated encysted tumor, which was extirpated from the internal surface of the under eye-lid. These tumors are occasionally seen in various parts of the body, but oftener about the face; the structure of the tumor was dense, its external appear- ance not unlike a large wart. I do not think it a malignant production. 1742 An adipose tumor (lobulated), which was situated beneath the integuments of the shoulder; it was extirpated. 1743 An adipose tumor (lobulated), which was extirpated from beneath the integuments of the abdomen. 1744 An adipose tumor, with the integuments, which was removed from between the shoulders. 1745 An adipose tumor. 1746 An adipose tumor, about the size of a horse-chesnut, which was extirpated from the temporal fascia. The tumor possessed a dense cyst, and firm adhe- sions had formed between it and the cellular tissue