34 immediately after the accident was everted, but became afterwards inverted. Inspectio Cadaveris.—The tumors on the external sur- face of the body, were composed of carcinomatous and medullary matter. The lungs contained a great number of fungoid and medullary tubercles ; the abdominal viscera were healthy. Appearances of the fractured parts.—The neck of the femur was fractured through its base, and the frac- ture had extended into the capsule of the joint, which was lacerated : there was likewise a fracture of the shaft of the bone, between the two trochanters. A section of the femur showeth, that a close liga- mentous union had been effected at the neck of the bone ; and the capsular ligament was greatly thick- ened. The fracture through the shaft had united by bone ; and there was a large collection of osseous matter on its external surface. The cancelli of the bones contained medullary matter. It is rather sur- prising that so great a degree of union should have taken place, in a debilitated state of body, with so much constitutional disease. The history of this case was published in the thirteenth volume of the Transactions of the Royal Medico- Chirurgical Society; and there is an engraving of the preparation in Sir Astley Cooper's Work on Dislocations, and Fractures of Joints. A section of a thigh-bone, showing an oblique fracture of the neck, within the capsule, which had united by ligament. At the inferior part of the head of the bone, an angular portion of the neck remains, which is thickly covered with ligamentous matter on its fractured surface ; the same change has taken place on the corresponding portion of the head of the bone, and firm ligamentous union has been produced between these parts, and the base of the cervix femoris. The neck of the bone is absorbed. The capsular ligament is converted into a substance of semi-cartilaginous density, which adheres closely to the newly-formed joint. The interval between the trochanters is filled with an abundance of osseous substance, which serves as a prop to the fractured extremities, and performs the office of a neck to the bone.