16 A portion of the occipital bone, with the foramen mag- num, and basilar process, together with three of the first cervical vertebras ; from a child. The right half of the ring of the atlas is destroyed by ulceration, and the second vertebra dislocated; so that the odontoid process occupies the foramen magnum. These bones are firmly anchylosed, as are the transverse processes of the second and third vertebra?. In the 13th volume of the Royal Medico-chirurgical Transactions, the history of this case is related, by Win, Lawrence, Esq. " At the age of five or seven, a child became the subject of an illness supposed to be hydrocephalus. After it had existed for some time, a swelling took place in the side of the neck, obviously containing fluid, and this slowly increased to a considerable magnitude, so that its contents must have amounted to several ounces. Pressure on this swelling affected the brain, producing a state of coma. It was supposed at this time that the fluid in the neck communicated with that suspected to exist in the ventricles of the brain. The child used to move the head cautiously and slowly, supporting it with the hands at the sides. After a long continuance the symptoms slowly subsided, and at last entirely disappeared, together with the swelling of the neck. At no period of the complaint was there any interrup- tion or diminution of sensation or voluntary motion, and the recovery of health and activity was complete, the child being able to walk and run, and engage in the active sports suited to its age." " There was nothing to attract particular notice in the position of the head. After some time had elapsed, disease came on in the lumbar vertebras, attended with bending forwards of the spine and the formation of a large lumbar abscess. In consequence of this affection the child died at the age of twelve." " Examination. The head was examined during the hottest part of last summer, and the brain had become so soft, that the changes produced in it by disease could not be ascertained. Mr. Wigan brought to me the base of the skull, in which we were surprised at observing a considerable bony prominence standing up in the right side and front of the foramen magnum. The projection in question was smoothly covered by the dura mater, and it was soon apparent that it must