77 duced pressure on the optic nerves. The lungs were partly hepatised; there was water in both sides of the chest; and a considerable quantity in the abdo- men. The liver was of immense size, very firm in texture, and looked like yellow soap; the gall- bladder was filled with very bright yellow colored bile; the spleen large, and firm. The mucous glands of the small intestines were greatly enlarged. The preparation of the brain is in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, with some other speci- mens of disease of the base of the brain, exhibiting the effects of pressure on the optic nerves in hydro- cephalus interims ; which had produced amaurosis. 283 A very large heart. The patient, a girl 14 years of age ; died from the effects of pleuro-peripneumonia; the pleura? were thickly coated with lymph ; the lungs were hepatised, and there was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest. The pericardium contained about two ounces of fluid; the coats of the aorta and pulmonary artery, the muscular structure of the heart, and the lining of the auricles and ventricles were inflamed. The parietes of the left ventricle rather thick and firm in texture ; the cavity aneurismal: the carnece columnar thick and short; the mitral valve dense. The foramen ovale open, which had in all probability remained so from birth. 284 Heart, and a portion of lung. From a child about 8 years of age; the heart is large, the left ventricle thick, and its cavity very small; the lining of the auricle greatly thickened, the mitral valve affected; the foramen ovale open, but not to a great extent. The pleura and lungs highly inflamed, and some of the lobes hepatised. There was water in both sides of the thorax ; the abdominal viscera healthy. 285 Heart of a child twelve months old. The child was born between the sixth and seventh month, and was extremely delicate and diminutive; it lived only twelve months ; and at the end of this period was not more developed than at birth. The head was very large, the anterior fontanel re- markably wide, and the pupils of the eyes much dilated ; all symptoms denoting hydrocephalus