43 matter is deposited on the bones near the fractured parts. The parietes of the femur are solid, hut fragile. 170 Section of a femur. From a man, who at an early period of his life, had been affected with rachitis. The external surface of the bone is extremely solid, the parietes of the anterior surface are thin, those on the posterior rather thick; the cancelli are very large. 171 Section of a femur, showing ostitis, produced by a disease of the knee-joint. Preserved in alcohol. 172 Section of an os femoris. The parietes are extremely thick, and solid, particularly at the central portion of the bone, and the medullary cavity is greatly dimi- nished ; these appearances are seen in the preparation. The cancelli of the head, neck, and part of the shaft of the bone, are surprisingly developed, and very dense in structure. The external surface of the bone at the middle portion is also greatly thickened by very irregular depositions of osseous matter. The history of this case is not known; but I should think that the morbid changes have been produced by chronic ostitis, and periostitis. This is a very valuable specimen. 173 Thigh-bone of an adult; a section of the inferior half was made to show the parietes, cavity, &c. Its dia- meter from the cervix to the condyles is very consi- derable, and greatly out of proportion with the length of the femur. The external surface presents a number of very irregular, solid, osseous deposits ; more especially on the posterior surface, from the trochanter minor, along the linea aspera, and as far as the posterior part of the condyles. The parietes are not very thick, but solid ; the medullary cavity capacious. The history of the case would be inte- resting; the morbid changes must, I think, have been excited by chi-onic inflammation of the bone, and its periosteal covering. 174 The right thigh-bone of a woman. The superior, and inferior portions of the bone are particularly healthy in structure ; but at about the middle of the shaft, near the opening for the nutrient artery, and proceed- ing downwards around the bone, to the extent of four inches, the surface presents a very irregular rough appearance, from the existence of osseous deposits. On the internal border of the bone, there