84 this condition the hoh-nailed liver. The gall-bladder was filled with a black, deep-green-colored fluid; the spleen was large and more dense in structure than natural; the mucous glands in the ileum were hyper- trophied. 298 Heart affected with chronic pericarditis. The patient a woman 46 years of age, lived intemperately, and had suffered several severe attacks of acute rheuma- tism, accompanied with pneumonia. After the last attack, symptoms of organic lesion of the heart came on, which became very distressing, and were succeeded by hydrothorax; the legs became cede- matous, and she died. There was a considerable quantity of water in both sides of the chest, and the pleuras were thickly coated with lymph. The pericardium contained four ounces of yellowish fluid, and was thickly lined by coagula- ble lymph, which in some parts had become organised and adhered firmly; in some portions lymph was formed into large flakes, in other parts it presented a reticulated appearance ; resembling one of the en- gravings of the heart, in Dr. Baillie's splendid work on Morbid Anatomy. The muscular structure of the heart, the lining of the auricles and ventricles, and of the aorta and pulmo- nary artery were inflamed. The valves, &c. healthy. The lungs partly hepatised; the bronchial tubes greatly loaded with mucus, and their internal surface inflamed. About six pints of water in the abdomen ; the liver was large and hard, and its structure granulated. The gall-bladder contained a very dark-colored fluid. Spleen large and solid. 299 Heart affected with chronic pericarditis. The patient 19 years of age, a tall, delicately-formed person, had for nearly four years evinced signs of phthisis pul- monalis. About six months previous to his death symptoms of pneumonia came on accompanied with great difficuliy in breathing ; these symptoms gra- dually increased, and he was occasionally attacked with syncope. Soon after this period the heart be- came affected; he was annoyed with violentpalpitation. The expectoration was muco-purulent, but neverprofuse, hectic fever supervened; but, what is very singular