50 are in a carious state, and produced a fungoid growth beneath the integuments. 210 Tibia and fibula of a Newfoundland dog, which were fractured by the kick of a horse. Attempts were made by a farrier to produce union, but the dog tore off the splints each time they were applied. The leg was then left to nature ; the bones did not unite, and the animal appeared in great agony; he was even- tually destroyed. It was a comminuted fracture about three inches from the inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula, and there were no signs of bony, or ligamentous union. The external surface of the fractured bones was thickly covered with osseous deposits, as in exostosis. These appearances are seen in the specimen. 211 A luxated clavicle. The inner end of the clavicle is driven forwards, and obliquely downwards, so as to rest upon the front of the sternum, in a line with the cartilages of the first and second ribs. A ligamentous union is formed between the end of the clavicle and the surface of the sternum ; and a large process of bone has been produced from the perios- teum of the clavicle at its superior surface, about half an inch from the dislocated end, and occupied the space between the articular surface of the ster- num, and the cartilage of the fii'st rib. The carti- lage of the first rib is converted into bone, and an- chylosis is effected between it and the sternum. 212 Dislocation of the elbow-joint. The ulna and radius are thrown outwards and backwards, and the former bone has become anchylosed to the humerus in its new position. The coronoid process of the ulna is united by bone to the posterior aspect of the rounded condyle of the humerus, with which the radius usually articulates; its olecranon process is anchy- losed to the posterior surface of the epi-condyle, while the outer half of the greater sigmoid notch is filled with ossifie matter, and united by the same medium to the posterior surface of the condyle. The trochlear portion of the articulating surface of the humerus preserves its natural form, and is scarcely affected by the inflammatory action which succeeded the injury; but the condyloid articulating surface is concealed by an irregular bony lamina, which is