83 The structure of the heart was flaccid, but there were no signs of disease in the valves; the coronary arteries healthy. The internal coat of the thoracic aorta partly ossified, the abdominal portion converted into bone. The liver was very large, and its serous covering thickly covered with lymph, which was or- ganised ; the effects of chronic inflammation: the gall-bladder filled with a blackish-colored fluid. The vessels of the brain turgid with blood; there was a considerable effusion of a milky looking fluid between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater, and the structure of the brain was inflamed, a fact I have frequently noticed on inspecting patients who had died from typhus fever at the early stage of the disease. 297 Heart showing acute pericarditis, &c. The patient was a man 45 years of age, who had lived very irregularly; he was very athletic. He suffered from hepatic disease for several years, symptoms of organic disease of the heart came on gradually, and at length became excessively severe, and caused hydrothorax. The pulsation of the heart was violent and extensive, and generally irregular; there was also distressing dyspnoea, great anxiety and irritability, with a bluish suffused countenance. There was a considerable quantity of water in each side of the chest. The pericardium adhered very firmly to the reflected portion by lymph, which was in great quantity, and organised. The cellular tissue connecting the mus- cular fibres of the heart was inflamed. The right auricle very capacious, and its internal surface highly inflamed; the ventricle healthy. The Eustachian valve extensive and reticulated; the left auricle large, its internal lining inflamed and partly ulcerated ; the mitral valve greatly thickened. The ventricle of an immense capacity, the parietes natural; the coronary arteries and veins very large, but not diseased; the aorta normal. There was a great quantity of water in the abdomen ; the liver was of immense size, very firm in texture, and a considerable portion of its structure was destroyed by large granular productions, which were most apparent on the external surface of the organ ; these appearances induced Mr. Abernethy to call