196 by the pressure occasioned by the diseased bronchial glands. The lining of the trachea and bronchi highly inflamed. The lungs were nearly filled with medullary tubercles of various sizes, as was the liver. The description of the liver is given in the Section on Diseased Livers. 794 Two portions of lung, affected with medullary sarcoma, and melanosis. 795 Lung, affected with medullary sarcoma, the pleura greatly thickened. 796 Lung, affected with medullary sarcoma. 797 Part of the trachea, bronchi, the bronchial glands, and a portion of lung, affected with medullary sarcoma, &c. A man, 45 years of age, had been afflicted with disease in the lungs nearly five years. He appeared greatly emaciated, his breathing was performed with great difficulty, he expectorated profusely a very white-colored mucus, not pus; he had also palpita- tion of the heart, with a pulse of 120 in a minute. The adhesions between the pleurae on both sides of the chest were so complete and firm, as to render the task of removing the thoracic contents extremely difficult. The pleura pulmonalis in some parts was nearly half an inch in thickness, and of a semicarti- laginous density. The heart and its vessels, the oesophagus and trachea, seemed surrounded by the diseased lungs. On making sections of the lungs, they were found filled with medullary and fungoid deposits, in some parts consolidated by what appeared to be miliary tubercles, hardly any of the healthy structure being visible. The internal surface of the pericardium was thick- ened by lymph, and some of the malignant tumors had made their way into it, near the right auricle of the heart, and the superior cava ; part of the right subclavian vein was nearly filled with medullary matter. The heart was very small, there were several minute medullary tumors beneath its serous covering; the substance of the heart, the linings of its cavities and vessels were inflamed, and medullary matter was deposited between the internal and fibrous coat of the aorta. Lymph had been effused on the