s been deposited in irregular patches, presenting a very ragged appearance. But the greatest degree of mis- chief is seen at the posterior part of the parietal bones, where hard bony deposits have formed in the diploe. On the internal surface of the frontal bone, near the centre, there is a rounded protuberance; but apparently not connected with the disease. The sutures are nearly obliterated. 70 A portion of the central part of the left parietal bone, with the integuments, showing the effects of local injury. This preparation was removed from a man who had a fall from his horse ; the integuments were lacerated to the extent of an inch; and there was considerable haemorrhage from the wound. Symptoms of inflammation of the brain supervened, which could not be subdued; and he died. The arachnoid and pia mater were highly inflamed, as was the substance of the brain. The pericranium and the bones of the calvarium were also inflamed, as is shown in the preparation. 71 A portion of the parietal bone of a man, showing im- mense thickness and great solidity, the diploe is obliterated. A small portion of the integuments, and of the pericra- nium are preserved; the rest were dissected off, to show the results of inflammation of the pericranium; viz. the secretion of pus and ulceration. This process had separated the periosteal membrane from the bone, portions of which had been absorbed. The diseased action had extended to the internal surface of the bone, and a considerable portion had been destroyed; the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, pia mater, and the brain, were highly inflamed. This I consider to have been a case of acute ostitis. 72 Calvarium. Showing the effects of syphilis in various parts of the outer table; there is a considerable de- pression of the bone at the superior and central portion of the os occipitis, occasioned by accident at some remote period. The bones are extremely dense and solid, especially the occipital; the frontal sinuses are large, and all the sutures obliterated. On the right temporal bone there is an opening through both tables, caused by