113 412 Femoral artery and vein, belonging to a stump. In consequence of too small a ligature having been ap- plied to the artery, in the course of a week after amputation, the coats of the artery sloughed, and the patient died from haemorrhage. The internal coat of the artery is perfectly healthy; there was no coagulum in the artery, but there is one in the vein. 413 Aortic valves ossified, dried and preserved in spirit of turpentine. 414 Aortic valve, with excrescences at the centre of the edge of the valve, and a spiculum of bone in the coronary artery. 415 Aortic valves, and a portion of the inner membrane of the aorta, slightly thickened by coagulated lymph. This morbid change of structure I consider the inci- pient stage of inflammation; the deposit would in time have undergone a change into cartilage, and eventually would have become ossified. There are four coronary arteries ; the two on the right side much larger than those on the left. 416 Aortic valves, and those belonging to the pulmonary artery. The aortic valves thickened and shortened, by a deposition between their lamina;. One of the coronary arteries is obliterated; the other enlarged in caliber. The valves of the pulmonary artery healthy. 417 Aortic valves, slightly thickened by chronic inflamma- tion. The aorta aneurismal, and its internal coat thickened by semicartilaginous and osseous deposits ; the coronary arteries very large. 418 Arch of the aorta. The semilunar valves are slightly thickened by acute inflammation ; the internal coat of the aorta is greatly thickened by coagulated lymph deposited between it and the fibrous tunic ; lymph is also deposited on the internal surface in patches, which has become organised. One of the coronary arteries nearly obliterated by lymph; the other greatly enlarged. The vessels given off at the arch of the aorta are large, especially the arteria innominate. 19 Aortic valves, thickened and shortened by depositions of osseous matter between their lamina?, and the middle one ruptured; the internal coat of the aorta