•223 The lungs were nearly filled with scrofulous tubercles and vomicae. The mucous glands of the ileum and caecum greatly enlarged, and the mesenteric glands converted into caseous substances of great magni- tude ; the spleen was also filled with miliary tubercles. 955 A portion of ileum, minutely injected with size and vermillion, also the mesenteric glands. The lungs contained a great number of miliary tubercles, the structure was highly inflamed, and in some portions hepatised. The whole of the small intestines were affected with miliary tubercles beneath the serous coat; the me- senteric glands were also diseased. 956 Ileum, minutely injected; miliary tubercles are seen beneath the mucous coat. From a child; it had convulsive fits. 957 Ileum, injected ; miliary tubercles beneath the mucous coat, the glandulae aggregataa enlarged, mucous covering ulcerated. This preparation, and Nos. 47, 48, & 49, from the same subject, are splendid specimens. 958 Ileum, injected, inverted; scrofulous tubercles beneath the mucous coat, glandulae aggregatae enlarged. 959 Ileum, injected (inverted), and all the tunics shown, also small scrofulous tubercles. 960 Ileum, mucous coat ulcerated, the effect of scrofulous tubercles between the mucous and muscular coats. 961 A portion of ileum and mesentery. The man had diseased liver and ascites. There was a considerable quantity of fluid in the abdomen, the peritoneum was thickly coated with organised lymph, and all the intestines agglutinated; there were two osseous tumors in the mesentery, and a small pendulous tumor on the serous coat of the intestine; these are shown in the preparation. 962 A portion of ileum and mesentery. All the coats and the mesentery are inflamed. There is a large fungoid t»mor in the latter, also several small ones From a man, 43 years of age ; the liver, lungs, and glutaeus maximus affected with fungus hagmafodes. 963 Ileum and caecum, showing hypertrophy of the mucous glands. 964 Ileum and cascum. The glandulae aggregatae of the former greatly enlarged, the mucous coat thickened.