473 1791 A comminuted fracture of the tibia. From a man. Several spiculse were removed, and every endeavour was made to save the leg, for a considerable time, granulations formed, and the fractured ends were also well covered with healthy granulations, but there was a profuse discharge from the sore, and the patient's health became affected. On carefully examining the leg, it was found that there were no signs of osseous union, and that the frac- tured ends of the bone were far apart; the leg was amputated, and the man did well. The leg was injected with size and vermillion, the skin and gra- nulations were well colored with the injection. The asperities of the fractured ends of the bones had been removed by the absorbents and appearances were produced similar to those which are noticed in good stumps after amputation, or to those noticed in fractures of the femur, where one portion passes over the other, and ultimately becomes united as I shall describe on Fractures. The internal periosteum was inflamed near the fractured parts, lymph had been deposited, and pus secreted. 1792 A compound fracture of the inferior part of a tibia, which had extended into the ankle-joint. Attempts were made for nearly a fortnight to save the limb, but without any prospect of success, constitutional symptoms became so urgent as to require amputa- tion, as the only means of saving his life. The patient recovered. The leg was injected with size and vermillion, which shows the high state of vascularity of the external and internal periosteal coverings of the fractured parts, also nature's efforts to remove by absorption the dead parts of the bones, and these appearances are well shown in the specimen, the living and dead bones being evidently denoted by a line of demarkation. The synovial membrane was inflamed, and the cancelli of the bones were degenerated into that mouldering state denominated caries. 1793 A specimen of extensive compound fracture of the tibia. From a young man. Attempts were made to save the limb for some time, inflammation came on,