92 [Chap. III. DOMESTIC COOKERY. GENER.\L DIRECTIONS FOR POULTRY AND GAME. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug be removed, and the hair nicely singed off with white paper. ^ Contrary to the usual custom, all poultry should be drawn as soon as killed, or at least as soon as bought; which prevents the disagreeable flavour so often per- ceived in chickens. The cook must, in doing this, be careful not to crack the gall-bladder, for then no wash- ing will remove the bitterness. Ignorant cooks some- times draw fowls by cutting a hole in their side, but it should be done through the vent, and that being cut off, a string should fasten the rump close to the front part. Fowls for boiling should soak an hour or two in skim- milk. When trussed and singed, flour them well; tie them in a cloth; put them in cold water, and set them over a slow fire; cover the saucepan close, and let them simmer; as soon as the scum rises, remove it carefully, cover them close up again, and boil them gently twenty minutes; take them off the fire, and the steam will sufficiently finish them, if kept in. All poultry requires thorough washing, but above all pigeons, lest the corn on which they feed should remain in the crop: they should not be picked till going to be dressed. Pigeons and ducks may be dressed as soon as killed. In dressing wild-fowl, be careful to keep a clear, brisk fire. Let them be done of a bright brown, but not much roasted, or the fine flavour will be destroyed. They, as well as tame birds, require to be continually basted, and to be sent up beautifully frothed. A very quick and clear fire is necessary for roasting all poultry. A large fowl will take three-quarters of an hour, a small one twenty minutes. Care must be taken that they are well and thoroughly done. A small turkey will take an hour and a quarter, a goose an hour, larger turkeys and geese an hour and a half; both should have the breasts papered : chickens and partridges take half an hour; pigeons twenty minutes; but the cook