I I Chap. III.] ME.\T. 75 t cient to effect this object: the pot must be watched and ) skimmed very frequently at first. In many cases it would • be desirable to employ a method, not so much in practice I in England as it deserves,—the preparation of meat by i the heat of boiling water, without actual exposure to it. I Fowls boiled in bladders, or in a jar, may be filled with I oysters, and deliciously stewed, the flavour and animal I juices being preserved instead of drawn out. IMeat also i may be put into a jar immersed in a kettle of water. I The Scotch understand this method very well, and em- I ploy it in the preparation of their haggis ; it was also a 1 custom among the ancient Romans. Those who enter- I tain a prejudice against an oven for jugged meats, ima- j gining that the dry heat imparts an unpleasant flavour ito the viands, can have no possible objection to this more elegant mode of cooking. TO CHOOSE MEATS. I Venison.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft of the haunch smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is close and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoul- der or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haui-govt: but it bears keeping better than any sort of meat; and if eaten, fresh-killed, it is not so good as mutton. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef be good, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel ten- der. The fat should look white rather than yellow; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is generally so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is coarser and closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and it has a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest; but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is preferred, if finely fed. In old meat, a streak of horn runs between the fat and lean of