233 Chap. XII.] FISH. spoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, a small bit of garlic chopped to a mash, a blade of mace in powder, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, and pound a full half hour more: when to be used, mix well therein the fresh-beaten whites of two eggs, reserving a tea-spoonful to he used as hereafter directed. Mean- while take the bones and fins from four or five little red mullet, without injuring the skin, and cut them lengthwise, an inch wide ; do the same by a good-sized sole, having split, but not removed any of the skin. Then stew a small veal sweetbread, a fresh artichoke- bottom, eight oysters without the beard, and two truffles cut in bits, a quarter of an hour in a little butter, and let it become cold. When all the above are in readi- ness, line a casserole of five or six inches in diameter with long slices of fat bacon, placed quite close, in the centre of which lay four bits of carrot cut diamond shape, lengthwise; cover the bacon with the strips of fish perfectly united, alternately putting the brown and white of the sole and the red of the mullet next to the bacon, and on these half the forcemeat: then put in the sweetbread, &c., which cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, smoothing it over with the back of a spoon wetted with the white of the egg before directed to be preserved. Lay on it a buttered paper, put the cover of the pan on, and hake twenty minutes. When done, turn the granade on tbe lid to drain, care- fully remove the bacon without breaking the skin of the fish, and serve very hot, with rich veal gravy round, not over it. The entrails of the mullet will give ad- ditional flavour to the forcemeat. Where they cannot be had, the red part of lobsters used alternately with the brown and white of the sole, or mackerel, will look beautiful. • A similar dish may be made by substituting the flesh of hare, the white part of partridge, and ham, for the fish; the little ragout of sweetbread, &c., as before; and a forcemeat made of cold game, the liver of young fowls, the fat and lean of fine ham, eggs, butter, herbs, and spice, as in the above.