6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. I tained; add to these materials, where such things are abundant, an old partridge, grouse, or other game, which may not be sufficiently young and tender for the spit. Put a little warm (not boiling) water to it, just enough to cover half the meat, and stew very gently over a slow fire or steam apparatus. When the top piece is done through, cover the meat with boiling water, or broth, should it be required to glaze, and season with a bundle of sweet herbs, parsley, and chives, a clove, a small bit of bay-leaf, a little salt, and some trimmings of mushrooms, if they are to be had. Stew all together until the juices are drawn from the meat; skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a tammy. This stock may be reduced to a glaze by boiling it down to the proper consistence, or it may be converted into fine white sauce by adding a sufficient quantity of flour and cream thoroughly incorporated—for white sauce there must be no pepper in the stock—and a very small quantity of flour in proportion to the cream. This need not be an expensive preparation, if care be taken to make it at a time when the materials are at hand. ANOTHER WAY OF PROCURING STOCK.—E. R. Take any quantity of beef, mutton, and veal, or fowl, cut the meat into small pieces, and put it into a deep saucepan with a close cover, the beef at the bottom, the mutton upon it, a piece of lean bacon, a bundle of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, black and white, and a large onion sliced, with the white meat at the top. Cover the saucepan closely, and put it over the fire for a few minutes, shaking the pan. Then pour in as much boil- ing water as will rather more than cover the meat. Stew gently for eight hours : then put in two anchovies chopped, and seasoned with salt to the taste. Strain off the liquor and preserve it for use. If properly made, this gravy will become a rich jelly, a piece of which may be cut off when sauce is wanted. English private families do not make sufficient use of sheep’s-heads