Chap. I.] 3 SOUPS. clean vessel scalded for the purpose. I f colouring should be necessary, the common browning may be used; fried onions will also materially assist in giving a fine brown colour to soup. The crust of a loaf of bread stewed in the soup thickens and renders it more wholesome, and when taken out will be found light, palatable, and nou- rishing to an invalid. When wine is put into soup it should not be added until nearly the last thing: thus a glass of wine will go as far in flavouring a soup as a pint stewed down from the commencement. Ketchups, sauces, such as soy, anchovy, &c., should only be put into weak soups which require to have some flavour imparted to them ; there is, however, an agree- able acid as well as a delicacy in Harvey’s sauce, which renders it an exception, English cooks seldom giving to their dishes the advantage of a slight acid judiciously combined with other things. Soups also, like that made from calf’s-head, cow-heel, &c., which are rich, but flavourless, will bear the addition of sauces, when other relishing articles are not at hand; but, generally speak- ing, common English cooks are too much addicted to the indiscriminate use of ketchups and sauces. The castors are the proper places for these things, since they may be added by the parties fond of high flavours; a small quantity occasionally, however, will be found ad- vantageous, but they should by no means preponderate. Meat for soup should never be drowned at first in water, but put into the kettle with a very small quantity and a piece of butter, merely to keep the meat from burning until the juices are extracted; by this means a single pound will afford better and richer soup than treble the quantity saturated w'ith cold water. Bouilli beef is rendered very rich and palatable, though a con- siderable quantity of soup may be made from it, by being stewed at first in a little butter and its own juices. Soup may be cleared by putting the whites of one or two eggs in it while being wanned up, and as it begins to melt: then boil the whole gently together, and run the liquor through a jelly-bag. B 2