5 Chap. I.] SOUPS. Place the meat in the bottom of a stewpan, with a piece of butter; draw out the gravy very gently, and allow it nearly to dry in again; then add the water poured boiling upon it, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion or two with a clove stuck in them : place the pan by the fire to simmer for about four hours; the time, however, must depend upon the quantity ; twelve pounds of meat will take at least ten hours. The stock for white soups should be made of scrag, or of knuckle of veal, ox-heel, or calf’s-head, with any small quantity of dark meat, and ham-hones; an old fowl will also be found a very desirable addition; and in making stock of any kind, the legs, heads of fowls, turkeys, and all sorts of trim- mings, may be used with great advantage. A sheep’s- head will make excellent stock: have it beautifully cleaned, put it into a stewpan with a little water, and when it is heated through fill up the pot; when it is sufficiently tender, take it up, remove the meat from the bones, and return the bones into the broth, adding onion, sweet herbs, &c., as before directed. Stew these bones for several hours longer, and when the liquor is cold, it will be found a jelly, and will form the basis of every kind of soup or sauce. When a large quantity of any butcher’s meat is brought in for the use of the family, the joints will require trimming: take all the parings, adding a slice or two of bacon, beef, or mutton bones, onions, herbs, a few slices of carrot, pepper, salt, &c.; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the pan, cover it closely, and put it over a slow fire for a few minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally. Then pour in boiling water, covering the meat to the depth of some inches, and let it stew until it is rich ; then put it aside. When cold take off the fat. The weighing-pieces, which butchers in the country send in with the superior joints of meat, answer admirably for stock. Put into a stew- pan a piece of beef, a piece of veal, or, what will he more economical, an old fowl, some slices of ham oi* bacon, and all the trimmings of meat that can be oh-