73 ME.\T. Chap. III.] ■ George the Third, though proverbial for the plain na- 3 ture of his table, living almost wholly upon roasts and . boils, was an epicure in his way, and kept cooks who : dressed his beef and mutton to perfection. Meat sent to his table was put, in the first instance, at so great a [ distance from the fire, that six hours were required to 1 roast a joint which, in other kitchens, would have been I only subjected to the action of heat for half the time. I By this method the juices were preserved, and the meat, I thoroughly done in every part, was exquisitely tender. I Ordinary cooks have, however, an abhorrence of so r tedious a process; and it is, consequently, very seldom t that a large joint is properly prepared for the table. All I meats should be well basted at first with milk and f water, and when the dripping begins to fall, the cook ( should empty the pan and wipe it out. The joint must j then be basted in its own liquor, and, when about three I parts done, sprinkled with salt, and dredged with flour: 1 this latter process must not be delayed too long, for I unless the flour be added early enough to imbibe the 1 gravy and get nicely browned, it will have a disagreeable raw, or burnt taste : if the salt be added too soon it will ’ draw out the gravy. Wlien there is only a small quantity of fat, it should be preserved by skewering a paper over it, or it will waste in the roasting. Cradle-spits are pre- ferable to common spits, and both must be well wiped before using, while it is advisable to heat the common I spit. In winter, if meat or vegetables should be touched by the frost, they are to be thawed by soaking in cold water for two or three hours; if much frost-bitten, a longer period will be necessary. Boiled meat, unless cooked slowly, simmered in fat, and kept for a long time upon the fire before it is al- lowed to come to a boil, will be hard and tasteless; for : the portion of the meat consisting of the albumen, if 1 once set like the white of an egg, cannot afterwards he rendered less indigestible by any culinary process. Care and attention are very necessary even in the most sim- ple operation of cooking, the general fault in boiling