1 have unfortunately got into a very careless method of i Chap. II.] FISH. .'iO ! has the highest flavour; the flesh is firmer, and the co- I lour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- I dling size are sweetest. If light they are watery; when I in perfection, the joints of the legs are stiff, and the ! body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead I and loose when stale. Prawns and Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright. Oysters.—There are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Col- I Chester, and Milford are much the best. The native i Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may I be made to possess both these qualities in some degree I by proper feeding. When the fish is alive and strong, I the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as I opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The I rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour : if eaten raw. Those who know how to purchase fish may, by tak- ; ing more at a time than they want for one day, often I get it cheap; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may I then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste: I to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after i it is nicely cleaned; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in I the same : then dry and dress it. [The great excellence of English fish, and the fresh ' state in which it is brought to table, render it unneces- i sary to resort to much art in the preparation of the finer I kinds, which are usually preferred simply boiled, broiled, or fried. But this only holds good with the superior varieties; and skate, halibut, ling, plaice, flounders, mackerel, and many others, may be much improved by ' the method of dressing, for which many useful hints ■ may be borrowed from the French, who are obliged to . dress their sea-fish in various ways. English cooks