[Chap. XVI DOMESTIC COOKERY. 326 with the meat, also previously pounded, adding three eggs, one at a time. By taking a small quantity of this mixture, making it into a ball, and boiling it, the cook will discover whether it be sufficiently light and well seasoned. It is not considered advisable to put in all the whites of the eggs. The flavour given to the bread, or panada, is con- sidered to be of great importance, and the highest point of perfection may be obtained by attending to the fol- lowing directions :—Put into a small saucepan a piece of butter, a little chopped ham, a few sprigs of parsley, two or three shalots, a bay-leaf, a clove, two blades of mace, and a few mushrooms chopped, if they are to be had, or a little mushroom-powder (a tea-spoonful of ketchup may be the substitute) ; stew the whole gently over a slow fire. When the flavour is extracted, add one or two spoonsful of broth ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, and then strain it over the bread, after the milk has been pressed out. When the panada has been thus ]>repared, it will not be neces- sary to put anything but a little salt and pepper to the meat, which is the true method of making the quenelle. The whole must be pounded separately, and together, until it will go through a sieve. Another method of flavouring the panada is to boil in the milk an onion or shalot and a blade of mace, adding to the stock with which it is afterwards moistened a tea-spoonful of essence of ham. In fact, a cook, who will direct her attention to this branch of the art, may easily vary her sauces or forcemeat, and adapt them to great numbers of dishes. Balls of forcemeat should be rolled small, and either boiled or fried. FARCE CUITE.—E. R. Cut in small pieces some undressed fowl, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; shake them over the fire for ten minutes, drain, and let them cool. Put an equal portion of crumbs of bread in the same stewpan