Chap. II.] 35 FISH. be kept scrupulously clean and made to contain a suffi- cient quantity of fat, which should boil for some minutes, and wholly cease to bubble, before the fish is put in, or it will be greasy. Let the fish drain wlien taken out, and lay it on a clean cloth, writing paper, or beautifully clean straw. The pan must be put on the fire with a small lump of fat in it, to be rubbed when hot over it with a clean cloth previous to putting in the oil, lard, butter, or dripping. When the fish is fried, strain off the fat into a jar kept for the purpose, as it will serve again. Fish should be boiled with a handful of salt, and a tea-cupful of vinegar in the water. Turbot, salmon, cod, brill, John Dory, haddock, and whiting are to be put into cold water. When the fish is large and thick, the boiling is to be checked by the addition of cold water; a large tur- bot will require that this should be done more than once. Crimped fish must be put into boiling water; their immersion will check the boil, and when the water reboils, add a little cold water, and keep the kettle simmering. Fish should be subjected to the cooking process until the bones will separate easily; but experience alone can determine the precise moment in which it should bij' served, to ensure its being done throughout, and pre- served unbroken. Soles, skate, or mackerel are put into boiling water.—E. R.] To judge if a large fish be sufficiently boiled, draw up tbe fish-plate, and with a thin knife try if the fish easily divides from the bone in the thick parts, which it will when done enough. Keep it hot, not hy letting it sodden in the water, but by laying the fish-plate cross-ways on the kettle, and covering with a thick cloth. If left in tlie water after it is ready, fish loses it firmness, and becomes woolly. Serve fish on a napkin. Observe, great care is necessary to drain the water from the boiled fish, that the dryness and colour of the fried aiound it may not be lessened. [Notwithstanding the numerous arguments which London fishmongers advance, to establish their view of the expediency of keeping some species of the finny tribe D 2