101 Chap. III.] GAME. i' I the spice is applied early, it will prevent that musty taste I which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which 1 also affects the stuflSmg. An old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to I . be roasted. It must also be well soaked. Hare requires to be kept at a distance from the fire. ( Serve with melted butter in the dish, and send it to table f with liver-sauce, currant-jelly, and gravy. It is now I the fashion to bone hares, which greatly improves their !i appearance, lessons the difficulty of carving, and assists t in making the gravy. Break the bones, and stew them 1 in water and any small quantity of meat parings; boil 1 the liver of which the sauce is to be made in this gravy, l and add a little browning to give it a colour. TO ROAST HARE. After it is skinned, let it be extremely well washed, i and then soaked an hour or two in water; and, if old, I lard it, which will make it tender, as also will letting it } lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it ( should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. ^ Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then » sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and i afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the « neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to d the fire warm, will remove it; especially if you also nick t the skin here and there with a small knife to let it out. f The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at 1 first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, i and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For I stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a j little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, c crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears 1 must be nicely cleaned, and singed, and made crisp. 1 They are reckoned a dainty. TO CX)OK A HARE DERRYNANE FASHION.—E. R. I Take three or four eggs, a pint of new milk, a couple |i of handsful of flour; make them into a batter, and.