Cha?. I.] SOUPS. 31 1 watch it all the time till it is reduced to the thickness of a very thick syrup. Take the utmost care it does not hum, for a moment’s inattention at this stage would lose all the previous labour, and spoil the soup. Take a little out in a spoon, allow it to cool; if it sets into a strong jelly it is done enough, if it does not, boil it a little lotiger until it will jelly. Have ready some small I preserving-pots, let them be quite dry, pour the soup I into them, and let them stand until the next day. Set I a large flat-bottomed stewpan, one-third part filled with i boiling water, over a slow fire ; place the pots of soup 1 in this, taking care that the water does not reach the rim I of any, within two inches of the top. Let the pots stand j uncovered in this water, hot, without boiling, for six or I seven hours. This is the only way of bringing the soup I to a proper thickness ; it was before boiled up as high as it could be over the naked fire without burning; but that is insufficient without the aid of a water-bath, which is necessary to reduce it to the thickness of a stiff jelly whilst hot, which is the only way to ensure its being perfectly fine when cold. It will be now of the I consistence of thick, hard glue, and will remain good : for many months if kept in a cool dry place. Obs. The uses of this concentrated essence of meat I are numerous. As a general keeping stock it is the I most convenient basis for making extensive broths, ! soups, gravies, and sauces. To make a pint of broth, i pour a pint of boiling water upon a piece of the soup : the size of a small walnut, stir it till it is melted, add a ; little salt, and the broth is ready. If there should be i time and opportunity, there being no seasoning in the I soup either of herb or spice, boil a little parsley, thyme, . half an onion, and half a dozen peppercorns in the water I used to melt the soup; this will produce excellent j broth. An ounce of soup melted in a quart of gravy 1 will be just the same as the quart of gravy before being i boiled away, and it will always produce consomme of ( any degree of richness.