DOMESTIC COOKERY. 88 rCHAP. III. times boiled, with the loin cut in chops, fried, and sent round it. A. saddle of lamb has succeeded the fore- quarter in the estimation of the fashionable wmrld. Wlien the quarter is roasted whole the shoulder should be raised either at table or when dished, a slice of fresh butter laid upon the meat, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of a lemon. PORK.—E. R. This meat requires to be very well roasted. It is not the fashion to stuff it, as heretofore, with sage and onions, the meat frequently disagreeing with delicate persons, without the addition of so strong an adjunct. A part of the objection may be removed by boiling the sage and onions, and mixing them with bread-crumbs and a chopped apple; thus prepared, the stuffing will be found mild and of excellent flavour. The griskin and the sparerib are certainly improved by being powdered with chopped sage; but this is all a matter of taste : the skin of the leg and loin must be scored previous to roasting. Send both up with a glass of vinegar mixed with two tea- spoonsful of made mustard in the dish. Apple-sauce is an accompaniment of roast pork. Nothing, perhaps, that comes to table can be more indigestible ; and those who indulge in it should eat very sparingly. In country places, where veal is difficult to procure, pork may be disguised, and rendered a very good substitute. Cut a handsome fillet from the leg, take off the skin, remove the centre bone, stuff it exactly like veal, then roast it until it is three parts done, then put it into a stewpan with some weak broth. Let it stew till perfectly done ; then either thicken the gravy and serve it up with force- meat balls and slices of lemon, or send up the pork em- bedded in sorrel or tomato sauce—a puree, in fact, of either. Pork dressed in this manner has passed muster for veal; and families who kill pigs frequently will ob- tain an agreeable variety by pursuing the same plan. The griskin or sparerib would, be improved by this