The University Library Leeds Medical and Dental LibraryI ' ' ^CU'QM- <SLj24iaii'£ frnOi^aJ - /7P^ p. •'2 '^'j- DEMONSTKATIONS OF ANATOMY.DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY; BEIXC; A GUIDE TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE HUMAN BODY BT DISSECTION. BT GEORGE YINER iJEf^LIS, EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON. EIGHTH EDITION, REVISED. ILLUSTEATED BY 248 ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD. LONDON: SMITH, ELDEK, & CO., 15, WATEELOO PLACE. 1878. \_All rights reserved.']LONDON: BEADBURV, AGNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS, <i i' 17 6 0PREFACE. The plan of this work is designed to teach the Anatomy of the Human Body by dissection in successive stages after the following manner:— In the dissection of a Part the attention of the Student is directed first to the superficial prominences of bone and muscle, and to the hollows that point out the situation of the subjacent vessels. Next the cutaneous structures, and the different layers of muscles with their appertaining vessels and nerves are ex- amined in succession, so that the several objects between the surface of the Body and the bones may be observed in much the same order as they would be met with in a Surgical operation. And, lastly, the joints and ligaments receive due notice. In the dissection also of the viscera and the organs of the senses the manner in which the composition of each may be sho^ra, is fully indicated for the guidance of the Student. The Anatomical description of the Part under examination is arranged in conformity with the dissection in regions, and each muscle, bloodvessel, nerve, or other structure, is described only to such an extent as it may be laid bare.vi PREFACE. Since the publication of the last edition great changes have been made in textural Anatomy; and the chief of these, for which I am indebted to Quain's Anatomy, I have introduced into my account of the microscopic structure of the different organs. In this edition, as in the preceding ones, I have endeavoured to make the work more complete by the correction of inaccu- racies, and to render it more efficient as a guide to practical work. October, 1S78. G. Y. ELLIS.CONTENTS CHAPTER I. DIS.SECTIOX OF THE HEAD AND NECK. PAGE Section 1. External Parts of the Head 1 2. Internal Parts^of the Head 9 3. The Face 20 4. The Orbit 39 5. The Neck, right side 51 Posterior triangular space . . . . . 53 Front of the Neck 58 Anterior triangular space (JO 6. Pteiygo-maxiUary liegion SI 7. Submaxillary Piegiou 93 8. Superior Maxillary Nerve and Vessels 100 9. Dec]i Vessels and Nerves of the Neck 102 10. Left side of the Ncck 116 11. The Pharynx 121 12. The Mouth 132 13. Cavity of the Nose 131 14. Spheno-palatine and Otic Ganglia, Facial and Nasal Nerves, and Internal ^Maxillary Artery 139 15. The Tongue 148 16. The Larynx 154 17. Hyoid Bone, Cartilages and Ligaments of the Larynx, Struc- ture of the Trachea 162 18. Prevertebral Muscles and the Vertebral Vessels . , .168 19. Ligaments of the first two Cervical Vertebne, and of the Clavicle 171 CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BItAIN. 178 1S4 189viii CONTEXTS. PAGE Sfxtion 4. Tlie Cerebrum, or Great Brain The under Surface, or the Base 198 The ujiper Surface and Lohes .... . . 201 Convohitions 203 The Interior 208 Ventricles of the Brain . ...... 210 Floor of the lateral Ventricle 213 Central Parts of Cerebrum 215 Structure of the Cerebrum 219 5. The Cerebellum, or Little Brain 222 Surfaces and Lobes ........ 223 Structure of the Mass 226 Fourth Ventricle 227 CHAPTER III. DISSECTIOX OF THE UlTEll LIMB. Section 1. The Wall of the Thorax 236 The Axillary Space 240 2. Scapular Muscles, Vessels, Nerves, and Ligaments . . . 254 3. The Front of the Arm 263 Back of the Arm 273 4. The Front of the Forearm 276 5. The Palm of the Hand 28& 6. The Back of the Forearm 301 7. Ligaments of the Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist, and Hand . . 309 CHArTER IV. DISSECTIOX OF THE THORAX. Section 1. Cavity of the Thorax 326 The Pleura; 328 Connections of the Lungs ...... 330 The Pericardium 332 The Heart and its large Vessels 333 Nerves of the Thorax ....... 353 The Trachea, and the Characters and Structure of the Lung 357 Parts in Front of the Spine, and the Cord of the Sym- pathetic 361 Parietcs of the Thorax 36S 2. Ligaments of the Trunk 3q^ Articulation of the Ribs to the Vertebne . . . 370 Articulation of the Ribs to the Sternum . . . . 372 Articulations of the Sternum 372 Articulations of the Vertebra} .... . , 372CONTENTS. ix CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. PAGE First Layer of Muscles 381 Second Layer of Muscles 385 Third Layer of Muscles 388 Fourtli Layer of Muscles vdth Vessels and Nerves 389 Fifth Muscular Layer, and the Sacral Nerves 398 CHAPTER VI. DISSECTIOX OF THE SPINAL COJtD. Membranes of the Cord . 404 Boots of the Spinal Nerves 408 Vessels of the Cord 410 Form and Divisions of the Cord 411 Structiu-e of the Cord, and the deep Origin of the Nerves . . . . 413 Intraspinal Vessels 415 CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. Section 1. Perinreum of the Male 417 Posterior Half of the Space ...... 418 Anterior Half of the Sj)ace 423 Lateral Operatioii of Lithotomy ..... 432 2. Perinaium of the Female 433 CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section 1. Wall of the Abdomen 436 2. Hernia of the Abdomen 455 3. Cavity of the Abdomen 466 Connections of the Viscera 467 Peritoneum and its Folds 472 Mesenteric Vessels, and Part of the Sympathetic Nerve 476 Connections of the Aorta and Vena Cava . . . . 482 Connections of the Duodenum and Pancreas . . . 483 Cceliac Axis and Vena Portse 484 Sympathetic and Vagus Nerves 489 4. Anatomy of the Abdominal Viscera 491 The Stomach 491 The Small Intestine 495 The Large Intestine 501 The Pancreas 505X CONTEXTS. Section 4—continued. vag-e Tho Spleen 506 Thf Liver 507 The Gall Blacldpr 514 The Kidney aud the Ureter 515 The Suprarenal Body 521 The Testis and the Vas Deferens 522 5. Diaphragm with Aorta and Vena Cava .... 528 Deep Muscles of the Abdomen ...... 5B7 6. Lumbar Plexus and the Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve . 540 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section 1. Fascia of the Cavity and the Muscles of the Pelvic Outlet . 545 2. Connections of the Viscera in the Male .... 550 3. Connections of the Viscera in the Female . . . . 556 4. Vessels and Nerves of the Pelvis ...... 560 5. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Male . . . . . 569 The Prostate Gland aud the Seminal Vesicles . . 569 The Urinary Bladder 572 The Urethra and the Penis ...... 575 The Rectum 582 6. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Female 583 Genital Organs ........ 584 The Vagina 586 The Uterus 588 Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes 590 Bladder, Urethra, and Rectum ..... 593 7. Internal Mustdes of the Pelvis ...... 594 Articulations of the Pek is 595 CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWEll LIMB. Section 1. The Front of the Thigh 604 Femoral Hernia 612 Scarpa's Space 616 Deep Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves on the Front of the Thigh 620 Deep parts on the inner Side of the Thigh . . . 629 2. The Buttock, or the Gluteal Region 637 3. The Back of the Thigh 650 The Popliteal Space 651 Hamstring Muscles and Vessels 656 The Hip Joint 4. The Back of the Leg ggg 5. The Sole of the Foot 6. The Front of the Leg and the Dorsum of the Foot . . 688 7. Ligaments of the Knee, Ankle, aud Foot . . . . 097CONTENTS. xi CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. PAGE Sclerotic Coat and Cornea 723 Choroid Coat and Ciliaiy Processes 726 Ciliary Muscle 728 The Iris .... ........ 729 Ciliary Vessels and Nerves 730 Chamber of the Aqueous Humour 731 The Retina and Jacob's Membrane 731 Vitreous Body, and Hyaloid ilcmbrane, with the Suspensory Ligament, and the Canal of Petit . . , . . . . . . 735 Crystalline Lens and its Capsule 737 CHAPTER XI. DISSECTION OF THE EAK. The Auditory Canal 739 The Tympanum, with its Vessels and Nerves 741 Ossicles of the Tympanum, and their Muscles and Ligaments . . . 744 The Osseous Labyi-inth of the Inner Ear 749 Vestibule 749 Semicircular Canals 750 Cochlea, its Septum and Passages 751 Organ of Corti 755 The Membranous Sacs, or Labyrintli 756 Utricle 756 Saccule 756 Bloodvessels of the Labyrinth 758 Nerves of the Cochlea and Membranous Sacs 758DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Section I. EXTERNAL PAKTS OF THE HEAD. Directions. In the dissection of the head and neck, the student Parts to hi should endeavour to learn the parts described in the first fifty- tifg body^Ls ^ eight pages, before the position of the body is changed ; but if turned, want of time necessitates an omission of some part, the examina- tion of the facial nerve (p. 35.) can be best deferred till a subse- quent stage. The orbit on one side, the posterior triangular space on both sides of the neek, and the exterior and the interior of the head, should be examined whilst the body lies in it& first position on the Back. Position. The student begins with the dissection of the scalp and Position oi the muscles of the ear. To obtain the best position, raise the head ^^^^ to a suitable height, and turn the face to the right side. On the left side the muscles are to be seen, and on the opposite half the vessels and nerves are to be displayed. Extrinsic muscles of the Ear. Three muscles attach the ear Muscles of to the side of the head. Two are above it, one elevating, the other drawing it forwards ; and the third, a retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special or intrinsic muscles of the cartilage of the ear, which will be afterwards described. Dissection. When the ear has been drawn down by hooks, the Dissection position of the upper muscle will be indicated by a slight pi-o- muscres, minence between it and the head ; and the muscular fibres may be laid bare by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than the skin ;—One is to be carried upwards on the side of the head, for about three inches, along the cutaneous ridge before mentioned ; and the other, about the same length, is to be directed from before backwards close above the ear, so that the two may join at a right angle. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from belowDISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 2 i)f posterior laiiscle. Attrahciis auioni muscle. Attolleiis atirein muscle. Uctrahcns aureni cou- sist.i of two or three buuales. Use of car inu.scle.s. t)cciiiito- frontali.s, liow .seen ; take care not to cut it away. upwards, and removing the subjacent tissue, a thin fan-shaped muscular layer will come into view—the more anterior fibres consti- tuting the attrahens, and the posterior the attollens aurem muscle. On drawing forwards the eaa- a ridge marks the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be drawn about ao inch behind the ear, from the transverse cut above as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobuJe. Aftei- the piece of skin included by those cuts has been reflected towards the ear, the retrahent nanscle must be sought beneath the subcutaneous tissue ; it consists of rounded bundles of fibres, and is stronger and deeper than the others. The ATTRAHENS AUREM (fig. 1, is a small fan-shaped muscle, and ai'ises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- fi-ontalis. Its fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. Beneath it are tlie superficial temporal vessels and nerve. The ATTOLLENS AUREM (fig. 1, has the same form as the preceding, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Arising also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear,—into an eminence corresponding with a fossa (that of the anti-helix) on the opposite aspect. The RETRAHENS AUFREM (musculi retrahentes, Alb., fig. 1, con- sists of two or three roundish but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. Tlie bundles arise from ihe root of the mastoid process, and pass almost transversely forwards to be inserted by aponeurotic fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) at its cranial aspect. The ^wsterior auricular artery and nerve are in contact with this muscle. Action. The three preceding muscles will move the outer ear slightly in the directions indicated by their names : the anterior drawing it upwards and forwards, the middle one upwards, and the posterior backwards. The occiPiTO-FRONTALTS MUSCLE (fig. 1, ^) covers the arch of the skull, and consists of an anterior and a posterior fleshy part, with an intervening tendon. Dissection. On the same side of the head (the left) the occipito- frontalis is to be dissected. To bring this muscle into view, a cut may be made along the middle line of the skull, from the root of the nose to the occipital protuberance ; and it may be connected in front with the transverse incision on the side of the head. The flap of skin, thus marked out, is to be raised with the subjacent fat from before back ; whilst doing this the dissector will meet first with the anterior fleshy part of the muscle, next with a white shining thin aponeurosis, and lastly with the posterior fleshy belly towards the lateral aspect of the cranium. The aponeurosis of the muscle is easily taken aAvay with the granular fat superficial to it; and if the under surface of the flap of integuments presents a wliite instead of a yellow appearance, the student may suspect he is removing that aponeurosis.OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS MUSCLE. •3 The anterior or frontal part C) is a thin muscular layer over the Frontal OS frontis, which is said to take its origin below. Along the line of tlie eyebrow the fibres are blended with the following muscles, orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, and pyramidalis nasi; and they are also fixed to the subjacent bone, viz., to the os nasi Fig. 1.* internally, and to the outer angular process of the frontal bone externally (Theile). From these attachments the fibres are directed upwards to the aponeurosis, and end in it rather below the level of Ending, the coronal suture. The posterior or occipital part C) is stronger than the anterior ; Ocnipital it arises from the outer half or two thirds of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The fibres are about one inch and a half in length, and how ascend to the aponeurosis. attaeiied. The tendon, or epicranial aponeurosis, extends OA'-er the upper part Aponeu- of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the """^'^' .same structure of the opposite half of the head. On the side it it. attacii- gives origin to the auricular muscles ; and a thin membrane is here prolonged from it OA^er the fascia covering the temporal muscle, to be fixed to the side of the head. Posteriorly, the aponeurosis is attached to the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone between the fleshy parts of the muscles of opposite sides. The aponeurotic expansion is closely united to the skin ; but it is connected to the * Extrinsic muscles of the ear. 1.5, Attollens aurem. 16, Attrahens aurem. 17, Retrahens aurem only partly seen. B 24 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. and connec- tions. Use of an- terior and posterior belly. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia. Attach- ments, connections, and layers. To see tem- ]ioial muscle. Temporal muscle. Origin. iTisertion and connections Use. pericraninm only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull. Superficial to the occipito-frontalis are the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the scalp. In front the fleshy fibres of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it elevates the eye- brow, making smooth the skin at the root of the nose, and wrink- ling transversely that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move back the scalp; and the bellies acting in succession will cany the hairy scalp forwards and backwards. Dissection. After the removal of the superior auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull ; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with its artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it near the zygoma is to be taken away. The difference in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower end. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend, converging to a tendon, which is inserted into the under surface and fore part of the coronoid process of the lower jaw. On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle underneath the zygomatic arch will be afterwards followed. The temporal belongs to the group of masticatory muscles ; and its action will be refeiTed to with the description of the pterj^^-oid region.5 CUTANEOUS ARTERIES. Dissection. For the dissection of the vessels and nerves, let How to the face be now turned to the left side, and let an incision be oifi^fgiit^^"^ carried along the eyebrow and the zygomatic arch to a little behind side, the ear, so as to allow the skin on the right half of the head to be reflected. The flap of skin is to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the skin should be raised as on the other side, to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and nei-ve. Along the eyebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves Seek nerves which come from the orbit (fig. 2), viz., the supra-orbital vessels oJf^iig^'*'^^^ and nerve opposite the middle, and the supra-trochlear nerve and front; frontal vessels near the inner part of the orbit; they lie at first beneath the occipito-frontalis, and the muscular fibres must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial on the side temporal vessels and nerve are to be traced to the veitex ; and above the zygomatic arch the branches of the facial which join an offset of the superior maxillaiy nerve, are to be sought. Behind the ear the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and behind ear, below it branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the ear, are to be found ; one or more offsets of the last should be followed to their junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital vessels, at the bank also the large and small occipital nerves, should be denuded ; the ° ' former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. Cutaneous Arteries. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 2), are vessels of furnished by the internal and external carotid ti-unks, and anasto- "'^''^^i'- mose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supra-orbital and firontal, come from the former; whilst three, viz., the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular, belong to the latter. The supra-orbital artery (c) leaves the orbit through the notch in Supra-orbi- the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some of its branches are superficial to the occipito-fi-ontalis, and ascend to the top of the head ; whilst others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The frontal branch (b) is close to the inner angle of the orbit, Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The superficial temporal artery (d) is one of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After ascending above the S^'"'''^ zygomatic arch for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior :— The anterior branch runs forwards with a serpentine course to anterior and the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery : this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken fi'om the temporal artery.6 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. postorior I'laiich. Oooipital artery. Posterior auricular. Veirs of the scalp; how they join other veins. Nerves of the scalp Suprn-orhi- tal nerva ; its two ciita- neous and The X)osterior branch is larger than the other, and arches hack- wards above the ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its offsets to the parts around are similar to those of the anterior, and it communicates with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. Occijntal artery (a). The tenninal part of this artery, after perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-frontalis muscle. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the follow- ing artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipito-fron- talis muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. The posterior auricular artery (/) appears in front of the mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mastoid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital arteiy. The other (auricular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and the back of the pinna of the ear ; and an offset fi-om this pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. The VEINS of the exterior of the head are so similar to the arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the veins corresponding with branches of the internal carotid ailery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and witli the veins occupying the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, where it receives the supra-orbital vein, the two giving rise to the angular vein of the face : near its ending it receives small veins from the eyebrow, and from the upper eyelid and the nose. Both the superficial temporal and posterior auricular veins open into the external jugular ; and the occipital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 2). The nerves of the scalp are fur- nished from cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spinal nerves. The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few twigs from the facial nen^e. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primary branches), except close behind the ear, where there is an offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The supra-orbital nei-oe (fig. 2, *) comes from the first trunk of the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion artery; Avhilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nerve gives offsets to it and the orbicularis palpebrarun), as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication is estab- lished between this and the facial ner\^e. Finally the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify in the teguments: One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The other branchCUTANEOUS NEEVES. (oiitcr) is of larger size, and, perforating the muscle higher up, extends over the arch of the head as far as the ear. As the nerve escapes from the supra-orbital notch it furnishes palpebral some palpebral filaments to the up'per eyelid. luanches. Fig. 2.* At the inner ajigle of the orbit is the small supra-trochlear Supra-iroeii- hranch (fig. 2, of the same nerve. It ascends to the forehead ^^''"^"^ '^"''■"''iij close to the bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the * Cutaneous nerves of the scalp. 1. Great auricular nerve. 2. Small occipital. 3. Great occipital. 4. Posterior auricular of the facial. Auriculo- temporal (not numbered) in front of the ear, by the side of the temporal artery, d. 5. Supra-trochlear. 6. SuiJi-a-orbital. 10. Superficial temporal of the upper maxillary, and crossing it are the superficial temporal branches of the facial nerve. Cutaneous arteries of the scalp, a. Occiitital artery. h Frontal, c. Supra-orbital, d. Superficial temporal. /. Posterior auri- cular. A. Lateral superficial temporal.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 8 ItaliHibral Lraiicli. Temiwral nerves; of suiierioi- inaxillaiy; of inferior maxillary. branch and of facial nerve.. Posterior auricular nerve has integument. Branches are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercihi, and some palpebral twigs enter the eyelid. The superjicial temporal nei-ves are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig (fig. 2, which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cutali^us, Hie nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates -with the facial nerve, also some- times with the next. "" "^ '•' -. . The auricxilo-temijoral branch (fig. 2, of the inferior maxillary nerve (third tyunk of thes-fifth) lies near the ear, and accoili-panies the temporal'artery ^;o tlXe_top of the head. As soon, as the nerve emerges from beneath the parotid glancj, it divides into two terminal branches :—The more posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens aurem muscle and the integument above the ear. The other branch ascends vertically , in the teguments to its auricular the top of the head. The nerve also furnishes an (luricular branch (upper) to the anterior part of the ear above the auditory na^tus. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed upwards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the ■orbicularis palpebrarum muscle: they will be described with the dissection of the trunk of the facial nen'e. The posterior auricular nerve (fig. 2, ■*) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an •auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express:— The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure, and furnishes offsets to the integuments. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pinna. The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The great occipital (fig. 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the^ back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing from the posterior primary branch of -the second cer%acal nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets ; these spread over tlie posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle' ending mostly in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nen-e; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cei-vical plexus (fig. 2, ") lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and Ts continued occipital branch, ami auricu- lar. Great auri- cular nerAe. Great occipi tal nerve: Junctions. Small occi- rital nerve9 DUEA MATER. upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, viz. the posterior auricular and great occipital. Usually this nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the ear at the cranial aspect, has an which supplies also the attollens aurem muscle. brauei! Section IL INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to be opened, but before sawing Dissection the bone the dissector should detach, on the right side, the temporal gkuU^" ^^^^ nmscle nearly down to the zygoma, without separatmg the fascia of the same name from the fleshy fibres; and all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the fore- head, and as low as the protubei"ance of the occiput. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only through the thTOugi"the outer osseous plate. The inner plate is to be broken through with ^oae. a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the fingers between the cut surfaces in front, and the dura mater will then come into view. The DURA MATER is the most external of the membranes in- Dura mater, wsting the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, which serves as an endosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now the bone is separated Appearance from it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes; but these surface, are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attach- ment of the dura mater to the bone is the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen along Glands of the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable; ^''^'^cliioni. they are found but seldom before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the interior of the dura Cut through mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to the margin mater. ' of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised towards the top of the head ; and on the right side the veins connecting it with the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is smooth and polished; and inner this appearance is due to an epithelial layer similar to that lining serous membranes. This external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous and structure,10 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. and jirocesses- Falx. Form and attac.h- iiients. Eoi'dcrs. Sinuses in it. Superior elastic tissues so disposed as to give rise to two strata, viz. an external or endosteal, and an internal or supporting. At certani spots those layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, which dips in the middle line between the hemispheres of the large brain. Its form and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated fi'om it. Narrow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens posteriorly, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater naiBed the tentorium cerebelli. The upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the occipital protuberance; and the lower or free border^ concave, is turned towards the central part of the brain (corpus callosum), with wliich it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses:—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The superior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, h) extends from the bhius'^"'^'"'^^ ethmoid bone to the occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, when pressure is made from before back with the finger along the middle line of the brain. When the sinus is opened it is seen tO' be narrow in front, and to Aviden behind, where it ends in a common point of union of certain sinuses (torcular Heropbili) at the centre of the occipital its interior, bone. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the ai^ex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched smarll tendinous- cords —chord33 Willisii—near the ope»ings of some of the cerebral veins. Occasionally small glandulae Pacchioni are present in the sinus. The sinus receives small veins from the substance and exterior of the skull, and larger ones fi-om the brain ; and the blood flows backwards in it. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the posterior part of the braiia, and lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate the dura mater; their course is directed from behind forwards, so that the current of the blood in them is evidently opposed to that in the sinus: this disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of thse brain, where the parts are undisturbed. Directions. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, the brain must be taken from the head. To facilitate its- removal, let the head incline backwards, whilst tl;e shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the di^nsion of the cranial nei-ves a sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nen-'es are to be cut longer on the one side than on the other. Removal of the Irain. As a first step cut across the anterior part Situation, and ending Veins open- ing into it. Current of Mood iu it. Dirertions for removal of brain. Mode of pro-EEMOVAL OF BRAIN. 11 of the falx cerebri, and the different cerebral veins entering the ceeding, and longitudinal sinus; raise and throw backwards the falx, but leave i'.'JI^,!,^.'?^ it uncut in the middle line behind. Gently raise with the fingers the frontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of the large brain. Next Anterior cut through the internal carotid artery and the second and third ^5^^^'^.'^"*' ners'-es, which then appear; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. A small branch of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at this time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. A strong horizontal process of next the the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view at the back of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath: the following ners'^es, which will be then visible, are to be di^^ded in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth posterior nerve, consisting of a large and small root; whilst towards the ' middle line of the skull is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the three trunks of the eighth nerve in one line:—of these, the upper small piece is the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the pneumo-gastric; and the long round nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the spinal accessory. The remaining nerve nearer the middle line is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, am! they wind round the upper part of the spinal cord. Lastly, cvrt across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of lastly, the the spinal nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing ^^^^^^• the first two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be taken readily from the skull in the left hand. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- How to pre- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures through '\)j-Mn. them on the under surface, the brain may be immersed in spirit to harden the texture ; and methylated s.pirit may be used on account of its cheapness. Placing the brain upside down on a piece of calico long enough to wrap over it, put it in the spirit. Examination of the hrain. At the end of two or three days the ^^^"^['VJ' dissector should examine the other membranes, and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow the spirit to penetrate its substance.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 12 Directions. Dura mater in base of skull; its prolonga- tions and connec- tions to bone. Tentorium oerebelli; surface-s. edges, and the sinuses in it. Falx- cerebri. Falx cerebcUi The description of the brain and its vessels will be found after that of the head and neck. Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For this purpose raise the head to a convenient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull while studying the following parts. Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it dips into the different inequalities of the osseous surfaces ; and it sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found to send a prolongation into the foramen caecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and througlnTie-Optic foramen a covering is coirEmued on the optic nerve to the eyeTJair Behind the sella Turcica, the dura mater adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly united. The tentorium cerehelli is the piece of the dura mater which is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small brain (cerebellum), and the posterior part of the large brain (cere- brum). Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed latei'ally for the reception of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres. Its under surface touches the little brain, and is joined by the falx oerebelli. The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or convex part is connected to the following bones :— occipital (transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus ; and in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinus on each side. Falx cerebri. The characters of this fold have been given in page 10. The Fahc cerehelli has the same position below the tentorium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the middle ridge of the occipital bone below the protuberance, and projects between the hemispheres of the small brain. Its base is directed to the ten- torium ; and the apex reaches the foramen magnum, to each sideSINUSES OF CRANIUM. 13 of which it gives a small slip. In it is contained the occipital contains sinus. occipital sinus. The SINUSES are venous spaces between the layers of the dura Sinuses of mater, into which blood is received. All the sinuses open either into a large space named torcular Herophili, opposite the occipital protuberance ; or into the two cavernous sinuses on the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone. A. The TORCULAR Herophili (fig. 3, a) is placed in the tentorium, Occipital opposite the centre of the occipital bone. It is of an in-egular cdves Fig. 3.^ shape, and numerous sinuses open into it, viz., the superior longi- tudinal above, and the occipital below; the straight in front, and the lateral sinus on each side. The superior longitudinal sinus has been already described (see superior p. 10). The inferior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, c) resembles a small vein, inferior lon- and is contained in the lower border of the falx cerebri at the 8»tuduuii. posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and the larger brain, and ends in the straight sinus (d) at the edge of the tentorium. The straight sinus (fig. 3, d) lies along the middle of the ten- Straight torium, and seems to continue the preceding sinus to the common point of union. Its form is triangular, like the superior longi- tudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of the large brain, and some small veins from the upper part of the cerebellum. The occipital sinus (fig. 3, g) is a small space in the falx cere- Occipital belli, which reaches to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood ^"^ from the occipital fossfB. This sinus may be double. The lateral sinus (fig. 3, e) is the channel by which most of tlie Lateral * Some of the sinuses of the skull, a. Torcular Herophili. h. Superior longitudinal sinus, c. Inferior longitudinal, d. Straight sinus, e. Lateral sinus. (J. Occipital sinus. /. Superior, and h, inferior petrosal sinus.14 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. jiosition to lioiie. ami sinuses joiuiug it: situation in tlie foramen .iugulare. Dissection. \ Cavernous sinus lias nerves in outer wall : contains carotid ai-tery and sixth nerve and is joined by the fol- lowing sinuses, viz. Circular sinus. blood passes from the skull. There is one on each side, right and left, which extends from the occipital protuberance to the foramen jugulare, where it ends in the internal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus occupies the winding groove in the interior of the skull between the two points of bone before mentioned: and the riglit is frequently larger than the left. Besides small veins fi-om the brain, it is joined by the superior petrosal sinus (/), opposite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and by the inferior petrosal (h) at the fora- men jugulare. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with veins of the diploe of the skull. The foramen jugulare is divided into three compartments by bands of the dura mater. Through the posterior interval the lateral sinus passes ; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus ; and through the central one the pieces of the eighth nerve. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve : behind the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a blow-pipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS SINUS, which has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The piece of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve ; these lie in their numerical order from above down. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shreds of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel • but all these are shut out fi'om the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit some inferior cerebral veins, and twigs from the pterygoid veins outside the skull. It comnmnicates with its fellow on the opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses ; and its blood is trans- mitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and inferior petrosal channels. The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and reaches from the one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle line Besides serA'ing as the means of communication between those15 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. sinuses, it receives small veins from the pituitary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process of the Transverse occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and unites the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second trans- ^ verse sinus is sometimes found nearer the foramen magnum. The superior petrosal sinus (Hg. 3, /) lies in a groove in the Supoiior upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends i'®*^'^^'^^' between the caA^ernous and lateral sinuses. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another from the internal ear, are received into it. The inferior petrosal simis (fig. 3, h) extends between the same inferior sinuses as the preceding, and lies in a groove along the line of i****'"^®*^ junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein from the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum in the base of the cranium. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium Arteries of and the dura mater come through the base of the skull ; they have ^"g'.'^'"^**^'' been named from their situation in the tlu-ee fossfe, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are veiy small branches of the ethmoidal Anterior arteries (p. 46), which enter the skull by apertures between the ° ' frontal and ethmoid bones : they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number : two, named Miildle large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk; "'^""'S^''^'' and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillaiy artery from inter- appears through the foramen epinosum of the sphenoid bone, lary; and ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the cranium, and ends in ramifications which spread over the side of the head, some of them reaching to the top and the occiput, whilst others perforate the bone, and end on the exterior of the head. Two veins accompany the artery. Branches. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, gives , , , 1 ^ . , branches to it furnishes branches to the dura mater and osseous structure, and dura mater to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small oflrset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone and bone. (Hyrtl). One or two branches pass into the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. b. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large oneSmal^ outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale ""'""'S'^'^ to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal ^Jfending artery comes through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). This piiaryngeai. is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The j^osterior meningeal branches are small, and are furnished by the occipital and vertebral arteries.16 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. from occipi- tal antl vertebral. Nen'es of dura mater. Cranial ner\ es in tlie base of the skull: only i>artly seen. Olfactory nerve, ends in the nose. Optic nerve enters the eye. Dissection of third and fourth nerves; of fifth nerve Motor oculi nerve Tliat from the occipital, one on each side, enters the skull by the jugular foramen ; and that from the vertebral arises opposite the foramen magnum. Both vessels ramifj' in the posterior fossa of the skull. Meningeal Nerves. Offsets to the dura mater are said to be derived fi-om the fourth, fifth, glosso-pharyngeal, and vagus, cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic nerve. To make tliese nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid. Cranial Nerves (fig. 4). The cranial nerves pass from the encephalon through apertures in the base of the skull. As each leaves the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed:—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve ; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane is reflected back, after a short distance, to the interior of the skull. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, receive sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. The nerves will be referred to now as nine pairs, but ndfice will be subsequently taken of a different mode of enumerating them. Only part of the course of each nerve will be seen at this stage, the rest will be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The FIRST NERVE (fig. 33) ends anteriorly in the enlargement of the olfactory bulb. This swelling lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies about twenty branches to the nose through the small foramina in the STi^acent bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, and their arrangement will be noticed in the dissection of the nose. The SECOND NERVE (fig. 4, *) diverging from its commissure to the eyeball, enters the orbit through the optic foramen ; accom- panying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection. The tliird and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and to see them, it will be necessary to trace them through the dura mater towards the orbit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the^ fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 4, taking away the dura mater from them, and fi-om the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the front of the ganglion arise other two large trunks besides the ophthalmic, viz., superior and inferior maxillary, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit fi-om the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely fi-om the bone near the nerves a better dissection will be obtained. The THIRD NERVE (fig. 4, is destined for the muscles of the orbit. It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is deprived at that spot of its tube of arach- noid membrane. In the wall of the sinus it is placed above' theNERVES IN BASE OF SKULL. other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, it sinks below the fourth and a part of the fifth, and divides into two branches. ' Near the orbit the nerve is joined by one or two delicate fila- passes to ments of the cavernous plexus (p. 20). The FOURTFi NERVK (fig. 4, courses forwards, like the pre-Tiochicai- ceding, to one muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the " Fig. 4.» nerves in the wall of the sinus, and is placed below the third ; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it rises higher than all the other nerves. In the wall of the sinus the fourth nerve is joined by twigs of in the wall the sympathetic ; and it is sometimes united with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth. Fifth Nerve (fig. 4, This nerve is distributed to the face Trifacial and head, and consists of two parts or roots—a large or sensory, two roots, and a small or motory. The large root of the nerve passes through an aperture in the La^sc root, * Cranial nerves in the base of the skull. The dura mater has been removed in the middle fossa, on tlie left side, to show the nerves in the wall of the cavernous sinus, and especially the ganglion, and the three trunks of the fifth nerve. Each nerve, except the first which is absent, is marked by its corresponding numeral. On the right side the dura mater is untouched, f OflFsets to the dura mater from the fifth nerve.18 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Gaaserian {ganglion on it; gives three branches. Small root. Difference in the use of the roots. Ophthalmic nerve enters orbit. supplies ilura mater in its course. Abduccns nerve is in cavernous sinus; .lonis syni- ]iatlietic. Seventh dura mater into tlie middle fossa of the biisi- of the skull, where it ends immediately in the Gasseriau p:aiif?lio)i. The fjangllon of the root of the Jifth nen-e ((fasserian ganglion), placed in a depression on the point of the i)etrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and is nearly as wide as the thumb- nail. The ujjper surface of the ganglion i.s closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, whose convexity looks forwards. Some filaments from the jilrxus of the sympa- thetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the thi'ce following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and liigliest, is destined for the orbit and forehead. Next in c)rder is th(i superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below tlie orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, ]iasses through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, tlie lower pait of the face, and the. tongue. The .smaller root, entering the same tube of the diu-a matci- as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion, without comnmni- cating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion whicli are unconnected with Uiv smaller or motor root, viz. the oijlithalmic and superior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, wliicli is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. But the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve has not this double function, for the motor root is mixed almost exclusively with the part which supplies the nuiscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, therefore, chiefly that small piece of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nerve. The ophthalmic nerve is the oidy one of the three trunks whicli needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sphenoidal Assure and the orbit to the forehead. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it divides into three l)ranches (ji. 40). In this situation it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig- 4, t) to that part of the dura mater ^hich forms the. tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 4, «) enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital nuiscles It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid hone and crosses the space of the cavernous simis, instead of lyino- in the outer wall with the other nei-ves. ^ In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery ; and it is joined by one or two large branches of the sympathetic nen^o surrounding that vessel Seventh Nerve according to AVillis (fig. 4,' "). This cranialINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 19 nerve consists of two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter uervc has the meatus auditorius internus. In the bottom of tlie meatus Ihey separate ; the facial nerve courses through the aciueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to tlie internal ear. EuiHTii Nhrve (fig. 4, ^). Three trunks are combined in tlie Eiglitu eighth cranial nen'-e of Willis, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- tiT^GiMiU; gastric, and spinal accessory. All three pass through the central compartment of the foramen jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of the membranes of tiie brain. The glosso-pharyn- their pas- geal nerve is external to the other two, being separated from them foi°a„*en^"°'' by the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the jugulare. 'dura mater and the arachnoid membrane ; b\it the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves are inclosed in the same tube of the diua mater, only a piece of the arachnoid intervening between them. The NINTH NEiiVK (fig. 4, is the motor nerve of the tongue, and Ninth nerve, consists of two small pieces, which pierce separately the dura mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these unite after passing through that aperture. DiHsection. The dissector may now return to the examination of Dissection the trunk of the carotid artery as it winds through the cavernous ^^ c'lrotul, sinus. On the opposite side of the head, viz. that on which the nerves of sjnnpa- in the wall of the cavernous sinus are untouched, an attempt may *i^es'l^ be made to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid arteiy, thotigh in an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of these (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid cavernous, process ; and to bring it into view it will be necessary to cut off that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between tliem and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth carotid, nerves, surrounds the artery as this enters the sinus. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in tlie base of the skull internal nt the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In its |'^.[yry^ ascent to the brain the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to look like the letter S reclined. At first, the artery ascends to the posterior clinoid process ; it is then winds directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of the same (.avenu.us name ; and lastly it turns upwards internal to this last point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The hranchea of the artery here are few. In the sinus there are Branches to some small arteries (arteriie receptaculi) for the supply of the dura ^ mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body ; and at the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. c 220 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. foruis carotid plexus. cavernous plexus; niiion with cranial nerve Sw Distribn tioii. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissec- tion of the base of the brain. Sympathetic SYMPATHETIC Nerve. Aronnd the carotid artery is a prolongation of the synipatlietic nerv'C of the neck, wliich forms the following plexuses:— The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nei-ve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous jilexus is placed below the bend of the arteiy which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is connected with that offset of the upper cervical ganglion Avhich courses along the inner side of tlie carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and oi^hthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming those plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost claiefly in the cerebral membrane named pia mater; but some ascend on the cerebral and ophthalmiitj- branches of that vessel, and one offset is said to enter the eyeball with the central artery of the retina. Petrosal nerves (fig. 34). Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the larrje superficial x>etrosal nerve (fig. 34,'-) entering the liiatus Fallopii to join the facial nei-ve. Externally to this is occasionally seen another small j?)e/rosa? nerve (fig. 34, (external sujierficial), whicrt springs fi'om the sympathetic on the middle meningeal ai-teiy, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve. A third, the small x>etrosal' nerve (fig. 34, is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source, and the destination of those three small nerve& will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to note the two first, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of the teguments should be stitched together over all. Three petro- sal nei-ves. Two seen in base of skull. Directions for preser- Ting parts. Section III. DISSECTIOX OF THE FACE. Directions. Directions. The left side of the face may be used for Icarnino- the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position of Position. The previous position of the body for the examination of the base of the skull will require to be changed :—the head is. to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dissected is to be placed upwards. Dissection. Dissection. As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres of the apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity21 MUSCLES OF NOSE. •of tow or cotton wool between the eyelids and the eyeball, and between tlie lips and the teeth. First lay bare the sphincter muscle of the eyelids by a skin-deep How to circular incision over the margin of the orbit, and by raising the s'khrfrom skin of the lids towards the aperture of the eye. Much care must "^"^ j^ be taken in detaching the skin from the thin and oftentimes pale*^^^' ^' fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, else they will be cut f'e away in consequence of the little areolar tissue between the two. ' Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face by one incision in front of the ear, from above the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw, and then along the base of the jaw to the chin; and by another cut carried backwards horizontally from the comer of the mouth into the first. The flaps of skin are to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On the side of tlie nose the skin is closely imited to the from the rgubjacent parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the "'^^ mouth are many fleshy slips extending both upwards and down- wards from the orbicular muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape injury, with the exception of the small risorius nmscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards the ramus of the lower jaw. Whilst removing the fat from the and around muscles, each fleshy slip may be made tense with hooks. mouth. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as Uncial the muscles are cleaned ; but the nerves may be disregarded on vessels this side. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, whose duct is to be and parotid preserN'-ed; tlus is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and ^^^^^ pierces the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face (fig. 6). The superficial muscles of the in the face face are gathered around the apertures of the nose, eye, and mouth. glrrouS*^* An orbicular or sphincter muscle encircles the apertures of the the eye and mouth ; and other muscles are blended with each to ^i'^^*"''^*- tnlarge the opening in the centre of the fibres. There are three distinct groups of muscles : one of the eyelids ; another of the nostril; and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One of the muscles of mastication, viz. the masseter, is seen between the jaws. Muscles of the Nose. These muscles are the following: pyra- Muscles of midalis nasi, compressor naris, levator al® nasi, dilatator naris, and ^^^se. depressor alae nasi. The PYRAMiDALis NASI (fig. 5, ^) is a small fleshy slip that covers Pyramidalis the nasal bone, and is continuous above with the occipito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous part of the nose its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins that of the compressor naris. Along its inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Action. This muscle makes tight the skin over the nasal carti- Use. lages, but renders lax, and sometimes wrinkles transversely the skin towards the root of the nose. CoMrRESSOR Naris. This muscle (fig. 5, •'') is not well seeji tdl Compressor after the examination of the following one. Triangular in shape, "^^"s. it arises by its apex from the canine fossa of the upper maxillaryDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 Use. Elevator of wing of nose. Fig. 5* Use, bone. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, whicli covers the cartilaginouSr part of the nose, and joins the tendon of the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the next—the common elevator o£ the ala of the nose and the upper lip. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose. The LEVATOR LABii surERiORis AL^EQUK NASI (fig. 5, ') is placed by the side of the nose, and arises from the top of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attachment of the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a narrow slip to. the wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly witli tlie orbicularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is i)artly con- cealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Action. As the name expresses, it can, raise the ujjper lip, and draw outwards the Aving of the nose, dilating the aperture but Avhen the mouth is shut it can enlarge the nostril independently of the lip. Dilatator Naris. In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore- and back part of that ajjerture (fig. 5, and to which the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom visible without anterior and a lens. The anterior slip, passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril ; and the posterior, arising fi'om tlie upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raising and everting the outer edge. The DEPRESSOR AhM NASI (fig. 5/') will be seen if the upper lip is. eveiied, and the mucous membrane is removed from the side of the frsenum of the lip. It arises below the nose from a dejiression of the upper jawbone above the roots of the second incisor and canine teeth ; and ascends to be inserted into the septum nasi and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size. Muscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow are four in number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator Dilator of nostril; posterior parts. Use. Depressor of wing. Use. Four mus- cles of ej'c- lids. * Muscles of the nose. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alas nasi. 7. Orbicularis oris, attached to the septum nasi.MUSCLES OF EYELIDS. 23 supercilii, levator palpobne superioris, and tensor tarsi * : the two latter are dissected in tlie orbit, and will be described with it. Tlie ORBICULARIS PALl'F.nUARUM (fig. 6, ") is the sphincter muscle Orbicularis closinj^ the opening botwepn the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, ^^,',1^^'^'*' which extends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumfer- ence of the orbit. From a difference in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer and inner, two parts. The external Jihres (orbital part), the best marked, are fixed only Orbital oi- at one point, viz., the inner angle of the orbit. This attachment (origin) is connected with the surface and borders of the small Internally, tendo palpebrarum; above that tendon with the nasal process of the upper maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; and below the tendon with the superior maxillary bone, and the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, gi\nng rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards tlie outer edge of the muscle where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. The internal fibres (palpebral i)art), paler and finer than the internal or A^j oiiter, occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner part^^'^^' ' *" angles of tlie orbit. Internally (origin) they are umted Avith the attached at tendo palpebrarum, and externally (insertion) with the external ^^^^ tarsal ligament and the malar bone, and some few may blend with ^ the orbital part. Close to the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form a Ciliary small pale bundle, which is sometimes called ciliar]/. bundle. The nuiscle is subcutaneous ; and its circumference is blended Connection above witli tlie occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the ' orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; and beneatii the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres arc joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The inner fibres cause the lids to approach each other. Use of inner shutting the eye ; and in forced contraction the outer connnissurc is drawn inwards. In closure of the eye the lids move unequally —the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. AMien the outer fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the outer fibres, skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper hp follows contraction of the outer part of the orbicularis, in consequence of fibres being prolonged to the levatoi- labii superioris. The CORRUGATOR RUi'KRCiLii is beneath the orbicularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the mner part ot the superciUary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed outwards to ioin the orbicular muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It blends with 1 ,, 1 J- j-i „ orbicularis. IS a short muscle, and is distmguished by the closeness ot its nbies. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the Use. * The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of tlie orbicularis.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. eyebrow, wrijikling vertically the skiii near the nose, and stretching that outside its point of insertion. Muscles of Muscles of the Mouth. The muscles of the aperture of the the mouth, jnouth consist of a sphincter ; an elevator of the upper lip and angle of the mouth ; an elevator and depressor of the lower lip and angle of the mouth; and retractors of the corner. Lastly, a wide muscle of the cheek closes the space between the jaws. Fig. 6.* Sphincter of the mouth consists of two parts, inner or circular, not fixed to tone. Outer irregiilar, The ORBICULARIS ORIS MUSCLE (lig. 6, surrounds the opening of the mouth, and is united with the several muscles acting on that aperture. It consists of two parts, inner and outer, which differ in the appearance and aiTangement of the fibres, like the sphincter muscle of the eyelids. The inner part (fig. 5,'), whose fibres are pale in colour and fine in texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus, which corresponds with the red margin of the lip. The fibres of this portion of the muscle, unattached to bone, blend with the buccinator at the corner of the mouth, and some pass from lip to lip. The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, and is connected with the subjacent bone, besides its union with the * 1. Occipito-frontalis, anterior belly ; 4. Posterior'.belly. 2. Orbicularis palpebrarum. 3. Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. 5. Compressor nasi, 6. Levator labii superioris. 7. Zygomaticus minor (too large). 8. Zygo- maticus major. 9. Risorius. 10. Masseter. 11. Orbicularis oris. 12. Depressor labii inferioris. 13. Depressor anguli oris. 14. Buccinator, t Levator anguli oris. ;MUSCLES OF MOUTH. 25 adjacent muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the niiddle line, by one slip (naso-labial) to the back of the septum ■of the nose (fig, 5, ^) ; and by a thin stratum to the outer surface of the upper jaw, opposite the canine tooth, and external to the ^lepressor of the wing of the nose. In the lower lip it is fixed on fixed to uose ■each side into the inferior jawbone, opposite the canine tooth, external to the levator labii inferioris muscle. To see these attach- ments the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane carefully raised. The inner margin of tlie muscle is fi-ee, and bounds the aperture Connec- ■of the mouth ; whilst the outer edge blends with the diftierent muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary artery, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. Action. Both parts of the muscle contracting, the lips are pressed Use of both together and projected forwards, and the aperture of the mouth is i""'*^^' dimuiished transversely by the approximation of the corners towards ■each other. The inner fibres acting alone will turn inwards the red part of inner alone, the lip, and diminish the width of the buccal opening. The outer fibres press the lips against the dental arches, the free Outer alone edges being protruded and somewhat everted. At the same time the centre part of the nose is depressed and the chin raised by means of the fleshy slips connected with those parts. The LEVATOR LABII surERiORis (fig. 6, ^) extends vertically from Elevator of the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from ^'^ the upper maxillary and malar bones aboA'e the infra-orbital fora- men, and blends interiorly with the orbicularis oris. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the common Connce- ■elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. Action. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and Use the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. G,'-) is Opposite the elevator Depressor of ■of the upper lip, and has much yelloAv fat niixe{l with its fibres. The muscle has a wide origin fi-om a depression on the fi'ont of the lower jaw, reaching backwards fi'om near the symphysis to a little beyond the hole for the labial vessels and nerve ; ascending thence it is united Avith the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border is in the joins the muscle of the opposite side above, and its outer is over- J.',','!,,*^^ ^ lapped below by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same Use. •side is depressed and everted; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwai'ds, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS (levator menti) is a small muscle ^^^^'^^^'^ on the side of the fraanum of the lower lip, which is opposite the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the hp26 DISSECTIOX OF THE FACE. Use, Elevator of the angle joins depressor. Use. ansile. has been everted and the unicous iiieiubranc removed, the muscle vv^ill be seen to arise from a fossa near the symphysis of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position is internal to tlie depressor of the lij) and the attach- ment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opposite its insertion, and; assists in raising the lower lip. The LEVATOR ANGULi ORIS (lig. G, f) has well-marked fibres, and i» partly concealed by the levator labii supcrioris. Arising from the canine fossa beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres sj^read out towards the angle of the mouth where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the muscles, but the greater number are continued into the depressor anguli oris and the lower lij). Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts- as an antagonist to the depressor. Depressor of The DEi'RKSsoR AXGVLi OKis (fig. G,is triangular iu shape: it arises from the obli<|ue line on the outer siu-face of the lower jaw,, and ascending to the angle of the mouth, its fibres are prolonged into the elevator of the angle. The muscle conceals the labial branck of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At its origin the depressor is united with the platysma niyoides, and near its insei'tion with the risorius nmscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards and back- wards by it, as is exemjilified in a soiTowfnl countenance. The ZYGuJiATic MUSCLES (fig. G) are directed obli(piely from the arch of the same name towards the angle of the month and the- upper lip. One is longer and larger tlian the other; they are there- fore named major and minor. The zyfjoniaticus viajor,^ arises from the outer part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor,' is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upper lip. Action. The large muscle inclines upwards and backwards the corner of the mouth ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lii). The RISORIUS MUSCLE (Santoriui) (fig. G,^) is a thin and narrow bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Action. The use of this muscle is indicated by its name, as it retracts the corner of the mouth in laughing. The BUCCINATOR (fig. G,'^) is the flat and thin nmscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. The muscle arises from' the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillcc, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the inten^al between the jaws behind it is attached to a band of fascia—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From the origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix Use. Zygomatic muscles: large aiul .small. Use. Risorius muscle. Use. Buccinator muscle. Origin. Insertion at (corners of the mouth.VESSELS OF FACE. 27 with the other muscles and witli both, parts of the orbicularis ; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of tlie buccinator are the ditt'crent nuiscles Parts in cfiii- converging to the angle of the mouth; and crossing the upper part ^'''^twitii it. is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle oppo- site the second upper molar tooth. Internally the nuuscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngcal) that is continued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator coiTcsponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and Use on aper- the cheek wrinkled. By the action of both the aperture of the mouth is widened transversely. In mastication the cheek is pressed by the muscular contraction on check, against the dental arches, when the corner of the mouth is fixed by the sphincter. In the expulsion of air from the mouth, as in whistling, the in expelling,- muscle is contracted so as to prevent Imlging of the cheek ; but in the use of a l)low-pipe it is distended over the volume of air con- tained in the mouth, and drives out a continuous stream of air by its contraction. The VKSSELS OF 'J iiE FACE (fig. 17) arc the facial and transverse Arterie.s (it- facial arteries with their accompanying veins. The arteries are ^'"^ branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugidar truidc. The facial artery (fig. 17,/"), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and a})pears on the lower jaw anterior to the masseter ■ nuiscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near tlie angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastojuoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial in the mass of course, fat of the inner i)art of the cheek. At first it is concealed by the platysma Avhilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not and conncc- prevent pulsation being recognised during life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the luouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the ai-tery is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to the outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches pianoftiu- arc furnished to the nmscles and integuments, some of which anas- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches : — The inferior labial hranck (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor Tn^f<^i''i- anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lii) and chhi; it comnumicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r and s). There is one for cac-h lip (superior Two28 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. form ftn :u-eh ill the lips. Ikanch to septum. Lateral nasal branch. Angular branch* Facial vein away from artery; ioined by i)ranches. and inferior), wliich arise together or separately from the facial^ and are directed inwards between the orbicuLir muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corres- ponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets arc supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum of the nose,—artery of the septum. The lateral nasal branch (p) arises opposite the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alajque nasi to the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the internal nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The angular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch (external jiasal) of the oiihthalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose in a small vein named angular (p. G). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and separating from the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches. At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from the lower eyelid, {inferior jialpebral) and from the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch, anterior internal maxillary, that comes from the pterygoid region ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the arterj'^ in the face and neck. The transverse facial artery (fig. 17) is a branch of the temporal,, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin from the surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united witli that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued over the face in front; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular ner\'^e will be seen ascending to the lobe of the ear ; and one or two small glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The rAROTiD (fig. 16,^°) is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of tlie gland is irregular, and is determined somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure, the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub-maxillary gland, though separated -connections; from it by a process of the cervical fascia; a line from the angle Transverse facial artery, Lay liare the parotid. Parotid "land. Irregular in shape:29 PAROTID GLAND. of the jaw to tlie sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the gland in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly the gland projects somewhat on the face, and in this direction a small accessory part, accessory socia parotidis, is prolonged from it over the masseter. l''^'"^- Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct—duct Tlie dnct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis, fig. 17), which crosses the masseter below the socia jicirotidis, and perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial arteiy and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be oi:)posite the open- ing into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches its ien<ftk and a half ; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe ^^""^1 size, to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and one or two surface of lymphatic glands are seated on it; but fi-om the deep part processes siand. are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the hollows Dissection that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dissector will ^"^^u see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attend- ing any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deejoly into the neck. Beep part One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the j'i\v'*' ^ '""^ mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the ijitemal maxillaiy arteiy. Passing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels and arteiy, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Supei-ficial to the artery lies the trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary A^eins, from which the external jugular vein springs ; and this common trunk, receiving some veins fi-om the parotid, is connected with the internal jugular vein by a branch through the gland.^' Crossing the gland from behind nerves in tiie gland. * Oftentimes there is a different arrangement of these veins. In such case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (hah" or all) and jjosterior auricular veins ; whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), which receives the facial helow the jaw, and opens into the internal jugular vein opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary vein accompanies the external carotid artery.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. -30 Stnifture o{ irlaiul. Tlio duct lias two uoats. Vessels and nerves. Molar ijlands. Nasal carti- ]a<;es. Take away tissue from surlace. The ujiper <;artilage toiR'lies its fellow. forwards is tlie trunk of tlie facial m-rvv, Avhicli ])asses over the artery, ai)d distril)ntes its l)ranches tlirongli the parotid. Tlie superlicial temporal branch of the inferior inaxillaiy nerve lies above the upi)er \nn t of the glandular mass; and oifsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower jiart, and join the facial. The sinirture of the parotid resembles that of the other salivary glands. The glandular mass is divided into luimcrous small lobules by intervening processes of fascia ; and each lobule consiste of a set of the tine closed saccular extremities of the excretory duct, which are lined by flattened and nucleated epi- thelium, and surrounded by cajiillarj^ vessels. These little sacs form by their aggregation the mass of each lobide. From the lobules issue small ducts, which unite to form larger tubes, and iinally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. The common duct (duct of Stenson) is composed of an external fibrous coat, consisting of white and elastic fibres ; and of an internal nmcous coat which is clothed with colunniar epithelium. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glaruls lie along the origin of the buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar todth by separate ducts. Cartilages of thk Nose (fig. 7). These close the anterior nasal aperture in the skeleton, and form ])art of the outer nose and the septum. They are five in number, two on each side—lateral cartil.age and cartilage of the aper- ture ; together with a central one, or the car- tilage of the septimi of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages arc seen in this stage of tlu^ dissectioji. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen A\ hen the nniscular and fibrous structure of the left side of the nose, and the skin of the lower part of the nostril of the same side, have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral car- tilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The iq)2)er lateral cartilage (fig. 7, -) is flat- tened, and is somewhat triangidar in form. Posteriorly it is at- tached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it meets the one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but, the two are separated below by an interval, in M-liich the cartilage of the septum appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. * Lateral cartilages of the nose. 1. Triangular septal cartilage. 2. Upper lateral cartilage. 3. Lower lateral, or the cartilage of the 'aperture tl outer part. 4. Inner part of the cartilage of the aperture. 5. Nasal bone31 APPENDAGES OF EYE. The cartilarje of the aperture (iig. 7) forms a ring around tlie xiic lower ■opeiiiiifr of the nose except heliiud. It has not anv attachment ^""'ou'kJs (Hreetly to hone : hut it is united ahove to the hiteral cartilai^e hv xt * • \ i . Ill • 1 t5 ' J N( it inserted lihrous tissue, and helow with the dense teguments forming the into boue. margin of the aperture of the nostrih The part of the cartihige ('') which hounds tlie opening exter- One part nally, is narrow and pointed hehind, wliere it ends in two or three ""^"^^^'^ > small pieces of cai'tilage—cartilaf/ines minores vel sesamoidece ; hut eartilage's; swells out in front Avhere it touches its felhiw, and forms the apex of the nose. The inner part (■*) projects haekwards along the septum of the anotlier in- Hiose nearly to the superior nuixillary hone ; it assists in the for- "o-'t'ii- ination of the partition hetween the nostrils, and extends helow the level of the septum nasi. T'he ArrKND.VfiKs ok the Eye include the e3'ehrow, the ejadid, Appendages -and the lachrymal apparatus. 8ome of these can he examined" now on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will he dissected after the orhit has heen completed. The ei/ehroir (supercilium) is a curved eminence just ahove the Eyebrow, eye, which is placed over the orhital arch of tlie frontal hone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the suhjacent orhicularis palpehrarum. It is furnished with long •coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids are two moveable semilunar parts in fi'ont of the Ej-elids. ■eye, which can he approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the largest and the most moveable, and descends below Upper the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided = with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named fissura ^^alpehrarum. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free mar<i-in is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is semi-s'l^^r^r of , , niar*''in, lunar in form ; but towards the inner side, about a (]uarter of an inch from the connnissure. it becomes straigiiter. At the spot Papilla, where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 13, the ixipilla lachrymalis; and in this is the pimctum lachrymale, or the Functuui. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near Hairs and the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian "P®'"''"'"''- glands : but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of tlie punctum laclnymale. The free margin of each lid is sharp at the anterior edge where it E<lge sloped, touches its fellow ; but is sloped at the posterior, so as to leave an interval between it and the eyeball for the passage inwards of iluid. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they Eyelashes, are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre towards the sides. The cilia are convex towards one anotlier, and cross when the lids are shut. The Structure of the Evelids. Each lid consists fundament- ^,i|^*j^rcnt ally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bone by ligaments. ^Cis!"DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 32 Examine structiu-e of lids. Layer of orbicularis. A fibrous laj-er. Cartilage fonns ])art of the lid : iliffereiice in the two lids. Ligament of eyelids attaches cartUages. Sebaceous tubes beneath cartilage. their structure. Tendon of Superficial to this framework are the integuments Avith a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator palpebr;o. Vessels and nerves are contained in the lids. Dissection. The student may learn the structure of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids ; and the palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle is to be thrown inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral ligament beneath, and of the vessels and nerves of the lid. Orhindaris ^)a/^)f&/-«r?/7tt. The palpebral fibres of this muscle form a pale layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids (p. 23). A thin stratum of areolar tissue without fat unites the muscle Avith the skin. The j^Jo//:)e5roZ lir/ament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, which is continued fi-om the margin of the orbit to join the lower or free edge of each tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is somewhat thicker and stronger. The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, are elongated trans- versely, and give strength to the lids. E)ach is fixed internally by the ligament of the eyelids, and externally by a fibrous, band—external tarsal ligament, to the outer part of the orbit. The margin corresponding with the edge of the lid is fi-ee, and thicker than tlie rest of the cartilage. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous membrane or conjunctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the tAvo lids. In the upper eyelid, where the cartilage is largest, it is crescentic in shape, and is about half an inch wide in the centre ; and to its fore part the tendoii of the levator palpebrje is attached. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow band, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight. Ligament of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, internal tarsal liga- ment) is a small fibrous band at the inner part of the orbit, which serves to fix the lids, and is attached to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove in the upper jaw. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, which are united with the tarsal cartilages, one to each. This ligament crosses the lachry- mal sac, to which it gives a fibrous expansion ; and the fleshj'- fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. The Meihomio.n glands or follicles are placed in grooves on the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend, parallel to^ one another, from the thick towards the opposite margin of the cartilage ; and their number is about thirty in the upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the glands open in a line on the firee border of the lid near the posterior edge. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral csecal appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by flattened epithelium. If the palpebral ligament be cut through in the upper lid, theAURICLE OF THE EAR. 33 tendon of the levator palpehrce will be seen to be inserted into the levator fore part of the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeurotic expansion. P^U'ebrai. The conjunctiva, or the mucous membrane, lines the interior of the Mucous eyeUds, and covers the anterior part of the ball of the eye. Inside ^'^ the lids it is inseparably united to the tarsal cartilages, and has numerous fine papillaj. At the free margin of the lid this membrane joins the common integuments. Through the lachrymal canals and sac it is continuous with the pituitary membrane of the nose. At the inner commissure of the eyelids the conjunctiva forms a forms prominent and fleshy-looking body—caruncula lachrymalis, (fig. 13, *) which contains a group of mucous follicles, and has a few minute hairs on its surface. External to the caruncle is a small and con- vertical fold of the mucous membrane—plica semilunaris; this extends to the ball of the eye, and represents the membrana nictitans of birds. Bloodvessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are fur- Arteries of uished by the ophthalmic artery, and come fi'om the palpebral and lachrymal branches :— The palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from Palpebral the inner canthus. lying between the tarsal cartilage and the tendon of the special elevator in the upper lid, and between the cartilage and the palpebral ligament in the lower lid ; and they anastomose externally with the lachrymal artery. From the arch that each forms, branches are distributed to the eyelids. The lachrymal artery furnishes an offset to each lid to form and lacliry- arches with the palpebral arteries, and then perforates the palpebral ligament at the outer part of the orbit to end in the upper lid. The veins of the lids open into the fi'ontal and angular veins at Veins, the root of the nose (pp. 6, 28). The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic and Nerves of J. . , lids facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nen-e (of the fifth) which give from fifth offsets to the upper lid, are the following : lachrymal, near the outer part; snpra-orbital, about the middle ; and sujyra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (pp. 41, 44). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a palpebral branch of the superior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Branches of the facial nerve (p. 38) enter both lids at the outer and seventh part, and supply the orbicularis muscle ; they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nerve. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a trumpet-shaped Parts of ex- structure, named pinna or auricle, which receives the undulations ^^^^ ^ of the air ; and of a tube—meatus auditorius, winch conveys them to the inner ear. The pinna may be examined on the left side of the head ; but the anatomy of the meatus will be described with the ear. The pinna, or auricle, is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage. Texture and which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of ^l^^^^ the meatus auditorius externus. It is of an oval fonn, with the margin folded and the larger end placed upwards.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 34 Swrfaces marked by fossit and einiueuces. Margin. The surface next the head is generally convex ; but the opposite is excavated, and presents the undermentioned elevations and depressions. In the centre is a deep hollow named concha, which is wide above Imt narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus audi- torius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the under surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection. —the antitragus. The round rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the concha, is called the helix; and the depression internal to it is the groove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, between it and the Fig. 8.* Lobule. Five small muscles of external ear. How to find the muscles, One mtTscle on tragus. One on antitragus. concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a well-marked depression, X\\q fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the external ear is terminated by a soft pendulous part, the lobule. The special muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part ot the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. FiA'^e small muscle s are to be recognised ; and these receive their names for the mosi part from the several eminences of the external ear. Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the integu ments be removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for tlu display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will no find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 8, ^) is always found on the external aspect of the process from Avhioh it takes its name. The fibres are short, oblique, or transverse, and extend fi-om the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 8,is the best marked of all. ♦ Muscles on the outer surface of the ear cartilage. 1. of Muscle of tl the helix. 4 J tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the ear cartilage. 6. Transverse muscle 7. Oblique muscle (Tod) sometimes seen.35 CARTILAGE OF AURICLE. It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres arc directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of tlic antiheUx. The small muscle of the helix (fig. 8, is often indistinct or One on root absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends- '^'^i'-''- into the concha. The large muscle of the helix (fig. 8, ^) arises above the small Another oi^ muscle of the same part, and is inserted iiito the fi-ont of the helix,, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse musclt of the auricle (fig. &, forms a wide layer, Ami one at which is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between concha! the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Actions. These muscles are said to alter slightly the condition Use, of the outer ear ; the muscles of the helix assisting, and those of the tragus and antitragus retarding the passage of sonorous undu- lations to the meatus. Dissection. The pinna may now be detached by cutting it close C^nn the to the bone. When the integuments are entirely taken ofi:, the cartilage of the pinna will be apparent; but in removing the inte- guments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 8. The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 8) resembles much the external Cartilage ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. Tlie rim of the of'external helix subsides posteriorly in the antihelix about the middle of the pinna; whilst anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The antilielix is divided about Deficient in- two-thirde down into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is ^'^""^'y' joined by the helix, the other is continued' into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical' process of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the externa! and at upper auditory aperture in. the temporal bone, and forms part of the J);"atus. meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and outer part the canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the under part of the meatus its lissuren. are two fissures (Santorini), one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, but others pass Ligaments: from one point of the cartilage to another. The external ligaments are condensed bands of fibrous tissue, and external; are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterica- passes from the back af the concha to the mastoid process. The chief siiecicd ligament crosses the interval between the tragus and special, the beginning of the helix, and completes the tube of the meatus. The FACIAL NERVE (portio dura, fig. 9) or the seventh cranial J^^utime^of ^ nerve, confers contractility on the muscles of the face. Numerous D 2DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Uisaection fit" nen'e beyond parotid. on temple, in eyelids. in tlio face, on lower .iaw. Tlie nerve in the parotid. and muscu- lar branches. Branches outside the .skull. Posterior auricular l)ranch. Branch to diga.stric. communications take place between it and the fifth nen-e ; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the body of the lower jaw. _ Dissection. The facial nen^e is to be displayed on the nght side of the face if there is time sufficient before the body is turned, otherwise it is to be omitted for tJie present (see p. 1). Some of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose the ramifications of the ner^'e beyond the parotid gland, let the skin be raised from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches are then to be sought as they escape from beiaeath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have been already partly dissected .above the zygomatic arch ; and their junctions with the temporal branch of the superior maxillaay and with the supra-orbital nerve have been seen. Other still smaller branchee are to be traced to the ouier part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other nerves in the lids ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar nerve of tiiie fifth. With the duct -of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infra-orbital, nasal, and infi-a-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size. One joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower hp, and to the labial bi'anch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trmik of the nerve through the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding the small branches of communication of the great auricular nerve with offsets of the facial, and the deep branches from the facial to the auriculo-temporal nerve, are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the ear and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the n^rve enters the parotid. The Nerve outside the Skull (fig. 9, The nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the tbree following small branches :— The posterior auricular hranch (fig. 9, ^) turns upwards in front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an offset of the great auricular, and is said to be joined by a branch to the ear from the pneumo-gastric (cranial) nerve ; it ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). The hranch to the digastric muscle generally arises in common with the next. It is distributed by many offsets to the posterior belly of the muscle near the skull.FACIAL NERYE. The branch to the stylo-hyoideus is a long slender nerve, which Branch to is directed inwards, and enters its muscle about the middle. This S"''^'"''' branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve on the external carotid arteiy. As soon as the facial nerve has given off those branches, it is Division into two. directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK fumislies offsets to the side of the The uiipci head and face, whose ramifications extend as low as the meatus [1.",,^ auditorius. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, * Cutaneous branches of the fifth nerve in the face. 7. Nasal nerve. 8. Infra-trochlear. 9. Sub-cutaneous malar, 11. Infra-orbital. 12. Buccal. 13. Labial of inferior dental. 15. Facial or seventh cranial nerve, sending back the posterior auricular branch, 4, and forwards its numerous otisets to join the branches of the fifth nerve above enumerated.88 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. it sends downwards branches to join the auriculo-temiDOral i^ortion of the inferior maxillary nerve ; and in front of the ear it gives has three gome filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of ter- rrS.ehes. niinal branches, temporal, malar, and infi-a-orbital, are derived from the teniporo-facial part. Temporal The temporal brunches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch to'ski^of to enter the orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the an- head. terior belly of the occipito-frontalis ; they are united with offsets • of the supra-orbital nerve ("). The attrahens .aurem muscle receives a branch from this set ; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve Malar The malar hmnches are directed to the outer angle of the orbit, eyelids!''* and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle. In the eyelids com- munications take place with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve ; and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small sub- cutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve ("). J5ianciic.s The wfra-arhital branches are larger than the rest, and are and mouth*^ fnmished to the muscles and the ijitegument between the e}-e and mouth. Close to the orbit, and '.beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication—mfra-orbital plexus, is formed between these nervee and the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillaiy ('^). After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small ofi'eets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the noee, and others ujjwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply .the musclee, and to join the masal and infrartrochlear (^) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. Lower ])art. Tlie CERVico-FACiAL ie Smaller than the other trunk, and dis- ff thetnmk {^^.jimi^^f, serves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. It« highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face, three sets of This trunk, whilst in the parotid, -gives twjgs to fhe .'gland, and is branches. united with the great auricular-nerve. The terminal branches dis- tributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. Buc(-al to The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the moufh"^ mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator nrascle, and .terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch ('-) of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. Sui)r3- The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the base of ileuS? j'^^^ the middle line of the chin, and supply the mouth and muscles and the int^ument between the -chin and mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of .the facial join f)ffsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental .nerve in their course to the middle line. mSuarvto "^^^ infra-maxillarij branches lie below tlie jaw, and are dis- neck. ' tributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these iiei-^'es will be given Mith the dissection of the anterior triano-lo of the neck (p. .59). ^PERIOSTEUM OF ORBIT. 39 Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be learnt on that side on which the muscles of the face have been seen. Position. In the examination of the cavity the head is to be Position of placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses <jf the base of the skull. Dissection. For the display of the contents of the orbit, it will be How to open necessary to take away the cotton wool fi-om beneath the eyelids, withsaw. To remove the bones forming the roof of the space, two cuts may be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of the cavity ; and these should be continued backwards with a chisel, along the eliisel, roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by and bone the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the hone forceps, except a narrow ring around the optic foramen ; and any ovei'hanging bone on the outer side, which may interfere with the dissection, may be likewise removed. During the exami- tion of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit, which has been detached from the Periosteum hone in the dissection, surrounds the contents of the orbital cavity, °^ and joins the dura mater of the brain through the sphenoidal tissure. It encases the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres hut loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the mem- Apertures hrane for the entrance of the different nerves and A^essels ; and laterally prolongations of the periosteum accompany the vessels and nen^es leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle ^P°JJg,.gj,„^ of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat in this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supra-orbital vessels lie in the centre ; Position of the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall; and the eavity'^ small fourth nerv^e at the back of the orbit : all these nerves enter the cavity above the nmscles. The superior oblique muscle is re- cognized by the fourth nerve entering it : the levator palpebrse and superior rectus lie beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerv^e. In the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards Trace super- to their exit from the orbit, and backwards with the fourth nerve, Aciai nerA^es. through the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernousDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 40 Orbit has seven Uiuscles, several cra- nial nerves ; tlieir distri- bution ; and some vessels. Lachrymal gland at outer part of orbit. Ducts open on upper eyelid. Fourth nerve supplies superior oblique. Ophthalmic gives three branches. Frontal branch supplies following sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care will be required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its com- mencement. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball and the lachrymal gland, and a gi-eat quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Con- nected with the eye are six muscles—four straight and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in this small space are numerous, viz. the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth nerve, together with the small temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and offsets of the symjiathetic ; their general distribution is as follows:—The second nerve penetrates the eyeball ; the third is furnished to all the muscles of the cavity but two ; the fourth enters the superior oblique (one of the two excepted) ; and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sympathetic, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. The lachrymal gland (fig. 10, F) secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something like an almond, and lies across the eye. From its anterior part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland ; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. In structure the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands ; and its very fine ducts, from eight to twelve in number, open by as many apertures in a semicircular line on the inner aspect of the upper eyelid towards the outer canthus. The FOURTH KERVE (fig. 10, is the most internal of the three nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. After reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior oblique muscle, which it pierces at the orbital surface, contrary to the general mode of distribution of the nerves on the ocular surface of the muscles. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK of the fifth nerve (fig. 10, p. 18), as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches; the former passes into the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. The frontal nerve (fig. 10, ^) is close to the outer side of the fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the orbit, and supplying anteriorly a supra-trochlear branch ('), leaves that cavity by the supra-orbital notch. Taking41 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. the name supra-orhital, it ascends on the forehead, and supplies the external part of the head (p. 6). Whilst in the notch the nerve gives palpebral filaments to the Palpebral upper lid. tilnments. The mpra-trochlear branch (*) passes inwards above the pulley Branch of the upper oblique muscle, and leaves the orbit to end in the pnUey " eyelid and forehead (p. 7). Before the nerve turns round the Fig. 10.* margin of the frontal bone, it sends downwards a branch of com- nmnication to the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. Fre- quently there are two supra-trochlear branches ; in such instances one arises near the back of the orbit. The lach-ymal nei've (fig. 10, ^) after entering the orbit in a sejiarate tube of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland to the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral ligament, and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland ; and near * First view of the orbit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles:—a. Su- perior oblique. b. Levator palpebrae. c. External rectus. d. Superior rectus, /. Lachrymal-gland. Nerves:—1. Four th. 2. Frontal. 3. Lachry- uial. 4. Supra-trochlear. 6. Offset of lachrymal to join temporo-malar. sometinicH two: Lachrymal lu'rvo ends in eyeliil: oll'scts join ssuiierior jiiaxillaryDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Pulley of the Tlae pulley, or trochlea (fig. 11), is a fibro-cartilaginous rino- Nasal, after- wards. Dissection. Elevator of eyelid attached to tarsal car- tilage. Coniiec- tioiis. Use. Ui)])cr rec- tiw imiscle. Origin. Insertion. Position to other parts Use. the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments (®) to communicate with the temporo-malar or orbital branch of the superior maxillaiy nerve. Occasionally it has a communicating filament behind with the fourth nerve. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dissection : it will be noticed afterwards at p. 43. Dissection. Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior part of the nen^e, the separate origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR PALPEBRvE suPERiORis (fig. 10, B) is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens in fi'ont, and bends downwards in the eyelid to be inserted by a wide tendon into the fore part of the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the other, with the sujDerior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the centre a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the posterior half at the under surface. Action. Tlie lid-cartilage is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the teguments of the lid being bent inwards at the same time. If the eyeball is directed down, the movement of the lid is less free, because the conjunctiva is put on the stretch. The RECTUS SUPERIOR (fig. 10, °) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the trans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle of the eye, and with some vessels upper olilique muscle enters a loop. Insertion. Connec- tions. muscle. IS m contact with the globe and nerves to be afterwards seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 47). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 10, is thin and narrow^, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop before referred to (fig. 11) is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique.THIRD AND NASAL NERVES. 43 nearly a quarter of an inch wide, which is attached by fibrous ti»sue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margins of the pully on the tendon ; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the motion of the tendon, this prolongation must be cut aAvay. For the use of the muscle, see the description of the inferior Use. oblique, p. 49. Dissection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided Dissection, about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 11), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve: these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the pos- terior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external To find len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fine *au!l-iion nerve-threads (ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nerve ; and by tracing the ciliary nerves backwards, they will guide to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head) and its branches. The dissector should find then two and offsets. I)ranches fi'em the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion ; the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind, and that of the third nerve, shoi't and thick, joins the lower part. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, Separate third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the "^^^'^s- external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Tliird nervu sinus (fig. 4, ^) ; bmt at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachry- mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between as it enters the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two ' ] tarts. The upper piece (fig. 11, ^), the smallest in size, ends in the,its upper under surface of the levator palpcbras a^d superior rectus muscles, '^'"•'•"'^i'. The loioer piece supplies some of the other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). bi.iuch. The naso;l branch of the ophtlialmic nerv^e (fig. 11, ^) enters the Nasal nerve, orbit between the heads of the rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards to reach ithe anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal General o o . 1 • 1 . • f^ourse to (nasal) artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margm the face, of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at tlie front of the 'cribriform plate : and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed outwards between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath In the orbit.44 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. the snperior rectus and levator palpebrfe muscles, and lies afterwards below the superior oblique ; in this part of its course it furnishes the following branches:— Branches. The branch to the lenticular ganglion f) is about half an incli Long root of long and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve comes into SngSu' the^orbit: this is the long root of the lenticular ganglion. Long ciliary Long ciliary branches. As the nasal crosses the optic nerA-e, it branches. g,ipp]ies two or more ciliary branches (fig. 11) to the eyeball. Fig. n* Infra-trool-,- lear brancli. These lie on the iniier side of the optic, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. The ivfra-trochlear branch (-) arises as the nasal nerve is about to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the superior oblique maiscle, to end in the upper eyelid, the con- junctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of Gommunication from the supra-troch- lear nerve. * Second view of the oriSit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles:— a. Superior oblique, b. Levator palpebr® and upper rectus thrown back to- gether, c. External rectus, d. Fore part of upper rectus. /. Lachrymal gland. Nerves:—1. Nasal nerve beginning outside the orbit. 2. Its infra- trochlear branch. 3. Lenticular ganglion :—4. its branch to the third nerve • 5. its branch to the nasal nerve (too large). 6 Branch of third to inferior oblique muscle. 7. Ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. 8. Upper b}-anch of the third. 9. Sixth nerve. 10. Third nerve, outside the orbit.45 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. In the nose (fig. 34), Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- Nasal nerve nishes branches to tlie hning membrane of the septum navium and outer wall; these will be subsequently referred to with the nose. Termination of the nasal nerve (fig. 9). After the nerve becomes and in tiie cutaneous on the side of the nose, as seen in the dissection of the facial nerve (p. 36), it descends beneath the compressor naris umscle, and ends in the integuments of the wing and tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION of the Sympathetic Lenticular nerve (fig. 11, ^) is a small round body, of the size of a pin's head, S^''^^'*"'- and of a slight red colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit Situation, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to the ophthalmic artery. By its pos- Connee- terior part the ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary nerves to the eyeball. The ganglion communicates with sensory, motory, and sympathetic nerves. The offsets of communication are three in number. One, the long Three roots: root ("), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins long, the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thickness (short root passes from the inferior angle to join the branch of short, the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the tliii'd root is derived from the sympathetic (tlie cavernous plexus), and sjm- either in imion with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the P'^thetic. posterior border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 11) are ten or twelve in p^^,''p[g, number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper eyeball, and lower angles of the front of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy the outer and under parts, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY, a branch of the internal carotid, is Ophthalmic transmitted into the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is outside the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards, over or under the nerve, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it ends iatheorhit. in a nasal branch (external) on the side of the nose (fig. 17, "), and anastomoses with the' angular and nasal branches of the facial. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable Branches, in size, and may be arranged in three sets :—one arising outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on the inner side. The lachnjmal artery accompanies the nen'-e of the same name Lachrjnnai to the upper eyehd, where it ends by supplying that part, and ^''^ anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it to gland: anastomoses with the middle meningeal by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. At the front of the orbit it sends a small branch with each of offset.^.46 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Branch to retina. Snpra-orlii- tal branch. Ciliary arteries are 1/osterior— two naiiKMl long c.iliury and an- terior. Muscular. Ethmoidal branches, posterior and an- terior. Branches to eyelids. Frontal branch. Ophthalmic vein ends in ca- vernous sinus. Optic nerve the terminal pieces of the temporo-malar nerve ; and these join tlie temporal and transverse facial arteries. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch which pierces the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eye- ball. The supra-orUtal branch arises beneath the levator palpebras and superior rectus muscles ; it then takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 5). As it winds round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. The ciliary branches are uncertain in their place of origin and enter the eyeball at the fi-ont and back :— The posterior ciliary^ about twelve in number, are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve), named long ciliary, pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the eyeball. The muscular branches are not fixed in their place of origin ; and those to the lower muscles often arise together as one trunk. The ethmoidal branches are tAvo, anterior and posterior, and are directed through the foramina in the inner wall of the orbit:— The posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishing small meningeal offsets (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull, descends into the nose cavity tlu-ough the openings in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nasal nerve to the cavity of the nose (Section XIV.), and gives likewise meningeal offsets to the dura mater, and the fore part of the falx cerebri. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 3.S). The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 5). The ophthalmic vein corresponds in its course and most of its branches with the artery of the same name. It begins at the inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tribu- tary branches in its progress to the back of the cavity. Posteriorly it leaves the artery, and escapes from the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to the hack of the eyeball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is surrounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot the ciliary47 RECTI MCrSCLES. arteries and nen^es entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal ends in expansion of the eye. retina. Dissection (fig. 12). Take away the ophthahnic artery, and divide Dissection, the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear ; and lying on the two first, are the offsets of the lower branch of the thu-d nerve. The loiaer branch of the third nerve (fig. 12) supplies three Lower muscles in the orbit. Whilst enteiing this space between the thfrd nJi ve heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve divides into three branches. One (*) enters the internal rectus ; siirr'ies another the inferior rectus ; and the third (^), the longest and ^'^'^'^i'^'^' most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the and joins lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. 11, ^) of that S*^"*^'^""- body; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus. The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 12, ^) lies below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, above the ophthalmic vein, in the inten''al between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it is distributed to the external rectus muscle. Recti Muscles. The internal D, inferior C, and external rectus B straight (fig. 12) are placed with reference to the eyeball as their names oyebaiT express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of the origin, optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads :—The upper joins the superior rectus in the common origin. The lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin, and is attached in addition to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near the inner end ; whilst some of its muscular fibres are connected with a tendinous band between the heads. All the insertion, muscles are directed forwards, but the lower obliquely outwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and in front of the transverse diameter of the ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different Botweeii nen^es before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz. the ofi'tgr. third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Action. The four recti muscles, attached to the ej-eball at oppo- Use of all. site sides in front of the transverse diameter, are able to turn the pupil in opposite directions. The inner and outer recti move the ball horizontally around a inner and vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple.48 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Upper and lower. Two con- Dissect infe- rior oblique, The upper and lower recti elevate and depress the fore part of the ball around a transverse axis ; but as their fibres are directed obliquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil up and in, and the lower muscle turns it down and in. By the simultaneous action of two contiguous recti, the ball will be moved to a point intermediate to that to which it would be directed by either muscle singly. Dissection. By opening the optic foramen, the attachment of the recti muscles will be more fully laid bare. To dissect out the Fig. 12.* inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural ]iosition ; then by taking away the conjunctival lining of the lower eyelid near the inner part of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball, bending fi-om the inner to the outer side; it may be followed outwards to its insertion into the ball. Lower The INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 12, ^) is situate near the nhiitiue anterior margin of the orbit, and dilfers from the other muscles in being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. * Third view of the orbit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : a. Upper rectus and levator palpebrse thrown back together. 6. External rectus, c. Inferior rectus, d. Internal rectus. /. Upper oblique cut, showing the insertion, h. Insertion of inferior oblique. Nen-cs:—1. Upper branch of the third. 2. Sixth nerve. 3. Inferior oblique branch of the third. 4, Branch of third to inferior rectus. 5. Branch of third to internal rectus.49 ACTION OF OBLIQUE MUSCLES. It arises fi'om tlie superior maxillary bone betwixt the margin of Origin, the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards between the inferior rectus and tlie Course, bone, and between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the outer and upper recti. insertion The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the Connec- posterior receives the branch of the third nerve. The tendon of insertion is near that of the superior oblique nuiscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action. The oblique muscles rotate the eyeball around an Use f antero-posterior axis, and are supposed to be used in maintainhig the parallelism of tlie axes of the two eyes. The upper muscle, acting by itself, would rotate the ball in such a way as to cause the iinier end of the transverse axis to sink, and the pupil to be directed down and out, as in looking to the shoulder. The lower muscle would produce by itself rotation of the ball in and lower the opposite direction, viz. the inner end of the transverse axis would be raised, and the pupil would be inclined up and out, as in looking to the outer part of the orbit. During life the rotary movement is supposed to be chiefly with cti. employed in controlling the oblique action of the upper and lower recti. For instance, as the upper rectus alone would tm-n the pujiil upwards and too nuich inwards, the inner movement will be counteracted by the rotation out of the inferior oblique. And as the lower rectus will incline the jiupil down and too much in, the motion inwards will be checked by the rotation out of the superior oblicjue. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the palpe- Seek tensor bral ligament unitijig the eyelids to the margin of the orbit is to ** ^" be cut through, where this has not been done ; but the lids must be left attaclied at the inner connnissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendo jial- pebraruni, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale hbres of the tensor tarsi will be recognised. The TENSOR TARsr MUSCJ.E arises from the ridge on the os unguis. Tensor tarsi and slightly from the bone beliind the ridge. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small tlat band, behind the ligamentum palpebra- rum, which divides like that structiu-e into a shp for each eyelid. In the lid the slip lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and Insertion, blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Action. By its contraction the muscle draws inwards and back- Use wards the puncta of the lids, so as to favour the reception and passage of the tears. Dissection. A small ncna^, the temporo-malar or orbital branch Trnee offset of the superior maxillary trunk, lies along the outer angle of the °„,ixiliaiy'^ fioor of the orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal "erve. of the eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis nmscle). EDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 50 Orliital branch of sujierior jiiaxillary nerve: its malar and tempo- ral oft'sets. Two brandies, temporal and malar, are to be traced fonvards fi-oni it: and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be nought in the bone ; the outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The temporo-malar or orbital hranch of the superior maxillary jici-ve (fig. 26) arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides at the back of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head with companion vessels. The malar hranch (r. subcutaneus mahe) is directed forwards through a foramen in the malar bone : after emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and conmiunicates with the facial nerve (p. 38). The temporal hranch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit ; and being joined by a filament fi-om the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit a thin fleshy layer is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the splieno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the malar branch of the temporo-nialar nerve. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 13). The lachrymal glands, puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed, and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already- described (p. 40). Dissection. A bristle should be introduced into each lachi-ymal canal through the punctum of the eyelid. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation from the ligamentum palpebrarum over the sac should be defined. The puncta lachrymalia (^) are two small apertures, one for each lid, by which the lachrymal canals receive the tears. Each is situate in the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lachry- malis. The lachrymal canals (fig. 13, ^ and a-j i^^^^ f^.^^^ ^j^^ puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac ; their situation is marked by tlie bristles inserted in them. In their coui-se inwards the canals lie along the ligamentum palpebrannn, one C) above and the other (^) below it, and they are somewhat arched with the con- cavity towards each other. Internally they open near together <lifrcremvc in into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal In the upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the lower lid. The lachrymal sac and duct (fig. 13) extend from the inner part of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac and the lower constricted end the duct. ' Orbitalis muscle attach- meuts Apiiaratns for tlie tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelid.*-'. Canals for the tears : the two lids. Receptacle of the tears,51 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The sac ^, is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis and Situation of •nasal process of the superior maxillary hone. Externally it is dilated'part, crossed by the ligament of the eyelids, and is covered by an ex- pansion derived from that baud, which is fixed to the margin of tlie bony groove. If the aponeurotic covenng be removed, the nnicous membrane lining the interior will be seen. Into the outer •side of the sac the laclnymal canals open. The duct^ ^' (ductus ad nasum), is the nari'owed part of the tube, Cjiu.ai lead- and is about half an inch long. It is entirely encased by bone, and o J J i nose* corresponds with the passage of the same name in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the fi-ont of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a piece of the mucous membrane. A bent probe introduced through the nostril may be passed into the duct fi-om the meatus, but with destruction of the A^alve. As the duct is continuous with the mucous membrane of the nose it has the same structure, viz. a fibrous external layer with a mucous lining. The epithelium of the sac and duct is ciliated as in the nose, but in the lachrymal canals it is scaly. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with Anatomy of more advantage to the student till the dissection of the head and aftenvards. neck has been completed. The description of the eye will be found ^it the end of the book. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK, Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck let the rosition of head be supported at a moderate height on a block, and let the face be turned to the left side and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the region, the right arm may be drawn under tlie body, Avith the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck parts on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position will be obtained by placiiig the upper Ynnh over the chest. Surface-marldng. The side of the neck presents a somewhat Boundaries ■square outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the oftiluuec^k. * The e3-elids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Puncta lachrymalia. 2. Upper, and 3, lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruncula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal •sac. 6. Lachrymal duct.52 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Division into two triangles by steriio- mastoid. Hollows. ProHiinences in till! niidille lino of neck, liyoid 1m)1k', thyroiU, prominence of the clavicle ; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front the boundary is a line fi'om the chin to- the stennim ; and behind, another line from the occiput to the acromial end of the cla\acle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the diagonal line of the projecting sterno-mastoid muscle. And in consequence of the ijosition of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the stemo-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; .and behind the muscle, just above the claA-icle, is another slight hollow which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the middle line of the neck the following parts can be- recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the base of the jaw is the enunence of the os hyoidcs, with its-, cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this may be felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called i)omum Adami, which is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding witli the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the naiTOw prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another inters'al, which is opposite the crico-thyroid membrane. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the tliyroid gland may be felt by the side of the trachea. From the cricoid cartilage to the sternum, and between the sterno- mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose depth is much increased in emaciated persons, in which the tube of the trachea can bo- recognised. Direction. As the time for turning the body will not allow the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare in this stage only the parts behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from the one end to the other, and aftenvards along the clavicle as far as. the acromion. The triangular flap of skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia which will then be brought into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous, fat from the surface of the fibres. The I'LATYSMA MYOiDKs is a thin subcutaneous muscular layer whicli is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle is placecf across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its flesliy fil)rcs take origin by fibrous bands from the clavicle and the acromion, and below those bones fron'i the superficial fatty layer covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles inseiiea into ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the "skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the criroiiT cartiliiKe, anil supra- .stenial de- pression. Dissection of the pla- tysiua. Platysina nmscle rises at .shoulder 1 jaw53 POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the covers muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ^'''''"gle- .ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, ibecause in venesection in the external jugular veui the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. The use will be found with the description of the remainder of Use. ■the muscle (p. 59). Dissection. The platysma is now to be cut across near the Disscctiou. 'Clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the incision over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and he should dissect out the external jugular vein, and the superficial descending branches of the cer\acal plexus, which are close beneath the platj'sma. The external jugular vein (fig. 14, ") commences in the parotid External ..gland (p. 2'J), and is directed backwards beneath the platysma to •'"^'^'^^'^ ^'^''^ the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will crosses side be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of subdavi^ ■the clavicle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (^sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,— one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an ofiiset ■coimects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the height 4it which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deejj cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in other Cervical a-egions of the body, of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck cojitiiniously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between .the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane hicases the sterno- mastoideus, and presents a different disposition before and behind 4;hat muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, Tart iiehind .the fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and encloses tdd musclo the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebra). At the lower pai-t of the neck it is attached to the clavicle and is perforated by the external jugular vein, and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the clavicle, a sends a pro- deep process may be observed to surround the small omo-hyoid o^ii^yolo^ muscle, and to extend under the clavicle, where it is fixed to the ■back of that bone, and the inner end of the first rib. rOSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This snace Cfiir. 14), having the form and position before noted, rostcrior ^ ^ , . , , T , • ,1 -1 11 1 •„! triangular is about eight inches in length. It contams the cervical and bracluai ^^^.^^^ plexuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a the neck, ligature is usually placed, and some offsets of the vessel and the nerves. Dissection. By the removal of the cervical fascia and the fat Jj'«^^«;t^o;[^^^^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 34 Find oino- hyoideus. Nerves above omo- hyoid ; vessels below. and a small ncrva. Define serratus. and nen-es jiieicing scalenus. Boundaries. Ts divided 1)/ omo- liyoidens. Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. between the sterno-mastoid and trai^ezius muscles, the posterior triangle of the neck will be displayed. In the execution of thin, task, the student may obtain some assistance by attending to the following remarks :— Crossing the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and dividing it into two, is the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 14, Close to or under the upper border of the muscle lie the small- nerve and vessels to it : the nerve being traceable to the desccndens noni, and the artery to the supra-scajnilar. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifications of the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nei'\'e ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno- mastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend in the space to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoideus are the subclavian artery and the- brachial plexus, which have a deep position. In this part also tho- following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular A^essels behind the clavicle ; the transverse cen^ical vessels which are higher in the neck, but take an outAvard direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. Underneath the trapezius, Avhcre it is attached to the clavicle, the serratus magnus muscle appears; and behind the large cervical nerves, toAvards the lower part of the space, is placed the middle scalenus muscle. Through the scalenus issue two muscular nerves ; one, fonned by two roots, for the sen-atus magiuis ; the othei: smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the sjmce. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle, ^; and behind by the trapezius, -. Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which arc placed in tho following order from above down, viz. splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulfc « ; and middle scalenus '; and at the loAver and outer angle, somcAvhat l)eneath the trapezius lies the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, A'iz, the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the loAver half or tAvo thirds, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle, ^, crosses the loAver part of the space, so as to subdivide it into two,—a loAver or clavicular, and an upper or occipital. The clavicular part is small in size and close to the clavicle and contams the subclavian arteiy. It is triangular in form, Avith* it^ base dn-ected forwards ; and is bounded in front by the sterno mastoid, ' ; above by the omo-hyoid muscle, '; and beloAv by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch and a half from before backwards, and about half that in fi-ont at it- base.55 CLAVICULAR PART OF TRIANGLE. Crossing the area of this portion, rather above the level of the Trunks of clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery, ' (its third part), u™ '"^ wluch issues from beneath the anterior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the companion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing Fig. 14.* to its situation being lower down beneath the clavicle. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus, which accom- pany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the * Part of the posterior triangle of the neck is here displayed, but the student should cairy the dissection as high as the head, so as to lay bare tlie whole of that space. 1. Sterno-raastoideus. 2. Trapezius. 3. Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. 4. Anterior scalenus, with the phrenic nerve on it. 5. JNIiddle scalenus muscle. 6. Elevator of the angle of the scapula. 7. Third part of the subclavian artery. 8. External jugular vein joining the subclavian below. 9. Nerves of the brachial plexus. 10. Spinal accessory ner\-e. (Blandin's Surgical Anatomy.)DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 and their relative position. Branches of vessels. Variations in the size of the space; also in the de])th, both natural and artili- cial. Departure from the ordinary state of the artery, and its branches. Position of veins. Occipital part of space contains clavicle. Behiiul tlie artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle, '\ And below the vessel is tlie first rib. Along the lower boundary of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle lie the supra-scapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are tlie transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugidar vein, which descends over or under the onio-hyoideus near the anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and trans- verse cersdcal branches, and sometimes a small vein, over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the /5pacc from before back is influenced by the attachment of the traj^ezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle : in some bodies these muscles occuiiy nearly the whole length of that bone, leaving but a small ij)terval between them ; and in others they meet, so as to cover the under- lying vessels. The space may be further inci'eased or diminished fi'om above down by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck ; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attaclied thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies natm-ally ; and iu a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by the position of the clavicle, according as the limb may be raised or depressed. And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid nmscle. The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery ma}' vary much, for the vessel may l)e one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual level just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be changed ; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch (fig. 14) may take origin fi-om it at different distances from the scaleims, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). The subclavian vein rises upwards not unfrequently as high as the arteiy, or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain ; and the branches connected with its lower end may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangle is larger than the other. Its boundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius ; and it is separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus;57 BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. and a chain of lympliatic glands lies along the sterno-mastoid nerves and muscle. The spinal accessory nerve, is directed obliquely across lyipiiaties; this interval from the sterno-niastoid nniscle, which it pierces, to liJ.t^ssory^ the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place nerve, between this cranial and the spinal nerves in the space. Sui'EHFiciAL Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Behind theNmesof sterno-niastoid muscle appear some of the ramihcations of the plexus cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name; and superficial bi-anches are furnished from these both upwards and downwards. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 14) are three in number, viz. small that asceud, occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital branch (fig. 2, ") comes from the second Small occi- cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along the pos-1'^**'" terior border of the sterno-niastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia ; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. The great auricular nerve (fig. 2, is a branch of the part of Great auri- the plexus formed by the second and third cervical nerves. Per- forating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards beneath the plat^^sma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches :— facial &ra»r7/f.s'are sent forwards to the integuments over the sniipiies parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular brandies ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly auricular, distributed on its cranial aspect ; one or more reach the opposite surface hy piercing the pinna. On the ear they communicate with branches furnished fi-om the facial and pneumogastric nerves. The madoid branch is directed backwards to the integuments between the ear and the mastoid process; and it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nen^e (p. 8). The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 2, ") springs from the same Superficial source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the sterno-mastoid nerve!' muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia and platysma, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space (see p. 59). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. The DESCENDING SET of branches (fig. 2), (supra-clavicular) are Nerves tiiat derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lovVer part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three on the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its sujim ciavi- inner end ; the middle branch lies about the middle of that bone ; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distributed hi the integuments of the chest and shoulder. Derived fi-om the descending set are two or \\\ovqposterior cutaneous ^^^tj^^y^ ■cervical nerves, which ramify in the integument over the lower two of neck, thirds of the fore part of the trapezius.58 DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. Lymphatic glands of neck. The lymphatic glamh {g\nm\\\\<xi concatenata}) lie along the stenio- inastoid mu.sclo, and are contiinious at the lower part of the neck witli tlie glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a super- ficial chain along the external jugular vein. Dissection. Dissection. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the ditference hi the vessels may he observed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, presen^ative fluid or salt having been previously applied. Directions. It is supposed that the body will now be turned on the fore part for the examination of the Back ; and during the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (Dissection of thk Back.) After the completion of the Back, the student should take out the spinal cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. The back to be exainineil now. FRONT OF THE NECK. Detach the head., Examine right side of neek. Position of l>art. Dissection to raise skin to show l)latysnui. Anterior ])art of jilatysnia. Insertion into jaw. Crossing of the libres. Directions. Supposing the thorax and Back finished, the head and neck may be detached from the trunk by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebra}, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the head. The dissector con- tinues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 35). Position. Supjiosing the facial nerve completed, a small narrow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Further, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will readily allow the piece of integinnent in front of the sterno-mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia, containing very fine offsets of the superficial cervical ncr\'e. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat which covers it, carrying the knife down and back in the direction of the fleshy fibres. Platysma Myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz. from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers the greatei portion of the anterior triangular si)ace. At the base of the jaw it is inserted between the symphysis and the masseter muscle ; "while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joiniii"- the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek bone. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. Below the chin theFORE PART OF NECK. so- inner fibres of opposite muscles cross for the distance of about an inch, but those which are superficial do not belong always to the same side. Action. The ordinary action of this muscle is confined to the Use on skin,, skin of the neck, which it throws into longitudinal wrinkles ; but it can depress the corner of the mouth by the slip prolonged to the mouth, face. Through its attachment to the jaw it will assist in opening juw. the mouth. Dissection. Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and Dissection, dissect out the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branches of the facial nerve that are beneath it. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its origin in Superfioial the cervical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of the neck norVef (p. 57); but the nerve may arise from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch :— The ascending branch perforates the platysma, supplying it, and ascending, ends in the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down the neck. Whilst this branch is beneath the platysma it joins the facial nerve. The descending branch likewise passes through the platysma, and descending is distributed to the teguments below the preeeiUng, reaching as low as the sternum. The inf ra-maxillcmf branches of the facial or seventh cranial nerve Brandies or (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 38) pierce the deep cenncal fascia, and ti' tiie'iiccU. l)ass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck (fig. 9), which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in tlie platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the inuscle thei'e is a com- munication between the branches of the facial and the ofl;sets of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the Dissection, middle, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the super- ficial nerves of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cerviccd fascia in front of the steruo- Cervical. • 1 • I 111-11 1 11 1 fascia )u mastoideus is stronger than that behind the muscle, and has the ivont oi following arrangement. Near the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to tliat bone; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed above to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the parotid gland. From the ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged downwards, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to join the styloid process; this piece is named the stylo-maxillary liriament. And from the angle forms stylo- of the jaw a strong piece is continued to the sterno-mastoideus, iiga„n^,„t which fixes forwards the anterior border of that muscle.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. «0 iiitemus- Layers of the membrane are prolonged between the muscles; o.uiar strata. ^^^^^ ^j^^^ beneath the etenio-mastoid is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aoi'ta, and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACK. Anterior triangular sjiace. Dissection of" anterior triangle. Trace ^uteries. Seek longi- tudinal nerves, jintl trans- veise nen'es. Syiinal accessory. Larj'ngeal jicrves. Clean gland, seek ner\-e to iniylo- liyoid. Bouudaries. This space (lig. 15) contains the carotid -v essels and their brandies, with many nerves ; and it corresponds witli the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents take away the deep fascia of the neck, and the fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the hyoid muscles that appear along tlie middle line, leaving untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into wliicli the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose luunerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath tlie nuiscles at tlie lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small desceiiding branch of tlie hypo-glossal nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be fouiid the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath is the sym])athetic nerve. Crossing the space, in tlie direction of a line from the mastoid process to the h3^oid bone, are the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, with several nerves directed transversely. Thus lying below them is tlie hypo-glossal ncn-e, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Above the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and l)ackwards fi'oni l)eneath the same nmscles to the sterno-mastoideus, is the spinal accessory nerve. (.)n the iimer side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve; and l)y the side of the larynx, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hj-oid muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle ' • and in fi-ont, a line fi-om the chin to the sternum, along the middle61 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, would be the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear; and below, at the apex, is the stcnuiin. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial ami superficial cervical nerves. Muscles in the space. In the area of the triangular interval, as it Contents of is above defined, are seen the larynx, and i)liarynx in part, and ^'"^ ■'^i'''^"^- many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone as a centre, some being above and some below it. Below are the depressors of tliat bone, viz. omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, - to ^; and above the os hyoides arc the elevator nuiscles, viz. mylo-hyoid, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are some of the constrictor muscles of the gullet. Vessels in the triamjular space. The carotid blood-vessels," and ", Cnmtiir occupy the hinder and deeper part of the space along the side of space. the sterno-mastoid muscle; and their course would be marked on course, the surface by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the jaw and the mastoid process. As high Coverings, as the level of the cricoid cartilage they are buried beneath the depressor muscles of the os hyoides; but beyond that spot they are covered by the superficial layers over the space, and by the stenio-mastoid muscle which, before the parts are displaced, con- ceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit fi-om beneath the muscles at Bifurcation, the root of the neck, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk, " ; but opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external aiul internal carotid. From the place of division these trunks are continued onwards, l)eneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the Position of internal parts of tlie head (internal carotid) being the more posterior to "m/'"'''' or external of the two; but above the digastric muscle it becomes anotiier. deeper than the other. The more superficial arteiy (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part Jinuiclies. of the head, viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongUL-, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear; and others upwards to the head. But the common carotid does not always divide, as here said. For the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from the .livision of upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- t^i'i'otKi- wards, so that the trunk may reniahi undivided till it is beyond the OS hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more freqiient than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely), furnishing offsets to the neck and head. In close contact with the outer side of both the common and the internal carotid artery, and incased in a sheath of fascia with them, the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches in theDISSECTION OF THE NECK. neck corrcsiioiidiiig with some of the branches of the superficial .-liters artery. In some bodies the vein may cover tlie artery; and the liohi 1011. i)i-anches joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper part of the eonnnon carotid. Nerves with Nerves in the space. In coimection, more or less intimate, with tiie artene:j. ^j^^ large vessels, are the following nerves witli a longitudinal direction:—In front of the sheath lies the descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve; within the sheath, between the carotid artery and jugular vein, is the pneumo-gastric nerve; and behind lying along the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer part of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, till it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle, and erossiiig Several nerves are placed across the vessels:—thus, directed tiiein. transversely over the tv,-o carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives downwards its branch (descendens noni) most commonlj^ in front of the sheath. Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, Avhich courses forwards between them. Inside the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight; whilst a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve. Gianils; Glands in the. space. Two glandular bodies, the submaxillary, hiiimiaMl- ^^^^ thjToid,have their seat in this triangular space of the neck. The submaxillary gland is situate altogether in front of the vessels, and is partly concealed by the jaw; and beneath it on the surface of the mylo-hj'oideus is the small nerve to that muscle, with the bo'dy'''™'^^ submental artery. By the side of the thj-roid cartilage, between it and the eonnnon carotid artery, lies the thja-oid body beneath the sterno-thyroid nmscle: in the female this body is more largely developed than in the male. Tarotici At the base of the space, if the ]iarts were not disturbed, would ■ be the parotid gland, Avhich is wedged into the hollow between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projects somewhat below the level of the jaw. Its connections have been noticed at p. 28. Directions. T\w student has to proceed next with the examina- tion of the individual parts that liave been referred to with the triangular spaces. 'uih'rvein interior jugular vein. This small vein occupies the middle line of jnfeuar\Ln ^^^^ y^^^]-^ j^„fi j^f, ^ize is dependent upon the degree of development of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends out- wards beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, to open into the sub- joins subcia-clavian vein, or into the external jugular. In the neck the Man vein. {^,^^e,.ior ^nd external jugidar veins commmiicate. There are two anterior veins, one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. SmuTct '^^"^ STERNO-OLEiDO-MASTOiD MUSOLK (fig. 15, ^ forms the Super- ficial prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower in theSTERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOIDErS. 63 •centre than at the ends, and is attaclied below by two heads of origin, which are separated by an elongated interval. The inner has its head is fixed by a narrowed tendon to the anterior snrface of the Sm''*' lirst piece of the sternum; and the outer head has a wide lieshy audXvicle, attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards, Fig. 15.* •and the external almost vertically, and are blended about the middle of the neck in a roundish belly. Near the skull the nmscle aiui inser- ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the mastoid process at the i^i^''^^ outer aspect from base to tip, and by a thin aponeurosis into a rough surface behind that process, and into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The muscle divides the lateral surface of the neck into two rosition to triangular spaces. On its cutaneous aspect the sterno-mastoid jg other parts. * View of the anterior triangular space of the neck (Quain's "Arteries"). 1. Sterno-mastoideus. 2. Sterao-hyoideus. 3. Anterior belly of the omo- hyoideus. 4. Thyro-liyoideus. 6. Common caroiid artery dividing. 7. In- ternal jugular vein. 8. External jugular vein.—In the Drawing from which this cut is copied the sterno-mastoid is partly cut through.DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 64 covered by tlie common integuments, by the platysma and deep fascia, and by tlie external jugular vein and the superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle). If the nniscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following- parts :—The clavicular origin is sujierficial to the anterior scalenus and omo-liyoid muscles ; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery M'ith its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cenncal plexus, and the middle scalenus and elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skidl, on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital arter}^, and part of the parotid V gland. The sj^inal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. Use. Action. Both muscles acting bend the head forwards; but one muscle turns the face to the o])posite side. In conjunction with the muscles attached to the mastoid process one sterno-mastoideus will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoiil The OMO-HVOID MUSCLE Crosses beneath the sterno-mastoideus, befe^iis'at ^"f^ consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small round inter- the scapula, mediate tendon (fig. 14,^). The origin of the muscle from the scapula, and the connections of the posterior part, are to br and ends at studied in the dissectioii of the Back. From the intervening liyoKlbone. ^gj^^^^j^ ^y^g anterior fleshy belly (fig. 15, is directed upAvards along the outer border of the sterno-hyt)id muscle, and is inserteti into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone, close to thi great coniu. Connee- The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escapinu from beneath the sterno-mastoid ; and rests on the sterno-thyroideus. This part of the nmscle crosses the connnon carotid artery and internal jugular vein on a level Avith the cricoid cartilage. Use. Action. The aiitcrior belly depresses the hyoid bone; and tlu posterior is said by Theile to make tense the deep fascia of th( neck with Avhich it is coimcctcd. hvoiT" "^'^^ STEHNO-iivoiD Mi'SCLK (fig. 15, ") is fi flat thin band nearci mus^'k-. the middle line than the preceding. It arines from the postcrioi surface of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. Frou. this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the loAver bordei of the body of the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. IlufbeneaU. ^'"^ ""rffvce is in contact with the fascia, and is cd:'ten marked ■ by a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface Avill be found to touch the sterno-thyroideus, and the superior thyroid vessels. Tin muscles of opposite sides are separated by an interval Avhich i^ largest beloAv. Use. Action. It draAvs the os hyoides downAvards after SAvalloAvin<r • anr in laborious respiration it Avill act as an elevator of the sternum Sterno-tiiy- The STKUNO-THYROID MUSCLE is Avider and shorter than the sterno hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other hyoid muscle it arise65 DErRESSORS OF OS HYOIDES. from the posterior surface of the sternum, and the cartilage of the fii-st rib below the former; and it is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border tonches its fellow for about an inch, along the Parts over middle line of the neck, whilst the outer reaches over the carotid ^^'I'-^^eiieatii. artery. The superficial surface is concealed by the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body, A transverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to aid the preceding muscle in lowering Use. rapidly the hj'oid bone after deglutition ; but it can draw down and forwards the thyroid cartilage, and assist in rendering tight the vocal cords. Like the sterno-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRO-HYOIDEUS (fig. 15, is a continuation in direction of Thyro-hyoid the last muscle. Beginning on the side of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the inner half of the gi-eat cornu of the os hyoides, and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the muscle lies the omo-hyoideus ; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal ner\'e and vessels. It is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx. Action. Kaising the thyroid cartilage towards the os hyoides, it Use. reiiders lax the vocal cords, and assists in placing the cartilage under the tongue preparatoiy to swallowing. Directions. Tlie remaining jiarts included in this section arc the scaleni nuiscles and the subcla-\-ian blood-vessels, with the cervical nen^es and the carotid blood-vessels. The student may examine them in the order here given. Dissection (fig. 16). Supposing the stenio-mastoid cut, the fat Dissection and fascia are to be taken away from the lower part of the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the neck, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the of the sub- scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its artery branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course over and along it from the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of a part or the whole of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found, ^^l^^^^^^ . except the superior intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax in fi-ont of the neck of the first rib. On the branch (hiferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and the dissector should follow downwards fi-om it a small cardiac nerve to the thorax. r66 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Only the origin and first part of the course of. the -tem^^^^^^^^ can be now seen ; their termination is met witli ni othei stages of tl's dlsection, or in the dissection of other parts of the body. on..p.. r stud^rt shouhl seek the small right 1>-Pl^at.c due tic duct: ^^^^^ opens into the subclavian veui near its junction with tlie Fi-. IG.* jugular. A notice of it will be given with the lymphatics of the thorax. oftechial The outer part of the subclavian artery having been already plexus; prepared, let the dissector remove more completely the fibrous tissue from the nerves of the brachial plexus. From the plexus trace the small branch to the subclavius muscle ; and the branches to the rhomboid and serratus muscles, which pierce the middle * A. view of the coramon carotid and subclavian arteries (Quain's "Ar- teries"). 1- Anterior scalenus, with the phrenic nerve on it. 2. Middle scalenus. 3. Levator anguli scapula^ 4. Omohyoideus. 5. Rectus capitis anticus major. 6. Common carotid artery. 7. Subclavian vein. 8. Sub- clavian artery. 9. Digastric muscle. 10. Tarotid ghind. 11. Submaxillary gland. 12. Thyroid body. 13. Trapezius muscle, reflected.SCALEXI AlCSCLES. €7 ■scalenus. If it is tliouglit necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied. Clean the cervical plexus, and seek its nuiscular branches, the of cervical small twigs to join the descendens noni, and the roots of the ^'^'^^^^ phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the middle scalenus muscle be defined, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. The SCALENI muscles are usually described as three in number. Number of scivlciii and are named £rom their relative position, anterior, middle, and muscles, posterior ; they extend fi-om the first two ribs to tlie transverse processes of the cervical vertebrav The SCALENUS ANTicus (fig. IG, ^) extends from the first rib to Scalenus the lower cervical vertebrae, and is somewhat conical in shape. It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper surface origin; of the first rib, so as to surround the rough surface or pi-ojection 'on this aspect of the bone ; and by its base it is inserted into the insertion; anterior transverse processes of four of the cervical vertebr{e, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth, and third (fig. 45, ^'). More deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed connections, by the clavicle and the subclavius, and by the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid : the phrenic nerve lies along its cutajieous with vessels,, ^ surface, and the subclavian vein crosses over it near the rib.^ Along^^*^ .•^^'^^^^^^^ the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath the scalenus axil^ nerves, fcu^ are the pleura, the subclavian artery, and the nerves of the brachial 'Uan'^'■ < plexus. The insertion into the vertebrte corresponds with the origin OTftC'k of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Action. The anterior of these muscles raises strongly the first rib. Use. in consequence of its forward attachment. If the rib is fixed, it bends forwards the lower part of the neck. The SCALENUS MEDIUS MUSCLE (fig. 16, ") is larger than the Scalenus anterior, and extends farthest of all on the vertebroe. Inferiorly it is attached to a groove on the upper surface of the first rib, Origin; extending obliquely forwards fi-om the tubercle^ to the outer border for one inch and a half. The muscle ascends beliind the spinal nerves, and is inserted into the tips of the posterior transverse insertion, processes of all the cervical vertebraa (fig. 45, ^^). In contact with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery rarts in and the spinal nerves, together with the stemo-niastoid muscle ; witii IL whilst the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The outer border is perforated by tlie nerves of the rhomboid and sen-atus muscles. Action. Usually it elevates the first rib. With the rib fixed, the Use. cervical part of the spine will be incHned laterally by one muscle. The SCALENUS POSTICUS (fig. 45, ^) is inconsiderable in size, and Si^aienns appears to be but part of the preceding. It is attached below by a slip, about lialf an inch wide, to the second rib, in front of the ser- ;„ent8. ratus posticus superior ; and it is inserted above with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cei-vical transverse processes. Action. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and its fibres Use. having the same direction as those of the medius, it will incline the neck~in the same way. F 2 •DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 68 Suhelavian artery ; extends to Hjiper limb, and is divided into thi-ee parts. Tirst part' intenial to scalemis is deep. In fi'ont, belifnd, below. Veins with the arterv. Piosition of nen-es before, and behind. Second part beneatli scalenus. In front. behind, below. Po-iiition of A'eins : of nerves to the arten-. Tlie SUBCLAVIAN ARTEiiY (fig. IG) is tliG first part of tlie large- vessel supplying the upper limb with blood, which is thus desig- nated fi-om its position beneath the clavicle. This vessel, O, is- derived from the branching of the innominate artery behind the sterao-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the- limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni muscles. For the purpose of describing its numerous; connections the vessel may be divided into three jDarts : the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath tlie scaleiuis ; and the third, fi-om the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia, the sterno- mastoid, stemo-hyoid, aiid sterno-thyroid muscles, and a sti'ong deep process of fascia fi-om the inner border of the scalenus nmscle. This part of the subclavian lies over the longus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by fat and nerves.. Below the artery is the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel. Veins. The innominate vein, and the ending of the subclavian ('), form an arch below that of the artery. The large internal jugular vein crosses the arterial tnmk close to the scalenus ; and under- neath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein. Much more supei-ficial, and separated from the artery by nmscles, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumogastric neive, near to the internal jugular vein ; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Behind the subclavian artery winds the recun-ent branch of the pneumogastric ; and still deeper is the cord of the sympathetic neive with its cardiac branches, one or more of its offsets entwining round the vessel. Second 2)art. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less deep than when placed internal to that muscle, and at this spot it rises highest above the clavicle. The second part, like the first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia ; then by the clavicular origin of the stcmo-mastoideus; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. Below the artery is the bag of the pleura, which ascends between the scaleni. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the su])clavian vein. Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nerve. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large ceivical nerves ; and the tnmk formed by the last cer\ncal and first dorsal is interposed between the artery and the middle scalenus.69 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Third part. Beyond the scalenus the artery is contamed in the Tiuni part ■clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (p. 54), and is Jiearer the sui*face than in the rest of its course : this part of the is supeifi- vessel is enclosed in a tube of the deep cervical fascia, wliich it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively ■superficial whilst in the space before mentioned, for it is covered Parts cover- only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia ; but near its ^*' termination the vessel gets under cover of the suprascapular artery and vein, and the clavicle and subclavius muscle. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib, whicli is a^wve and interposed between it and the pleura. Veins. The arch of the subclavian vein is close to the artery, not Position of being separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower level. ^' The external jugular vein crosses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, which enter the jugular, form sometimes a plexus over the third part of the artery. Nerves. The large cords of the brachial plexus are placed above of nerves to iind close to the vessel; and the small nerve of the subclavius crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cervacal plexus. Peculiarities. The artery may spring as a separate trunk from the q"j^'Yj*'®^ i^rch of the aorta ; and in such a de\dation the vessel takes a deeper ° * place than usual to reach the scaleni muscles. It has been before said (p. 56) that the subclavian may be in front of the scalenus or in its fibres; and that it ma}'' be placed one inch and a half above the level of the clavicle. Branches of subclavian. Usually there are four chief branches on Branches of the subclavian artery. Three branches arise from the first part of subclavian, the arterial trunk ;—one (vertebral) ascends to the head ; another From first, (internal manmiary) descends to the chest ; and the i-emaining one (th3Toid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards to the thyroid body and the shoulder. These arise commonly near the scalenus muscle, so as to leave an interval at the origin free from offsets. This interval varies in length from half an inch to an inch in the gi-eater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered ■over the first part of the artery (Quain).'-^ The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises beneath the an- second, tenor scalenus from the second part of the artery, and gives off the <leep cervical branch : a small spinal artery comes sometimes from this part of the trunk. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is -commonly the posterior scapular: if more than one, this same branch with the external mammary ; and if more than two, an offset be- longing to the thyroid axis will be added. * The student is referred for fuller inforraation respecting the pecuHarities of the vessels, and the practical applications to be deduced from them, to the ■original and valuable work on the Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Eody, by Richard Quain, F.R.S.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 79 Vertebral arterj- in the ueck. Small branches.] Vertebral vein, and branches. Internal mammary arteiy in the ueck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Snjuia- scaimlar branch. Transverse cervical branch. Offsets. Size and ending vary. Inferior thyroid branch The vertebral artenj is generally the first and largest branch of" the subclavian, and arises from the uj^per and posterior part.. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus and: longus colli nuiscles, this branch enters the aperture in the lateral mass of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to. the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrfo. Before the arter)' enters its aperture it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is. accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies, small muscular offsets. Its course and distribution will be given afterwards. The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the subclavian: artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the deep cei'vical veiriy and the branch that accompanies the ascending cervical arterj*. The internal mammanj branch leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, sub- clavius, and the right innominate vehi, enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the plem-a. As the artery disapj^ears) in the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be given Avith the dissection of those parts. Thyroid axis. This is a short thick truidc (fig. 16) w^hich arises- from the front of the artery near the anterior scalenus nmscle, and soon divides into tlu-ee branches—one to the thyroid body, and two to the scapula. The siqji'ascajmlar branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula, and entering the supraspinal fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen in the dissection of the Back. The transverse cerviccd branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical, and posterior scapular arteries. (" Dissection of tue Back.") In its course outwards through the space containing the third part of the subclavian artery, this branch crosses the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus. Some small offsets are supplied by it to the posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cervical artery supplies ordinarily the posterior scapular branch, there are many bodies in which it is too small to give origin to so large an offset. In such instances the diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle ; whilst the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian artery (fig. IG). The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous course to the thyroid body the branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accompanying vein and nerves, and m front of the longus colli muscle and the recun-ent nerv^e. At the lower part of the thyroid71 SUBCLAYIAX VEIN. l)0(ly it divides into branches wliich ramify in the under surface, and communicate with the superior thyroid, and its fellow, forming a very free anastomosis between those vessels. Near the larynx a laryngeal branch is distributed to that tube, gives laiyn- and other oifsets are furnished to the trachea. ^^'^^ The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards and ascend- between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in bl-anclu'"''^ branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. The reins corresponding with the branches of the thyroid axis Veins eor- have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and to^arteries^ transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein begins in the thyroid body, and descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to the innominate vein. The sujierior intercostal artery arises fi"om the j)Osterior part of Superior the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck of the first rib: artery"^*^^ its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in connnon with tliis branch is the deej) cei'viccd arteiy Dee-p cervU (art. profunda cers'icis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an ^^ery. intercostal artery (Quain), it passes backwards between the trans- verse 2>rocess f)f the last cci'vical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to or beneath the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips continued upwards from the erector spina;, to end beneath the eomplexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spincd branch (Quain) is fre(]uently given fi-om the second part Siiinal of the artery; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intei'\-ertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVIAN VEIN has not the same limits as the companion Subclavian artery, reaching only from the lower edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the inno- minate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus. The anterior aiul external jugular join the subclavian vein outside Its the scalenus, aiul the vertebral vein enters it inside that muscle. ' Into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins the oiiening of right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 27, ^) ; and at the like spot, on the Julct!?^"*^" left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends (fig. 27, *'). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is placed outside the Valves, opening of the external jugular vein.''^ It should be borne in mind tliat not unfrequently the vein is as Position high in the neck as the third part of its companion arteiy ; and that '"'^y^^^^- the vein has been seen twice with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. * See a paper on the Valves in the Veins of the Neck in the Edin. Med. Journal, of Nov., 1856, by Dr. Struthers.DISSECTION OF THE XECK. 72 Cervical nerves. Position and number. First two differ from rest. Brachial plexus, fonued liy five nerves. Disposition of nerves in tlie plexus. Branches in the neck are Ner\'e of subcla^ius, Nerve of rhomboi- Ueus, Ner^'e of serratus. The ANTERIOR I'RIMAUY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES Spnilg fi-om Ihe common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These nerves are eight in number, and are e(iually divided between^ the cerAHcal and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined hi the former, and the remaining nerv'es in the latter i3lexus. The nerves receive offsets of communication from the sj^mpathetic at their beginning, and intermix by means of luunerous branches near the spine. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nen'^es ; aiid their pecidiarities will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Plexus. The four lower cervical nen^cs and part of the lirst intercostal are blended in this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, wliere it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexiform disposition : they lie at first between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebriie, and have the following arrangement :— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebr;T3 ; the seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the middle scalenus ; and the last cenacal and the piece of the first intercostal are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus ; so that they make at first three cords. Near the attachment of the middle scalenus to the ril», the seventh nerve throws itself into the trunk of the united fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus :—the one (upper) formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cenacal nei^-es ; and tlie other (lower) by the eighth cervical and the first intercostal nerve. These two trunks accompany the sub- clavian arteiy, lying to its acromial side, and arc continued to the axilla where they are more intimately blended. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; whilst the other set consist of the terminal branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be referred to. Branches above the Clavicle. The branch of the suhclavius muscle is a slender twig, which arises fi-om the trvmk formed by the fifth and sixth neiTes, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The branch of the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, and perforates the fibres oi' that muscle ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulaj to its destination. Branches are given usually from tliis nerve to the levator anguli scapuh-c. Tlie nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and73 CERVICAL PLEXUS. sixth nen-es near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is con- tinued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus niagnus muscle on the axillary surface. Branches of the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small Nerves of twigs are seen wlien the anterior scalenus is divided; they arise lof/gus com. from the beginning of the trunks of the nerves. The suprascapular nerve is larger than cither of the others. It 'Suin-asca- arises near the subclavian branch fi-om the cord of the plexus ''^ "erve. formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is to tlie muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and it will be dissected Avith the arm. Occasionally an ofi:"set from the fifth cervical trunk joins the Ottset to the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. ^' The CERVICAL PLEXUS is formed by the first four cei-vical nerves. Cervical ItltiXUS .Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli :scapula3. It differs much from the brachial plexus, for it resembles a . iititwork a network more than a bimdle of large cords. The following is the .general arrangement of the nerves in the plexus :—Each nen^e, Arrange- except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, jierves. and these unite with similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the <lifferent branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deep. The superficial set has offsets been described witli the triangular space of the neck, as consisting daif"^^'^^ ■of ascending and descending (p. 57), The ascending branches may be now seen to. spring from the union of the second and third nerves ; and the descending, to take origin from the loop between the third and fourth nerA^es. The deep set of branches remains to '^Jjjj^']^^*'^];''. ibe examined : they are muscular and connuunicating, and may be arranged into an internal and an external series. Internal Series. The phrenic or nniscular nerve of the dia- Phrenic phragm (fig. IG) is derived from the fourtli, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined by a fasciculus fi-om the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus fi-om the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the sub- clavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve of the •subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first part of the subclavian artery. The branches communicating icith the clescendens noni are two in ^J^'^l number. One arises from the second, and the other from the third scendens cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards over the internal jugular vein, and communicate in front of the carotid sheath witli the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the hypoglossal nei-ve. Sometimes these nerves pass under the jugular vein.74 DISSECTION OF THE XECK. Branches to recti, Brandies to other neiTes, Br.uiches to muscles, Branches joining s]>inal acces- soiy. Common earotiil artery. Muscular hranclm are fiirnislied to the anterior recti muscles ;. they arise from tlie loop between the first two nen'cs, and from the trunks of the other nei-ves close to the intervertebral foramina. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the first two nerves, and miite with the sympathetic and some cranial nerves near the base of the skull : these will be afterwards described. ExTKi{NAi, OK PosTEUiou SERIES. MuscuJar branches are given from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapula> ; and from the third and fourth nerves, to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. Connecting branches v:ith the sjunal accessory nerve exist in three places. First, in the steriio-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union, with the branches distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The coMJioN CAROTID ARTERY is the Icadijig vessel for the- supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. IG, The origin of the vessel differs on opposite sides of the body, beginning at the- lower part of the neck on the right, and in the thorax on the left side. The right vessel connncnces opposite the sterno-clavicular articu- lation in the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividhig into the external and internal carotid. The course of tlie artery is along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel oil the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the laiynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the stenio-- clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cen^ical fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artery has- the following connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is con- cealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fasci;e, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno- mastoid (sternal origin), stenio-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is less deep, being covered only by the stenio-mastoid with beneath it, the common investments of the part. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the traf;hea and larynx, the a-sophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid bod}', the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Vdns. The large internal jugular lies on the outer side ami close to the carotid at the upper end, but separated from it below by an inters-al of about half an inch : on the left side the veil is over the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or twc Origin. Course. Situation. Parts cover ingit. and on its sides. Position of veins :COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. upper thyroid veins and their branches cross the upper part of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body anotlier small vein (middle thyroid) is directed back over the vessel. Near the clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes out under the stemo-mastoid : it is superficial to the artery, and separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles. Arteries. Otfsets of the upper thyroid artery desceiul over the of arteries top of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses under it below the level of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descendens noni hes in front of the sheath, crossing of nerves to. from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the cervical carotid, nerves. The pneumogastric lies within the sheath, behind and be- tween the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and branches rest on tlie spine behind the sheath. All the nen^es above men- tioned have a longitudinal direction ; but the inferior laryngeal or recun-ent crosses obliquely hiwards behind the sheath towards the lower end of the artery. Branches of carotid. As a rule, the common carotid artery does Brandies not furnish any collateral branch, though it is very conmion for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL jLXiULAR VEIN extends upwards to the base of the internal skull, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid j"S"lar vem.. is now seen. Placed behind or external to its artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the is close to lower part of the neck the vein inclines backwards, leaving a space arteiy between it and the artery, in which the vagus nerve is seen about except midway between the two. Sometimes the vein is superficial to the ''eiow. carotid, as on the left side. The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a pair of valves (Struthers). In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and Branches, middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the right Differences side may be above or below the point stated. Mention has been .',"tery'""' made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the commoTi carotid may not be divided into two (p. Gl). In- iu number, stead of one, there may be two trmiks issuing fi-om beneath the hyoid nuiscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the trunk Dissection, of the external carotid (fig. 17), and follow its branches until they disappear bencatli different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross tlic carotid ; and may define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 15, ^) COnsists of two fleshy bellies, Digastric united by an intervening tendon, whence its name. The posterior, "wo bellies, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beneath the mastoid process ; whilst the anterior belly is fixed on the side of the sym-DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 76 wliii'h arc .ioined by ii tendon. Position to 'itlier parts. Tlie iimscle hounds a .space <;oiitaiiiiiig yluiids. Use. «tylo- liyoideus. Origin. Insertion. .Surrounds <ligastrli; tendon. Use. 2vintli nerve in tlie ante- rior tri- angle. Branches: to liyoid muscles is joined l)liysis of the lower jaw. From these attachments tlie fibres are directed to tlie intervening tendon, wliich is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-liyoideus, and is united to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great cornu of tlie os hyoides by an aponeurotic expansion. The arcli formed by tlie digastric is sni)erficial, except at the outer end, where it is beneath the sterno-niastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to a fittle above the hyoid bone : along its lower border lie the oc- cipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; the former passing back- wards, the latter foi-wards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo- hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between the jaw and the base of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are con- tained the parotid gland, (^^), and the vessels and nerves in con- nection with it (p. 2'J) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland, ("), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses that l)one and opens tlie mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two bellies act- ing will elevate the hyoid bone. It is supposed that the posterior belly may assist in moving back the head when the jaw is fixed. The STYi.o-HYOin musclk is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from the outer surface of the stjdoid process, near the base, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In some bodies the stylo-hyoideus is absent. Action. This muscle elevates the os hyoides preparatory to swal- lowing, and checks, with the posterior belly of the digastric, the too forward movement of that bone by the other elevators. The HYroGLOssAL NERVK (ninth cranial) appears in the anteiior triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks round the occipital artery ; it is then directed forwards to the tongue below that muscle, and disappears in fi-ont beneath the mylo-hyoideus. In this course the nerve passes over the two carotids ; and near tlie cornu of the os hyoides it crosses also the lingual artery, so as to become higher than the vessel. From this part arise the descendens noni branch, and a small muscular ofi^set to the tliryro-hj-oideus. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and d(>- Kccnds on the front of (sometimes in) the sheath of the vessel to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the com-7T EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. municatiiig branches of the cervical nerves. After tlic union of the with ceni- spinal nerves, oft'sets are supplied to the depressor muscles of the os ^"'^^ "erves hyoides, viz., onio-liyoid (botli bellies), sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid : sometimes another offset is contiinied to the thorax, -where it joins the phi-enic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descendcns noni and the spinal I'y iuter- ner\'es is formed by two or more cross filaments, so as to con- lathi'g"" .struct an arch with the concavity upwards ; and an interchange '"Ji'iis- of fibrils between the two nerves is supposed to take place. The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTJ:RY (Hg. 17, (I) spruigS from the bi- Extenml furcation of the connuon carotid' at tlie upper borde^- of the tliyroid vel-'jji''^ cartilage, and furnislies branches to the neck, the face,^.^nd the outer parts of the head. ^ From, the place of origin it ascends in front of the mastoid pro- Extent. cess, and ends near the wnd\^e n^^lie jaw in the interrlal maxillary and temporal branches. The arterj^ lies jxt first to the in'^er side of course ami the internal carotid^ but it aftenvards 'l^^ecomes superficifil to that ^^'I'^^^tion. vessel ; and its direfci||Dn is som'ewhat arched forwards, though the position would be marked sufficiently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to t^^^ crifcoid cartilage. At first the external»^r/)tid is overlaid b^ the sterno-mastoideus. Parts super- and by the common coverings of the antwj^jr triangular space, viz. ^^'^'^^ the skin, and the 9*periicial and deep fascioj with the platysma. But above the level ofjtfihe fxom the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and still higher the parotid gland conceals it. At its beginning the arteiy rests against the i^liarynx ; but above the angle of the jaw it beneath it, is placed over the styloid jorocess and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, which sei)arate it from the internal carotid. To the imier side of the vessel at first is the pharynx ; and still higher, are the ramus ami on inner of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. Veins. There is not any companion vein with the external carotid Veins in as with most arteries ; but sometimes a vein, formed by the union the urten'^' of the temporal and internal maxillary branches (p. 29), will accom- pany it. Near the beginning it is crossed by the facial and lingual l)ranc]ies joining the internal jugular vein ; and near the ending the external jugular vein lies over it. Nei~ves are directed from behind forwards over and under the 'i'"^ nerves, artery. At the lower border of the digastric muscle tlie hypo- glossal lies over the vessel, and near the ending the ramifications of the facial nen^e are superficial to it. Three nei-ves lie beneath it : beginning below, the small external laryngeal ; a little higher, the superior laryngeal ; and near the base of the jaw, the glosso-pharyngeal. The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and arc [^f^j^^.j^^,^ classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The are anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, tlie tongue, anterior, and the face, viz. superior tliyroid, lingua], and facial arteries. In the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricular posterior, branches. And the ascending set include the ascending pharyu-aufi ascend-DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 78 oli.ingc in origin •iind in aiuinber. gcal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, tlic carotid gives other branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the parotid gland. The origin of the branches of tlie carotid may be altered by their closer aggregation on tlie trunk. The usual number may Fig. 17.* Branrlies now seen are .Suiierior tliyroid, be diminished by two or more uniting into one ; or the nmiibci may be increased by some of the secondary oifsets being trans- ferred to the parent trunk. Directions. All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal lingual, and internal maxillary, may be noAV examined ; but thos( three will be described afterwards with the regions they occupy. The superior thyroid artery (e) arises near the cornu of the O! * External carotid and its superficial branches (" Anatomy of the Arteries,' Quain). a. Common carotid, h. Internal jugular vein. c. Internal carotid d. External carotid, c. Upper thyroid branch. /. Lingual, g. Facial h. Internal maxillary. /. Superficial temporal, m. Supra-orbital, n. Ex ternal nasal, o. Angular branch of facial. Lateral nasal, r. Superio coronary, s. Inferior coronaiy. t. Inferior labial, a. Submental artery.79 BRAXCHES OF CAROTID. liyoides, and passes beneath the omo-liyoid, sterno-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to whicli it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. Tliis artery is superticial in the lias offsets; anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor and the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The Jufoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs tiio liyoul inwards below the hyoid bone: it supplies tlie nuiscles attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the to stemo- sheath of the conmion carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to u'^i^^g^ the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to larj-nx, bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- tocnVo- tween the cricoid and the thyi-oid cartilage, and communicates with |^i','em{j".ane the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein connnences in the larynx and the Acfiompany- thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) arises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery ^^'^^^'y jiasses beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is after- wards lodged on the submaxillary gland, on which it makes a sigmoid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been examined (p. 27). supplies From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to the structures below the jaw, viz.:— a. The inferior 2)al(i'ti>ie branch ascends to the pharynx beneath to the tlie jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus i^"'^'^*'*' muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, after furnishing a branch to the tonsil. This branch frequently arises from the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes tonsil, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland suii-maxii- from the part of the artery in contact with it. aiy-Miu, d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and .ind myio- courses forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the muscle, digastric muscle, where it ends in offsets : some of tliese turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone,—one or two perforating the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The faded vein (p. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding with the off- sets of the artery. It often thi-ows itself into tlie temporo-maxillary trunk. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined for Occipital ^ artei-yDIS8ECTI0X OF THE XECK. 80 cnils on occiput; offset to dura mater. Occipital vciu. Posterior auriyular ; a lirancli to the ear. Vein witli artery. Temporal artery, tenniiinl ■branches. to parotid, to articula- tioTi, anil ear. Branch to face. Branch to temporal muscle and fascia. the back of tlie head. It arises from the carotid opposite the- facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Next it turns horizontally backwards on the occii^ital bone^ passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally becomes cutaneous near the middle line (p. G). In the neck this arter}' passes beneath the digastric muscle and a part of the parotid gland ; and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hj^poglossal nei-ves. The onl}' offset from the artery in the fi-ont of the neck is a small imsterior meningeal branch : this ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen jugulare Q). IG). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. The occijyital vein begins at the back of the head (p. G ), and has. the same course as the artery ; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and coalesces with the internal (sometimes the external) jugular vem. The j^oHterior auricula^' arterij is smaller than the preceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides into two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6). A small branch, stylo-mastoid^ enters the foramen of the same name, and supplies the tympanum of the ear. The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and internal max illarj' veins. The teviporal artery (i) is in direction the continuation of the external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending under the parotid gland it divides on the tem- poral fascia into anterior and posterior branches, about two inches above the zygoma ; these are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 5). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the sur- rounding parts, viz.:— a. Parotid hranches are furnished to the gland of the same nam( Articidar twigs are supplied to the articulation of the lower jaw and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some anterior auricidar offsets are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. h. The transverse faded branch quits the temporal artery oppc^ site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over tlu masseter muscle (p. 28) ; on the side of the face it supplies the nuiscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. c. The middle temporcd branch aiises just above the zygoma, am pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of tlu temporal muscle : it anastomoses with branches of the interna maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal arteiy is likewise foun between the layers of the temporal fascia ; this anastomoses witl an offset of the lachrymal.81 MASSETER MUSCLE. The Umporal vein commences on the side of the head (p, 6) and Comspond- is contl,i;-uons to its companion artery. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; next it receives branches which are companions of the offsets of the artery ; and it ends by tiiiiting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will not be nscd again for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the Haps of sidn, when he has applied salt to preserve it. Section YI. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are inclnded the muscles superficial to and beneath Contents of the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the articulation of that leyio"- bone. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary bloodvessels, and the inferior maxillaiy trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Dissection, bones, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the facial nerve. To see it more fully the branches of the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery should be cut through, and turned back- wards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to define the ■origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be any tow or cotton wool in the mouth let it be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 6, is partly aponeurotic at the upper Masseter. :attachment. It arises from all the lower border of the zygomatic Origin, arch, extending forwards to the upper jaw ; and from the inner •surface of the arch by fine fleshy fibres. Most of the fibres are ijiclined down and somewhat back, and are inserted into the outer Insertion. «urface of the coronoid process, ramus, and angle of the lower jaw ; but a few are fixed into the contiguous part of the body of the bone as far as the second molar tooth. Some of the hinder and deci)er fibres are inclined downwards and forwards across the •others. The lower part of the masseter is subcutaneous, but the upper is MuspIc partly concealed by the parotid gland (socia parotidis), and is J,X|Ltus'i crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and the facial ner^^e. Tlie anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat resembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ramus of the jaw, and the lies on tiie masseteric l)ranches of nerve and artery entering it at the under J'^^^- :surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterygoid in the Use. mastication of the food. Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion, the following dissection may be made :—The temporal fascia is to beDISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGIOX. detached from the ujiper border of the zygomatic arcli, and to ho removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, tlie arch of tlie zygoma is to be sawn througli in front and beliind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut oif) with the masseter muscle still attached to it, by separating the fibres of that nniscle from the ranuis of the jaw. In detaching the masseter muscle, its nerve and artery, which pass through the sigmoid notch, will be found. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned ; and to expose its insertion and deep origin, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole insertion; of the muscle. Before sawing the bone let the student find and separate from the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat removed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external j^terygoid close below them, may be observed. The temjMval muscle (fig. 18, ^) takes its or'ujin from the whole- of the temporal fossa (p. 4), reaching up to the semicircular line- on the side of the skidl, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great Aving of the sphenoid bone. From this exten- sive attachment, as Avell as fi-om the fascia over it, the fibres con- verge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the same process which reaches from the apex to near the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve : the last nerve perforates occasionally some of the fibres of tin muscle. Action. All the fibres contracting the muscle will raise tl, mandible and press it forcibly against the upper jaw ; but tin hinder fibres may retract the lower jaw after it has been mov. forwards by the external pterygoid. Dissection. For the display of the pterygoid muscles (fig. 18) it will be necessaiy to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be first d. tached from the subjacent bone with the handle of tlie scalpel and the deep temporal vessels and nerves are to be sought in if fibres. ^ A piece of the ramus is next to be taken away by sawing acros the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dent foramen ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve in conta' with its inner surface secure from injury, the handle of the scabv may be inserted between them and the bone, and carried dowi wards to their entrance into the foramen. The masseteric arte and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should thc^ be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and'afterwards t together the ends.83 POSITION OF VESSELS AND XERVES. After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the sub- tako itawaj jacent parts freed from much fat, the pterygoid muscles will '""^ tho fat. appear,—the external (-) being directed outwards to the condyle of the jaw, and the internal which is parallel in direction to the masseter, being inclined to the angle of the jaw. In removing the fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin internal lateral ligament, which lies on the internal pterygoid muscle beneath the ramus. ^ivz'rpn Position of vessels. Crossing inwards over the external pterygoid position of muscle, is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets ^'^^s'-'l*- Fig. 18.* upwards and downwards: sometimes the artery will be placed beneath the muscle. The veins with the artery are large and plexiform : and may be taken away. Position of mn-es. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillary Nervos. neiwe aj^pear in this dissection. Thus, issuing from beneath the lower border of tlic external pterygoid are the large dental and gustatory nerves, the latter being the more internal of the two ; and coming out behind the joint of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. Appearing between the upj^er border of the muscle and the cranium, arc tlie small masseteric and deep temporal nerves. The buccal branch of tlie nerve perforates the fibres of the same muscle near the inner attachment. Branches of the above-men- * Superficial view of the pterygoid region fQuain's "Arteries"). 1. Tem- poral muscle. 2. External pterygoid. 3. Intermil pteiygoid. 4. Buccinator. 5. Digastric and stylo-liyoid muscles cut and thrown back. 6. Common carotid dividing into external and internal trunks. 8. Internal maxillary artery (beneath tlie pterygoid instead of over it) and its branches.—The nerves are omitted in this woodcut. (i 284 DISSECTION OF THE TTERYGOID EEGIOX. Posterior deutal. InteriiiMxil lary band. External nients. Insertion. Contiguous l)arts. tioned artery accompany the nerves. Coursing along the posterior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery. Between the jaws is the whitish narrow hand of the pterygo- maxillary ligament, to which the huccinator and superior constrictor muscles are connected. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 18, extends almost hon- pterygoTd. 2ontally fi-om the zygomatic fossa to the neck of the lower jaw. Attach- ^^•^•^ fi-oi-n the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone below the crest, and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attached to the upper margin of the sphcno-maxillary fissure forming at first a separate bundle, and arc inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw, and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep sm-face it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament of the joint of the jaw. The parts in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enumerated before. Sometimes the slip of the muscle, which is attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure and the root of the external ptery- goid plate, is described as a separate head with an insertion into the interarticular cartilage. Action. If both muscles act the jaw is moved forwards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in front of the upper, and the grinding teeth are rubbed together in an antero-posterior direction. In order that the lower front teeth may be able to pass the others the jaw is depressed. One muscle contracting (say the right), the condyle of the same side is drawn inwards and forwards, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are moved horizontally to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is effected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 18, •') is nearly parallel to benea^th'the ^^^^ ramus of the jaw, and its fibres are longer than those of the ramus of preceding muscle. Arising in the pterygoid fossa, and chiefly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid j^late, the muscle is further attached below, outside the fossa, to the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and to the tuberosity of the upper jaw bone. The fibres descend to be inserted into the angle, and into the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw as high as the inferior dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and gustatory nerves, the dental artery, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. The deep surface is in relation below with the superior constjictor, and at its origin with the tensor palatijnyscle. Action. From the directioif and attachment of the fibres the muscle will unite with the masseter in elevating the jaw. A second head. Use of both muscles, of one luuBcle. Internal the jaw. Attacli- meuts. Vessels am nerves around. Use.85 TEMrORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. Directions. Before proceeding further in the dissection, the student may learn the anatomy of the artictdation of the lower jaw. Temporo-jiaxillary articulation. In this articulation are com- Joint of billed the condyle of the jaw and the anterior part of the glenoid ^^^^''^^ J''^^- fossa of the temporal bone ; but the osseous surfaces are not in contact, for a piece of fibro-cartilage with two synovial sacs is interposed between them. The bones are retained in apposition mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw ; but the following ligaments serve to unite them. Capsule. This is a thin fibrous tube enclosing the bones, and is Capsule of wider above than below. By the upper end it is fixed around the '^^^^j""^*- articular surface of the temporal bone in front of the Glaserian fissure ; and it is inserted below around tlie condyle of the lower jaw. The space in the interior is divided into two, upper and lower, by a piece of fibro-cartilage, which is united to the capsule by its circumference. The external lateral is a short ligamentous band, being but a part External of the capsule, which is attached above to the tubercle at the root ""^^ of the zygoma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 10, 1) is a long, thin, mem- internal branous band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it ment^^'^^" is connected to a projection inside the glenoid fossa, which consists of the spinous process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. The hgament Hes between the jaw and the internal pterygoid ; and its origin is concealed by tlie external pterj-goid muscle. Between the ligament and the jaw the internal maxillary artery intei-venes. Dissection. After tlie external lateral ligament and the capsule Dissection, of the joint have been examined, an interarticular fibro-cartilage, witli a liollow above and below it, will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 20). The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 20,'') is adapted to the sur- Fibro-carti- faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thinner in the ^^^^' centre than at the margins, and an aperture is sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded ami attacli- on the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule and the external lateral ligament ; and in fi-ont the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular pad allows greater freedom of movement in the Use. joint without dislocation ; diminishes the injurious effect of pressure ; and deadens the sound of the jaw striking the skull. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation—one above, two syuo. and one below the fibro-cartilnge. The lower one is the smaller of the tAvo. . Another structure—the stglo-maxillanj ligament (fig. 20, ) is described as a uniting band to this articulation. It is a process ot j^^^^ -^86 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGIOX. the deep ccn^ical fascia, which extends from tlie styloid process to tlie hinder part of the ramus of tlie jaw : it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Surface of Articulav surfaces of the hones. The lower jaw possesses a thin "''^^^ narrow condyle, which is elongated transversely, and directed back- wards and inwards. and tem- On the temporal bone is a narrow deep articular hollow (glenoid poral boue. f^gg^^)^ which is lengthened from without in, and is placed in front of Fig. 19.* Fig. 20.t Kinds of movenaent. Tn opening the mouth, how jaw moves. Dislocation. State of ligaments. Shutting mouth ; condyle moves. State of ligaments. the Glaserian fissure. In fi-ont of this is a prominence of hone, (transverse root of the zygomatic process) which is convex from before back and rather hollowed from side to side. Movements of the joint. This condyloid articulation is jDrovided with an up and down, a to and fro, aiid a lateral movement. Iji depressing the jaw, as in openmg tlie mouth, the articular con- dyle moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity at the fore part of the articular hollow, but the interposed concave libro- cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion throws the condyle oil the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and gives rise to dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are made tight; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the con- dyle by the external ptcrj-goid nuisclc. When the jaiv is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and the fibro-cartilage glide back into the glenoid fossa. In i\m posi- tion the jaw is placed in the state of greatest security against dis- location. The ligaments and the surrounding muscles, which were stretched in the previous movement, are then set at rest. * Ligaments of the jav-—an inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillary. + A view of the interior of the compound temporo-maxillaiy joint (Bour^erv and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage-^- the dark intervals above and below ai-e the hollows containing the synovial membranes.87 INTERNAL MAXILLAEY ARTEEY. During the Jiorizontal motion foricards and bade wards the condyle Forward and is moved successively to the fi-ont and back of the temporal articu- ^^^kward lar surface ; and the lower jaw is slightly depressed, in order that ,.onavie" ' tlie fore teeth in the upper dental arch should not impede those of moves, the lower. By turns the front and back of the capsule will be stretched ; and state of the tibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even hi i'«'""'^"ts. ■dislocation. Too great motion forwards will be prevented by the coronoid pro- cess of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch; and that back- Avards, by the meeting of the condyle and the auditory process of the OS temporis. Lateral horizontal movement puts the jaw first to one side and Lateral then to the other. AVhen the jaw is forced to the left side, the right condyle sinks into its articular hollow, whilst the left is pro- condyle . jected ; and the grinding teeth of the lower dental areh are moved to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. The inner part of the capsule on the right, and the outer part on state of the left side, Avill be put on the stretch when the jaw is carried to the left of the middle line ; and the opposite. With old edentulous jaws the capsule is much enlarged, and per- Joint in inits the condyle to wander backwards behind the Glaserian fissure. " Without this provision the altered lower jaw would not meet the upper to crush the food. Dissection. The condvlc of the jaw is next to be disarticulated, Disseetion " of flt'tll the external pterygoid muscle being still uncut ; and it with the nerve, ■attached muscle is to be drawn forwards so as to allow tlie fifth jierve to be seen, ^^'hilst cutting tlu"ough the joint capsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath <fig. 21). On drawing forwards the i)terygoid muscle, and removing some fat, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. All the small muscular branches of the nerve before noted should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The auriculo-temporal branch should be followed backwards with -care belrind the articulation, and the dental and gustatory nerves beneath the muscle should be cleaned. The small cliorda tympani and chorda ■is then to be found joining the posterior part of the gustatoiy nerve ^J'^P*^"'* -near the skull. The middle meningeal artery is to be sought beneath the external and arteries, pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery •lies beneath that muscle, and in such case, it and its branches are to be traced out. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 17, h) is One of the ter- Internal . infixillary 'jninal branches of the external carotid, and takes a windmg course .„.tery. beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior ^jf the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, between Coiirse and connections.DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 88> Varies in its position. Branches are three sets. Those be- neath jaw. inferior dental; lias a branch to jiij'lo-hyoid nmsele. Middle meningeal artery, ends in skidl, but giyes branch to tympanum. to meatus. to dura mater. Branch with gustatory. Branches of second part are to the temporal muscle ; that bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve. Next, the vessel winds over the external ptery- goid muscle, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And lastly, the artery enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the processes of origin of the external pterygoid. The course of thi^ artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the external pterygoid :: in such a state the artery gains the spheno-maxillary fossa by comings upwards through the origin of the muscle, as in the woodcut. The branches of this artciy are very nmnerous, and arc classed into three sets : thus one set arises beneath the jaw; another between the muscles ; and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two branches, the inferior dental and middle meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery whilst it is in contact with the ramus- of the jaw. The inferior dental branch descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental ner^-e ; it supplies the teeth,, and ends in the lower part of the face. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small- twig, omjlo-hijoid branch, to the muscle of that name ; this is con- ducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the largest branch, and arises oppo- site the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle,, and (oftentimes) betAveen the roots of the aui'iculo-temjDoral nerve ; crossing the internal lateral ligament, it enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid l)one. When in the skidl the arteiy ascends to the vertex of the head, and supplies the bone and the dura mater (p. 15). Before the meningeal artery enters the- skull, it furnishes the following small branches :— a. The tympanic branch (inferior) passes into the tympannnii through the Glaserian fissure, and is distributed to the membrana tympani and that cavit3\ b. A deep auricxdar branch, arises with the former or separately,, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the- bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the membrana tympani. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses, through the foramen ovale Avith the inferior maxillary nerve ; it ramifies hi the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the internal maxHlaiy trunk, and accompanying the gustatory nerve, ends in the cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the artery, viz. whilst it is. between the temporalis and pterygoideus externus are distributed to- the temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid mnscles. The deep temporcd arteries are two in number (anterior and pos- terior) ; and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anas-IXFEllIOR :\IAXILLARY XEllVE. 8I> toiiiosc with the superhcial teiupural artery : tlie anterior eoiimm- nieates, through the inaLir Lone, Avith branches of the lachrymal artery. AViien the parent trunlv has the nnusual position beneath the pteiygoid, the anterior branch hes under that nnisch-, instead of over it. The masseteric artenj is directed outwards with the nerve of the to the .sanie name behind the tendon of the temporal nmsele ; and passing "'"^^'-'t^''': through the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter nmsele. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the nmsele from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in the totlicbm - imusual position of the artery it may perforate the tibres of the • pterygoid ; it descends beneath the coronoid process with its com- panion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle, the cheek, and the side of the face, joining the branches of the facial artery. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position ; wliether tn ptcrygoiit derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter both pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise fi'om the arteiy when it enters the Branches (.r spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, the superior dental, will be now ouivVm'*' described. The remainder will be examined with the superior ^'o^^' «eeii. maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, vidian, and pterygo-palatine (SlXTlON 14). The superior or posterior dental branch takes origin near the top Superidi- of the upper maxilla, and descends Avith a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. It sends twigs into the foramina in the bone, and supplies the upper molar and bicuspid teeth ; but some external offsets are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the linhig membrane of the antrum. The INTERNAL MAXiLLAiiY VEIN receive the offsets accompanying i"tL>ni;ii the branches of the artery in the first two parts of its course : these vciii hcKins veins form a plexus—pterygoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, r^^'-'^ii^ and in part between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This anastomosis comnimiicates with the alveolar plexus ; with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary) ; and with the cavernous sinus iji the interior of the skull, by veinules that pass througli the base of the cranium. Escaping from the plexus, the vein accompanies the artery to ""'^^^'''^l^ tlie parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein,— jugular, the union ( f the two giving rise to the external jugular. Some- times this common vessel enters the internal jugular vein (p. 29). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 21) is the largest of the . three trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves uervc. the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides beneath the external pterygoid muscle into two chief pieces, viz. an anterior, small, moto-sensory part; and a large, posterior, chiefly sensory portion.DISSECTION OF THE TTERYGOID REGIOX. i)0 Miisculai jiiece DlreciionH. Sliould the internal maxillary artery obstruct tlic view of the nerve, it may be cut through. The SMALLER TART, formed mainly by its cf)ntnl)ntion irom the trunk of the nerA^e, receives nearly all the fibrils of tlie motor root, and ends in brandies for the muscles of the jaw, viz. temporal, masseter, and one ptciygoid ; and for the muscle of the cheek, the buccinator. s„y>i,iios two The deep temporal hranches are furnisluKl to the under sni-- r.miuiral; f^^^ ^1,^ temporal nniscle. Like the arteries, they are two m Fi-. 21.* posterior unci .'interior. ■Masseteric. Articular. number, anterior and posterior, and course upwards beneath the; external pterygoid muscle. The posterior branch is the smallest, and is often derived from the masseteric nerve ; it is placed near the back of the temporal fossa. The anterior branch supplies the greater part of the muscle, and communicates sometimes with the buccal nerve. The viasseteric branch (-) takes a backward course above the external pterygoid muscle, and through the sigmoid notch, to the imder surface of the masseter muscle : in the masseter the aiervc can be followed to near the anterior border. As tliis branch passes by the articulation of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. * Deep view of the pterygoid region (Illustrations of Dissections), jifuscles : a. Temporal reflected, b. Condyle of the jaw disarticulated with the external pterygoid attached to it. c. Internal pteiygoid. d. Buccinator. /. Masseter thrown down. Ncrrcs : 1. Buccal. 2. Masseteric, cut. 3. Deep tempoi-al. 4. Auriculo-temporal. 6. Chorda tjinpani. 7. Inferior dental. 8. Gusta- tory. 10. Internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The arteries are not figured, with the exception of the internal maxillary trunk which is marked with 9 : the offsets of the artery accompany the nerves, being named like them.91 INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. pterygoid branches come from both parts of the inferior Biauchfis to maxillary nei-ve. pterygoid The branch or branches to the external ptenjgoid spring from tlie Extemai small part, or from the buccal nerve, and enter the under surface of its muscle. The nerve to the internal pterygoid arises from the large part of internal, the maxillary trunk close to the skull, and may be followed beneath the upper border to the deep surface of the muscle ; it will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section 14). The buccal branch ('), longer aiul larger than the others, perfo- Buccinator rates the external pterygoid, and is directed inwards, beneath the ■coront)id process to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in terminal branches. As it i>erforates the pterygoid nmscle filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed tlu-ougli supplies the fibres it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle. The nerve is directed towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integu- ment, the buccinator muscle, and the lining mucous membrane. It ami mucous is united freely with the facial nerve, the two forming a plexus. '"^I'li'iime. The LAUGEU I'ART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into Sensory three trunks—auriculo-temporal, dental, and gustatory. A few of jntvlijOT the fibrils of the small (motor) root are applied to it, and are con- maxiliaiy. A^eyed to certain nmsclcs, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, pter3^goideus internus, mylohyoideus, and digastricus. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (•*) separates from the others Aurlcuio- ffiear the base of the skull, and has commonly two roots. Its course to the surface of the head is directed first backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle, as far as the inner jiart of the articula- lies beneatli tion of the jaw ; and then, upwards with the temporal artery in front of the ear. The nerve furnishes branches to the surrounding parts, and supplies viz., the joint, the ear, and tlic i)aroti(l gland; and it conniiunicates 'with the facial nerve. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the fol- lowing :— a. Branches of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to to the the meatus from the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enter that tube between the •cartilage and bone. b. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises near and joint of the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to the meatus. ''''^^' c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the external ear below car, and the meatus auditorius : it sends offsets along the internal maxillary- •■artery, which communicate with the sympathetic nerve. d. Parotid brandies. These small filaments ramify in tlie gland, p.n'otid; e. Communicating branches. Two or more branches around the ex- *°;i°gj!„^paf' ternal carotid artery communicate with the facial and sympathetic tiietic. nerves. The INFERIOR DENTAL (") is the largest of the three trunks hito Inferior T • 1 T • J.1 1 dental which the inferior maxillary nerve divides. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the nerve is external to the gustatory, and lies at j^^^J'^j!;^^^:^'^ first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it is afterwards placed muscles.DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGIOX. 92 then iu tl)e jaw. briincli to uiylo- hyoideus. Dental briinehes to gi'iiidiiig and cutting tectli. 15niiieli to lowev lip. on the internal pterygoid, and on the internal lateral ligament near the dental foramen. After the nerve enters the bone, it is con- tinned forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in tlie side of the jaw, and ends at tliat spot by dividing hito an incisor and a labial branch. Only one muscular offset (mylo-hyoid) is supplied by the ind supplies dental nen'e before it enters the bone. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid branch arises from the trunk of the nerve near the dental foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoideus, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. h. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nei-ve and artery may be laid open so as to expose these branches. c. The incisor branch contimies the tnnik of the nerve onwards to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath which it lies. (/, The labial branch (mental V) (Hg. 9, issues on the faco beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. It gives branches to the muscles below the aperture of the mouth, and communicates Avith tlie facial nerve ; but the greater jjart of the l)ranch is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lijD. The inferior dented artery^ after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nen'e. Thus it supplies ofl'- sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. The incisor branch is continued to the symj^hysis of the jaw. where it ends in tlie bone : it lies beneath the canine and incisor teeth, to which it fiu-nishes twigs. The labicd branch, issuing by the labial foramen, ramifies in thv structures covering the lower jaw, and communicates Avith the bi-anches of the facial artery. The GUSTATORY or LINGUAL NERVE (^) is the remaining trunk oi' the inferior maxillary, and is concealed at first, like the others, by the external pterygoid nuisclc. It is then inclined inwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid muscle, and under cover oi' the side of the jaw to the tongue. Tlie remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillarv region. In this course under the jaw the nerve does not distribute any branch to the parts around, but the following communicating brancli is received by it. The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is dis- tributed to the tongue. Escaping from the tympanum by the (Ha serian fissure, this small branch (^) is applied to the gustatory ncrv< at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibrils communi cate with the gustatoiy, l)ut tlie greater part of the chorda tympai is conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of the nerve, and its course across the tympanum t its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described i Section 14. Dental artery lias an incisor and labial brancli. Gustatory nerve courses to the tongue ; no brancli liere. Cliorda tyn»i)aui .joins giistatorj-, ends in tongue. UMYLO-HYOID MUSCLE. 93 Section VII. SUB:\rAXILLARY REGION The snLmaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and the hyoid hone. In it are contained the muscles of the os liyoides ^"'"^'^ and tongue, the vessels and iiervcs of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same Position of as for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid nniscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland (fig. 16, lies below the jaw in the Situation anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery whids over the sm-face. It rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and sends a deep tiofj'"'""^^' process romid the posterior or free border of that muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind is the ^uaiy ""a,fd stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. Occupying a position somewhat below the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and the deep fascia. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 30); Structiu-e. and its duct—duct of Wharton—issuing from the deep process, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the submaxillary gland from beneath the bone. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLK (fig. 33, ') is triangular in sliape, with Mylo- the base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid boie, and unites ''y^'^i^"-"' along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises arises from from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of tlie lower jaw J""^^ > as far back as the last molar tooth ; and is inserted into the middle inserted of the body of the os liyoides, as well as into a central tendinous i"f,ie''"^""^ band between that bone and the jaw. On the cutaneous surface lie the digastric muscle, and the sub- Tarts maxillar}'- gland, the facial artery with the submental oflFset, and its own branch of nerve and artery. Its fibres are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the next muscle to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the subntaxillary gland winds. Tlie parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be iKn-ceived after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The lower jaw being fixed the nmscle approaches tlie os ,Yy^Vjgg" "'^ liyoides to the jaw, enlarging the ])]iarynx preparatory to swallowing. With the hyoid bone immoveable, the mylo-hyoideus can help in on jaw. depressing the jaw, and opening the mouth.DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY EEGION. 94 Dissection, to detach iiiylo-liyoiil. To see ilee]) jiuiscles saw the jaw, fMsten tougiie. and cut mucous iiieuiLvauc. Befine iieiTes, and vessels. Farts be- neath mylo- liyoideus Dissection. To bring into view the muscles bencatli tlie mylo- Jiyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the substance of the- tongue (as in figure 23), the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the su])erficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the mylo-hj'oideus^ because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus ; and detaching that nmscle from the jaw and its fellow, shoidd throw it down to- the OS hyoidcs, but Avitliout injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Afterwards the bone is to be sawji through on the right side of the nmscles attached to the symphysis, the soft j^arts covering the lower jaw having been ])reviously cut. The side of the jaw, which will then be loose (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before), is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up out of the way with a stitch; but it should not be detached from the nmeous membrane of the mouth. The apex of the tongue is to be now ]Dulled well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, whilst the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be theji passed fron> below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the nriddle line of the tongue to the tip. By means of a stitch the os hyoides may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct; of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle ; also of the gustatory nerv^e neai-er the jaw. Between the gustatory nerve and the deeji part of the submaxillary gland the dissector should seek the small submaxillary ganglion (smaller than a pin's head), with its offsets and should endeavour to separate from the trunk of the gustatory the small chorda tympani nerve, and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the lingual vessels, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, all passing beneath that nniscle ; and at the anterior border find thr issuing ranine vessels which, with the gustatory and hypo- glossal nerves, are to be traced on the under surface of the ton"-uc to the tip. * Parts beneath mylo-hjoideus (fig. 23). The relative position of the objects brought into view by the steps of the previous dissection is now apparent:—Extending from the cornu of thi hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo-o-lossusis to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15. HYOID AND STYLOID MUSCLES. On the liyo-glossus are placed, from below upwards, the hypo- on side or glossal nerve, the Whartoiiiau duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the hnier border of the nuisclo the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same nuiscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery Avith its vein, the stylo- hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo- glossus is the nuicous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it hi fi-ont, and some fibres of the superior con- strictor muscle covering it behind n(\ar the jaw. Between the chin and the os hyoides, along the middle line, is .ami aluni; situate the genio-hyoid muscle; and larger and deeper than it ""'-^'^^^'^ a fan-shaped nmscle, the genio-liyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the imier border of the hyo-glossns. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatory nerve ; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus runs the hyjjoglossal nerve. The HVO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (fig. 22, ') is thin and somewhat square Hyo-glossus. in shape. The nmscle arises from the lateral i^art of the body of attadnu^^^^^^^^ the OS hyoides (basio-glossus), and fi'om all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus). The two pieces form a thin sheet, and enter the back part and side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stylo- glossus.'-' The parts in contact with the surfaces of the hyo-glossus have in contact been already enumerated ; and beneath the muscle also arc piJ^s.'"'^"'^ portions of the genio-hyo-glossus and middle constrictor. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Action. When the tongue is at rest the muscle can bring that U«c: organ to the floor of the mouth, drawing down the sides and tongue free; jrivinc a rounded form to the dorsum : but if the tongue is protruded from the naouth, the fibres will retract it into that cavity. If the tongue is fixed against the roof of the mouth by other tongue muscles, even though the lower jaw is depressed, this muscle with the genio-hyo-glossus will elevate the os hyoides, and allow swahowing to take place. The STYLO-GLOSSUS (fig. 22, ■) is a slender muscle, whose attach- Styio- ments are expressed by its name. Arisinfj from the styloid process °' ^ jicar the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, tlie muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and turning to the mider surface, extends to Xwljw- the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatoiy nerve. Action. V>oi\\ muscles will raise the back of the tongue against UseofiHitii * A tliird part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and is not dis- sected ; it ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root. For furtlier details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, referenceDISSECTION ()¥ THE SFBlfAXILLARY REGION. 96 of one. Oenio- Coiinec- tiojis. Use. Ccilio-liyo- glossxi.s. Origin. Iiisertinii. Contiguous parts. Use: the tongue free : tongue /ixed. the roof of the inoutli, hut if tlie toiif^ue is protruded they will restore it to the cavity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the moutli. The GENio-HYOiD MUSCLE (fig. 22, ") avises from the lower of tlie two lateral tubercles on the inner asi)ect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the Fig. 22.* middle of the hyoid bono. Covered by the mylo-hyoi- deus, this muscle rests on the genio-hyo-glossiis. The inner border touches the muscle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Arfton. As long as the mouth is shut it raises the hyoid bone ; but acting from tlie OS hyoides, and the closers of the mouth being relaxed, it can depress the jaw and open the mouth. The GENIO - HYO - GLOSSUS (fig. 22, ^) is the largest muscle of this region; it has a triangular form, with the apex at the jaw, and the base at the middle line of the tongue. It takes ori(jiii from the u])per tubercle behind the symi^hysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the pos- terior passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate to the tongue from root to point. Lying along the middle of the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow. The lower border of the muscle corresponds with the gem'o- hyoideus, and the upper with the frs^enum lingua\ On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus nmscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve jierforates the posterioi- fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of all the fibres the tongue is depressed in the floor of the mouth, and hollowed along the middle. But different parts of the nuiscle are thought to have different uses when they act from the jaw :—Thus the fibres attached to the OS hyoides advance and fix that bone before swallowing ; the hinder tongue fibres raise the root of the tongue and protrude the tip, and the anterior then turn down the tip of the tongue over the teeth. When the mouth is open swallowing can be performed if the tongue is fixed against the teeth and roof of the mouth, because this muscle and the hyo-glossus can then raise the hyoid bone. * Muscles of tlie tongue. 1. Hyo-glossui?. 2. Stylo-glossus. 3. (Jeni liyo-glossus. 4. Genio-hj'oideus. 5. Stylo-pharyngeus.GUSTATOEY NEETE] 97 The Ungual arierij (fig. 17,/), arises from the external carotid Lingual between the superior thyroid and facial branches. At first it is '"'^'^'^^ directed inwards above the os hyoides, and then upwards beneath tiie toui'ue tlie hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 23) ; it ends gfysyuy'''^'"'' at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branches. Near the hyo-glossus the artery is crossed by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle constrictor and genio- hyo-glossus muscles, and is below the level of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its branches are these :— a. A small hjoid branch is distributed on the upper border of its branches the OS hyoides, supplying the muscles ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the bone^^^ superior thyroid artery of the same side. b. A branch to the doi'siini of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- to back of glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue tonj^ue; and the tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the to the sub- artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards ^^\andl to the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums and the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (9) is the terminal part of the lingual to the sub- artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio- toimio.°^ hyo-glossus to the tip of the tongue Avhere it ends. Muscular offsets are furnislied to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery lies along the fra-num lingua), but is embedded Ranine is in the muscular fibres. The lingual vein commences on both the upper and under nutrujii surfaces of the tongue. It lies with its companion artery, and vein, ends in the internal jugular vein. The GUSTATORY or LIXGUAL NERVE (fig. 23, ^) haS been followed Lingual in tlie pteiygo-maxillaiy region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 92). In this dissection the neiwc is inclined forwards to the side of the along side of tongue, across the mucous membrane of the mouth and the t""""*^ origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, it is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are furnished to the surrounding parts, thus :— "'^'^'^li ,s Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, to tlie giiu- near the gland of that name. giion. Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite to ninth in a kind of plexus with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the to mucous mouth, the gums, and the subhngual gland. Lastly, the branches for the tongue ascend through the muscular to thc^^ substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papilhe. The submaxillanj ganglion (fig. 23, ^ resembles the other n98 Suljmaxil- lai y gan- glion ; nature; joins giista- torj', facial, DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. jranglia connected with tlic tliree trunks of the fifth nerve, and communicates with sensory, motory, and sympathetic nerves. It is smaller in size than the lenticular ganglion, is sometimes rather red, and is placed above the deep process of the submaxil- lary gland. Offsets proceed upAvards to connect it with other nen'es; and from the lower part arise the branches to the adjacent structures. _ 'Connection with nerves—roots. Two or tliree branches, m ttie form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatory nerve. and sym- jiathetic nerves. Branches. Chorda tyiiipani; eoxirse. Fig. 23.* At the posterior part the ganglion is further joined by an offset from the chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies in con- tact with the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branches. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and from the anterior part other filaments are furnished to thr mucous membrane of the mouth and the Whartonian duct. Chorda tymiKvn. Joining the gustatory above by fibrils (p. 02). it is applied to the back of that nerve till near the tongue, and can be easilj- separated from it; but beyond that point it enters amongst the fibres of the gustatory nerve and is conveyed to thi' tongue. Near the submaxillary gland an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. * Deep view of the submaxillaiy region (inustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Genio-hyo-glossus. b. Genio-hyoideus. c. Hyo-glossus. d. Stylo- glossus. E. Mylo-hyoideus reflected. H. Stylo-liyoideus. j. Posterior belly of digastricus. Nerves : 1. Gustatory. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 3. Whar- ton's duct. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 6. Hypo-glossal. 7. Upper larj-n- geal. The lingual artery ramifies in this region, lying by the side of the hypoglo.ssal nerve : the ranine offset is marked with 9.SUBLINGUAL GLAND. ^ The HYro-GLOSSAL or ninth nerve (tig. 23, ^) in the submaxillary Nintii region lies on the hyo-glossus nuiscie, being concealed by the Iweouthe mylo-hyoideus : but at the iinier border of the hyo-glossus it enters tlie fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. Branches. On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes branches it'^ iiranches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the mylo-hyoid miSes and the digastric, viz., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio- hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, sonie offsets connnuni- cate with the gustatory nerve on the hyo-glossus. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long ""'1 the filaments Avhich supply the muscular structure, and connnunicate Avith the gustatory nerve. The glosso'iiliai-yngeal cranial ner\'-e (fig. 23, "•), issuing between Giosso-pba- the two carotid arteries, courses over the stylo-pharyngeus and nexvT} the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and ends under the 113-0- -glossus in branches for the tongue. See Dissection of the Tongue. The duct of the suhma.riUan/ gland (fig. 23, Wharton's duct, Wliarton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, ■and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side of the fraiiium lingufe in opens liy Ihe centre of an eminence : its opening in the mouth will be seen uAgi^!' if a bristle be passed along it. The duct has a thin wall, and consists externally of a fibrous layer with much elastic tissue and ■a few pale muscular fibres, and internally of a mucous lining with ilattened epitlielium. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends along the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland (fig. 23, ^) is somewhat of the shape of an Suldiugual ulmond, and the longest measurement, which is about one inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath the anterior tongue, part of the tongue, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, and close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual is an aggregation of small glandular masses, StruotureL ■each being provided with a separate duct (Henle). Tlie ducts pncts open (ductus Uiviniani) are from ten to eighteen in number. Some of '"""tli. tliem open beneath the tongue along a crescent-shaped fold of -the mucous membrane, and others join the Wliartonian duct ; one •or more form a larger tube, which either joins that duct or opens near it. ir 2DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 100 Section VIII. SUrERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. Directions. Leai-n right «rbit. Dissection of riglit wbit. Superiiir iiiaxillaiy nerve. Dissection in spli.-niax. fossa. Tn floor of tlie orbit. TJ]>pcr niax- ilkry nerve Dh-ectiontt. The sturleiit may examine next tlic right orbit, and' the remaining trunk, superior maxillaiy of the fifth nerve. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vary his former examination of the left cavity (p. 39) by dissecting it fi'om the outer side. Dissection. For this purpose divide the margin of tlie orbit with a saw tlirough the supra-orbital notch, and the roof with a chisel back to the sphenoidal fissure. Cut also with a chisel (from the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum beliind, and' outside the line of the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The' side of the skull is next to be sawn vertically in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards: the outer wall of the orbit is to be sawn horizontally into the spheno-maxillary fissure. The piece of bone forming part of the cranium and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. If the part of the roof of the orbit, which is left, should interfere with the sight of the contents of the cavity, let it be taken away with a bone-forceps. The description of the orbit (p. 40) will serve in a general way for the right cavity. The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal. The beginning of the nei-ve in the cranium has been already demonstrated (p. 17). Dissection. In the spheno-maxillary fossa the nei-ve can be partly seen by the dissection already made for the orbit, and its exposure here will be completed by removing the fat, and cutting away some of the wing of the sphenoid bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nei-ve at its exit from the skull. In the fossa the student seeks the following ofi'sets,—the orbital branch entering tlie cavity of the orbit ; branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend in the fossa ; and a dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the con- tents of the cavity having been taken a^^ ay, the bony canal in which it lies nuist be opened to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards foi some distance in the bone. The infraoi-bital vessels are prepared with the ner\'e. The SUPEKIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 24) commcnccs in the Gas- serian ganglion (p. 18), and leaves the cranium by the foramci;UPrER MAXILLARY NERVE. lOI rotundum. The course of the nen^e is ahnost straiglit to the face, passes to across the sphcno-maxinary fossa, and along the orbital plate of the superior maxilla and the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the tinougi. ■canal by the infraorbital foramen, it is concealed by the elevator Smi!'''"''' •of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip :— a. The orbital branch ("') arises in tlie spheno-maxillary fossa, bJ-inchiis and entering the orbit, di%ddes into malar ami temporal branches ovm- (p. 50). b. The spheno-palatine brandies O descend from the nerve in ^^'^^'"^ ""■'^f. the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are coimected• Avith Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section 14). c. A j)osterior dental branch (') leaves the nerve near the upper t^>e teeth jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supphes branches to natoiT'''' Fig. 2L* the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; it joins the anterior dental branch near the teeth. Before entering the canal it furnishes one or more offsets to the gums and the buc- cinator muscle. d. The anterior dental branch C") quits the nerve trunk m the to anterior floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special canal in fi-ont of the antrum : it is distributed by two branches. One (inner) gives nerves to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose ; the other (outer) ends by su])plying the bicuspid teeth. e. Before the trunk ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Bianoh of ■small ^jaZ^;e5m/ offset to the lower ej^elid ; this is directed upwards to the lid in a groove in tlie margiji of the orbit. f. Infraorbital or facial branches (')• These are larger than infraorbital * Diagram of the upper maxillary nerve and its branches. 2. Trunk of the nerve leaving the Gasserian ganglion. 3. Spheno-pahxtine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5. Posterior dental nerves. 6. Anterior dental. 7. Facial branches.DISSECTION OF THE KECK. 102 the otlicr offsets of the nerve, and fonn its terminal ramifica- join facial tioiiB. Sonic uicHiie inwards to the side of the nose, and the rest Sy tii «lescend to the upper Hp. Near the orbit tliey are crossed by branches of the facial nerve (fig. 9, with which they conununi- iiose cate, the whole forming the infraorhikd plejcus (p. 38). g. The branches for the sule of the nose supply the muscular and .-hkI upper tegumcntary .structures. ^'1'- //. The branchen for the vpjier Up are three or four in number,. which divide as they descend, and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they supply as well the muscles and the Infraorbital labial glands. jutcry rpj^g infraorbital artery is a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 89). Taking the course of the nerve through the infi-aorbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches, which are distributed, ends ill like those of the nerve, to the parts between the eye and mouth. f"<^e; ^YiQ face its branches anastomose with the facial and buccal orbit,'"^^ arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes branches and one to to the orbit. teeth'"' Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth : this gives offsets to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anastomoses Infraorbital with the posterior dental artery. The vein, accompanying the arter}-, communicates in front witli the facial vein ; and terminates'behind in a j)lexus of veins (alveolar) corresponding with the offsets of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillaiy fossa. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Sk)n"^'"'' ^^""^ Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and symjjathetic nei-ves. head*'°" Position. The position of the part is to remain as before, viz., the neck is to be fixed over a small block. (?fthe'st°?o- ^^ssection. To see the stylo-pharygeus muscle, the posterior phaiyngeusi ^^^h' of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle, should be de- tached from their origiji and thrown down. The trunk of the external carotid arteiy is to be removed by cutting it througlu where the hypoglossal nen^e crosses it, and by dividing those branches of it that have been already examined ; the veins ac- andgiosso- companying the arteries are to be taken away. In cleaning tinv pliarynKcal <• £ x\ ± i ^ , , , "^nwg mu nerve. surface ot the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and the stylo-hyoid ligament may be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be drawn forwards on the face. ptiSyn-^eus ^^'^ STYLO-rnARYNGEUs MUSCLE (levator pharyngis externus) ° ■ resembles the other styloid muscles in its elongated form. TheSTYLO-PHARYXGEUS MUSCLE. IO3 fibres aiise from the root of the styloid process 011 tlie mner Origin, surface, and descend between the superior and middle coiistrictors to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper insertion, border (hinder border, Merkel *) of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the stylo-glossus, and between the carotid is between arteries ; and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve turns over the lower part arJeries. of its fleshy belly. Action. It elevates and draws outwards the part of the pharynx Use. above the hyoid bone, making the tube ready for the reception of the morsel to be swallowed. From its attaclnnent to the thyroid cartilage it will raise the larynx ; and by its position it will control the movement forwards of the air tube. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, which extends fi-om Stylo-liyoid the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the os liyoides. ^I"""'*-'^* Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyrigeus of prcced-^ muscles, and over the internal carotid artery ; whilst the lower "'S- end is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached below. It is fi'equently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. Occasionally a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies parts within the head, internal viz., the brain, the eye and orbit, and the nose; and takes a circuit- arte^! ous course through and along the base of the skull before it termi- nates in the brain. The arterial trunk in the cranium, and its offset to the orbit. Some parts have been already examined; but the portion in the neck and the seuu.'^^ temporal bone remains to be dissected. The branches of the carotid to the brain are examined with the encephalon. Dissection. For the display of the cervical part of the artery Dissection (fig. 25) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching theneckV'^ the styloid process at the root, and throwing it with its muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them, but this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed inwards over the artery, seek the and cranial glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches near the skull, and the"*^"*^**' small phaiyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypo-glossal, and sym- pathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerv^e. External to the vessels a loop of the first and second cendcal nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the arteiy, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. Ascending to * Anatomie imd Phisiologie des Menschliclien Stimm untl SpracL Organi Leipzig, 1857. Yon Dr. Merkel.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 104 the cranium, on the hnier side of tlie carotid, the ascending pliaryngcal arter}^ Avill be met with, inthctem- To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow iioiai i.oiR'. the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the skull in the following manner: the saw being placed beneath the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the Aving of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid caiial may be opened with the bone forceps. Ncn-esoiiit. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sj inpathetic will be found on it; and in a fresh part two small hlaments may be recognised with care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the vidian nen^c, at the front of the canal. Tjnii]..aimiii On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may obtained. pi-epare very readily the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. Internal The internal carotid artery (fig. 25, d) springs from the bifurca- caiotid tjoj-^ of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper enters the border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then skull. through the petrous portion of the temporal lione; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends Its course is in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided into three parts :—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium, througli the Cervical imrt. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically neck from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle less deep may be taken as the index of this difference. Thus, below that l)elow, muscle, the internal carotid is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and covered by the common teguments, fascia, and the platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther but veiy back. But, above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath deep aliQ\e, ^j^^ external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by rests on the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Whilst in rectus. neck the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebrai. Position of Vein. The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being vein, contained in a sheath with it, and placed on the outer side, of vessels, Small vessels. Below the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid ; and the offset from it to the sterno- mastoideus may run down on the carotid trunk. Above the digas- tric the posterior auricular vessels cross the carotid, nerves Nerves. The pneumogastric is contained in the sheath betweenINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. the artery and vein, beiiio: parallel to them ; and the sympatlietic, <ilso running longitudinally, lies behind the sheath of the vessels: Crossing the artery superlieially, from below up, is the liypoglossal, Fig. 25.* which sends the descendens noni along it; )iext the small pharyn- geal branch of the vagus ; and lastly the glosso-[)haryngea]. Directed inwards beneath the carotid is the superior laryngeal * Deep vessels and Nerves of the Neck (Illustrations of Dissections). Arto'ies: a. Subclavian trunk, h. Common carotid, c. External carotid, •cut. d. Internal carotid. /. Inferior palatine branch of the facial. [/. As- cending pharyngeal. Nerves: 1. Glosso-phaiyngeal. 2. Spinal accessor}'. 3. Pneunio-gastric or vagus. 4. Hyijoglossal. 5. Pharyngeal branch of the vagus. 6. Upper laryngeal branch of tlie vagus. 7. External laryngeal ))ranch of the last. 8. Thyro-hyoid branch of the hypoglossal. 9. Descendens noni of hypoglossal, cut. 10. Phrenic nerve of cervical plexus. 11. Brachial plexus. Recurrent of tlie vagus, -w inds round the subclavian artery, a.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 106 nen'c, furnisliiiig the external laryngeal branch ; togetlier witb pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Part in teiuponil l>oue. Offset to the tyiupauuiu. Cranial part. Internal jugular vein joins in- feriorly subclavian. Js on out- side of cai-otivls. Size. Below OS liyoiik's, is joined l>y Immelies. Ascendin*:; jiharyngeal artery gives near skull The cervical part of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does- not furnish any branch. Part in the temporal hone. In the carotid canal the winding course of the vessel commences. The arteiy first ascends in front of the inner ear (cochlea and tympanum) ; next it is directed for- wards almost horizontally ; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium opposite the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid in the bone. Whilst in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the cavity of the tympanum. The cranial imrt of the artery is described with the base of the- skull (p. 19). The iNTEiiXAL JLGLLAR VEIN is coutinuous with the lateral sinus, of the skull, and extends from the foramen jugulare nearly to the first rib. At the lower part of the neck it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein (p. 71). As far as the tliyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid arteiy ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger- intei-vening space, in which the pneumogastric nen'e with its cardiac- branch is found. The size of the upper part of the vein remains much the same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased by the addi- tion of those branches of the head and neck, con-esponding with branches of the external carotid artery, which do not join the ex- ternal jugular vein.*^' Its lower dilatation and its valves have been before referred to (p. 75). The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz. the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pliaryngeal ; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle tliyroid vein. The ascending x^harymjeal artery (fig. 25, g) is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the commence- ment of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column be- tween the internal carotid and the pharynx, the artery becomes tortuous near the skull, and enters the pharynx above the upper constrictor to end in the soft palate. In the neck the artery gives * Sometimes the tem internal cephalic is applied to the vein between tlic skul] and the hyoid bone ; and tlic name internal jugular, to the part below that bone and the junction of its large branches.ASCENDING PHxVRYNGEAL VESSELS. 10?, some small offsets to the surrounding parts, viz. the muscles on the vei-tebric, the nerves, and the lymphatic glands. x\ meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen a branch to lacerum (basis cranii), and is distributed in the dura mater of the "'e»iuat-'S middle fossa of the skull ; this is seldom seen in the cranium because it is but rarely injected. The palatine hranch, which is larger than the preceding, divides in and oikI.s in. the pharynx into two main pieces, which are directed across the fore l'"'"'^^'- part of the palate beneath the mucous membrane, and form arches with like branches of the opposite side ; one of these is near the upper, and the other near the lower edge of the soft palate.* The size of the palatine artery depends upon that of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery. Pharyngeal branches. Other small arteries ramify in the upper Pimryngeat constrictor, the Eustacldan tube, the back of the soft palate, and the tonsil. The vein accompanying the pharyngeal artery receives branches it« vein, from the cranium, the palate, and the pharynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the neclc. By the time this stage Directions of the dissection has been anived at, the condition of the parts will e°!htil""'^' not pennit the tracing of the very minute filaments of the cranial "erve. nerves in the foramen jugulare of the skull ; and all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk are therefore to be omitted for the i)resent. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the bone has been softened by acid, and the nerves hardened in spirit, the examination of the branches now passed over may be made. ^ In the foramen lacerinn (fig. 2G). Supposing the dissection of Dissection the internal carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 104, jngXr let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skull, foramen. Let him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vein, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nei"^^e is to be found ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric nerves Follow- through the aperture, by opening the fibrous sheath around them, sory anli'^'^"''^ Two i^arts, large and small, of the siiinal accessory nerve should iinenino- ""xstric * be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the °' vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A commu- nication between the two parts of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion, from which the auricular branch before referred to takes origin ; and from the ganglion filaments are to be sought passing to tlie smaller portion of the spuial accessory nei-ve, and to the ascending- branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * The Anatomy of the Arteries. By R. Quain, F.R.S., p. 110,DISSECTION OF TEE NECK. 108 aftenvanls icloss<)-i>lia- lyngeal ami its branches. Dissection MftllC nerves in tlic neck : ■ )f spinal accessory : of glosso- liliai-yngeal of vagus; I'liaryngcal I'lexus, '•artliac, ' illsets, and recnr- •rcnt: of hypo- glossal ; of synijia- tlictiu in part. Eighth nerve Next follow tilt' glosso-pharyiigeal nerve through tliefore part of the foraiiieii, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This nerve presents two ganglia as it passes from the skull (fig. 2G) : o}ie (jugular), which is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrous), is situate at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temiwral bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve of Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal ; and another filament of communication with the ganghon of the sympathotic. Sometimes the dissector Avill be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricu- lar branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nen-e. JJeloio the foramen of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have been greatly denuded by the dissection of the internal carotid (fig. 25) ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypo-glossal, sympathetic, and first two spinal nei-ves near the skull, are to l>o traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufliciently laid bare already ; but its small piece is to be traced to the vagus, close to the skull, and onwards by the side of that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has been also dissected ; ' but the offsets on the carotid, and others to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and the pharyngeal plexus are to be displayed. On the pneumo-gastric trunk the student should define an enlarge- ment close to the skull (ganglion of the trunk) to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimate]}' united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pliarj-ngcal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the jiarts iiidicated by their names, especially the first which enters the jiharyngeal plexus. The task of disentangling the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the glosso-pharyngeal and sympathetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. TVo or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at the lower part of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly the dissector may prepare more fully tlie recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower part of the common carotid : by removing the fat around it, offsets will be seen entering the chest and the windpipe. Oidy the first, or the deep part of the hypo-glossal nerve remains to be made ready for learning ; its comnmnications with the vagus sympathetic, and the sjiinal nerves are to be demonstrated. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (p. 114); but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should be defined, and the small branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus- should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The three cranial nei-ves, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, anc spinal accessory, which constitute the eighth nerve of Willis, leave the cranium by the foramen jugulare (p. 10). Outside the skul the nerves take different directions according to their destination thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwards to the tono-uc aiuGLOSSO-rnARYNGEAL NERVE. pharynx ; the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno-mastoid and consists of trapezius muscles ; and the pneunio-irastric nerve descends to the . J? 1 1 trunks : Viscera or the thorax and abdomen. The OLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NKRVE (fig. 20, ') is the smallest of the Glosso-phii- three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in front l^'^^vT: of the other two, and lies in a groove in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the iias two nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being f^t.'a^Jj'e,,''' the jugular, and the lower the petrous ganglion. iiweium. ^'^ Ganglia. The jugular gamjlion^ ^, (ganglion superius) is very Its upi.cr small, and is situate at the upper part of the osseous groove con- taining the nerve. It is placed on the outer surface of the glosso- pharyngeal trunk, and includes only some fibrils of the nerve. The petroml ganglion,(gang, iuferius) is nuich larger than the pre- and lower ceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovalish in form, it is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone ; and from it spi'ing the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen it comes forwards between In the ncck- the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 25, ^), and crossing inwards over the arter}', reaches the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. At this spot the nerve becomes almost trans- courses ti' verse in direction in its course to the pharynx: it crosses over the tUe^tongm- stylo-pharyngeus, and forms an arch across the side of the neck rynx. above the superior laryngeal nerve. Finally it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those Branches connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those *"J°"' distributed in the neck. * Connecting branches arise chiefly from the petrosal ganglion ; with others, aiul in this set is the tympanic nerve. i\ filament ascends from tho st/nq)athetic nerve in the neck to join syin])athctii- the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the' '° ' ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the tipper ganglion of this nerve. The tympanic branch (fig. 20,'-) (nerve of Jacobson) enters the facial nnd apertiu-e in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid ti,"til'.'" foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it ends in branches : its distribution is given with the tympanum of the ear. a Branches for Distribution. In the neck the branches are fur- Distribuica to nished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. b. Carotid branches surround the internal artery of that name, and communicate witli the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and the ' .sympathetic nerve. c. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst the nerve is in contact with it. <h Branches to the pharynx form tlic pharyngeal plexus by uniting nn.i piiaryn- ^ . ^ ^ geal plexus, with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus.110 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. tlie tonsil, :aiul the tungiie. Vagus nerve in foramen iug^ilare, :and in the Jieck, ■nonrses to tlie thorax. ■One gan- .i;lioii in foramen, nnotlier J)elo\v. Fig. 26.* 33ranclies e. Tlie tomiUitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft jialate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—cnx-nlus tonsillaris. /. Lingual hramhes. The terminal branches of the nen-e supply the root and posterior part of the tongue, as Avell as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Skction 15). The PNEUMO-GASTRic NEKVK (fig. 26, =) (vagus nerve) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal acces- soiy. In the aperture of exit it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessoiy, and swells into a ganglion nearly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). Here the ners-e lies between the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost vertically (fig. 25, ^) between the internal jugular vein and the internal and conunoii carotid arteries ; and enters that cavit}-, on the right side, by crossing over the sub- clavian artery, but beneath the innominate vein. '•■ Ganglia. The ganglion of the root (gang, superius), (fig. 20,^), is of a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Small branches in the foramen jugulare come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunh (gang, inferius), C-*) is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length ; it conmmnicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sym- pathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are suiTounded by the ganglionic substance, but those derived from the spinal accessory nerve, (") pass over the ganglion without being inclosed in it. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve may be arranged into * Diagram of tlie eighth nerve. 1. Glosso-pliaryngeal trunk. 2. Vagus. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. (5. .Jacob- son's nerve. 7. Auricular branch. 8. Root ganglion of vagus. 9. Trunk ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrosal and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Chief part of spinal a<;cessory. 13. Pharyngeal branch of vagus, 14. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus.rXEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. Ill tiiose uniting- it with otlier nerves, and those distrihuted to parts around. Connecting branches (fig.2G) arise from tlie ganglion of the root t«> unite with and the gangUon of the trunk of the vagus. ' '■'From the g<inglion of the root. The auricular branch, {') is the nuiipular ■chief otfset, and crosses tlie jugidar fossa to enter an aperture near ^"'""^^'^ • the root of tlie styloid process ; it traverses the siihstance of the temporal bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear. * One or two short tilaments unite this ganglion witli the spinal with .spinal •accessory nerve ; and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck sympa-'^' •enters it. Occasionally there is an 'offset, to join the lower tiietic, •(petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From the f/anglion of the trunk. Connuunicating filaments connect with ninth, "it with the hypo-glossal nerve. Other branches pass between it thetlclspinal and the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it and the nerves, •loop of the first two cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution (fig. 25). The cervical branches arise Branches to from the iiuier side of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to •'^"1^1'^^ supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. «. The pharijnrjeal branch (fig. 2G, '^) is an offset from the upper pharj-nx part of the ganglion of the trunk, and terminates in the pharynx. The nerve is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery and join (fig. 25, °), and joins the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve pi',ar;^c'eal on that vessel. Finally it courses to the side of the middle con- strictor muscle, and commimicates with liranches of the glosso- jiharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the jiharyngeal 2)lexus. From the plexus branches are furnished to the and phar3rn- constrictors and palato-glossus and pharyngeus, and to the pharyn- I'^'^'^ub. .;geal mucous membrane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. h. The superior lari/ngeal nerve (fig. 2G, is much larger than To enter the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion ■of the trunk. From this point it inclines obliquely inwards be- neath the internal carotid artery (fig. 25 "), and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid car- tilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and IS distributed to the nuicous lining of the larynx. (See " L.MiYNX.") and supply In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the fol- ' '"'^ lowing offset to one laryngeal muscle and the pharynx :— The external lannuieal branch (fig. 25, ') arises beneath the abranch 1 11^1 -1 1 outside internal carotid artery, and runs below the superior laryngeal nerve larynx to the side of the larynx. Here it gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus, and it is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus to the crico-thyroid muscle and the inferior constrictor. Near its origin to oiimi-thy- this branch communicates with the superficial cardiac branch of the l.^aryilx. sympathetic nerve. c. Cardiac branches. Some small cardiac nei"ves spring^trom the j];'",'^'^^!^^ pneumo-gastric at the upj^cr part of the neck, and join cardiac upper' "branches of the sympathetic, xit the lower part of the neck, on -"i^i lower, each side, there is a single cardiac nerve :—^the right one enters theDISSECTION OF THE Is'^ECK. 112 Branch t' laryux, ends'in iiiusoles ill iuturior, gives liniuclifs to heart. to tracheii, u'sophagus, anil pha- rynx. Left recur- rent nerve. Spinal accessory has two parts. .\ccess017 to vagus in foramen : below foramen : how eniLs. Spinal part in foramen : in the neck, crosses to trapezius: snpplies muscles. Ninth nerve cliest, ajid joins tlie deep nerves to tlie licart from tlie sympathetic ; and the left nerve terminates in tlie superlicial cardiac plexus of the thorax. d. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve (lig. 25) leaves the pneumo-ga.stric trunk on the right side opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the connnon carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and between the trachea and the oesophagus.. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, where it will be afterwards traced. The following branches arise- from it:— Some cardiac hranches leave the nerve as it turns roimd the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the s^Tnpathetic. JIuscular branches spr'mg from it whilst it lies between the trachea and the cxjsopliagus, and are distributed to both those tubes. Near the laryux some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor- muscle. On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, but lies between the trachea and a'sophagus- in the neck, as on the right side. The SPINAL ACCKSSORY NEKVK (fig. 26, courscs through the foramen jugulare with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any gaiiglion. The nerve is constructed of two parts, viz., ac- cessory to the vagus, and spinal, which have a different origin and distribution. (Origin of the cranial nerves.) The part accessory to the vagus, (") is the smaller of the two, and finally blends with the pneumo-gastric beyond the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and joins the ujjper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it is continued over the lower ganglion of the nerve, and blends with the trunk beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper laryngeal branches of the pneumo- gastric, and according to Bcndz, to many other branches of that nerve. The sj^^^^ff i Pfirt (fig. 26, '-) is nnich larger, is round and cord-like, and is connected with the smaller piece whilst it is passing through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the nerve (fig. 25, 2) takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the neck to end in the trapezius muscle : at first it is concealed by tlie jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel. The connections of the nerv'c beyond the sterno-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 57). The nerve furnishos muscular ofiisets to the sterno-mastoideus and the trapezius. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis), issuing fi-om the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply betwcei the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 25, "•). It next comes forwards between the vein and artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus to which it is united. The nci-vc now113 SUB-OCCIPITAL NERVE. les lie descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric crosses muscle in the anterior triangular space ; from this spot it is "^^^ directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. * Connecting branches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united branehe by branches with the vagus nerve, the two being almost insepar- ably joined. '° *lvathcr lower down the nerve is connected by of¥sets with the sympa- sympatlietic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. sJiSi';'""^ The branches for distribution have been met with in the fore- and supply going dissections. Thus in the neck it supplies, in union with the '>i"«t;iL'«- spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone. In the sub- maxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio- hyoid) of the OS hyoides ; to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palate and pharyngeo-glossus ; and to all the intrinsic of the tongue. Dissection.—The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between Disser-tiou the transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is I'ateniUs'! now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms part of a loop on the atlas, is to be found. The KECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 25) is small and thin, and Rectus represents an intertransverse muscle. It arises fi-om the anterior „ ,'. 1 ii • c 1 -1 first inter- transverse process, and the tip or the united transverse processes transverse of the atlas ; and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the "^^^'^i'^- occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact 'P^vta with the posterior is the vertebral artery. To the inner side lies ' the anterior primary branch of the first ceiwical nerve. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior Qf'jfjtfj*"'" branch of the first cervical nerve divide the rectus lateralis muscle, nerve, and observe the oft'sct to it ; then cut off the end of the lateral mass of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The anterior primary branch of the first or sub-occijntal nerve is slender in size, and arises fi-om the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. From that origin it is directed forwards on the ^^^^ arch, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis: here it bends down in front of the lateral mass of the bone, and forms a loop by uniting with the second cervical nen'c. As the nerve passes forwards it supplies the rectus lateralis muscle, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, and Branches, sympathetic nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic ner^'c consists, Jj^',"'{^''|IJ'^^'° on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral neck column, and is continued into the thorax. On this part of the jj.^^jj^i'.^^'^ nerve are three ganglia :—One near the skull, another on the neck of the first rib, and a third somewhere between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganghon. FromlU DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Other gang- lia on llftli iiurve. Dissection of uiijier HanKlion. MiiUlIe and inferior ganglion. *?ni>cnor .uanglion is Jiear skull, lieneath ■larotid. Branches vith spinal nerves, ■with cranial outside skull, and in Jugular joranien; and with the ganglia proceed connecting branches witli the spinal and most of the cervical cranial nerves ; and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck in connection with tlie three trunks of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display tlie branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generality of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their brandies have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be required, to bring them into view :—The jugular vein having been cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the truidcs of the vagus and hyjio- glossal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop of the first and second sijinal nerves. Tlie ^several branches of the ganglion are to lie traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharjaix, down along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian arter}^ is to be cut through, inside the scalemis, and drawn aside, witli,out liowever destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. The clavicle is sup- posed not to be in position. The ganglion is placed on tlie neck of the first rib; its branches are large, and are easily followed out- wards to the vertebral artery and the spinal ner\'es, and downwards to the thorax. The surERiOR cervicat. ganglion is the largest of the three, and is of a reddish-grey colour. Of a fusiform shape, it is as long as the second and third cerAncal vertebrje, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. ^ -Connedim/ branches unite the sympathetic with botli tin- spinal and tlie cranial nerves. '^Wiih the spinal nerves. Tlie four higliest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the oftset to the fourth nerve may couie from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglioii. ""With the cranial nerves. Near the slaill'tlie trunks of the va^-us (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by braiidics of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the vagus receive small filaments, one to cadi,'from an ascendino- offset of the ganglion. ^ Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by115 CERVICAL GANGLIA OF SYMPATHETIC. <»neans of an oftWt from the ganglion into tlie carotid canal some in the (p. 20). «kuii. Branches for DLitributio)!. This set of brandies is more numerous Blanches than the preceding, and the iierves are larger in size. Branches for Mood-vessels (nervi niolles). These nerves suiTound to external tlie external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches so as to form plexuses on the arteries with tlie same names as the vessels : »-:ome small ganglia are occasionally found on these ramifying nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the sub- formiufi niaxillarv ganglion cnnxnnmicates with the sympathetic; and |i|,*|{'"!'i',^tiia• through the plexus on the internal maxillarj^ artery tlie otic gang- lion obtains a similar comnnuiication. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion accompanies to internal the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it" ' •divides into two i)ieces, which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel: and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary plexuses on the which join ophthalmic and cerebral arteries. In the carotid canal communic.a- Jiyi ves; tions are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 100) and with the •spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 142) ; with the former near tlie lower, and with the latter near the upper openuig of the canal. The ■communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the base of the brain are described at p. 20. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, to phai-jni- where they join with other branches of the cranial nerves in the ^'"^'^ l>exuh, pharyngeal plexus (p. 111). Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join hi the plexuses of the liioart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, i"^-""• middle, and inferior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior cardiac nerve (superficial) of the right side courses one nerve behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax ,,'i,'xus' beneath the subclavian artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent ners-e. In some bodies it ends by joining joins others /- ,1 ,1 T "I neclv. one 01 tlie other cardiac nerves. The MIDDLK CKRVic.M. (iAXGLiON (gang, tliyroidcum) is of small y\wwy. •size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually on or near the inferior tliyroid artery. It has a roundish shape, and Situation, lies beneath the great vessels. Its branches are the following :— ■■^Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the is joined lo borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth •^,1!",'.','!;. ■and sixth cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid liod}-, together with the middle cardiac nerve. The thijroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid artery, |J|>^|''^'.','^^^^ -and end in the thyroid body; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The mkldle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across and a oar- c> .... T 1 •11 uiac iicrvc, the subclavian arterv ; its termination in the cardiac plexus wiu I 2DISSECTION OF THE NECK. IIG Inferii/r iiSIlL'tioll fw neck of tirst rib. Branches to bl0(Kl- voisels, and siiiiiiil nerves, and one ciirdiac. Directions. l)e learnt in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the- n])por cardiac and recnrrent laryngeal nerves. The iNFEKioit CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size but irregular iii» shape, and occupies the inter^'al between the first rib and the lateral mass of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the- superior intercostal arter}-. Oftentimes it extends in ft-ont of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia- One or two branches sun'ound the trunk of the subclavian artery,, and supply filaments to that blood-vessel. '■'Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming a 2>lexus—vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior canliac nerve, issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent larjmgeal nerve, and enters, the thorax to tenuinate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arclii of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the- left half. Section X. Directions. Disscctinii of anterior triangle of neck ; of sealeni and .subcla- vian artery of tlioracic duct. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, tlie- ditt'erences observable between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 68 to G5) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoideus, and the depressoi' nniscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scalcni muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be learnt. The dissection, and description of the muscles on the right side (p. 65 to G7), will serve for those on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is contiguous to the part of the svibclaviaui artery inside the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjectcd it looks like a vein, rather smaller than a crow-quill; and it will be found by separating the jugular vein fi-om the carotid artery, about half an inch above the clavicle, coursing fi-om beneath the artery to end in the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle may remain articulated, in order tliat the joint may be learnt.117 ENDING OF THORACIC DUCT. Tlie LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY arises from the arch of the aorta, subclavian instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the lirst rib in its course to tlie upper limb. With this difference on tlic 'litters miu-u two sides in the origin of the subclavian,—the one vessel beginning SbeiSu ■opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other in the thorax, —it is evident that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite :sides. Fh-st jmrt. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus i II the liist is much longer on the left than the right side, and is almost vertical ^"^^"'^ in direction, instead of being horizontal like its fellow. After leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the <jesophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between tlic artery and the surface are structures like those on Connections the right side, viz. the common teguments with the platysma and i^o^^uKih,." <leep fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. Behind the vessel is the longus colU muscle. To the inner side are the tcsophagus and the thoracic duct; and the pleura is in contact witli the outer and anterior parts. Its connections lower in the chest are descinbed in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular vein is superficial to the artery and Veins, parallel to it. Nerves. The imcumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel instead rosition of •of across it as on the right side ; and the phrenic nerve crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac braiiches of the sympathetic, whicli course along its inner side to the chest; and beneath it is the inferior cervical ganglion. The second and third parts of the artery, viz. beneath and beyond Rest of the scalenus, are nearly the same as on the right side (p. G8) ; but' the student nuist note for himself the variations that may exist in the connections. The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of the right Branches tnank, that one description will serve for both (p. 69 to 71). It those of may be remarked, that the superior intercostal of the left side is "fc'''* vesseL usually internal to, instead of beneath tlie scaleims as on the right .side ; in other words, tliis branch arises sooner. The thoracic duct (fig. 27, ^) conveys the chyle and lymph of the Thoracic greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escaping from the thorax on the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as liigh [i"|."thy,'ax' as the seventh or sixth cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid trunk, and arches outwards above •or over the subclavian arteiy, and in fi'ont of the scalenus miisclc an<i joins and the phrenic nerve, to open into tlie subclavian close to the union with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Frequently the upper part of the duct is divided ; and there may be separate openings into the large vein, correspond- ing with those divisions. subi'laviau vein.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 118 BriiiR-li<>.s. Structure. Large lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head and neck% and from the left upper limh, open into the upper part of the duct',, and sometimes separately into the vein (^°). Structure. This tube is formed of tliree coats like the blood-vessels; viz. inner, middle, and outer. The inner is an elastic layer of longitudinal fibres covered by flattened epithelium ; the middle ia; Fig. 27.* ntrwa. Diffen'rife in oiijjiii <if right find left carotids. In the nci k differeiice ill vein aud nerve. Pnrt.s in the a]i('i-tnre of thuriix. muscular and clastic with transA'crse fibres ; and the outer i& constructed chiefly of fibrous tissues arranged longitudinally and obliquely. Examine next the brachial and cen'ical plexuses, using the des- cription of the right side (p. 72 to 74). Common cakotids. On opposite sides these vessels have ditfer- ences like those between the right and left subclavian arteries; for the left vessel arises fi'om the arch of the aorta, and is there- fore deep in the chest, and longer than the right. The description of the artery betAveen its origin and the top of the sternum M ill be included in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation the vessels, on both sides,, so nearly resemble one another that the same description may sei-vc for the two (p. 74). On the left side, however, the jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are mvich nearer to the carotid thau on the right side, and are placed over the artery in the lower third of the neck.-j- Parts in the urrEii aperture of the thorax. The relative position of the several parts entering or leaving the thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. * Diagram of the ending of the lymph duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3, left innominate vein. 4. Left and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7, right subclavian vein. 8^ Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic vessel joining the right lymphatic duct as. this is about to end in the subclavian vein. ' + Occasionally these differences will be reversed—the vein and nerve beinf over the artery on the right side, and avv-ay from it on the left.119 THYROID BODY. In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the in luklille trachea and O'sophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the stcrno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of the cervical fascia, and the infenor thyroid veins ; and hehind the gullet and windpipe is the longus colli muscle. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung On onch project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and the trachea and wsophagus, are placed the vessels and ner\'es pass- ing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both Tartly the sides lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nen'e, and the internal ^oth si'u's mannnary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met "with are f^,„^ pmtiy different on the two sides:—On the right side come the innominate '^ot- artery, with the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct ; but on the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac ner\'es. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first intercostal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior intercostal artery. The THYROID BODY is a soft reddish mass, which is situate opposite Thyroid the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lobes, one on each side, Avhich are united by a narrow piece across the fi'ont of the twMoijes windpipe. The connecting piece, about half an inch hi depth, is'ii.i^i^'I'oss named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between Connections the windpipe and the sheath of the conunon carotid artery, and is ""^^ covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies; but usually it reaches as high as the extent of middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most commonly Aecessory from the left lobe, a conical piece—injramid, ascends towards the pynuiua. hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the os hyoidcs by a slip of nmscle, the leva- tor (jlandulcv, thyroidece of Socmmerring. This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular in tex- Weight and ture, and weighs from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yel- No duct, lowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretory tube or duct. Structure. The thyroid body is not provided with a distinct cap- No distinct sule ; but it is surrounded by areolar and fine elastic tissues, which project into the substance and divide it into masses. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or elongated c^^j vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a small pin, and others only -gi^th of an inch. Tliese vesidcs are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellowish fluid with corpuscles. The wall of the vesicles consists of a thin proper witiia membrane with a nucleated epithelial lining. Fine vessels and and special' coat.DISSECTION OF THE KECK. 120 Blootl- vessels. Superior, Inferior, and some- times lowest tlij'roid. Veins. Superior. Infcrioi', form ii ple.xus on tracliea. Trachea lies in neck and thorax. Fonn. Cen'ical part is amongst muscles and vessels. CEsopliagus occupies neck and thorax. Position in neck and connec- tions areolar tissue unite togetlicr the vesicles into small irregular masses or lobules of the size of the little finger nail. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—sui^erior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect ; while those from the subclavians (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the body. A very free communication is established between all the vessels; and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a capillary network around the vesicles. Occasionally there is a third thyroid branch (art. thyroid, ima) which arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascend- ing in front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The vei7is are large and numerous; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 75). The inferior tliyroid vein issues from the lower part of the thyroid body, and descends on the trachea,—the two forming a plexus on tliat tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; it enters finally the innominate A^ein of its own side. The TRACHEA, or air tube, is contiimed from the larynx to the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies tlie middle line of the body, and extends com- monly from the fifth cervical to the fourth dorsal vertebra, measur- ing about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm cartilaginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the following relative position to tlie surrounding parts. Covering it in front are the small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the cesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the tracliea is described in Section XVH. The CESornAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the fifth cei-vical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax ; and occupies the middle line of the body. In length it measures about nine niches. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax, where it projects to the left side of the air tube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the ccsophagus is the longus colli muscle. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the a-sophagus Avill be examined in the dissec- tion of the thorax.121 PREPARATION OF PHARYNX. Directions. The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo- ^{"^I.J'^*^,"'''^ Iiyoid muscles, with the hypo-glossal nerve (p. 75). Afterwards lie jintiTior may take the trunk of the external carotid, with the following ^''•'"«'>-'. branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, and ^superficial temporal (p. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the i^terygo-maxillary or sub- Regions to maxillary regions on the left side because such a proceeding would ^" """"ed. interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the disi)]ay of the two lower gajiglia of the sym- Dissection pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the theti'"^'"" .great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near tlie digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion nuist be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., Diid.ile near the inferior tliyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen ^"uigi"".'^^ •on the neck of the first rib, after the subclavian artery has been divided. Tlie upper cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The upper end of the sternum witli its attached clavicle is to be Reserve taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; johit."^ and the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the symjiathetic nerve -are so similar to the CDrres2?onding ganglia of the right side, that ume? " the same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in mnnber on the left as on the right Cmdiai- side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but tliey present some differences. The suj^erior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both Uppei'. sides ; but the left in entering the cliest lies between aiul parallel to tlic carotid and subclavian arteries. Tlie middle cardiac nerve unites fi-cquently with the next, and Middle, passes beiieath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small i)rancli, wliicli enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the ijrecediiig, to end in the cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of tlie alimentary passage. Directions, can be examined only when it has been separated from the rest of the head ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the maimer mentioned below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the JJl^^^^J^^I'^'iDISSECTION OF THE rilARYXX. 122 licad is to 1)0 placed downwards, so that it may stand on the cut o^lge of the skull. Next the trachea and esophagus, togetlicr with the vagus aiid sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and without hijuring, on the left side^ the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skidl turn upwards the inner surface of the base, and make thr following incisions in the posterior fossa, cut l)ase of On the right side a cut, with the chisel, is to be cairied along the iroiii hislle. of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone. On the left side another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occi])ital bo7ie internal to the foramen jugulare and the inferior petrosal simis : this is to begin i-ather behind that foramen, and to end opposite the one on the Saw the side other side. The sknll is to be sawn througli vertically on the ' left side close behind the mastoid jiart of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the outer end of the cut made with the chisel. niul ciiisei Finally jjlacingthe skull again upside down, let the student chisel i);i!>c|"° ' through the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- ments of the pharynx and the nuiscles of the spinal column, the tiien cut instrument being directed backwards. The base of the skull is now so iidits. fijyjfjpfi jjj^o t^yQ parts (one having tlie pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), Avhich can be readily separated with a scalpel. Preserve The sj^inal colunm with the piece of the occipital bone connected spine."' with it should be set aside, aiid kept for after examination. Fasten Di>tsectio?i of the jjharyn.c (lig. 28). Let the student take the an- iiliuryiix. tcrior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately iilling th( pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oeso l)hagus may be pendent and towards him. Dissect On the left side of the pharynx a different view from that of left side, tl'c right side may be obtained of the cranial and sympathetic nerves near the skull (p. 100), Avhen some loose areolar tissue, and the styloid process with its muscles, have been removed: if the lower ends of the nerves arc fixed with pieces of thread, a more satisfac tory examination can be made of them, then ^ After wards the dissector may proceed to remove the fascia fron viz!" tlif^ constrictor muscles of the right side (fig. 28), in the directio of the fibres,—these radiating from the side to the middle line lower aii.l^^ The margins of the twf) lower constrictor nniscles (middle and in strktor,*^"" ferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one near the laryn.x will be found the recuirent nerve Avith vessels ; whilst intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscl and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, upper con- To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower ia\l stnctor. ^^^^^ pterygo-maxillaiy ligament,it will be necessary to cut throuir the internal pterygoid nniscle of the right side. Above the upp, fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skidl, are t\\ small muscles of the palate (F and li) entering the phurynx:—onCONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 12& •—tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle ; and the other,—levator palati, is farther in, and larger. The riiAUYNX is situate behhul tlie nose, moutli, and lar^-nx. Its i^i'-nynN'- extent is from the base of the skull to the cricoid cartilao-e of the Extent, larynx, where it ends in the wsophagus. In form it is somewhat form, conical, with the dilated part upwards; and in length it measures length, from five to six inches. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it com-^"''om- municates with the cavities above mentioned, but is (juite closed ^'^ ^ behind. On each side of it are placed the trunks of the carotid <-;<>"ih^i- arteries, with the internal jugular vein and the accompanying cranial and sympatlietic nerves. Behind it is the spinal cohnun, covered by muscles, viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. In front the pharynx is united to the larynx, the hyoid bone and the tongue, and to the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but behind it is unattaclied, and is formed chietly of thin, fleshy strata. In the posterior wall are contained elevator and constrictor muscles ; Coii.stiuc- and at the upper part the bag is further completed by an aponeurotic expansion which fixes it to the base of the skull. The Avhole is Ihied by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of the Aponeurosis pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube " i"'''-''"''- to the base of the skull, and to complete the posterior boundary. Superiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone, as Avell as to the cartilage between the two ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and extends between the muscular and mucous strata. On tliis membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. The C0KST1!ICT0RS are three tliin muscles, which are arranged like Constric- scales, the lower partly overlaying the middle, and the middle the upper. The wferior constrictor (fig. 28, -^), the most superficial and lowest, ^"wer arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage ; ironi the obhque fine arises from and upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage, and from the I'l'T"^ part of the latter which is behind the oblique line. The origin is a'ld ends in small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres are directed linc.'"^' ' backwards, radiating, and are inserted into a raphe along the middle line, where it meets the corresponding muscle of the opposite side. Tlie outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the slieath of ^•'^ll,*!^,'^" the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, witii'it. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of tin.' middle constrictor (b). The recurrent nerve and vessels Q) enter beneath the lower border. The viiddle constrictor (fig. 28, ^) has nearly the same shape as Mid(Uc cou- the preceding, that is to say, it is narrowed hi front and expanded behind. Its fibres arise fi-om the great cornu of the os hyoides, from the small cornu of the same bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with the other muscles.DISSECTION OF THE THARYNX. Tl.e surfaces have connections similar to those of the preceaing (Connec- tions. rosis of the pharynx, about an inch from the base of the skull. Th lower border descends beneath the inferior constrictor ; and opposit the interval between the two is the upper lary)igeal nerve (^). Upi>er con- The i^iqieriur constvictor (fig. 28, ^) is the least strong of the thre stiictor. * External view of the pharynx (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscla A. Inferior constrictor. b. Middle constrictor. c. Upper constricto D. Stylo-pbaryiigeus. f. Levator palati. h. Tensor palati. i. Buccinat( K. Hyo-glossns. Nerves: 1. Glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Hypo-glossal. 3. Sup rior laryngeal. 4. External laryngeal. 5. Kecurrcnt laryngeal. 6. Gust tory nerve, "f* |>iww<^o tna^xiUAi^ £v(ji>/wt»YELEVATORS OF rilARYXX. 125. muscles, and wants the usual conical form. Its or'ujin is extensive, and is connected successively, from above down, with the inner surface origin iu of the internal pterygoid plate (the lower third or less), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the jiosterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and with the mucous membrane of the mouth and the side of the tongue. Tlie lieshy fibres pass backwards, and insertion are inserted on the aponeui-osis of the pharynx, as well as into the tiic o'tiiVrs. raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact externally with this nuiscle are, tlie deep Contiguous vessels and nerves of the neck ; antl internally it is lined by the aponeurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of arched fibres which are dii'ected backwards from the pterygoid plate ; and above it the levator palati nuiscle F is seen. The lower border is overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the buccinator muscle i. Action of constrictors. The muscles of both sides contracting will Useofcoa- diminish tlie size of the pharynx ; and as the anterior attachments '^''''i'^t'O'''^' of the lower muscles are nearer together than those of the upper, the tube will be contracted more behind the larynx than near the head. In swallowing the morsel is seized first by the middle constrictor, in swallow- and is delivered over to the inferior, by which it is conveyed to the oesophagus : both muscles act involuntarily. By the contraction of the upper muscle the space above the mouth will be narrowed, so that the soft palate being raised, the upper poi-tion of the pharyn- geal space can be shut oft' from the lower. Dissection (fig. 29). Open the pharynx by an incision along its Dissection.. middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The mucous mem- brane is to be carefully removed below the dilated extremity of the Eustachian tube on the right side, for the purpose of finding some pale muscular fibres, salpingo-pharyngeus c, which descend from it. The ELEN ATORS of the pharynx are two in number on each side,—an Elevators of external (stylo-pharyngeus), and an internal (salpingo-pharyngeus). The stijlo-pliarijmjeus (external elevator) may be read again with stylo-piia- the phary-nx. Its description is given in p. 102. ryugeus. Salpingo-pharyngeus^ c (internal elevator). Tliis little l)an(l is Salpingo- fixed by tendon to the lower border of the cartilage of the Eusta- i'iiaiT"geii;<. chian tube near the orifice. Its fleshy fil)res end below ])y joining Attacii- those of the palato-pharyngeus Q. If the part is not tolerably fresh "i^'^t'^- the muscle may not be visible. Action. This thin nuiscle elevates the upper and lateral part of Use. the pharj-nx above the spot where the large external elevator enters the wall;. but it is probably used chiefly in opening the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The interior of the pharynx (fig. 29) is wider from side to side interior of than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid Pi^aiTux.120 DISSECTION OF THE THARYXX. •Objor ts to be liotwl. tiUTS, viz., Posterior imris. llnstacliiaii tube ; ■cartilagi- nous ]iart lias a wide ■opening ; is n bent Jiicrc of (Mitilnue. ^lUf'OUS )m,'nibrane covers and lines it. Fauces. bone ; from tliat spot it diminislies botli ni)\var(ls and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction. Through the part of the passage above the mouth the air moves in respiration ; whilst through that below the mouth both air and food arc transmitted—the air j)assiug to the aperture of the wi]id-})ipe, and the food to the oesophagus. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures, G, of the nasal cavity, which arc separated b}- the septum nasi ; and below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube, F. Below the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—istlunus faucium, H, is to be recognised ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, K, M'hich is placed in a hollow between two prominences named pillars of the soft palate,—tlie one, i, ])roceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and the other, L, from the same part to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, conies the aperture of the larynx, N ; and close in fi-ont of it is the epiglottis, or the valve which assists to close that opening (hiring deglutition. Lowest of all is the opening, o, from the pharynx into the oesophagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven m number, and have the following position and boundaries :— The posterior openingii of the miml fossce, G, are oval in form, and measure about an inch from above down, but only half an inch across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the sphenoid and palate bones above, and by the palate below ; ])y the vomer inside, and the internal pteiygoid plate outside; and it is lined by mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube, F, is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear conununicatcs with the external air. If the mucous meml)rane be removed from the tube on the right side, the cartilaginous part appears to be nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margins of a groove between the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bone • but it increases in width as it is directed downwards to the pharynx and ends by a wide ajierture inside the internal pterygoid i)late on a level Avith the inferior meatus. Its opening in the iihar^ nx is oval in form ; and the inner side, which is larger than the outer projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. ' This part of the tube is constructed by a triangular piece of car- tilage, whose margins arc bent downwards so as to enclose a narrow- space ; but at the under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the wall is formed by fibrous membrane. Closely united to tlie ptery- goid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane • and through it the mucous fining of the cavity of the tynipaniun is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the arches127 OPENINGS OF PHARYNX. of the soft palate on opposite sides is ealled tha fauce>i. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The isthmux faiiciuiii, u, is the narrowed aperture of connuunica- oponingof .tion between the mouth and the fauces, whose size is altered h}^ the t'"^ Fiy. 29.* <'levated or pendent position of the soft palate. Laterally it is bounded by the anterior arches of the soft palate, which are named pillars of the fauces. The cqierture of the lay>/)i.r, \, is wide in front, where it is bounded Upper by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the arytasnoid carti- ";|,'.vii" * Internal view of tlie pharynx (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles of tlie palate, and named parts, a. Levator palati. u. Tensor palati. c. Sal- pingo-pharyngeus. D. Azygos nvuke. K. Internal pterygoiil muscle, f. End of the Eustachian tube. o. Posterior naris. h. Mouth cavity, i. Anterior liillar of the fauces, k. Apertures of the tonsil, l. Posterior pillar of the fauces. N. Opening of the larynx, o. Opening of the cesoi»]iagus. p. Uvula. •Q. Superficial part of Palato-pharyngeus.128 DISSECTION OF THE PIIARYXX. laj^es. The sides arc sloped from before back, and are formed hy folds of the mucous memltrane extending between the arytoenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Posteriorly it is limited by the corni- cnla laryngis, and by the arj't.fnoid nnisele covered by mucoua meud)rane. During respiration this aperture is unobstnictcd, but in the act of deglutition it is closed l)y the epiglottis. Begiiiiiinf; of The opening into the waophagus, o, is the narrowest part of the u'soiiliagus. pliarynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the fifth cervical vertebra. Internally the nnicous mend)rane in the tt'sophagus is. paler than that in the pharynx ; and externally the point at which the pharynx ends is marked by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. Soft palate The SOFT I'ALATK, Q (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable struc- .atiiiirkof ture between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either close mouth; ■, fi- ^ ~ ^ the opening of the mouth, or cut oif the passage to the nose, accord- ing as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft surfaces, palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is contiuTious with the roof of the mouth, whilst the borders; opposite sin'face is convex and turned to the phar}'nx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard palate ; and each from it lateral part joins the jiharj-nx. The lower border is free, and hangs uvula, presents in the centre a conical pendulous part—the uvula, Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative of the original separa- tion into two halves. Arches or Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near the uvula, pillars i-y^yQ folds on each side, containing nniscular fibres, which are ilirected downwards on the sides of the fauces. These are named arches or pillars oi the palate, and are distinguished from one another anterior, by their relative position. The anterior, i, reaches from the fore part to the side of the tongue near the middle ; and the 2>osfei-ior, posterior. J-i longer than the other, is contimied fi-om the lower border to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space in which the tonsil lies. Constituents The velum consists of an aponeurosis, with nuiscles, vessels, of velum. nerves, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissect Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- played, but others require care in their dissection. levator ami On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate ■ right half. ^^^^ elevator and tensor, are ver}- plain. These have been partly dissected on the right side ; but to follow them to their termination let the upper attachment of the i)harynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal ptery- goid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane, and a few muscular fibres covering its lower part. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evi- dent. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be ascertained.MUSCLES OF PALATE. 12a On the left side, the nmcons membrane is to be raised with great Ouloft care from the posterior surface of the pahate, to obtain a view of j.''.\',teus''''' tlie superficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus nuiscle ; and beneath them, in the middle line, are the longitudinal fibres of the azygos uvuhc. A deeper set of fibres of the palato- azygos pharyngeus is to be followed, on the right sitle, beneath the levator and a/ygos nuiscles. The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the paiato- muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and should ° follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see them in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fi-esh, some of the jialer fibres may not be visible. Aiwneurosis of the soft indate. Giving strength to the velum is a Aponeurosis thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. i"^^'^^*- This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. Th-e MUSCLES of the soft palate are four on each side,—an elevator Niue mus- and tensor ; with the palato-glossus and palato-phaiyngeus, which ^ ^ ' act as depressors. In addition there is a shiall median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 29, is a thick, roundish muscle, Elevatdi- which is partly situate outside the phaiynx. It arises from the arises out- imder surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal side pha- bone (fig. 30, ■'), and from the inner and hinder part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres enter the pharjoix above the superior constrictor, and then si)read out in the soft palate, where and is lost they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the^^^^^'""' opposite side. Outside the i)harynx this muscle rests against the Eustachian Connec- tube. In the palate it forms a stratum that reaches the whole ^ ' depth of that structure, and is embraced by two planes of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus (■*). Action. It tilts backwanis the free edge of the soft palate towards Use the pharynx so as to enlarge the isthnuis faucium, and to shut ofl: with the contracted pharynx the nose openings. In swallowing the palate is raised, and is arched over the bolus passing from the mouth to the pharynx. For its action on the Eustacliian tube, see Tensor I'litubo. palati. The TENSOR vel circumflexus palati (fig. 29, ^) arises like the preceding outside the pharynx, and is a thin riband-like band, situate between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle. About ^J'^^^^^^^' one inch and a half wide at its origin, it is attached to the slight Jlynxl' depression (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer and fore part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal (tympanic) process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the fleshy fibres end in a tendon which, entering the pharynx between tlie attachments of the buccinator muscle, is reflected round the130 turns aroiuiil lianiular in ocess ; is ileejier than tlie DISSECTION OF THE rilARYNX. hamnlai- process (fift-. 30, -), and is mseried into about one third of an inch of tlie posterior border of the paLite, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point; and inferiorly into the aponeurosis o± the vehnn. As the tendon winds round the l)one, it is tlnwn into folds; and between the two is a Imrsa. In the soft palate it hes l)cncath the Fig. 30. • Use in palate, on tube. Palato-glos- sus. Attach- ments. ■Connec- tions. Use: tongue lixud. ralato-i>lia- levator miLScle. The Eustachian tul)e is (hrected inwards between this muscle and the preceding. Action. Acting fi-oni the skull the muscle will fix and make tense the lateral part of the soft palate ; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. If the soft palate is fi.xed by the depressor nmscles, the levator and tensor, and the salpingo-pharyngeus, taking their fixed point.s below, open the Eustachian tid)e in swallowing. The PALATO-GLOSSUS MUSCLK (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch, i, of the soft palate. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral surface and the dorsum of the tongue ; ficom this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they fonn a thin nmscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus narroAvs the isthmus of the fauces ; the nmscles of opposite sides moving inwards towards each other, and separating fi-om the moTitli the morsel to l)e swallowed. When the tongue is fixed the nmscle will render tense and draw down the soft palate. The PALATO-rHARYNGEUS is much larger in size than the preceding, ♦ 1. Azygos uvulaj. 2. Tensor palati. 3. Levator palati. 4. Palato- pharyngeus—upper end. 5. External ptei7goid.131 THE TONSIL. and gives rise to tlie eminence of the posterior pillar, l, of the soft ryuaeus, in palate. The muscle is attached below to the posterior border of the "f tiiyroid cartilage, some fibres blending with the contiguous portion *" of the pharynx ; and it decussates across the middle line with corres- lionding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side (Merkel).* Ascend- Attacii- ing thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and separate into two layers (fig. 30, "*). The posterior, thin and strata in in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the nii(hlle line a l'"''^**^- like offset of its fellow. The deeper or anterior stratum, much the "■strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins at the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle, whilst some of the upper fibres end on the aponeurosis of the palate. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos nvulio between its two strata. Action. Taking its fixed point at tlie thyroid cartilage the nuiscle Use: xlepresses and nuxkes tense the soft palate. °" i'"''**^, During the act of swallowing b >th muscles move back the lower inswaiiow- odge of the soft palate towards thj pharynx; and approaching each other, form an oblicpie plane for the downward direction of the food : in that state the uvula lies in the interval between the two. The AZYGOS UVUL^ (tig. 29, °) is situate along the middle Une of Azygos the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two "ingfetlou' narrow slips of pale fibres, which ariae from the spine at the posterior middle; 'l)order of - the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and Pnd inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separat- attach- ing it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato- l)harvngeus. Action. Its fibres elevate the uvula, shortening the mid part of Use. the soft palate, and direct that process backwards. The tonsil, k, is a collection of follicular capsides resembling those Tonsil is on the dorsum lingusc, Avhich is placed close above the base of the jlmarL^of tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate. Each is roundish I'ni'^te. in shape, but A-arialile in size ; and apertures are apparent on its surface. Externall}' the tonsil is situate opposite the superior con- strictor nniscle and the angle of the lower jaw ; and when enlarged it may press against the internal carotid blood-vessel. The apertures on the surface leail to rounded terminal recesses or Foimwl of liollows which are lined by mucous membrane. Around each recess "is a layer of small closed capsules, which are seated in the tissue beneath the mucous membrane, and are filled with a grayish sub- stance containing cells and nuclear-looking bodies. No openings from the capsules are to be recognised in the recesses. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lingual, Vessels, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the ex- ternal carotid. Its veins have a plexiform arrangement on the outer * Dr. Merkel, iu the w'ork before referred to, states that this muscle has no firm fixed attacliuient below, and that it ends altogether in the w<all of the pharynx, decussating with the muscle of the opposite side. This assertion does not accord with my experience.132 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. Mucous iiicinbranc of i)liuryiix Nen-es. side. Nerres are furnished tf> it from the fifth and g-losso-pharyn- g^eal nerves. The mucous memhrane of the i^liarynx is continuous anterioi-1}- with- tlie lining- of the nioutli, nose, and larynx. Covenn^ the soft palate and its numerous small glands (palatine), the mend)raneis continued to the tonsils on each side, and is prolonged by tlie Eustachian tul)e to the tympaninu. In front of each arytanioid cartilage it encloses; a mass of muciparous glands (aryta?noid). Inferiorly, it is con- timied by tlie o-'sophagus to the stomach. The mucous mend)ranc is provided with more glands in the u^jper, than in the lower part of the pharynx ; and its character, near the' different apertures, resembles that of the membrane lining the- cavities connnunicating with the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the nares (Henle) ; but is colunmar and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Beginning of the (esophagus. This tube is much smaller than the pharynx, and the walls are flaccid. For the conmiencement, and its. connections in the neck, see p. 120. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with, a lining of mucous membrane. The external layer, is foi-med f)f longitudi- nal fibres, which begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles,, anterior and two lateral ; the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constiictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, is formed of circular fibres,, which are continuous Avith those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more fully in the dissection, of the thorax. sn])('i-ioi-Iy has cifiuuL- iiar, iiil'e- riorly scaly epitlieliuiii. of (i.»st)i)ha- Formed of two layers ; outer or lon- gitudinal, <an(l inner or t-irc-.ular. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, are to be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory jiarts. Mouth. The Mouth. The cavity of the mouth is situate below that of the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces-. Situation, behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw bone. When lonn, the lower jaw is moderately removed from the ujjper, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof, concave, and boimda- is constituted by the hard and soft palate, and is limited anteriorly by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath the tip of that body is- the fr.-cnum lingu.-e, with the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior oi)ening of the mouth is- bounded by the lips; and the posterior corresponds with the anterior pillars of the soft palate.THE CHEEK AND TEETH. 13» The iiuuvua ineiubrane is less sensitive on tlie hard than the soft ].iuiu-of parts bounding the mouth; it lines the interior of the cavity, and •"'^"i"'. IS reflected over the tongue. Anteriorly it is continuous with the tegument, and posteriorly with the lining of the pharpix. The •epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly variety. cpithuliuiu. Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the differs iu membrane forms a small fold—frajnulum. On the bony part of the roof it blends with the dense tissue (gums) covering the vessels and on loor, nerves. On the soft palate it is smooth and thinner, and along the nuddle of the palate is a ridge which ends in front hi a small [)apilla. In the floor of the mouth the membrane forms tlie fi*a3num floor, lingua) beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into the openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts ; whilst on each :Ki(le of the frfenuni it is raised into a ridge by the subjacent sub- cheek, and lingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated fi-om the muscles by small buccal and labial glands. Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips, are papilla3 for the purpose of touch. The CHEEK extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus Cheek; of the lower jaw, and is attached above and below to the alveolar extent process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of ^^j^g^*^'*^"' the cheek is the Hcshy part of the buccinator muscle ; on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some nmscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid <luct perforates the cheek near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth ; they consist chiefly Lips, of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally formed by oroicultiris * by integument, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering lie the labial glands ; and in tlie substance of each lip, nearer the inner than the outer sui'face, and at the line of junction of the two parts of the orl)icu- contains laris, is placed the arch of the coronary artery. artery. Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, which Teeth, are set in the alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are sur- arrangement rounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned in jaw; forwards ; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the mandible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are ; similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names :—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; -and the last three arc molar teeth. Moreover, the last molar tooth ^Ij^^^^g^"*^ .has been called also " dens sapientifE," fi-om the late period of its appearance. The names applied to the teeth indicate very nearly the part they perform in mastication ; thus the incisor and canine Use^in mas- teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar •teeth serve to grind the aliment. Tlic several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fang, and neck ; ^^^^^^J/^^^^^^^^^DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 134 the general and special characters of those parts in the different groups of teeth ; and the structure of the different components of a tooth, must he referred to in some general treatise on anatomy. Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Direetions. Dissectiou. Cut tliroiigli the bone with SiMv. Situation of nose. Division into two. Form. Openings. Roof. To ol)tain a view of the interior of tlie nose, it will ])e necessary to make a lojigitiuhnal section through the hase of the skull.. Whilst the student is examining the boundaries of the nose he will derive advantage fi'om the use of a vertical section of a dried nasal cavity. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side should be taken away ; further, the tongue,, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, may be detached from the opposite- half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw through the frontal and nasal bones, the cribrifonn plate of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the suav descend into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right of the median line opposite the cut in the roof of the nose. The saw is then to be carried thi-ougb. the floor of the nose and the body of the sijhenoid bone in such a direction as to come into the incisioii above. The piece of the skull is now separated into two parts, right and left ; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the nnicous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is placed in the centre of the hones of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and betAveen the orbits. This space is divided into two parts—nasal fossaj,—by a vertical partition. Each fossa is larger below than above; and is flattened in form, so that the measurement from before back or above down exceeds much that from within out. It communicates with both the face and the pharynx by apertures named nares, and has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz. frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. The student has to examine in each fossa a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the os palati, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the etlnnoid135 SPONGY BONES AND MEATUSES. bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels; in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the openins^ of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it are Floor, the palate and superior maxillary bones—their palate processes. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner hoimdorij (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly Inner cartilaginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the pei-pendicnlar plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the partly frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates. The irregu- lar space in fi'ont in the prepared skull is filled in the recent state partly cnrti- by the triangular cartilaye of the septum, which forms part of the ^"o'^"^'*'- partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the anterior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal l)ones, this cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge !)etween the superior maxilhe, and projects even between the carti- lages of each nostril. The septum nasi is conunonly bent to one side. The outer hoxindanj has the greatest extent and the most irregular Outer surface. Six bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwards : the nasal and superior maxillary; the small os unguis with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone ; and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the formed of nasal, ungual, and ethmoidal reach only about half way from roof '"'^"^ to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth. Altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to construct part of this boiuidary. On this wall are three convoluted osseous pieces, named spongy is irregular or turbinate hones (fig. 31), which project into the cavity:—the two onsurtace; upper (') and {^), are processes of the ethmoid, but the lo^wer one (^), g^ongy^^ is a separate bone—the inferior spongy. The spongy bones are con- ijoues; fined to a certain portion of the outer wall, and their extent would be limited by a line continued nearly vertically upwards to the roof of the cavity from both the fi'ont and back of the hard palate. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the nose is a longitu- ])resents dinal hollow or meatus ; and into these hollows the nasal duct and ''o^^"^^'^- the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces arched over by the spongy bones; and Meatuses, as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so arc the spaces beneath them. The vjU^er one (fig 31, '') is the smallest and straightest of the Upper^ three meatuses, and occupies the posterior half of the space included ' by the vertical lines before mentioned. Into it the posterior eth- moidal sinuses open at the front ; and at its posterior part, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen which nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus (fig. 31, ') is longer than the preceding ; it is Mi,i,Uc curved upwards in front, and reaches all across the space referredDISSECTIOX OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 136 T.ower meatus. to on the outer wall. Anteriorly it communicates by a funnel-shaped passage (infundibulum) with the frontal sinus and the anterior eth- moidal cells ; and near its middle is a small aperture, which leads into the cavity of the upper jaw. The wferiormeatusX^g. 31, ^) is straighter than the middle one, and rather exceeds the width of the included space on the outer wall ; Fi-. 31. and when the bone is clothed by the mucous membrane it extends still farther fonvards. In its fi-ont is the opening of the ductus ad nasuin. Occasionally there is a small fourth or rudimentary meatus above the rest (fig. 31, ''), which communicates with a posterior ethmoidal cell. The nares. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a distinct anterior opening in the face, and another in the phar}-nx ; but in the skeleton there is only one common opening in front for both sides. These apertures, and the parts bounding them, have been before described (pp. 30 and 12G). The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossa is called the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane : and from its blendinc: with the peri- nose. . osteuin it acquires much strength. It is continuous with the in- tegument at the nostril, and with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior opening: moreover, it is also continuous with the mucous membrane of the eyeball, and with that of the different sinuses, viz. frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. Some fora- The foramina in the dry bones, which transmit nerves and vessels, mina closed, * Spongy tones and meatuses of tlie nasal cavity. 1. Uppei- fspongy bone. 2. Middle spongy bone. 3. Inferior spongy bone. 4. Square part of the ethmoid bone. 6. Upper meatus. 7. Middle meatus. 8. Lower meatus. 9. Rudimentary fourth meatus. 10. Vestibule of the nasal cavity. The ■w oodcut shows also the apertures of the glands of the nose. Fourth jueatus. Nares. MucousOLFACTORY EEGIOX. 137 others <liiiiiui.slicd ijy it. 32.* B Characters in lower X>art of no.se on b(Mies and in sinuse.s. Apertures of glands; and epitlie- liuni. iix'e entirely closed by the membrane, viz. incisor, spheno-palatine, the holes in the cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels ; but the apertures that lead to the sinuses and the orbit are only somewhat diminished by the Hninp; they receive. The membrane is stretched over the opening t)f the ductus ad nasum, forming a flap or valve to close the aperture. The characters of the mend)rane in the lower or respiratory part of the nose differ greatly from those of the same layer in the olfactorial region near the roof. In the lower region of the nose, through which the air passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely united to the sub- jacent periosteum and perichoiidrium ; and on the margins of the two inferior spongy bones it is projected somewli;it by the large •sul)mucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface. In the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papilhv, and small hairs (vibrissa?). The surface is covered by the apertures of branched nnicous glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of lai-gest size, about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossa. In the lower part of the nose, and in the sinuses, the epithelium is of the cohnnnar •ciliated kind ; but it becomes laminated or scaly in the dilata- tion or vestibule inside the nostril <fig. 31, The olfactory refjion (fig. 32) is situate at the top of the nasal ■cavity, and is confined to the •surface of the roof formed by the cribriform plate of the eth- moid ; to a portion of the outer •wall constructed by the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and to a corresponding extent of the septum, viz. about one third. The mucous membrane in the olfactory region receives the •olfactory nerve, and is therefore the seat of the sense of smell. It differs much from that in the lower portion of the nose, for it is less strong and vascular ; and is of a yellowish colour, which is due to pigment in the epithelium and the glands. The epithelium (fig. 32 a) is thicker but softer here than lower Epithelium. * Magnified vertical section of tlie mucou.s membrane of the nose (altered from Henle). . A. 1. Cohimnar epithelium at tlie free surface. 2. Granular or muUlle layer of the same. 3. Deepest layer of elongated cells placed vertically. 4. Secreting tubular glands. ? + • i 15. a. Pieces of the columnar epithehum greatly enlarged. 0. Ultactoiiai cells amongst the epithelium particles. 01f;u;tory region. Extent. Mucous luenibrane.DISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 138 Olfaftorial cells. Glands. Dissoption of iier\c.s and vessels. Olfactory iieiTC is distri- Inited to olfaetoiy reL'ioii. Ending. in the cavity, and it is colinnnar on the surface, but not ciliateff, Beneatli the surface layer are strata of grannies and ovalisli cells ("), amongst wliicli sink the pointed or attached ends of the pieces of epithelium. Around the pieces of the columnar epithelium stand numerous, bodies named olfactorial cells hy Schultze (fig. 32 B. ^). They con- sist of small spindle-shaped nucleated cells, with a rounded filament prolonged from each end towards the attached and free surfaces of the mucous membrane : that to the free surface, the larger, ends oit a level with the pieces of the columnar epithelium. But the con- nections of the deeper threads or processes are unknoAvn ; they hav^ been supposed to unite with the olfactoiy nerve. The glands in the olfactoiy region are simple lengthened tubes (fig. 32 A. like those in the stomach, but are slightly wavy, aiui end in the submucous tissue by closed extremities. A flattened epithelium, with coloured granular contents, lines the tubes.— (Henle.) Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution of the olfactory nerve. If the sei^tum nasi be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on tlie opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane too, near the front of the septum, is an oli'set of the nasal nerve. The naso-palatine nerve and arteiy (fig. 33, ^) are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind fomards, towards the anterior palatine fossa : the artery is readily seen, especially if it is injected, but the fine nerve, which is about as large as a coarse hair, is embedded in the membrane and will be found by scrajjing with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane that has been detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVE (fig. 33, ') forms a bulb on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends branches to the olfactory- region of the nose through the apertures in the roof. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three sets. An inner set, the largest, descend in the grooves on the septum nasi, and branching, extend over the upper third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the nose. And an external set is dis- tributed on the upper spongy bone, on the anterior s(piare surface of the OS ethnioides, and on the fore part of the middle spongy bone. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pituitary membrane in tufts of filaments which communicate fi-eely with the contiguous twigs, fonning a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unknown. It has been suggested bv 8chulze that they join the deep processes or ends of the" so-called olfactorial cells ; but this union has not been seen.OLFACTORY NERVE. 13» The olfactory nerve differs in structure from tlie other cranial Structure, nerves ; for its branches are deficient in the white substance of Scluvaiui, are not divisil)le into fibrilhe, and are nucleated and granular in texture. They resemble the ganglionic fibres: and .seem to consist of an extension of the nerve substance of tlie olfactory bulb. The other nerves in the nose will be described in tlie following section. Blood vessels. For a statement of the different vessels of the nose, see p. 143. The arteries form a network iji the pituitary membrane, and a large subnuicous plexus on the edge of each of the two ]f)wer spong}' bones, especially on the infen'or. The ?'emshave a plexiform disposition like the arteries, and this is largest on the lower spongy bone and the septum nasi. Blood-ves- sels of llOHCt arteries. venis. Section XIV. SPHENO - PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, FACIAL AND NASAL NERVES, AND BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. The preparation of jMeckel's ganglion and its Ijranches (fig. 34), Braiiclic's oC and of the terminal brjinches of tlie internal maxillary artery, is a gaiigiioii. somewhat difficult task in consequence of the nerves and vessels * Nerves of the septum of the nose. 1. Olfactory bull) and its r<amifica- lions on the septum. 2. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. '6. Naso- )alatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion (too large in the cut).DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 140 Dissection of palatine and l)r;inc-lies; l)()(ly of -anglion : Tiili;;n iicrvc. being contained in osseous canals which require to be opened. As is tlic case with other (h'ssections, the student seeks first the l)ranches, and traces these to tlie ganghon and nuiin trunk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for the display of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student may previously acquire some skill by attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches of the palate, detach the soft parts in the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nerves and vessels escaping from the posterior paliitine foramina are arrived at. Cut off, Avith a l)one forcejjs, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; aiul cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the. soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away without injury to the naso-palatine nerve ami vessels (already found), the hinder part of the loose piece of nmcous mem- brane before detached from the septum nasi, and separate the mucous mend)rane from the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind tlie s])()ngy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In re- flecting forwards the membrane many branches of vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen; but these maybe left for the present, as directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has l)een renuived behind the spongy bones, palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking carefidly through it with a chisel. Afterwards the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be foUoAved df)wn to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To Itring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the overhanging part of the s])henoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, from Avhich the vidian and pharyngeal nerves pass backAvards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek tAvo large nerves from the upper part of the ganglion to join the upper maxillary, and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the A-idiau branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the student nnist lay open the canal Avhich contains it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small i)liaryngeal branches of nerve and artery which are sui)erficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo- palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch from the vidian to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to be folloAved into the skull through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), aftei- cutting aAvay the point of the petrous portion of the temporal'bone, and dividing the internal carotid artery; and it is to be pursued onHI SniENO-PALATIXE GANGLIOX. the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the g-anghon of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii: its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that iierve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering Seek the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), before dissected in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxillary artery- with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The SPUENO-rALATINE GANGLION (fig. 34, ') (ganglion of Meckel) Gjmglion of occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine ^ "-^ ^'^ " foramen, and is connected with the branches of the superior max- illary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat tri- angular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate for Sitiuition the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior tio*,V\vi'ti^' maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround only part of their ^^t't'^ uene. fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the v^idian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles tlie other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensoi'y, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots Comiiosi- connected with it. The Branches of the ganglion are distributed for the most part to Biandu-s. the nose and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharynx and the or])it. Other offsets connect it with surrounding nerves. Branches of the nose. The nasal branches, fi-om three to five in mimber, are for the most part very small and soft, and pass inwards are— tbrougli the spheno-palatine foramen : their disti-ibution is given 1)0 low :— The superior nasal branches (f f) are distril)uted in the mucous Superior membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments ' reach the back part of the septum nasi. The naso-2>alatinenerre (nerve of Cotimnius) (fig. 33, ^) crosses the Naso-paln- roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and descends on that partition to near the front. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being antei-ior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are united in the mouth, and are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth. On the sq)tuni nasi filaments are supphed by the naso-palatine nerve to the niucous meml)rane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth nmst be opened. Branches of the palate. The nerves of the palate, though con- to tiir nected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of P"'''*''- the splieno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 101). Below tlie ganglion they are divided into three—large, small, and throe, external. The large palatine nerve (anterior) (fig. 34, ^) reaches the roof of f;^^'e^',|J«;'^''; the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and courses forwards to noscT'""^ nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve.142 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. small ; and •external lialatiiie. I'liavyiigeal braiicli. ' )il)ital bi'am-lies. Wliilst in the eaiKil, the nerve fuinishes two or more filaments {inferior naml-\) to tlie membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the month it sui)i)lies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate. The small palatine nerve, 10 (posterior), lies in the smaller canal, and ends interiorly in the soft palate, and the levator palati and azygos uvuhe muscles ; it supplies the uvula and tonsil. The external palatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distril)nted to the velum palati and the tonsil. The jiliori/ngeal branch is very small, and is directed through the pterygo-palatine canal to the nuicous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. ■f^Branrlin to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the fleshy layer of Fig. 34.* the musculua orbitalis (p. 50). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, with the spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nerve (fig. 24, receiving sensory nerve filtres through them; and through the medium of the vidian, which is descril)ed below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, nml to facial The vidian nerve (^) passes backwards through the vidian canal, thcti?'''^'^' ^'^^^ sends some small filaments, through the l)one, to the membrane through tiie of the back of the roof of the nose {upper posterior nasal branches). * Nerves of the nose and palate. 1.'Olfactory nerve. 2. Olfactory bnlb giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Foiu-tli nei-ve. 5. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the oplithalmic trunk. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nerve. 9. Larger ])alatine nerve. 10. Smaller palatine nerve, tf Na-sal nerves. Uniting Inanclus, to fifth.INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. U3 At its exit from llio canal, the nerve receives a soft reddisli offset {^carotid branch) from the sympathetic on the outer side of tlie ■carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium throui^h the cartilaginous substance in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on tlie surface of the petrous part of tlie temporal bone, where it takes the name of large .mperficialpetrosal nerve (fig. 35, -). Lastly it is contimied through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform eidargement on the facial nerve. Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sympathetic Vidian «, fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the ^erve?'^"^ ■sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give his attention to the re- maining nerves in the nasal cavity. Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose behind Seek other the nasal bone (fig. 34), by gently detaching the lining membrane, lifter having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum nasi, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vessels of •spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of ^Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The nasal nerre (of the ophthalmic) (fig. 34, ") has been already Nasal nerve •seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fossa ))y an aperture lies beneath at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a branch to the gh-es ' membrane of the septum, and is continued in a groove behind the OS nasi to the lower margin of this bone where it escapes to the -surface of the nose in the face (fig. 9, ''). Branches. The branch to tlie septum (fig. 33) divides into filaments hrauch to that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly ^^l**^"'^ to the lower border. One or tiro fikunents are likewise furnished by the nerve to the and to niucous niembrane on the outer wall of tlie nasal fossa; these extend :as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The Branehes of branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not been examined, are the superior palatine, naso-palatine, pterygo- artery arc palatine, and Aadian. The superior or descending pxdatine is the largest branch, and y"''!^*^^','!*; ticcoinpanies the large palatine nerve through the canal, and along the roof of the mouth; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth with its fellow, and with a branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies offsets to the soft palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnislied to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous mem- brane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from it. The nasal or spheno-pcdatine artery enters the nose through the :spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches:—Some of theseDISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Hi one to tuiii nasi: pterj'go- palatiue Lrani-h ; vidian branch. Other nasal arteries. Veins; alveolar plexus. Faeial iier\-e. Dissection of nerve in the bone. and its genu ; are distributed on the spongy bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. imso 2)f(^citma), runs on the parti- tion between the nasal fossae to the incisor foramen, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth : this branch accompanies the naso-i)alatine nen'e, and covers the- sc^jtuni Avith numerous r;miificatit)ns. The ptei-yrjo-XKilatine is a very small branch which, passing l)ack- wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the- lining membrane of the ])luirynx. The vidian or 2)ierij(joid bwiich is contained in the vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- brane of the Eustachian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small nascd arteries aro furnished to the I'oof of the nasal fossa by the posteiior ethmoidal bi-ancli of the ophthalmic (p. 46).. Also the anterior ethmoidal (internal nasal, p. 46), enters the cavity with the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibule ; a branch passes to the face between the os nasi and the cartilage, with its*, neive. Other offsets from the facial artery supply the part near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the in- ternal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxillary fossa in the- alveolar plexus. Into this plexus offsets are received from the- pterygoid plexus and the infraorbital vein ; and from the plexus a large trmdv (anterior internal maxillary) is directed fonvards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 28). Beneath the mucous, membrane of the nose the A^eins have a plexiform arrangement, as. before said. Facial neuvk in the t]':>ipoi!Al bone (fig. .^5). This nerve winds- through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difticulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided Avith a. temporal bone, in Avhich the ct)urse of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection. The examination of the nerve is to be begun at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be carried fonvards from that point. With this view, the side of the skidl should be sawn through ver- tically lietween the meatus externus and the anterior border of the- mastoid process, so as to open the posterior part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nen^e will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed by cutting- away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting al)ove it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less, opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorins internus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from that enlargement so as to allow of the petrosal nerves145 FACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. Fig. 35. • being traced to it ; and the meatus auditorius is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow. Tlie course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the facial) across the tympamun will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may there- fore omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The facial nerve (fig. 35, is received into the internal auditory meatus, and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted through the tem- poral bone to the stylo-mas- toid foramen and the face (p. 36). In its serpentine course through the bone, tlie nerve is first directed out- wards to the inner wall of the tympanum : at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a ganghfonn swelling (intumescentia gangliformis), to which several small nerves are united. From this swelHng the nerve is continued through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve for the most part to connect it with other nerves ; but one supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. * ComiecHiuj branches communicate with the auditory and glosso- pharyngeal nerves; and with two trunks (superior and inferior maxillary) of the fifth nerve. * Union loith the auditor}/ nerve. In the bottom of the meatus the facial and auditoiy nerves are connected by one or two minute fila- ments. * Connecting branches of the fjangliform enlargement! The swelling of the facial nerve receives three small twigs. One in front is the large mperficialpetrosal nerve ^ (vidian); another is the small super- ficial petrosal^ of the tympanic nerve; and the third is the external of cliorda tyiuxiiiiii; and otlior braiiflies. Facial nerve winds through eni]ioral bouu, is iuarl<ed by swelling which receives many twigs. Brandies .joiiung uervc to aiiditory nerve, to ani)enor ninxillary tympanic, and synnm- thetic. * Nerves joining the enlargement of the facial nerre. 1. Facial nerve. 2. Large superficial petrosal. 3. Small superficial petrosal from Jacobson's nerve. 4. External superficial petrosal. 5. Chorda tympani of the facial.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 to gustatory by chorda tympani. Auditory nerve. Otic ganglion. Dissection, to find it, to define ganglion and its branches. Otic gang- lion is on inner side of inferior maxillarj'. superfickd petrosal, ^ which is derived from the sympathetic on tlie middle meningcfil artery. The hmnch of the stapedius muscle arises at the back of the tympanum, and reaches its muscle by a special canal. Chorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen (fig. 35, it enters the tympanum below the pyramid. In the cavity the nerve is directed forwards across the handle of the malleus and the mem- brana tympani to the Glaserian fissure, or to an aperture on the inner side, through Avhich it leaves the tympanum. As it issues from the cavity it emits a small branch to the laxator tympani muscle (?). Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the gustatory nerve, and continues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 98). The AUDITORY NERVE will be learnt with the ear. Entering the auditory meatus with the facial it divides into two parts, of w^hich one belongs to the cochlea, and the other to the vestibule. Otic ganglion (fig. 36). At this stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, but the student should remember that it is one of the tlungs to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary ners'^e, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be arrived at from the inner side. Dissection. Putting the part in the same position as for the exam- ination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eusta- chian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and that tube, using nmch care in removing the last. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away the internal pterygoid muscle (&) comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it ; and a branch (internal pter3-goid, 5) descending from that nerv^e to the muscle. If the nerve to the ptery- goid be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the petrous part of the temporal bone, near the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported whilst it is divided. Takuig off some mem- brane which covers the ganglion, the student may follow backwards a small branch to the tensor tjinpani muscle; but he must open the small tube that contains the muscle, by entering it below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch there is said to be another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle ; and one, near the same spot, to join the sympathetic nerve on the middle meningeal artery. The OTIC GANGLION (gang, auriculare, Arnold) (fig. 3G,) is a small reddish body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve close to the skull, and suiTounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid nmscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little147 OTIC GANGLION. ilistancc, behind, lies the middle meningeal artery. In this ganglion, Structure, as in the others connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are fur- nished by it to muscles. Connecting hranclies—roots. The ganglion is joined by a fasciculus Brandies from the motor part of the inferior maxillary nerve, and is closely S'* Fig. 36.* united with the branch of that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by sympathetic, a twig from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery."I- Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves from the Other otic ganglion, \\z. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. The nerve enter to the tensor tympani, ^, is directed backwards, and enters the bony muscles, canal containing that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be supposed to be ><lerived from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle, ^, arises from the inner Nerve of side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the skull, and penetrates pterj-goid. .the deep surface of the muscle. This branch is joined by a fasciculus from the motor root of the fifth nerve. Directions. The remainder of the pterygo-maxillary region of the Directions, left side may be now examined. * Inner view of the otic ganglion, a. Tensor tympani muscle, h. Internal pterj'goid muscle with its nerve entering it. r. External carotid artery with ~the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Branch of Jacobson's nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining gustatoiy. 5. Nerve to pterygoideus internus. 6. Nerve of tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve. t Further, the ganglion is said to be connected with the tympanic nerve (of the glosso-pharyngeal) by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve, 2, joining the posterior part.DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 148 Section XY. Directions. Dissection. Toiifiue. Situation and form. Connections of apex, and ))ase. Uii)ier .suilace. Under surface. Borders. Kinds of papillic; conical and filifonii, situation on front of tongue; funtriform DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. The tongue and larynx are to remain connected with each other whilst the student learns the general form and structure of the tongue. Dissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have been detached on the right side may he shortened, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather flattened^ with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of the surface ; but at the hinder part, and at the posterior two thirds of the under surface, it gives attachment to the muscles- and the mucous membrane which fix it to the parts around. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth ; and the base, which looks towards the pharynx, is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is somewhat convex, and is received' into the hollow of the roof of the mouth ; along the anterior two- thirds it is divided into two equal parts by a median groove, which- ends behind in a hollow named foramen caecum. This surface is covered with i:)ai5illa} over the anterior two thirds ; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular in consequence of projecting mucous glands and follicles. The imder surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous mem- brane, and to the different lingual muscles coiniected with the hyoid. bone and the jaw ; and in front of those muscles is a fold of the mucous membrane named frppnum lingua?. The borders of the tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows ; but gradually become thinner near the tip. Papilla;. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papilla?; the conical and filifonn, the fmigiform, and the circum- vallate. The conical and filiform papilla? are the numerous small projec- tions, like the villi on the mucous membrane of the small intestine,, which cover the anterior two thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papilhe (conical) are wider at their attached than at their free ends, and these are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These papilla? are furnished with minuter papilla?, and are provided at the tip with hair-like processes of the epithelium. Towards their limit behind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement. The fungiform papilla? are less numerous but larger than the pre-149 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. • ceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project heyond the other set; they are situate mostly at the tip and sides mostly at -of the tongue. They are covered with small simple papilho. suJ^T^ The circumvallate or caliciforin are fewer in number and larger caiiciform than the others, and are placed at the junction of the two anterior ^'^'■^'^ ""oot of with the posterior third of the tongue : their number varies from ""^'"^' eight to ten. These papillae extend across the tongue in a line form; resembling the letter V with the point turned backwards. Each papilla consists of a central truncated part of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane ; its wider part or base projects above the surface, whilst the apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla imd the surrounding fold are furnished with smaller secondary papilla?. Minute simple papilkc exist behind the caiiciform kind, and on the other under siu-face of the free portion of the tongue ; but they are not ^' observed till the epithelimn is removed. Taste buds. Around the circumvallate papilhe is a circle of small Taste buds, peculiar bodies, which are covered by the epithelium : they are ^'^ like a small carafe in shape, the base resting on the corium. They are formed of elongated epithelium-like cells, of which the central, gustativc resembling olfactoi-ial cells, are supposed to be connected with the nerve of taste. A small collection of similar bodies occupies the back of the tongue, on each side, just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Structure of the Papilkc. The simple papillae are constructed ■ like structure those of the skin, viz. of a projecting cone of membrane, which is "fi'^^P'^^*- • covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of capillaries, and a nerve. The other compound forms of the papilla) may be said to be pro- "^^^j'^^" duced by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary ■eminences spring from the common cone of limiting membrane; and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus -of capillary vessels in the interior of the papilla a looped offset is furnished to each smaller papillary projection. The entering nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, on :some of which end-bulbs may be recognised. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves sepa- P^^jQ^g"""*^ rated by a fibrous layer in the niiddle line. Each half is made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat ; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The whole tongue is enveloped by the raucous membrane ; and a special fibrous membrane attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the . tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum; and, the remains of the right raylo- and genio-hyoideus having been .removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separaring those muscles, except for an inch in fi'ont, and cuttmg across their inter-160 hyo-glossal membrane and inferior liugualis. Fibrous structures of tongue; its septum : libro-carti- lage. Hyo-glossal membrane. Sub-mucous aponeurosis. Muscles in each half. Two kinds. Extrinsic; number. Dissection of palato-, stylo-, and liyo- kIossus. Of constric- tor muscle. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. communicating fibres, the edge of the septum will appear. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle towards^ the OS hyoides, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. Outside this triangular muscle in the middle line, is the longitu- dinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be better seen subsequently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum: its root is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a submucous layer of the same tissue. Septmn. This structure fonns a vertical partition between the two halves of the tongue (fig. 37, ^), and extends from the base to the apex. It is tliicker posterioriy than anterioriy, and is connected beliind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen subse- quently on a vertical section. In some instances a small fibro- cartilage, about a quarter of an inch deep and long, exists in the septum. The hyo-glossal memhrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, which attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeu- rosis to attach them to the os hyoides. The submucous fibrous or aponeurotic stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posteiior tliird of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the mus- cular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles. Each half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The fonner or external are distinguished by having only their tennination in the tongue ; and the latter or internal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing fi'om one part and ending at another. The extnnsic muscles (fig. 37) are the following: palato and stylo- glossus, liyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these are now to be looked to. Dissection. After the tongaie has been firmly fastened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the right half. Three of these muscles, viz. palato-, D, stylo-, B, and hyo-glossus, c, come together to the side of the tongue, at the junction of the middle and ])Osterior third ; and, to follow their radiating fibres fonvards, it will be necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane and fleshy fibres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. The part of the constrictor nuiscle, o, which is attached to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus.MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 151 Fig. 37.' Fibres. Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basio- and cerato-glossus, Ofhyo- p. 95), which arise fi-oin the body and great wing of the hyoid bone, are referred to above. To hvy bare the third part, or the cliondro- glossus, F, wliich is a small muscular slip attached to the small cornu of the OS hyoides, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid bone through the nnicous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of the cornu, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be exposed. The palato and stylo-glosms muscles, D and B, are partly com- Combined bined at their attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, and styfo^'* ^^'^ form, together with the following muscle, an expansion over the glossus; anterior two thirds of the dorsum be- neath the superficial lingualis. In this stratum the fibres radiate from the point of contact of the muscles with the tongue—some passing almost hori- zontally inwards to the midde, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the side of the tongue ; and some fibres are inclined to the under surface in front of the hyo- glossus, to join those of the opposite muscle beneath the tip. superficial and cerato- the under Stylo-glos- sus joins fellow. Hyo-glos- sus : superficial parts; Hyo-glossus. The tAvo parts of the nmscle (basio- glossus, c, p. 95) enter surface of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the linguahs. After entering that surface by separate bundles, they are bent round the mar- gin, and form, with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum of the tongue. The tliird part of the muscle, or the chondro-f/lossus, F, is distinct deeper part, from the rest. About two or three lines wide at its origin from the giossus, root of the small cornu, and from part of the body of the os hyoides, origin, the muscle entering beneath the upper lingualis, passes obhquely ending in inwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, to blend with the t^**^ tongue, hyo-glossus. Cortex of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with Muscular the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and tongue, longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where some muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down." This stratum is pierced by deeper fibres. The genio-hyo-glossus (fig. 38, ^) enters the tongue vertically on Arrange-^^^ the side of the septum, aud perforates the cortical covering to end tougue; * Muscles on the surface of tlie tongue. A. Superficial lingualis. b. Stylo- glossus, c. Hyo-glossus. d. Palato-glossus. f. Chondro-glossus. 0. rha- ryngeo-glossus. h. Septiun linguae (Zaglas).162 its posterior tibres. Constrictor at the tongue, liow ends. Intrinsic muscles. First show inferior. then supe- rior lin- gualis. then trans- versalis. Fibres. Use. Upper lin- gualis. Origin. Fibres. 38.^ Trace the nerves. Transver- salis is hori- zontal. Attach- ments. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected nito bundles as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior hbres end on the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is prolonged from them, bcneatli the hyo-glossus, to the upper con- strictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. , n The pkcmjnqeo-cjlossus (glosso-pharyngeus), or the part ot tne upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, passes amongst fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. . , i 14: The intrinsic muscles (fig. 38) are three in number in each halt of the tongue, ^^z., transversalis, with a superior and an inferior lingualis. . n ■ ^• ^• Dissection. To complete the preparation of the infenor lingualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the gcnio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, ^) may be shown, on tl^e left side, by taking the tliin mucous mem- brane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis (fig. 38, *^') may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper sur- face the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface, the inferior linguahs and the genio-hj-o-glossus. The nen'^es of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a recent specimen would be required to follow them satisfactorily. The transversalis muscle (fig. 38, ^) forms a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curs'^ed, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-hyo- glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of these muscles the tongue is made naiTower and rounder, and is increased in length. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, noto-glossus of Zaglas) is a veiy thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the sub- mucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the frrcnum cpiglottidis, and fi-om the fascia along the middle line; from this attachment they are directed obliquely outwards, the * Intrinsic innscles of the tongue, a. Genio-liyo-glossus. B. Septum linguae, c. Transversalis. d. Inferior lingualis (Zaglas).153 J^ERVES OF THE TONGUE. .-interior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue, at Ending. AvhicU they end in the faseia. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue ; and tliey will Use. bend the point back and up. The inferior lingualis (fig. 38, ^) is much stronger than the pre- Lower lin- ceding, and is placed imder the tongue, between the hyo and ,genio-hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia at Origin, the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle: from its attached surface fasciculi are continued vertically Ending, through the transverse fibres upwards to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, wliere the nuiscle is overlaid by the • st3^1o-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that nuiscle and dis- tributed with it. Action. Like the upper lingualis this muscle shortens the tongue, Use. and bends the point down and back. The mucous membrane is a continuation of tliat lining the mouth, Muoous and is provided with a lamhiar epithelium. It partly invests the jts'ypSthe-' tongi:e, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds ^i^""- (p. 148). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-ejnglottid folds, Folds, ■connecting this body to the root of the tongue ; the central one of these is called the fra:;num of the epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished with numerous glands, and some follicles. The follicles are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Follicles, surrounded by closed capsules in the submucous tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil : they occupy the dorsum of tlie tongue between the papilhe circumvallatas and the epiglottis, where they form a stratinn, close beneath the mucous membrane. The glands (lingual) are racemose or compound in structure, and glands similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the ' mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the papilla? vallatte. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papillae, where they project ijito the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others into the hollows around the large papilhe, or into the foramen caecum and tlie depressions of tlie follicles. Opposite the papillaa vallata?, at the margin of the tongue, is a l^^^'^V'^j^^ .small cluster of submucous glands. Under the tip of tlie tongue, j^^^nj^^g^^^-jj on each side of the frasimm, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands imbedded in the niuscuhu- fil)rcs, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nei-ves on the under part of each half of Nerves from tlircc the tongue, viz. the gnistatory, the hypoglossal, and the glosso- sources, pharyngeal (fig. 23). Tlie gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the n\uscular snli- gustatory, stance, and to the two smallest sets of papilhx), conical and fungi- form ; it joins also the hypo-glossal nen^e. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the ^i>To-glos- muHcular substance of the tongue. The qlosso-vhaninneal nen-e divides under tlie hyo-glossus uito and glosso- ^ J ^ -J -J ^ pharyngeal.DISSECTION OF THE L^liiYNX. 154 two branches :—One turns to the dorsinn, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen cascum. The otlier passes beneath the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the muscular sub- stance ; it supphes the papilla? circumvallatre, as well as the raucout? membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Arteries and VESSELS. The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual of each veins. ^.j^j^ . these, together with the veins, have been examined (p. 97). Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Outline of larynx. Dissection. Situation and form. Size. Position. Is vei-y moveable. Six special muscles of laiynx. Dissection of the exter- nal set of muscles. The LARYNX is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in whic]> the voice is produced. It is constnicted of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by cutthig tluough its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. If the student learns the laryngeal cartilages before he begin.s the dissection of the larynx, he will obtain more knowledge from the study of this Section. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is placed in front of the pharynx, and l)etween the carotid vessels. It is pyrami- dal in fonn. The base is turned upwards, and is attached to the liyoid bone ; and the apex is continuous with the trachea. In length it measures about one inch and a half ; in width at tlu^ top one inch and a quarter, and at the lower end one inch. The front is prominent along the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharyn.x. The larynx is very moveable, and during deglutition is elevated and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles. Muscles. Commonly five pair and one single muscle are des- cribed in the larynx. Three are outside the cartilages, and three are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with pins^ the dissector may clear aAvay from the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles, viz. constrictor, sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid. • In front, l)etween the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, one of the three small external muscles,—crico-thyroid (fig. 39), will be recog- nised. The other two external muscles (fig. 40) are situate at the pes-155' EXTEENAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. terior aspect of the larynx : to denude them it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane coverinj? it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the crico-aryteenoideus posticus muscle ; and above it, on the posterior part of the arytajnoid cartilages, the arytajnoid muscle will appear. The CRICO-THYROIDEUS MUSCLE (fig. 39, ^) is triangular in form, CHco-thy- and is separated by an interval from the one on the opposite side. It arises from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage ; Origin. Fig. 39.* Fig. 40.t and its fibres ascend to be inserted into the lower cornu, and the insertion, lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as a quarter of an inch from the middle line; also, for a short distance (a line), into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-th}Toid membrane, and is concealed by the stemo-thyroid muscle. Action. It approaches the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage, making Use. longer the distance between the thyroid and the aryta?noid cartilages, and tightens indirectly the vocal cords. The CRICO-ARYTiENOlDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE (fig. 40, lies on the Crico-aryta-- posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. Its origin is fi-om the depres- polit[i"is sion on the side of the vertical ridge at the back of that cartilage, is on back of cricoiil From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, and are inserted cartilage, into a projection at the outer part of the base of tlie arytfenoid cartilage. * Front view of the larynx. L Crico-thyroid muscle. 2. Thyroid cartilage. 3. Cricoid cartilage. t Hiuder vie-w of the larynx. A. Superficial part of the aryta-noideus muscle. B. Deep part of the arytsenoideus. o. Crico-arytajnoideus posticus.166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYXX. Usf. Kerato- iricoideu.s. iioideus : •deep trans- verse fibres, superficial ■oblique. Use. Dissection of internal muscles. Remove lialf (jf cartilage. Position of muscles. Lateral •(•rico-aryta;- iioideus is 'beneath tliyroid •cartilage. Action. It rotates the arytiiiiioia cartilage, turning out the ktcral projection at the base, and enlarges the interval between the carti- lages. At the same time the upper orifice of the larynx is widened by the separation from each other of its lateral boundaries. Ifusculus herato-cricoideus (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen below and close to the preceding muscle; it arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back part of the lower comu of the thyroid cartilage. The aryt.t:xoideur is a single muscle in the middle line (fig. 40, and is placed on the jiosterior surface of the arytasnoid cartilages : it possesses two sets of fibres, superficial and deep, with different directions. The deep fibres, B, are transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of each cartilage ; they close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres. A, consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other : a few of these fibres are continued bej^ond the cartilage to join the tliyro-arytivnoid nmscle, and the depressor of the epi- glottis. Action. The muscle causes the arytasnoid cartilages to glide towards one another, and diminishes much, or closes the rinia glottidis. Acting with the depressors of the epiglottis it will assist in closing the upper orifice of the larynx. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal ajiparatus would be leanit better on afresh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into view the muscles, which are concealed by the thyroid cartilage (fig. 41) it will be necessary to remove the right half of the carti- lage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid. By dividing next the crico-thyroid membrane attached to the lower edge, and the thyro-hyoid ligament connected with the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating it from the subjacent areolar tissue. the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-aiytajnoid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytsenoidcus muscle ; and still higher, the thin nmscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytfenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of tlie thyro-arytajnoideus near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glaiids will appear above the fleshy fibres. The crico-aryt;enoideus lateralis (fig. 41, ^) is a small lengtheiied band, which arises from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the lateral part; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted into a projection on the outer side of the base of the arytsenoid cartilage, and into tlie contiguous part of the outer sur- face. This muscle is concealed by the crico-thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle.INTERNAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. 157 Action. Rotating- the aryt;T2noid cartila^^e by moving inwards the Use. projection on the outer part of the base, it replaces the cartilage after this has been everted by the crico-arytajnoideus posticus. It may also approach the one vocal cord to the other, and so narrow the glottis. The THYRO-ARYT.KNOIDEUS MUSCLE (fig. 41) extends irom the thyroid to the aryttTnoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the ilepth, and from the crico-thyroid liga- ment. Tlie fibres are di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations ; — The external,ascend somewhat, and are inserted into the upper part of the outer sur- face of the aiytivnoid carti- lage, and blend with the depressor of the epiglottis. The hiternal and lower fibres, are transverse, and fonii a thick bundle, which is in- serted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, and into the outer surface. By its outer surface the nuiscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the laiynx and the pouch. Action. It moves foi'wards the aryta^noid cartilage towards the Use on cord.. thyroid, and relaxes the vocal cord. By a thin band of fibres along the upper edge the rima glottidis can be narrowed, and the cord put into the vocalizing position. The DEPRESSOU OF THE EriGLOTTIS (fig. 41, ^) (thyro-arytaiUO- Dopressor of epiglottideus) is a thin muscular layer by the side of the upper''1''!'''"'^'''*' opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise posteriorly from the front of origin, the ar} ta3noid cartilage, some being continuous below with fibres of the aryta?noid and thyro-arytienoid muscles ; and anteriorly by a narrow slip from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line. From those attachments the fibres turn upwards Avith very different * View of the intemal muscles of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroideus detached. 2. Crico-arytfenoideus posticus. 3. Crico-arytienoideus lateralis. 4. Tliyro- arytienoideus, superficial part. 5. Depressor of tlie epiglottis. 6. ThjTO- hyoideus, cut. 8. Deep or transverse part of thyro-arytajnoideus.558 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. vocal cords (fig. 44) ; it is placed on a level with the base of the position, 1 nsertion. Use on -:n>erturc of ■on saeculiis. Parts inside ■larynx. Dissection to expose fthem. Laryngeal si>ace. Upper orifice, shape, ■and bounda- ries. Lower opening. Cavity of larynx •sliape ■and size. <31ottis, directions, and are inserted into tlie border of the epiglottis on the same side. The strength of the muscle varies much in diiferent bodies. Some of the lower fibres of the muscle, which cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton as a sepa- i"ate muscle with the name arijtmio-epiglottideus inferior. Action. By the contraction of the fibres, the tip of the arytasnoid cartilage will be moved forwards and inwards, and the epiglottis will be lowered over the orifice of the larjnix. The fibres of the nniscle which are spread over the sacculus will compress it, and assist in the expulsion of the contents. Parts inside the larynx. The parts more immediately'- concerned in the production of the voice are, the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch : these are placed within, and are protected by the laryngeal cartilages. Dissection. For the purpose of displaying the vocal apparatus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the posterior part, as in fig. 42 ; and in cutting through the arytsenoid muscle, let the in- cison be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will appear on each side ; and bounding the ventricle above and below are the whitish bands of the vocal cords. If a probe be passed into that hollow, it will enter a small pouch (sacculus laryngis) by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the saccidus on the left side by introducing a small piece of cotton wool into it. The lai-yngeid space reaches from the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It opens above into the phaiynx, and below into the trachea ; and in the intermediate portion are lodged the parts producing voice. The upper orifice of the larynx (fig. 29, will be evident on placing in contact the cut surfaces. It is triangular in shape, with the base in fj-ont and the apex behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards in the antero-posterior direction. Its boini- daries are,—the epiglottis in front, the arytsenoid muscle and carti- lages behind, and the arytajno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The loioer opening, limited by the inferior edge of the cricoid car- tilage, is circular in form, and is of the same size as that cartilage. The laryngeal cavitij is much reduced in size within the thyroid cartilage by the vocal cords, and is dilated above and below them for the purpose of allowing their fi-ee vibration. The lower dilatation may be seen to be as large as the ring of the cricoid ; and the upper, much smaller, con-esponds with the ventricle of the larj^nx Above the upper bulge the wall of the larynx slants up to the epiglottis. The glottis or rima gloitidis, is the interval between the lower159 GLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL POUCH. aryt.enoid cartilages, and is the narrowest part of the hiryngeal cavity. Its sides are constructed partly of ligament and partly of carti- fpnstmc- lage :—thus, for about the two anterior thirds is the elastic vocal " cord (fig. 42, whilst at the posterior tliird is the smooth inner surface of the arytajnoid cartilage, E. Behind it is bounded by the arytJBnoid muscle ; and in front by the thyroid cartilage and the attachments of the vocal cords. The size of the interval differs in the two sexes. In the male it size differs, measures fi-om before back nearly an inch (less a line), and across at the base, when dilated, about a third of the other measurement. In the female the dimensions will be less by two or three lines. Alterations in the size and form affect the interval where it is Changes bounded by the cartilages, as well as where it is limited by the ligaments. In the former part, the changes are occasioned by the two ways, movements of the arytajnoid cartilages ; but in the latter they are due to the lengthening and shortening of the bands. In the state of rest it is a narrow fissure which is eidarged a Form iu little behind and rounded ; but when dilated it is triangular in form, like the upper orifice, though its wider part is turned back- Avards to the arytaiuoid muscle. In the liAdng body the fissure is Action of larger in inspiration than in expiration. The muscles too are con- ^''"^ "lusi^ies, stantly producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more im- mediately on the cartilages as dilators and contractors of the base; and others altering the state of the ligaments, by elongating and on sides, shortening the sides. The base is enlarged, and the interval rendered triangular by on base, the posterior crico-arytaiuoid; and is diminished by the arytsenoid, and the lateral crico-arytajnoid. And the ligamentous sides are elongated and made tense by the crico-thyroidei, but are shortened by the thyro-aryta3noidei. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 42, is best seen on the left Ventricle, side. It is the oval hollow between the vocal cords, whose upper margin is semilunar, and the lower straight. It is lined by the situation, mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-aryta^noid muscle. In the anterior part is the aperture into Pai-ts .the laryngeal pouch. The lai-yngealpouch (sacculus laryngis) (fig. 42, ^), has been laid roiuh of bare in part on the right side by the removal of the half of the ^"'y"^- thyroid cartilage (p. 156), but it will be seen again in the subse- quent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, half an inch deep and cylindrical Form and in form, which projects upwards between the upper vocal cord and the thyroid slip of the depressor of the epiglottis, and reaches sometimes as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its ca-vnty communicates with the front of the ventricle l)y a somewhat nan-ow aperture. On the outer sm-face are mimerous small glands, sun-ound- Avhose ducts are transmitted through the coats of the sac to the i'*"^- inside. Numerous nerves are distributed over the top. Its upper part is covered by the muscular slip before referred to.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 Dissection of vocal ooiUs, ami r-rico- tliyroid membrane. Vocal cords Upiicr liiranient / IS a very t slifiht librous band. inferior vocal cord, lcnt,'th, lias these connectioiiB. Fk'. 42.* Dissection. The general shape and position of the vocal cords are- evident on the left half of the laryngeal tube, but to show more- fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the crico-arj'tiunoideus lateralis from its cartilages. Remove in like manner the thyro-aryta^noidcus, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle a fibrous membrane crico-thyroid (fig. 44,*^) comes, into view, and its upper free edge will be perceived to constitute the inferior or true vocal cord. Whilst taking away the thyro-arytajnoideus, the ventricle and the saccu- lus laryngis, which are formed chiefly by mucous membrane, will disappear. The vocal cords or the thjro-arytcenoid ligaments^ (fig. 42), are two bands on each side, which are extended from the angle of the thyroid to the arytajnoid cartilage,— one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle. The iqyper ligament (false vocal cord, fig. 42, ^) is semi- lunar in form, and is mucli. weaker than the other. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epi- glottis ; and behind to the outer surface of the arytivnoid cartilage. This ligament consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue, which is con- tinuous with that in the aryta-no-cpiglottidcan fold of mucous membrane. The inferio9' ligament (chorda vocalis, fig. 42, ^) is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down below the notch ; the ligament is directed backwards, and is in- serted into the anterior prominence at the base of the arytc-vnoid cartilage. It is about seven lines long in man, and two less in the woman. Internally this band is covered by thin mucous membrane,, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx, the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis. Ex- * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx, a. Ventricle of the- larynx. B. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord. i). Sacculus laryngis. E. Arytsenoid cartilage. F. Cricoid cartilage, o. Tliyroid cartilage, n. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid ligament, l. ThjTo-hyoid ligament.NERVES OF LARYNX. ternally it is connected with the thyro-aryttcnoid nuiscle. And in - feriorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid ligament, k. The edge that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds. The ligament is composed of fine Nature, elastic tissue. ' The mucous membrane of the larynx is continued from that invest- Mm ous ing the pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through the trachea, "f^ai— When entering the larynx it is stretched between the epiglottis and the tip of the aryttenoid cartilage, forming the arytaano-epiglottid fold on each side of the larjmgeal orifice : at this spot it is very Arraujic- loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the mem- '"^'^t- brane lines closely the cavity, sinks into the ventricle, and is jDro- longed into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyro-arytcsnoid liga- ments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be \'isible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the vocal cords, the Eiiithelimn epithelium is of the laminar kind, and free fi-om ci lia. But a / columnar ciliated epithelium covers the surface below the level of the superior cords, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the has difTereut cords : on the epiglottis it is ciliated in the lower half. nature. Numerous branched glands are connected with the nnicous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx ; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, ospeciallj'' at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the arytieno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (aryttenoid); and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the vocal cords, but (•lose to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laiyngis, Avhich lubricates the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves ami vessels. The termination of the laryngeal Dissection jierves may be dissected on the untouched side of the larynx. For = this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down next Avith pins ; and after the thyroid has l)een drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal inferior, nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx, and mucous membrane of the j)harynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal is to be found as it pierces the superior thyro-hyoid membrane, andbnmches of it are to be followed to the ^'"■y"«'^'''■ mucous membrane of the larynx and phar}nix. Two connnimieations are to be looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is l)eneatli the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery- accompanies each neiwe, and its offsets arc to l)c of vessels. <lissecte(l at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the larynx are the su])erior and inferior JJ^^^^^^^^ laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric (|). Ill); the former is distributed to the nmcous membrane, and the latter chiefly to the muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the ^^^^^^"entDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 supplies special muscles except one. Superior laryngeal nerve joins recur- rent. and ends in mucous membrane. Arteries from supe- rior thyroid from inferior thyroid. Other source. Veins end differently. larynx, furnishes ])ackwards an oifset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; tliis joins filaments of the ujjper laryngeal. The nerve then passes beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are superficial, but that to the arytaenoid muscle passes beneath the crico-arytfenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the inferior is joined l>y a long oifset of the upper laryngeal nerve. The superior larynrjeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid ligament,, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it fur- nishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerv^e. The trunk then terminates, in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane:—Some of these ascend in the arytajno-epiglottid fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining- membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the aiytasnoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Vessels. The arteries of the larpix are fumi.shed from the supe- rior and inferior thyroid branches (p. 79 and 71). The laryngeal hrancJi of the superior thyroid artery enters the larynx with the superior larpigeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root of the tongue to the chorda vocalis. Like the nerves, it unites with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the nnicous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. Some other twigs from the superior thyroid artery perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and raniifj- in the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying tlie branch of the supe- rior thyroid artery, joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein ; and the vein with the artery from the inferior thyroid open& into the plexus of the inferior tliyroid veins (p. 79 and 71). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be- taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; l)ut the piece of membrane "that joinsv the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed.CARTILAGES OF LARYNX. 163 In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised ; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The hyoid hone (os hyoides) (fig. 43) is situate between the larynx Hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue. Resembling the letter U, placed hori- Form, zontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examina- tion a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The body, o, is thin and flattened, and measures most in the Body of tlie transverse direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the upper border the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side (large and small). Side pieces, The large cornu, h, continues the bone backwards, and is joined to the body by an intervening piece of cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwards and downwards; and the size de- creases from before backwards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu, or appendix, j, is directed upwards fi-om the point and small, of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament : it is seldom wholly ossified. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 43). There are four large carti- in larynx lages in the larynx, which are concerned in the production of the fo^'iarge voice, viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two aryttenoid. In and some addition there are some yellow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., j™^^ the epiglottis, a capitulum to each arytfenoid cartilage, and a small ovalish piece (cuneiform) in each arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The thyroid cartilage^ B, is the largest of all: it forms the front Thj-roid of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield, "^^"^^^^^se The upper part of the cartilage is considerably wider than the is convex in lower, and in consequence of this form the larynx is somewhat funnel-shaped. The anterior surface is prominent in the middle line, forming the subcutaneous swelling named Jpo7?^^^m Ad ami ; but the cartilage is concave behind at the same spot, and gives attach- concave ment to the epiglottis and tlie thyro-arytajnoid muscles and liga- ments. The upper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two square halves, which are united in Formed of the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the cartilage has a thick ^'^"Jj*^''^^' border, which terminates upwards and downwards in a rounded bonle'rand process or cornu (e and f). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards: cornua. of the two, the upper, E, is the longest ; but the lower one, F, is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of each half is smooth ; but the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attachment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, almost to the middle of the lower border. The cricoid cartilage, D, is stronger though smaller than the ^ricoul^ thyroid, and encircles the cavity of the larynx ; it is partly con- ' '° " M 2164 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Form. Jjurfaces. Borders, the upper most uneven. AryUeuoul cartilages. Jiituation and fonii. Base. .\l)ex. Three .surfaces. T'ibro-carti- lajjcs of fSautorini. Fig. 43.' cealed by the shield-like cartilage, below which it is placed. It is very unequal in depth before and behind,—the posterior part lieing three times deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring, Its hollow is about as large as the fore finger. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked by a median ridge between two contiguous muscular depressions. On each side, immediately in front of the scjuare part, is a shallow arti- cular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mu- cous membrane. The lower border is undulat- ing, and is united to the trachea by fibrous membrane. The upper border is nearly straight posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the ring ; and this por- tion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the ary- t;\;noid cartilage. In front of that spot ^Ijc border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behi)id there is a slight excava- tion in each border. The two arytcenoid cartilages, c, are placed one on each side at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed surface behind for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated in front into a process which gives attachment to the vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is surmounted by the carti- lage of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat. The outer is wide and irregular, and on it is a small projection at the base, which receives the insertion of some of the nmscles. At the poste- rior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. Attached to the apex of each aryt{cnoid * Hyoid bone and the laryngeal cartilages : G. Body of the hyoid bone. H. Large cornu. J. Small cornu. .\. Epiglottis. B. Thyroid cartilage, c. Arytajnoid cartilage. D. Cricoid cartilage, e. Upper cornu, and f. Lower cornu of the tbynii i cai-tilage.LIGAMENTS OF LARYNX. 1G5 cartila,e:e is the small, conical, fibro-cartilage of Santorini (corni- culum capituluin), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytaino-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, Fibro-carti- one on each side, which are contained in the arytaeno-epiglottid ^fisben- folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and rounded in form, Uke a grain of rice; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the aryttenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish pro- jection. The epiglottis (fig, 43, is single, and is the largest of the pieces Epiglottis, of yellow fibro-cartilage. In form it is cordate; and.it resembles a Form and leaf, with the stalk below and the lamina or expanded part above, position. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during de- glutition it takes a horizontal direction so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to Avhich it Surfaces, is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface, hollowed laterally, is convex from above down. To its Sides, sides the arytteno-epiglottid folds of mucous membrane are united. Foot stalk. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the epiglottis Glands in it. its substance will be seen to be perforated by numerous spaces, w^hich lodge mucous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of yellowish Supposed fat with some glands; this has been sometimes called the epigiot- s^^^*^- tidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is comiected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other "^j-ynx ligaments join together the cartilages, forming joints in some cases. Union of the lai~ynx icith the hyoid hone and the trachea. A thin between os loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) passes from the thyroid carti- and to*achea. lage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyr'o-hyoid ligament (fig. 42, ^) is attached on the one part Thyro-liyoid to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other, to ^'^®"'^''^^^» the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards Arrange- the sides ; and it ends laterally in a rounded elastic cord, which intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper comu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal ner^-e and vessels perforate the ligament, Connec- and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral part of the liga- ment will be found occasionally a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea—crico-tracheal ligament, resembles membrane, the band joining the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are Between166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. cricoid and joined in the middle line in front by ligament; and thyroid car- ^ j^jj^^ ^yj^h the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. InTiterior The cHco-thyrokl ligament or membrane (fig. 44, ligament. on the side, by IS 44.* se and a lateral joint, use. closes the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and aryta?noid cartilages, and the rio-ht half is now ^dsible. It is yellow in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At the centre it is thick and strong, but thinner on each side as it is continued backwards. By the lower border it is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid as far back on each side as the joint with the arytenoid cartilage. Its upper border, free and rounded, is covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lower vocal cord. In front it is united to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind to the l)ase of the arj'tasnoid. The hgament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle, and some small apertures exist in it for the passage of fine arteries into the larynx. The strong fore part of the ligament serves the puri)ose of uniting the two large laryngeal cartilages ; and the lateral jiiece, closing the larynx, ends above in the vocal cord. A capsular ligament surrounds the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thy- roid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. This joint admits forward and back- ward movements of the thyroid carti- lage, by which the condition of the vocal cords is altered. If that cartilage is moved forwards the cords are stretched, and if back- wards the cords are relaxed. Articulation of the a-icoid and arytcenoid cartilages. The articular surfaces of the cartilages are retained by a loose capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its arti- aM synovial (>uiar surface ; and one part—posterior ligament, is strongest on the inner and posterior aspects. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. The arytfenoid cartilage glides freely forwards and backwards, inwards and outwards ; but if its horizontal movements are con- trolled by muscular action, it can be rotated around a vertical axis, the anterior spur being moved inwards and outwards. Obviously the state of the vocal cords will be changed by the movements of Between cricoid and arytaenoid is a capsule Use. * View of the vocal cords and crico-tLyi-oid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Post, crico-arytsen. muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Aryttenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Crico-thyroid membrane.167 STRUCTURE OF TRACHEA. the Ccortilages. When the aryttenoids ghde in and out the cords Action on will be approximated and separated ; when backwards and forwards. ^"'^'^ the cords will be tightened and relaxed ; and in rotation the cords will be moved away from, and brought towards each other. A kind of capsule, formed of thin scattered fibres, with a synovial Between sac, unites the apex of the arytaanoid cartilage with the hollowed base eaj^itu of the capitulum of Santorini. Sometimes theee cartilages are blended lum. ' together. Fibrous hands (thyro-aryta3noid) join the thyroid with the ary- Between tcenoid cartilages, and have been examined as the vocal cords (p. ai!^™il^oiT^ Ligaments of the epiglottis. A band, thyro-epiglottidean, connects Two liga- the lower part of the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage, close to the "p^fottfg excavation in the upper border of the latter (fig. 42). Some fibrous and elastic tissues — hyo-epiglottid ligament, connect likewise the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. Structure of the Trachea. The air tube consists of a series of Constitu- pieces of cai-tilage (segments of rmgs) (fig. 40), which are con- trachel nected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the carti- lages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and mucous glands. The trachea is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. The pieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen Cartilages, to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which extends about Form, three-foui-ths of a circle ; and each is convex forwards, forming the fi'ont and sides of the air tube. Both aboA'^e and below, the carti- Peculiari- laginous pieces are less constant m size and form ; for towards the larynx they increase in depth, whilst in the opposite direction they may be slit at their ends or blended together ; and the lowest piece ■of cartilage is shaped like the letter V. A fibrous tissue is continued from one to another on both as- Fibrous pects, though in greatest quantity externally, so as to incase and tissue, "imite them ; and it is extended across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissection. On removing for about two inches the fibrous mem- Dissection, brane and the mucous glands from the inters'-al between the carti- lages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous part of the tube may be slit down, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres. Between the ends'of the cartilages is a continuous Muscular layer of transverse bundles of unstriated muscle, which is attached traciiea to the truncated ends and the inner surface of the cartilages. By behind, the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longi- tudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the tracheal tube Elastic_ beneath the mucous membrane ; and at the posterior part, where trachea, .the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinalDISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 168 Mucoiis inenibrane, epithelium, and glands. folds. Tliis layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous memhrcme of the trachea lines the tube, and resembles that of the lar^-nx in being furnished with a columnar ciliated epi- thelium. Connected with this membrane are mnnerous bi-anched mucous glands of variable size. The largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the inter^-al between the cartilages, where some arc placed beneath the fibrous membrane with the muscular fibres, and others outside that layer. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartila- ginous rings. Section XYIII. PEEVERTEBEAL MUSCLES AND VEETEBEAL VESSELS. Deep muscles of spine. Dissection.) Longiis coUi. Origin by two pieces. iDsertion. Parts in contact with it. Directions. On the part of the spinal column that was laid aside- after the separation of the pharynx from it, the student is to learn< the deep muscles on the fi'ont of the vertebroe. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be jirepared by remo^'^ng• the fascia and areolar tissue. The muscles are three in ntimber on each side (fig. 45), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line lies the longus colli—this is the longest ; the muscle external to it, wliich reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major ;. and the small muscle close to the skull, which is extei'nal to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE (fig. 45, ^) is situate on the bodies of the cer^-ical and upper dorsal vertebras, and is pointed above, but larger below. It consists of two parts—internal and external, the former being vertical, and the latter oblique in direction, as on the right side of the figure. The internal part arises by fleshy and tendinous processes from the bodies of the two upper dorsal and two lower cen'ical verte- bra ; and the external piece takes origin from the anterior trans- verse processes of four cervical vertebrre (sixth, fifth, fourth and third). Both parts of the muscle are blended above, and the whole is inserted by four slips into the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebrfe. Some of the lowest fibres of the muscle are attached separately by tendon to the anterior transverse process of one or two of the lower cei-vical vertebra;. In contact with the anterior surface of the muscle is the pharpix.. The inner border is at some distance inferiorly from the muscle of the opposite side, but superiorly only the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebra} separates the two. The outer border is.RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS. contiguous to the scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Action. Both muscles bend forwards tlie neck ; and the upper Use. oblique fibres of one will turn the neck and head to the same side, by the attachment to the atlas. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR (fig. 45, ^) is external to the Reotus preceding muscle, and is largest at the upper end. Its origin is by mijor'^ pointed tendinous slips, with the longus colli, from the summits of oriyiu. the anterior transverse processes of four cervical vertebrii) (sixth, Fig. 45.* fifth, fourth, and third) ; and the fibres ascend to be inserted into insertion, the basilar jorocess of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. The anterior surface of the muscle is covered by the pharynx, Connec- and by the carotid arteiy and the numerous nerves near the base '""^ of the skull. The muscle partly conceals the following one. At its insertion the rectus is flesliy, and reaches from the middle line to the temporal bone. Action. Both muscles incline forwards the head ; and one will Uso. bring the face to the same side by rotating the head. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR (fig. 45, is a small flat Rortus muscle, which arises ixom the anterior transverse process and body ininor is. * Deep muscles of the front of the neck and the scaleni muscles. A. Longus colli. B. Rectus capitis anticus major, c. Scalenus anticus. d. Scalenus medius. f. Scalenus posticus, o. Rectus capitis anticus minor.170 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. beneath precediDfi •Use. Dissection of inter- transver- Iiiteitians- VCTSO muscles. Number aud attach- Jiients. Connec- tions. Peculiari- ties. Use. Cervical nerves in iheir fora- mina give anterior •and pos- terior branches. First two nerves differ in botli ■anterior and liosterior branches. of the atlas; and is inserted into tlie basilar process of the occipital bone between the foramen magnum and the rectus major, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve, lies between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. Its power is very slight, but it will help in moving forwards the head. Dissection. The small intertransversales muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the fi-ont and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the inter- transversales will be readily seen on their sides. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the conjoined transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the verte- bral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slendcr fleshy slips in the inten\als between the transverse processes. In the neck there are seven pairs—the first being between the atlas and axis, and the last between the lowest cervical and the first dorsal vertebra. One set is attached to the aiiterior, and the other to the posterior tuber- cles on the tips of the conjoined transverse processes. Between the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cervical nerve ; and beneath the posterior muscle is the other primary branch of the same nen'^e. In the upper space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Action. By approximating the transverse processes these muscles bend the spinal column laterall}'. Cei-vical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The trunks of the cervical nerves issue fi-om the spinal canal tlu-ough the inter- vertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifin-cate into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior immcmj branch passes outwards between the inter- transverse muscles, and joins in plexuses with its fellows. The posterior primanj branch turns to the Back beneath the pos- terior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first two. The first two nerves leave the spinal canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primanj branch of the first or suboccipital nei-ve has been examined (p. 113). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vcrtebraj, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the first pair of intertransverse muscles, to join the cervical plexus. The p)osterior i^rimary branches of the first two nerves are de- scribed in the dissection of the Back.171 LIGAMENTS OF CERVICAL YERTEBRJE. The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the neck (p. Vertebral ^9) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain, eervicar Entering usually the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebra;, arterj'- ascends vertically through the corresponding foramina in the other vertebrte. Beyond the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of that bone, and passing beneath the ligament joming the first vertebra with the os occipitis, enters the skull tlu-ough the foramen magnum. In its course through the foramina Position to the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, '° "^^rves. 'except those of the first and second,—the former of which crosses on the inner, and the latter on the outer side. The vessel is accom- panied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. ^ vein, and In the neck the artery furnislies small twigs to the surrounding with it. muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. Branches. The vertebral vein begins by small radicles in the occiput, and in Vertebral the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture of the ^^^^ atlas, where it receives sometimes a vein fi-om the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying g"^yi"vian the artery, the vein traverses the apertures between the transverse processes, and ends in the subclavian vein. In its course it is joined by branches from the internal and extei-nal Brandie.s. spinal veins ; its other branches are described at p. 70. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical pfg^us'^of ganglion of the sympathetic (p.IIG). It surrounds the artery, and nerves, communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. Sectiox XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE YERTEBR.E AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebra? to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical fi-om the first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat fi-om the cervical vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical vertebrse Common 1 • J1 i _p J.1 • ligaments ol are similar to those unitmg the vertebrju m other parts o± the spme, a vertebra; viz. an anterior and a posterior common ligament; bands between the laminee and spines ; capsular ligaments and synovial membranes for the articulating processes ; and an intervertebral ligament be- tween the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal these de- or lumbar portion of the spine where they arc more fully developed ; elsewhere, their preparation and description will be found at the end of the17i Si)ecial ligaments ■between first two vertebrd^ DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. thorax, with the description cf tiie ligaments of the spine. ShouhT the student examine them in the neck, to see their difference in this region of the spine, he should leave uncut the neural arches ot the three highest cervical vertehra^ to Avhich special ligaments arc attached. . , ^ , ^ , Special ligaments unite the first two ccn-ical vertebraj to each other and to the occipital hone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside tlie spinal canal are thin fibrous membranes, which connect the bodies and arches of the first two vertebrjc lu Fig. 46.* Posterior and andoccipital front and behind ; and join the atlas with the occipital bone at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular surfaces of all the bones ; but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. Union of the atlas v:ith the axis. The posterior ligament (atlo-axoid) (fig. 47, ^) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the coiTcsponding arch of tlie axis. Below the superficial part arc some deeper and stronger fibres. The posterior primary branch of the second nerve pierces it. The anterior ligament (fig. 4G, '') unites the bodies of the first twa vertebra; in the same manner as the preceding ligament connects tlieir arches. It is thickest in the middle. Union of the atlas vnth the occipital hone. The anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) (fig. 46, -) is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen mag- num, to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. anterior atlo-axoid and anterior * External ligaments in front between the atlas and axis and the occipital bone (Bourgery). 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Anterior occipito-atloid. 3. Anterior atlo-axoid. 4. Articulation of the articular processes cut open.LIGAMENTS OF ATLAS AND AXIS. 178 The posterior ligament (tig. 47, ^) is fixed to the occipital bone and poa- bcliind the foramen magnum, and to the neural arch of the atlas. occTpito- It is thin ; and at its attachment to the atlas the vertebral artery (''), atioid. Fig. 47.* rmd the posterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve, pass beneath it. The ligaments inside the spinal caml are peculiar in form, and igaments assist in retaining the skull in place diu-ing the rotator}'- and nodding ^g*^een^ movements of the head. Between the occipital bone and the second me bones. Fig. 48. t vertebra are three strong ligaments—a central, and two lateral or check ; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the ])ody of the atlas by a strong transverse band. Dissection. Suiiposhig the neural arches of tiie cervical vertebra? Dissection ^ ^ ° of the liga- 1 • - • 1 ments. * Exteraal ligaments behind lictween the atlas ami axis and the occipital bone.—1. Posterior occiijito-atloid ligament. 2. Posterior atlo-axoid. 3. Vertebral artery entering lieneath the occiinto-atloid ligament. + Internal ligament between occipital bone and axis (Bourgery). 1. and 2. Attachments of the occipito-axoidean ligament.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 374 to be removed except in the first three, the arches of these vertebras are to be sawn through close to tlie articular processes. Nextly the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen mag- num is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal ; and, on raising fi-om below the upper part of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, the ligamentous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito-axoid) will come into view. BeUveen Union of the occipital hone with the axis. The central ligavienf axisis'!"' (occiiDito-axoidean) (fig. 48, ') is a strong, thick layer beneath the wide layer, posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, and is rather triangular in foiTn with the base ui^permost. Above it is attached to the basilar process (on the cranial aspect) near the margin of the foramen magnum, extending as far on each side as^ the insertion of the check ligaments. From that spot it descends- over the odontoid process, and, becoming nan-ower, is inserted into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament of the atlas. Dissection Dissection (fig. 49). After the removal of the occipito-axoidean hgamenr'^^^ ligament, by cutting transversely through it above, and reflecting; it, the student should define a strong band, the transverse ligament Fiji. 49.* which crosses the root of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital bone and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the check ligaments which diverge, one on each side, from the odontoid process. Jr H.«k^"^ The lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 40, ^) are two strong i'lLameiits. l>u"(^les of fibres, attached by one end to the side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a depression on the inner- surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band ; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and tlu; lower are longer and oblique. * Internal ligatnents between tl.c occipital bone and the atlas and axis (Bonrgery). 1. The left check ligament. 2. The transverse ligament, sendin- offsets upwards and downwards. 3. Cnt end of the occipito-axoidean li<rament'"175. MOVEMENTS OF THE HEAD. Between the lateral bands is a central odontoid ligament, which With a cen- connects the tip of the odontoid process to the margin of the ^^^^ basilar process of the occipital bone. Union of the atlas nrith the axis. The transverse ligament of the To fix odon- atlas (fig. 49, is a flat, strong, arched band behind the odontoid Sl.J'ir.r' process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle below the inner part of the articular process. This ligament is widest in the transveisf centre ; and at this spot it has a band of longitudinal fibres con- iis'^"'«"t. nected with the upper and lower margins (fig. 49), so as to produce named cru- a cruciform appearance: the upper piece is inserted into the basilar process, and the lower, into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito-axoid ligament. This hgament fixes the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring (fig, 50). When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut through, articular the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous surface.^. Fig. 50.* surfaces ; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate the movements of the odontoid and two process, one serving for the joint between this piece of bone and inembranes the atlas; and the other for the joint between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. The articular surfaces of the Capsule aud occipital bone and atlas are surrounded, by a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, and the hollowed surface of the atlas inwards. A synovial membrane is present on each side. synovial s;i(; The articular surfaces of the first two vertebras are enclosed on to nrticniar each side by a capsule (fig. 4G, ■*), which is stronger in front than behind. On opening tlie joint the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. Movements of the head. The head can be bent forwards and MovL-ments of licflcl backwards ; turned from side to side—rotation ; and inclined towards kinds of. the shoulder. * First vertebra -with the odontoicl process removed from the socket formed liy the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament with its offsets cut. 2. Socket for the odontoid process.176 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. To and fro. iiotation. Head laterally. Joint at sternal end of clavicle. Dissection. Oajisnlar ■ligament. Interclavi- iilai-. and ccsto- ilaviciilar •ligament. Fibro-carti- lage. Nodding takes place in the joints between the atlas and occipital bone, the condyles gliding forwards and backwards. When the head is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical vertebra? come into play. Rotation is permitted by the several joints between the atlas and axis. In this movement the axis is fixed, and the atlas, bound to it by the transverse ligament, moves to the right and the left, carrying the weight of the head. Too great a movement of the face to the side is checked by the odontoid ligament. Only part of the whole of the rotatory movement to one side is obtained be- tween the atlas and axis, the rest being made up by the neck. Approximation of the head to the shoulder is effected by the neck movement: perhaps a very slight degree of it may be due to gliding downwards of the occipital condyle of the same side on the articular surface of the atlas. Sterno-clavicular Articulation (fig. 51). The articular surfaces are somewhat irregular and adapted to each other, with an inter- mediate fibro-cartilage ; and they are retained in contact by a capsular ligament ; by a band to the first rib ; and by another band between the ends of the clavicles. Dissection. For the examination of the ligaments of the sterno- clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was set aside for the purpose (p. 121). If the ligaments have become dry, they may be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear in the situation indicated by their names, after the removal of some fibrous tissue. Capsular ligament. This is a thin membranous exjiansion (fig. 51, '), which incases the articular ends of the bones and the fibro- cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres in front and at the back are described as separate ligaments. The interclavicular ligament (fig. 51,''') extends above the sternum, between the ends of the clavicles. The fibres do not cross in a straight line, but dip into the hollow between the collar bones, and are connected with the upper piece of the sternum. The rosto-clavicular ligament (fig. 51, -) is a short strong band of oblique fibres between the first rib and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is fixed to. the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the under surface of the claAacle near the sternal end. The subclavius niuscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the clavicle touches the rib, and is provided with an articular surface and a synovial membrane. The interarticular fihro-cartilage (fig. 51, ') will come into view by cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the clavicle. It is ovalish in form and flattened, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper margin and surface the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle which is embedded in it; and bv the opposite surface and margin it is inserted into the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it unites with the capsule of theSTERNO-CLAVICULAR JOINT. 177 joint. Sometimes there is an aperture in the centre of the fibro- cartilage. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation, one on each side Twosy- of the fibro-cartilage. The sac in contact with the sternum is looser branes.'^ than that touching tlie clavicle. Movement. The inner end of the clavicle can be moved up and Motion, down, and forwards and backwards, and the direction it takes is Fig. 51.* the opposite to that of the shoulder : thus when the limb is de- pressed the sternal end of the clavicle is raised ; and so on in the other movements. The extent of each movement is but limited, though those forwards and upwards are the freest ; and dislocation may ensue in any direction except downwards, from force applied to the limb. * Ligaments of the inner end of the clavicle, and of the cartilage of the second rib. 1. Capsule. 2. Costo-clavicular ligament, 3. Interclavicular ligament. 4. Ligaments of the second rib with the sternum. 6. Inter- articular fibro-cartilage of second rib. 7. Interarticular fibro-cartilage of the clavicle. NCHAPTER II. Position of tlie brain. Three meni- Tjranes. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. —♦— Sectiox I. MEMBRANES AND VESSELS. During the examination of the membranes, vessels, and nerves, the brain is to be placed upside down, resting in the coil of a cloth which supports it evenly. Membranes of the Brain. The coverings of the brain (meninges) are three in number, viz. dura mater, pia mater, and arachnoid membrane. The dura mater is a firm fibrous investment, which supports part of the brain, and serves as an endosteum to the bones. The pia mater is the most internal layer, and is very vascular. And the arachnoid is a thin serous sac, which is situate between the other two. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the two last will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial part of the dura mater, see p. 9. The ARACHNOID is a thin serous membrane, w-hich lines the inner surface of the dura mater, and is reflected over the pia mater and the brain. Around the vessels and ners'es that intervene between the skull and the brain, the membrane forms sheaths, which extend a short distance into the several apertures, and then become con- tinuous with the parietal or cranial portion. Like other serous membranes, if forms a sac which contains a lubricating moisture ; and it consists of a parietal and a visceral part. The parietal part is inseparably united to the inner surface of the dura mater, giving this a smooth and polished surface, and is continued over the pieces of the fil)rous membrane projecting between portions of the brain. Visceral part The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially at the to brain^^ ^"^^^^ surface of the brain, but is united to the underlying pia mater by fibrous processes ; beneath it there is a considerable interval (subaraclmoid space). On the upper or convex surface of the great brain the membrane passes from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening sulci; though it lines the great median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On the lower surface of Dura mater. Arachnoid membrane. Parietal part.MEMBRANES OF BRAIN. 179 the cereln-um there is a large space between it and the centre of the hollow be- hrain. Still more posteriori)^, between the hemispheres of the little brain, there is an interval, similar to that at the under part of the sjot^^^* cerebrum. The suharachnoid space, or the interval between the arachnoid it is the sub- membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot than another ; space]'"^'^ and it contains more or less fluid, which has been named cerebro- spinal. The space is largest at the under part of the great brain, about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres of it and the cerebellum. Under the arachnoid, in the fissure between whidi opens the halves of the cerebellum, is the aperture of the fourth ven- ^^^^ ^i'""- tricle, by which that cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. The riA mater closely invests the diiferent parts of the brain, Pia mater and dips into the fissures, as well as into the sulci between the ■convolutions and lamina?. Besides covering the exterior of the scnds^pieces brain, it sends processes into the interior to supply vessels to the inain: walls of the enclosed space : thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fringes, which project into the fourth ventricle, are known as the choroid plexuses of that cavity. This membrane is a network of vessels, and is constructed of it is a net- the minute ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into or i)iood-ves- issuing from the cerebral substance ; whilst the inter\'-als between seis, the vessels are closed by fine areolar tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous thin layer. From the under surface of the membrane proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves. The araclmoid membrane lias but few vessels. Vessels and ■whilst the pia mater is composed almost entirely of vessels. The jjfenib^,.aucs. pia mater is largely supplied by offsets of some cranial nerves, and by branches of the sympathetic which accompany the vessels at the base of the brain (p. 20). Bochdalek has described branches to the arachnoid from some cranial nei-ves. Subdivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the arteries is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon will be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system consists of Outline of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, pons, and '[l^^"^] medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord, lies ^yj.i;i'^.'"_i^'^''^ "in the groove between the halves of the small brain, and is divided yoi-d" ' into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii is situate in fi-ont of the medulla oblongata, and Pons varolii is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separa- tion into halves. Anterior to it are two large processes (crura and its cerebri) connecting it to the great brain ; on each side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli) ; and behind it is the enlarged upper part of the cord. N 2DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 180 Cerebellum. Cerebium, divisions. Dissection of vessels of large brain; of small brain. The cerebellum, or the small brain, is separated ^^to two by ^ median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to consist ''The'rebrum, or the large brain, is divided into l;e-;YX^her a longitudinal fissure in the middle hne ; and each ^^^If is fmttie^ , „t subdi^ded into two by a transverse sulcus,—the fissure of bylyus. ^' ''''''''^,tTce^Z of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres and m fl^nt of t" pons, are several small bodies that will be afterward. , "'S^TeS. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the remains of any araclmoid membrane be removed. Ha^nng displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the meduUa oblongata, and those of the carotid nr front near the median fissure of the large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries lying in the median fissure and joining by a short brancn, next, an artery that passes outwards transversely ni the fissure ot Sylvius, and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which enters into the brain substance on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cerebellum on the same side, the last artery ot the cerebrum may be traced back along the inner aspect of the Two arteries pass out to the small brain. One on the upper surface may be brought into view on raising the cerebellum; and care is to be taken of the slender fourth nerve which lies by its side. The other artery turns inwards to the median hollow of the cerebellum, and may be easily followed. Arteries of the Brain (Fig. 52). The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery, is a branch of the subclavian^ trunk (p. 70), and enters the skull through the foramen magnum; directed upwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with its fellow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the winds round vessel winds round the upper part of the cord, it lies between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is after- wards internal to the last. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes ofEsets to the spinal cord, the dura mater, and the cerebellum. a. The posterior spinal hrancU is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the posterior part of the medulla : it descends along the anterior and side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. 1). The anterior spinal branch (") is small like the preceding, and springs fi'om the artery opposite the front of the spinal cord. It joins the (lorresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect. to dura c. The posterior meningeal artery leaves the vertebral trunk oppo- mater. Arteries of the brain. Vertebral ends in Ijasilar, medulla. Branches to spinal cord, posterior;181 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. :site the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater Iming the fossa of the occipital bone. d. The inferior cerebellar artery (posterior) Q°) is distributed to Branch to the under surface of the cerebellum. Taking origin from the end JJart of^*^"^ of the vertebra], this branch Avinds backwards round the medulla cerebellum, between the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, to the Fig. Extent and imedtan fissure of tlie cerebellum. Directed onwards along the fissm-e the artery reaches tlie upper surface of the small brain, and there anastomoses "with the superior cerebellar artery. An offset of this branch ramifies over the under part of the Offsets, cerebellum, and ends externally by anastomosing with the artery of the upper surface. As the vessel lies by the side of the aperture of the fourth ventricle it gives a small choroid offset to the plexus of that cavity. The BASILAR ARTERY ("), formed by the union of the two verte- BasUar brals, reaches from the lower to the upper border of the pons, ^'^f^]^ where it ends by dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the cerebrum. The vessel touches the basilar process of the situation, ■occipital bone, from that circumstance receiving its name, and lies in the median groove of the pons. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nen^e. Branches. Besides the two terminal branches mentioned above, Branches; the artery supplies transverse offsets to the pons and the under part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the •cerebellum. * Arteries at the base of the brain. 1. Internal carotid trunk. 2. Anterior -cerebral branch. 3. Anterior communicating. 4. Middle cerebral branch. 5. Choroidal branch. 6. Posterior communicating. 7. Posterior cerebral branch. 8. Upper cerebellar branch. 9. Internal auditory branch. 10, Inferior cerebellar branch. 11. Basilar artery. 12. Vertebral artery. 13. -A nterior spinal branch.DISSECTION OF THE BEAIX. a. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or six small twigs,, which are named from their direction, and are distributed to the substance of the pons. One of them (") gives an offset (auditory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. h. Resembling this set of branches is the folloAving artery, the - inferior cerebellar (anterior) : this arises from the basilar trunk, and;' extends to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellum, on which it is distributed. c. The superior cerebellar artery (^) is derived from the basilar so ■ near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is to the upper surface of ' the small brain, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but parallel with the fourth nerve. On the upper surface of the cerebellum the artery spreads its ramifica- tions, which anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), which projects into the posterior part of the cerebrum. d. The posterior cerebral artery (") takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third ners^e. The vessel is then applied to the inner ■ surface of the cerebrum, and divides into many branches : some of these supply the under part, whilst others turn uj^wards on both the outer and inner surfaces of the back of the hemisiDhere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Near its origin it is joined by the posterior comnmnicating arterj' of the carotid ; and its branches to the brain are the following :— Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). A small choroid artery (posterior) supplies the fold of pia mater that projects into the cerebrum : this small branch is transmitted between the crus and hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. From the foregoing examination of the olfsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trunk, it appears that about half the en- cephalon—viz. the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through the branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Q) terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) inside the anterior clinoid process, and diA'ides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives ofE the ophthalmic offset, before it ceases in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum! a. The anterior cerebral artery supplies the inner part of the cerebral hemisphere. It is directed forwards to tire median fissureVEINS OF THE BRAIN. 183 between the halves of the large bram ; and as it is about to enter, it is united to its fellow by a short thick branch,—the anterior commumcattng (■*). Then passnig nito the fissure, it bends round eating the anterior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on the ' upper aspect in the natural position of the brain, and is continued backwards distributing offsets nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. It gives off numerous hranches^ and some of them supply the base its offsets of the cerebrum, thus :— Near the connnencement it furnishes small branches to the part to base of of the brain (anterior perforated spot) contiguous to the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius : and it distributes some branches to the imder part of the frontal lobe. h. The middle cerebral artery ("•) is the largest offset of the carotid. Middle and ramifies over the outer side of the hemisphere. Entering the artery^^ fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides into many large branches, which issue at the outer end of that groove and, spreading over the external surface of the hemisphere, inosculate with the other two ends iu cerebral arteries at the fi-ont, the back, and the upper part of the ^'lemLp^iere^ brain. Only a few fine offsets require special notice : A set of small branches arise at the inner end of the fissure of Offsets. Sylvius, and enter the cerebral substance tlu'ough the substantia perforata antica. c. The posterior communicating artery (®) is a small twig, which Posterior is directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third ca«n^^^^^" nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons. d. The choroid artery (anterior) (^) is small in size, and arises Choroid either from the trunk of the carotid, or fi-om the middle cerebral "'^^'^" artery : it passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemisphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis. The arteries at the under part of the brain are Circle of • • Willis * imited freely both on their own side and across the middle line in an arterial anastomosis,—the circle of Willis. On each side this vessels that circle is formed by the trunk of the internal carotid giving for- ^ ^^^^ wards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communi- cating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebrals. In the area of the circle he several parts corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. The complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the circle of Wilhs allows at all times a free circulation of blood through between the brain, even though a large vessel on one side of the neck should them, be obstructed. The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura mater, instead Veins of the Drain. of uniting into trunks as companions to the arteries. Two sets of veins belong to the cerebrum^ viz. superficial or ex- Two^s^ete^of temal, and deep or internal. '184 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". external and interna]. External of cerebellum. Dissection. Care to lie taken in removing pia mater. The external veins of the upper surface are collected into the superior longitudinal sinus (p. 10) ; and those of the lateral and under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especially the lateral sinus. The deep veins of the interior of the cerebrum join the veins of Galen, and reach the straight sinus. The veins of the cerebellum end differently above and below. On the upper surface they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occipital and lateral sinuses. Dissection. The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves is to be defined. Over the greater part of tlie cerebrum, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater can be detached Avith tolerable facility by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely as to requne some care in removing it without tearing the substance of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane bounding the opening of the fourth ventricle will probably be taken away : therefore the posi- tion, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum should be now noted. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. Section II. Origin is apparent and real. Eeal enters giay matter. Classifica- tion as nine or twelve pairs. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The cranial ner\^es take origin from the enceplialon, with one ex- ception (spinal accessory), and pass from it through apertures in the skull. The origin of a nen-e is not determined by the place at which it appears on the surface of the brain, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain substance. Each nerve has therefore a super- ficial or apparent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be any doubt; but there is much difference of opinion concerning the deep origin, in consequence of the difficulty of tracing the roots. When the roots are followed into the encephalon, they enter masses of gray substance, which are looked upon as ganglia of origin. The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve pairs according to the mode of classifying them.* ' * Those anatomists, who take the smaller nnmher after the example of Wilhs, include in one nerve all the trunk, contained in the same apertiire of the skull: as m the case of the eighth nerve, M-hicli consists of three trunks m the foramen jagulare. But those who are disposed with Sommerring toORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. 185 The several ner\'-es may be designated first, second, third, and so Designa- forth: this numerical mode of naming applies to all, and is the one generally used. But a second name has been derived for some of the nei*ves from from num- the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this nomen- ■clature the terms hypo-glossal, pneumo-gastric, may be taken. And name of a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms auditory and olfactory express. In this way two names may or function, be employed in referring to a nerve :—one being immerical, the other local or functional, as is exemplified below. The FIRST or olfactory nerve (olfactory process) (fig. 53,^) is Olfactory soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neurilenmia; and it may be ^^^^""^ considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both gray sub- stance and white fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a llat-looking band, wider at each end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the under aspect of the lies on frontal lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from the sulcus, it is prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position). Anteriorly the neiwous substance swells into the olfactory hulh,— forms a pyriform grayish mass, about half an inch in length, wliich rests buib*°^^ ■on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriori}^ the olfactory process is connected to the cerebrum by tlu'ee roots, external, internal, and middle. The external or long root is a slender white band, which is directed has external, backwards along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissure of Sylvius, and sinks into the substance of the cerebrum. The internal or short root, not always visible, is white and delicate, internal and and comes from the inner part of the cerebrum. The middle or gray root is connected with the gray matter on the middle root, surface of the brain by means of a conical elevation at the back of the sulcus wliich lodges the nerA^e. Deep origin. The external root is said to be traceable to one of the con- Origin, volutions of the island of Reil. Tlie inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyi'us fornicatus) to be afterwards cxainined. And the middle root, continuous with the gray matter of the convohitions, contains white fibres which enter the corpus striatum. The SECOND or optic (^) is the largest of the cranial nerves, except Optic mrve, the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the cms cerebri. Anteriorly the nerves of opposite sides are united in a commissure. The part part caUed of the nei-ve posterior to the connnissure is named optic tract; but the part beyond the conunissural union, which is round and firm, is 1'^^ nerve, called optic nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball. enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notwithstanding that it may be combined M"ith others in the foramen of exit.DISSECTION OF THE BEAIX. 186 Origin from cerebrum. Tract of the nerve. The origin of tlie nerve will be afterwards seen to come fi-om the optic thalamus and the corpora geniculata, and from one of the corpora quadrigemina (nates). Tlie tract is the flattened part of the optic winding round the peduncle of the cerebrum. In front it ends in the commissure, and behind it splits into two pieces by Avhich it is fixed to the brain. As the tract reaches forwards it crosses the crus cerebri, to which it is attached by its outer or anterior edge ; and hi front of the Fig. 53.* Its commis- sure. Situation. Arrange- ment of iibres. crus it is i^laced between the substantia perforata antica on the- outside, and the tuber cinereum on the inside, but whether it receives filaments from the latter is uncertain. The commissure (chiasma) of the nerves measures half an inch, across, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, within the circle of ^Villis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum ; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is- the thin lamina cinerea. In the commissure each tract is resolved into three sets of fibres with the following arrangement:—the outer fibres, few in number, are continued straight to the eyeball of the same side. The middle, the largest, decussate with the corresponding bundle of the other * Origin of the cranial nerves. 1. 01factor}\ 2. Optic. 3. Motor oculi. 4. Trochlear. 5. Trigeminal with small and large root. 6. Abductor oculi. 7. Facial and auditory, the former smaller and internal. 8. Eighth nerve consisting of three trunks in a line : the upper, glosso-pharyngeal; the middle, pneumo-gastric ; and the lowest spinal accessory. 9. Roots of attachment of the hypoglossal nerve.18.T ORIGIN OF CEANIAL NERYES. tract,—those of tlie right nerve being contimied to the left side, to the opposite eye, and vice versa. And the most internal are con- tinued through the tract of the other side back to the brain without entering the eye. At the front of the commissure are placed some transverse fibres, which are prolonged to the eyeballs through the part of each nerve in front of the commissure, but have not any connection with the tracts and the brain. The part called nerve extends from the commissure to the eye- Trunk of ball. Leaving the skull by the optic foramen, it receives a tube of dura mater, and its course in the orbit is described in p. 46. In the eyeball it ends in the retina. The THIRD NERVE (^), motor ners^e of the eyeball, is round and OiiKin of firm, and is attached by a slanting line of threads to the inner ^^^^'^ surface of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. Deep origin. The deep origin is uncertain. According to Stilling,* the deep in cms fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing through the locus niger, and cerebri, enter a nucleus of gi-ay substance near the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The FOURTH or trochlear nerve (^) cannot be followed back- Origin of wards at present to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial from cere- nerves, and issues from the valve of Vieussens over the fourth Vellum, ventricle (fig. 68, ■*). The nerve appears between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri; aiid is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Deep origin. In entering the valve of Vieussens, filaments of the nerves of and Sylvian opposite sides cross and communicate. Each divides into two parts : the aqueduct, anterior enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the posterior joins a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the toi) of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). The fifth or trigeminal is the largest of all the cranial nerves, Fifth nerve and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or ]-oots.^" motor, which are partly blended in one trunk beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the Origin from upper than the lower border ('). The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the large one by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards tlu-ough an aperture in the dura mater, above tlie petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the pecuhar manner stated in page 18. Botli roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and are connected in floor of i with nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. tricieP*^"" Deep origin. The large root divides into two parts near the mass of gray beginning matter called locus cajinleus (p. 229). One piece arises from the gray matter near the locus creruleus (upper trigeminal nucleus) ; and the other, from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fasciculus teres (Stilling). The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper trigeminal nucleus and of sraalL near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). * Untersuchungen iiber den Bau des Hirnhiotens.DISSECTION OF THE BKAIX. 188 Origin of The SIXTH NERVE (^), abducent nen^e of the eyeball, springs from sixth nerve, pyramidal body close to the pons, and by a second band from the lower part of the pons. from fourth Deep origin. Tlie fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through the medulla •ventricle. oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and behind the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle (p. 229). Seventh nerve has :two parts. Origin of the facial. .Small acces- sory piece. Auditory nerve. Deep origin of facial ; of au(litoi-y. Eighth nerve has three parts. Origin of glosso-pha- ryngeal, vagus. spinal acces- sory has two parts, ■accessory The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) (') appears at the lower border of the pons near the restiform body. It consists of two distinct trunks, facial and auditory ; the former being the motor nerve of the face, and the latter the special nerve of tlie organ of hearing. T!he facial nerve (portio dura, seventh nerve, Sommerring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditoiy, internal to which it is placed. It issues from the lateral tract of the medulla at the upper part, and is connected by a slip with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessory band of fibres (inter- mediate portion of Wrisberg) from the same part of the medulla, and enters the internal meatus with the auditory trunk. The auditonj nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, Sommerring) has a surface attachment to the restiform body and the floor of the fourth venti'icle. The nerve is very soft, and receives one of its names from that fact. Deep origin. The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth nerve, which it joins (Clarke*). The fasciculus of the auditonj nerve which reaches the floor of the fourth ventricle, bends backwards over the restiform body to the auditory nucleus ; and some arciform fibres out of the median sulcus are joined with this part of the root. The other fasciculus pierces the restiform body, and takes origin from a network connected with the posterior pyramid (Clarke). The EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) (^) is placed along the side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct trunks, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessorj'^: the names of the first two indicate their destination ; and the last, besides being accessory to the pneumo-gastric, supplies some muscles. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Siimmerring) is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its apparent origin is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate the lateral tract of the medulla close to the facial nen'^e. The pneumo-gastric or vagus (tenth nerve, Sommening) is con- nected with the lateral tract of the medulla, below the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve, by a series of filaments, which are collected at first into bundles, but are finally gathered into one flat band. The spinal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, Sommerring) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine filaments in a line with the root of the vagus, as low as the first cervical nerve. * On the structure of the Medulla Oblongata, by J. Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S, in the Philcsophical Transactions for 1858, part i. j • • •>MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 180 Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneumo-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 112.) The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the sixth spinal: nerve, but only a small piece of it can be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord near the lateral fissure, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamen- tum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be connected ; and it finally enters the skull bv the foramen macrnum. All three nerves converge below the crus cerebelli, and rest on all converge a small lobe of the cerebellum (flocculus). From that spot they are directed outwards to the foramen jngulare (p. 19). The fibrils of the nerves pierce the medulla ; and each nerve, except the spinal part of the last, takes origin fi'om a special deposit of gray matter at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle (p. 229). Deep orifjin. The (ilosso-pharyngeal penetrates as far as the vagus nucleus, Deep origin where it ends in fibres which enter that deposit. of glosso- The vagus nerve arises in a special nucleus (p. 229); but some fibres pass Pharygeal; through the hypoglossal nucleus. of the The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is transmitted to a special "^^^^^ ■ nucleus below that of the vagus ; and some fibres decussate across the middle accessory line with their fellows. The roots of the spinal part of the nerve, piercing the lateral column of the and spinal, cord, pass through a collection of cells to the anterior cornu of the crescent (Clarke). The MXTii or HYrooLOSSAL nerve of Willis (twelfth nerve, Sum- Ninth nerve, merring) (') is placed on" the front of the medulla oblongata, and arises by a series of filaments from the sulcus between the pyra- midal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce origin from separately the dura mater, and do not blend together till they are medulla, outside the cranial cavity. Deep origin. The filaments of the nerve can be traced through the corpus Deep origin olivare to a nucleus below the level of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the "ear fourth canal of the cord ; but some bend inwards to decussate through the raphe with ^'^iituc e. the ner\'e of the opposite side (Clarke). Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper. Directions. On a single brain the student may ascertain nearly Directions, all the anatomy of the parts composing the medulla and the pons ; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla and190 Position of the part. Upper part of spinal •cord. "Situation. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the pons united, and another of a vertical median section through those bodies, he will comprehend much more readily the followmg description. „ Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as tor tne examination of the nerves and vessels. The MEDULLA OBLONGATA is tlic dilated upper part of the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium (fig. 54). Its limit is the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the upper margin of the atlas in the other. This part of the cord is pyramidal in Fig. 54.* Fig. 55. t form, and measures about one inch and a quarter in length ; half an inch m breadth below, and about an inch at its widest part. Ba.se. Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking Apex. its limit; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The anterior ■Surfaces. surface is irregularly convex, and is in contact with the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface is some- what excavated superiorly, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle; and it rests in the fissure between the halves of the cere- bellum. On the posterior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla, pivision The medulla oblongata is diAdded into halves by a median fissure ilyflssures^. front !ind l)ehind. The fissures are in a line with those along the cord : the anterior ceases at the pons in a dilated part (foramen cascum), but the posterior is prolonged, behind the pons, into the floor of the fourth ventricle. Components Eacli half of the medulla is constituted of pieces continuous of each lialf. * Antevior view of the medulla oblongata and pons. 1. Anterior pyramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform body. 5. Corpus olivare. 6. The decussation. t Hinder view of the medulla oblongata.—1. Floor of the fourth ventricle. —2. Eminentia teres. 3. Re-stiform body. 4. Posterior pyramid.191 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA. with those of the spinal cord (fig. 54) ; cand sHght grooves indica- tive of these divisions are to be seen on the surface. Thus at the niiddle hne in front is the anterior pyramid (') corresponding with the anterior coknnn of the cord ; at the middle line behind is the small posterior pyramid (■*) continuous witli the posterior median column. On the side is the larger projecting restiform body (^), joining below the posterior column of the cord; and between this and the anterior pyramid is the lateral tract (^), with an oval pro- jecting body (corpus olivare) (') on the exterior, which blends below with the lateral column. The anterior pyramid (fig. 54, ^) is the most internal eminence Anterior and receives its name from its position and form. Situate on the f/most^ side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, fi-om interual. Avhich it is separated by a slight groove. Enlarging as it ascends, this body enters the pons, but, before disappearing beneath the transverse fibres, it is somewhat constricted and rounded. Lateral tract and olivari/ body. The lateral tract (funiculus Lateral lateralis) (-) fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body. Its surface Avidth is not the same throughout : opposite the lower part of the medulla oblongata it measures as much as the pj-ramid ; but near the pons it is concealed by the varies in olivary body, so that it is seen only in the narrow interval between ^^^^ • the outer side of the corpus olivare and the restiform body. The olivaiy body (corpus olivare) (*) is an oval projection, about olivary half an inch long. A shallow groove separates it from tlie pyramid, -and a deeper and wider one intervenes between it and tlie restiform reach pons, body. This eminence is shorter than the pyramid, and does not reacli to the pons. Its upper end is most prominent ; and arching some arclied round the lower end, and over the surface, are some white fibres fibres. (fibrn3 arciformes). Restiform body (^). The restifomn body (restis, a rope) forms Eestifonn the largest prominence on the half of the medulla oblongata, and i^^vgest' ^^^^ cannot be seen satisfactorily except on a distinct preparation. It pi«ce. is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects on the side, so as to give the width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. Beliind, the restiform bodies diverge above fi-om each other, and between them is the space of the fourth ventricle. The 2^osterior j^yrainid (funic, gracilis) (fig. 55, ') lies along the Posterior «ide of the posterior median fissure, and is much nari-ower than eu'so"', ' either of the other component pieces. By drawing forwards the j|"jfj[j[^°'" medulla it will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex fissure, of the fourth ventricle, and tlien to l>ecomc gradually indistinct along the inner part of the corpus restiforme. Structure. From the interposition of the medulla oblongata be- structure, tween the brain and the spinal cord, it is continuous with both. Below, the constituent pieces of tlie half join directly (as before said) those of the spinal cord ; but, above, they are continued chiefly to the cerebrum, only one piece (restiform) entering the cerebellum. Dissection (fig. 56). The student has now to show the continuity Dissection192 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIK to trace the of the constructing' parts of one half of the medulla oblongata with pyramid. ^^jjog^ ^he spinal cord. Let him trace out first the fibres of the pyramid on the right side : in it two sets of fibres have to be shown —one from the same, and one from the opposite side of the cord. The fibres from the opposite half of the cord will appear in the median fissure, when the pyramids are gently drawn from one another, where they are named the decussating fibres ; and to lay these bare more completely, the small jDart of the anterior column Fig. 56.* Fibres of anterior pyramid. Derivation of the cord on the opposite side, which remains below the cross fibres (for the cord has been cut through near these), may be forcibly turned outwards. The anterior x>yramid (fig. 5G, a) receives fibres inferiorly from the anterior column of the cord of its own side, and from the opposite half of the cord. The inner set of fibres, &, deep at their origin, become superficial, and are directed upwards, close to the median fissure, joining the fibres continued from the anterior column of the cord ; and as the inner fibres of each pyramid are derived from the opposite side, they cross each other in the median line—forming thus the decussation of the medulla oblongata. Destination. The fibres of the pyramid are white and longitudinal, and are collected into a bundle of a prismatic form. Superiorly they enter the pons (fig. 5G), to reach the cerebrum. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the arrangement of the Dissection of lateral tract. * Fibres of the mechilla, pons and cms cerebri, a. Anterior pyramid, h. Decussation of the medulla oblongata (decussation of the pyramids), c. Fibres of the pyramid in the pons. d. Fibres of the pyramid in the crus cerebri. e. Superficial fibres of the pons, cut through and reflected. /. Superficial fibres of the pon-s, in place.FIBRES OF OBLONG MEDULLA. 193 fibres of the lateral tract, the anterior pyramid is to be cut across on the right side, between its decussation and the olivary body (fig. 57), and to be raised towards the pons. The lateral tract of the medulla is prolonged inferiorly into the Lateral ^lortion of the spinal cord between the anterior and posterior roots lueduUa of the nerves. The continuation of the tract (fig. 57) ascends ■beneath the olivary body, and leaving the sm-face of the medulla pass deeply, enters the pons. The olivary hodi/, and its fillet (fig. 57, c). The olivary mass oiivaiy ■consists of three parts, viz. a gray incashig layer, a nucleus, and a composi- band prolonged from it—the fillet. Fig. 57.* When the olivary body has been sliced obliquely, a very thin 'vvavy layer of gray substance surrounding a nucleus of whitish ■matter will be apparent: this is the corpus dentatum (fig. 58, /). It forms a thin capsule or bag, having a zigzag outline in a section, is an incom- with the dilated part towards the surface, and the narrowed part },^Jf*,j ■or neck open and directed backwards near the middle line. It i""'!- consists of small nucleated, and ramified nerve cells.f * Fibres of the lateral tract and of the olivary body. a. Anterior pyramid fibres, cut through, and raised as far as the optic thalamus, b. Lateral ti-act of the medulla oblongata, c. Olivary body, and fillet of the olivary body issuing at the upper end. d. Fibres of the lateral tract in the pons and crus cerebri, c. Superficial, and /. Deep transverse fibres of the pons, cut through, and turned outwards, f/. Locus niger in the cms cerebri, bet'ween the fibres of the lateral tract and pyramid. f The arrangement of the fibres in the sac is most complicated, and a fuller account may be obtained by consulting Mr. Clarke's Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1858. oDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 194 Nucleus and transverse commissure. FiUet, composi- tion. Restiform body enters cere- bellum. Pyramid passes to cerebrum. Decussation of medulla. Mr. Clarke's ^•iew of the decnssatiou formed by lateral cohMnn, posterior column, and gray substance. Commis- sural llbres. Superficinl set; beginning and endinpr. Fibne arci- fonnes. Deep set; beginning, and ending. Raphe. Situation, and use. Gray matter of f lic me- dulla. The nucleus is tlie yellowish white substance filhng the capsule; and fi-om it and the capsule issue transverse fibres, which unite the olivaiy bodies across the middle line (fig. 58, rj): this uniting band is close below the anterior median fissure. The fillet is a narrow band of fibres, which ascends from the olivaiy body to the cerebrum (fig. 57). It is formed in part by longitudinal fibres of the lateral tract which diverge to enclose the corpus olivare, and in part by fibres derived fi-om the sac. The restiform body (fig. 54, is continuous inferiorly Avith the posterior column of the cord. Superiorly it bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons. The^osfe?-iorp?/7-amw7 runs below into the posterior median column- of the cord, and is directed above along the floor of the fourth ventricle, joining the fibres of the lateral tract of the same side. The decussation of the medulla oblongata (pyramids) (fig. 56, 5) occupies the anterior groove of the oblong medulla, at the distance of three quarters of an inch from the pons. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and is constructed by the crossing of tlu*ec or four bundles of fibres from each side. In this intercommunication the fibres are derived, according to Mr. Clarke, from all the constituent parts of the half of the spinal cord of the opposite side except from the anterior column; but the fibres from the lateral column of that side, blended with offsets from the contiguous gray substance, form the chief portion of the decussation. Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla. In each half of the medulla oblongata are fine transverse fibres, both on the exterior and in its substance. At the middle line the fibres of opposite sides unite, and give rise to a commissure between the halves (raphe). The superficial transverse fibres (fig. 58, s, and fig. 54), more marked in some bodies, issue from the nucleus in the restiform body (Clarke), and advance over the surface of the oliA\ary and pyramidal bodies to the anterior fissure, where they enter the half of the medulla of the same, and of the opposite side. Below the olivaiy body they form oftentimes a distinct band, the fibrm arciformes (fig. 54). The deep transverse fibres (fig. 58, h) are to be seen with the microscope on thin hardened transverse sections ; they begin behind in nuclei of the posterior j^yramid and restiform body (Clarke), and penetrate between the longitudinal fibres, and through the corpus olivare, as they reach forwards to enter the raphe in the middle line. The raphe (fig. 58, h and g), in which the arched fibres meet, occupies the middle line of the medulla above the decussation of the pyramids, and serves as the commissure between the halves of the medulla and the olivary bodies. Gray matter of the medulla oblongata. In the medulla oblongata there are the remains of the gray matter of the spinal cord ; and some special deposits. Cross sections of the part when hardened would be required to see them.195 GRAY SUBSTANCE OF MEDULLA. Remains of gray matter of the spinal cord. At the lower part of Changes at the meduHa the central gray matter resembles that in the spinal inuedulfa. cord (see fig. 12G), but it midergoes the following changes —The posterior cornu increases in bulk, and extends towards the side of Posterior the cord, where it appears on the surface, in front of the restiform body, as the gray tubercle of Rolando (tuberculo cinero) (fig. 58, t). Higher in the medulla it becomes the chief nucleus of the sensory root of the fifth nei-ve. The piece of the gray commissure behind the central canal of the gi-ay com- cord joins, above, the nucleus of the vagus nerve, and contributes "ii^surb; to the auditory nucleus : and the piece in front of the canal is laid Fig. 58.t bare in the oor of the fourth ventricle by the inclination outwards of the restiform bodies; it disappears above in the fasciculi teretes. Special deposits of gray matter. Other masses of gi'ay substance Special are deposited in the medulla, both in front and behind :—those ^Jray Tnatter behind are near the floor of the fourth ventricle, and serve as nuclei of origin for certain nerves; whilst those in front are interspersed amongst the fibres continued from the lateral columns of the cord. Nuclei at the bade of the medulla. A nucleus for the hypoglossal Nucleus of nerve is deposited in front of the central canal, and extends up. i^^th "eive. wards into the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the median sulcus (fig. 58, o). The nucleus of the accessory paj-t of the spinal accessory nerve is Nucleus of placed opposite that of the hypoglossal, but behind the central canal, ^^'j^^^ * The description of tlie arrangement of the gray matter in the medulla oblongata is a summary of the facts contained in Mr. Clarke's Paper in the " Transactions of the Royal Society for 1858." f Transverse section of tlie medulla oblongata above the middle of the olivary body (Clarke), a. Anterior pyramid, h and c. Lateral column, tl. Restiform body. c. Posterior i^yramid. /. Corpus olivare with roots of the ninth nerve piercing it. y. (ilivary commissure. h. Deep transverse or commissural fibres of the medulla meeting in the raphe (a few more are added in this cut from a second drawing), k. Accessoiy olivary nucleus. I. Other gray deposits inside the olivary body. ii. Floor of the fourth ventricle covered by epithelium, o. Nuclei of the ninth nerve, p. Nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, r. Nucleus of the auditory nerve, s. Superficial transverse fibres, t. Remains of the gelatinous substance (tuberculo cinereo). 0 2DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 196 Nucleus of vagus, and of glosso-plia- ryngeal. Nucleus of auditory. Gray matter in olivary body, behind it. and at the inner side. Tlie nucleus of the vagus begins on a level with the fourth ventricle (fig. 58, p), and is continuous below witli that of the accessory nerve. On the surface it forms a pyriform swelling along the inner side of the posterior pyramid, and limits laterally the calamus scriptoriuR. Above, this sinks under the auditory nucleus, and joins a nucleus for the glosso-jiharyngeal nerve in a line with it. Above the last two nerves is another collection of cells serving as a nucleus for the auditory nerve. This projects on the lateral part of the medulla (fig. 58, r). At the front of the medulla. Outside the pyramid is the gray layer of the olivary body (fig. 58, /) already described (p. 193). Behind this is anotlier separate, elongated and flattened yellowish streak, the accessory olivanj nucleus (fig. 43, Jc); while at the inner part of the olive, near the raphe, is a second collection (fig. 58, 1), which is broken up into pieces. Both of the last deposits Mr. Clarke considers to be but parts of the cut folds of the corpus dentatum. rONS VAROLII. Pons: The TONS, or ANNULAR PROTUBERANCE (pons Varolii, nodus ence- phali) (fig. 54) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between position, the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. It is form, nearly of a square shape, though it is rather widest from side to side, and measures two inches in the last direction. surfaces, The anterior surface is grooved along the middle line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. * and borders. The upper border is longest and most curved, and arches over the cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the medulla oblongata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. It is formed Structure. In the pons are alternating strata of transverse and fiuUnafand longitudinal fibres (fig. 5G):—The transverse set are continuous transverse with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, much gray matter being in- fibres. terspersed : and the longitudinal are prolonged fxom the medulla oblongata. Dissection Dissection. The transverse superficial fibres of the pons bein"- the'^fitecs. divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the right side (fig. 50), may be turned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of the pyramid ; and this first set of longitudinal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 67, f). The deep transverse fibres may be cut through outside the pyramidal (fig. 57); then the deep longitudinal fibres from the lateral column and the posterior pyramid (d) will appear. Amongst197 FIBRES OF THE PONS. this last set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should trace upwards from that body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched. The transverse fihres of the annular protuberance (fig. 56), are The trans- collected chiefly into two strata—«. superficial and deep, which are form a ^^^^ united in the middle line : they are commissural fibres of the cere- bellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, which serve also as a commissure. The superficial set (fig. 56, /) are mostly horizontal, but some superficial from the upper margin of the pons descend obliquely over the others. The deep layer (fig, 57, /) is thickest, and contains much gray and a deep matter between its fibres. la.y^r. The longitudinal fihres consist of two sets, viz. one fi'om the Two sets of anterior pyramidal body ; and another fi'om the lateral tract and fibrls^!^*^^^'^^ the posterior pyramid, to which a slip is added fi-om the corpus olivare. The fibres are not continued simply through the pons, but ai-e increased in number by the addition of others (peduncular) which, beginning in the upper two thirds of the pons, join them on the outer side. The fibres of the anterior pyi-amid (fig. 56, c) pass through the ^^^^^j, pons between the two sets of transverse fibres, but not as one mass, pyramid, for they are divided into a number of small bundles in their pro- gress. "Much increased in number, the fibres enter the crus cerebri at the upper border of the pons, and construct that fasciculated surface of the peduncle (d), which is now uppermost. The fibres of the lateral column and posterior pyramid are alto- gether deeper than the transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57, d), and posterior are mixed up with gray matter; they are also more numerous than Pyi''^""'^' the preceding set. They project close to the middle line, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and form the eminence of the fasciculus teres (fig. 55, ") ; from that spot they are continued upwards to the crus cerebri, of which they form the deeper or cerebral part (fig. 57, d). In the pons a band from the olivary fasciculus is added to these fibres. The olivary fasciculus (fillet, fig. 57) divides into two slips in the {["^ pons. One passes backwards to the upper (in this position deeper) part of the crus cerebri, and ends in and beneath the corpora quad- rigemina (p. 219). The other is continued to the crus cerebri with the fibres of the lateral column. Commissure of the pons. At the back of the pons there is a com- J),™^^'''"** missure between the halves, opposite the deep longitudinal fibres. It consists, like that of the medulla oblongata, of fine antero-posterior and transverse fibres.198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. Situation of the cere- brum. Form; has two lieinisplieres joined by median parts. Under surface of cerebnun. partly split. Parts along the middle line. Cms cerebri is fixed in hemi- sphere. The cerebrum, or the great brain, is tlie largest of the sub- divisions of the encephalon, and weighs on an average 49 oz. in the male, and 44 oz. in the female. It fills the upper part of the cavity of the skull ; and its under surface would correspond with an oblique line on the head from the eyebrow to the articulation of the jaw ; and fi'om this point to the occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the cranium, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side b}^ side, and are partly separated by a median or longitudinal fissure. Across the middle line the halves are united by certain interior parts (commissures), as well as by several connecting structures at the under surface. Superiorly the surface of the hemisphere is without any large cleft; but inferiorly it is divided into two b}^ a transverse fissure—that of Sylvius. Under Surface or Base of the Cerebrum (fig. 59). At its under part the cerebrum is very irregular, in consequence of its fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not so complete as on the U2'>per, for the median fissure exists only at the fi-ont and back. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain along the middle line. Immediately in front of the pons (d) are two large white masses, the peduncles of the cerebrum (crura cerebri,/), one belonging to each hemisphere; and between them is a space perforated b}^ vessels, which is named locus perforatus posticus (g). Outside the peduncle is the optic tract (i) ; and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In fi-ont of the peduncles are placed two white bodies like peas, the corpora albicantia (e) ; and anterior to these a gi-ayish mass, called tuber cinereum (/i). From the tuber cinereum a conical reddish tube, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are the converging optic tracts with^ their commissure (i). Beneath the commissure lies a thin grayish layer (lamina cinerca, m) ; and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum (w) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the transverse fissure (Sylvian) across the hemisphere, is another spot, perforated by vessels, and distinguished by the name substantia perforata, or locus perforatus anticus (I). Peduncle of the cerebrum (crus cerebri,/). This is a large, white, stalk-like piece, which reaches from the upper border of the pons to the under part of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, near199 CRURA OF CEREBRUM. the inner margin. In the natural position the two peduncles fill the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. Each is about three- quarters of an inch long, and widens as it approaches the cerebrum. Crossing its outer surface is the optic tract; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interpeduncular space, which contains the locus perforatus, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereum. Structure. The peduncle consists of longitudinal fibres, continuous Formed of with the longitudinal fibres of the pons, which enclose here a mass flbi^s*"^'^^^ "of gray matter between them. Fiff. 59.* Dissection. For the purpose of showing the structure of the crus. Dissection, •on the right side (fig. 57), the optic tract should be divided, and the fibres continuous with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata should be raised as far into the crus as the optic thalamus. In this proceeding the mass of gray matter (locus niger) will ap- * Under surface of the brain. I. Cerebellum, r. Temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, p. Frontal lobe of the cerebrum : the great fissure between the two lobes, is the Sylvian, a. Medulla oblongata, d. Pons Varolii. /. €rus cerebri. (/. Locus perforatus posticus, e. Corpus albicans, h. Tuber cinereum. i. Commissure of the optic nerves. I. Locus perforatus anticus. 7n. Lamina cinerea. n. Lower end (rostrum) of the corpus callosum in the great median fissure : the point in front where it bends is named f/cnu. Un each 'side of the lamina cinerea a narrow white band is continued from the •end of the corpus callosum : this is the fillet of the corpus callosum.20O DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Its super- ficial fibres form crust, deep fibres form teg- mentum. Gray matter of crus. jboeus perfo- ratus. Coi-pora albicantia. Tuber cinereum and infundi- buluiu. Pituitary body. Situation. pear ; and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longi- tudinal fibres. The superficial fibres, which form the under or fi-ec part of tJie crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal body (hg. 56, c). They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. The surface of the pedimcle, which is composed of these fibres, is cMed the fasciculated portion, or the crust. The dee2yer fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. They are derived chiefly from the lateral tract and posterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, with a slip from the olivary fasciculus (fig. 57, cl). Others come fi'om the cerebellum, and mix Avitli the former : some of these decussate across the middle line * (p. 226). The fibres obtained from these four sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the gray matter: besides being deeper they are finer than the superficial set, and enclose much gray substance : the part of the crus formed by them is named tegmentum. The gray matter (locus niger) of the crus (fig. 57, g) forms ca thin layer, which reaches nearer the inner than the outer margin of that body ; it is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direction. The j^ostenor jierforated spot (pons Tarini, g) is situate between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; in the area of the space is a layer of grayish matter, and numerous vessels penetrate it. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora alhicaniia (corp. mamillaria, e) are two small, white bodies, about the size of peas, which are constructed in greater part by the crura of the fornix. If one, say the right, is cut across, it will be seen to contain gray matter. In fi-ont of them is the gi'ay mass of the tuber cinereum. The median eminence of the tuber cinereum (li) foiTns part of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it are the optic tracts and conunissure, and from its centre projects the following. The infundibuluvi (funnel) is a conically-shaped tube which reaches fi-om the tuber cinereum to the upper part of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It consists of a layer of gi'ay matter, surrounded by the pia mater ; and it is lined by the ependyma of the third ventricle, as far as it is pei-vious. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitaiy body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it has been dislodged from its resting-place : therefore it should be sonie- times examined in the base of the skull by removing the surround- ing bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow (sella Turcica) on the sphenoid bone,. * M. Foville describes a median commissure for the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles, -which is composed of the interweaving of fibres of opposite sides. See the work of M. Foville entitled : Traiti complet de VAmitomie, &c., du Systime Nerreux cerebrospinal, p. 323, 1844.201. BASE OF THE BRAIN. and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid, and firm in texture ; but in the fetus it is hollow, and opens uito the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Structure. It is firm and reddish externally, but softer and yel- Structure, lowish internally. In it are nucleated cells, mixed with a granular semi-fluid substance ; and the whole is contained in roundish spaces, which are constructed by a stroma of areolar tissue with blood- vessels (Sharpey). Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior termination Dissectioiu of the corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other at the fore pai-t. The lamina cinerea (m) is a thin concave layer of gray substance, Gray which gi-adually tapers forwards fi-om the tuber cinereum to the anterior termination of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The corpus callosum (??), bent in fi-ont, is continued horizontally Corims backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends in two white narrow bands, the fillets or peduncles of the corpus callosum : each band is continued onwards by the side of the lamina cinerea to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior ends in- bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is a^Dplied, two*bands and tottre prolonged central part the appellation rostrum has been given. Laterally the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and extends, and fonns part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. sp^lere!"^^" Antenor perforated spot (substantia perforata antica, 1) is a space Substantia near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is situate between antiau''''^ the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the cerebrum, and ex- ternal to the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea ; and crossing it, from within outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface ; it corresponds with the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain, . arid is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of the j^fO't. Now the base of the cerebrum has been dissected, the brain should be turned over for the examination of exaniiuo the upper part. Something should then be placed beneath the i''"*'"*- front, in order that it may be raised to the same level as the back ; and a rolled-up cloth should loosely encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. On the upper surface the Cciehrmu • a • ■ • convex. cerebnam, taken as a whole, is oval in form, and is convex m its above, and outline, in accordance with the shajoe of the skull. two by a'"**^ A median longitudinal fissure divides the cerebrum incompletely median into two halves. At the front and back the hemispheres are quite «s3ure. separated by it; but at the middle and under parts they are united by connecting pieces, the largest of which is the white corpus cal- losum. In it the falx cerebri is lodged.-202 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Eacli half is marked liy convolu- tions and sulci. Three"' fissures. Each liemisphere is larger in front than behind. Its outer surface is convex ; but the inner is flat, and in contact in front with the opposite half. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere is divided by fissures into lobes, and on the under aspect it is cleft into two large pieces by the fissure of Sylvius. The superficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, the projections on it being named convolutions or gyri, and the intervening depres- sions, sulci or anfractuosities.* Fissures of the HEMisruERE. The larger fissures separate the lobes, and the smaller sulci mark the extent of particular convo- lutions. The fissures dividing the hemisphere into lobes are the three following :— Fis. 60. t S ivian "^^'^ fissure of Sylvius (S, fig. 60) begins below at the anterior perforated spot, and directed out between the fi-ontal and temporo- sphenoidal lobes, divides into two parts, anterior and posterior. lore part, ^p^^g anterior limb, 'S, ascends for a short distance into the fi-ontal lobe. hinder part. The posterior limb, the continuation of the fissure, is directed obli([uely upwards and backwards to about the middle of the outer face of the hemisphere. At its extremity it is sometimes divided into smaller sulci. * In the following description of the surface anatomy of the cerebrum I have followed chiefly the arrangement of Professor Turner in his i^aper "On THE Convolutions of the Human Cerebrum ;" and to him I am indebted for permission to copy the woodcuts employed in illustration of his publication. f Lobes of the hemisphere, and convolutions and fissures of the outer surface. —Fr. Froutal lobe. Par. Parietal lobe. Oc. Occipital lobe. T S. Temporo- sphenoidal lobe. li. Fissure of Rolando. S. Posterior. '*S'. Ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure. PO. Place of the external parieto-occipital fissure which is not visible^in a side view. IP. Intra-parietal sulcus. P. Parallel sulcus.—1, inferior ; 2, middle ; and 3, superior frontal gyrus ; 4, ascending frontal; and 5, ascending parietal gyrus ; 5', parietal lobule ; 6, angular gyi'us • 7, superior; 8, middle; and 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gyrus ; 10, superior* 11, middle; and 12, inferior occipital convolution. A. Supra-marginal convo- lution—a, first; b, second ; c, third ; and d, fourth, annectant gyrus.LOBES OF CEREBRUM. 203 Fissure of Rolando (R, fig. 60). Bcgiiming sxhovc, about half Fissure of way along the hemisphere, in or near the longitudinal fissure of the ■cerebrum, it is prolonged outwards between the frontal and parietal lobes nearly to the posterior part of the Sylvian fissure,—about the middle of that limb. The external parieto-occipital fissure (opposite P 0, fig. GO,) begins Outer in the median longitudinal fissure half way between the preceding oiJclpHal <and the hinder end of the hemisphere. It is very vaiiable in extent, Assure, being sometimes an inch long, and at others only a slight inden- tation ; but it may be always recognised by its continuity with the perpendicular fissure on the inner face of tlie hemisphere (fig. G2). Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is divided into five Number of lobes, which have the following names and hmits :— ' The frontal lobe (Fr, fig. 60) forms the anterior half of tlie hemi- Frontal lobe sphere. It is limited below by the fissure of Sylvius, S, and behind by the fissure of Rolando,* R. Its under part, which rests on the and lobule, orbital plate, has been called the orbital lobule. The parietal lohe (Par, fig. 60) is placed behind the preceding. Parietal lobe and reaches down to the Sylvian fissure. It is about half as long as the frontal. In front it is bounded by the fissure of Rolando, R, and behind by the parieto-occipital (P 0). The upper and hinder mid lobule, part, close to the median fissure, is named the parietal lobule (5'). The occipital lohe (Oc, fig. 60) constitutes the pointed endAf the Occipital hemisphere, and measures about a fifth of the whole. In fi-ont it ^'^^^ is separated fi-om the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure (P 0), but below it blends with the following lobe. It rests on the tentorium. On the innfer surface is a triangular piece, the occi- and lobule, pital lobule (-^, fig. 62). The tem2)oro-sp]ienoidal lohe (T S, fig. 60) projects into the middle Temporo- fossa of the base of the skull. It is situate behind the fissure of lobeT"''^'^^ Sylvius, and below the parietal and occipital lobes. The outer surface is in contact with the cranium, and the opposite is supported mainly on the tentorium. The central lohe, or the island of Reil (C, fig. 61), lies in the Centrailobe. Sylvian fissure, and is concealed by the overlapping of the frontal and tempoi-o-sphenoidal lobes. On separating those lobes it will be seen to be bounded in front and behind by the limbs of the Sylvian fissure, and externally by a deep groove separating it from the frontal and parietal lobes. It is of a triangular form with the apex down. Convolutions of the Cerebrum. In different brains the con- convoiu- volutions vary slightly in form, and even in the two hemispheres [^yy^igpijere of the same cerebrum they are not exactly alike ; but there is always similarity enough for the recognition of the chief eminences. Each lobe possesses convolutions, but these run into each other by means of smaller gyri, either on the surface of the brain or at the bottom of the sulci; and the student may experience some difliculty at first in defining the limits of each. It is in the smaller gyri that the greatest variation will be found. * By some the anterior limb of the fissure 'S is made the hinder bound of the lobe ; but this is not so good an arrangement as that in the text.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 204 On outer smface. Frontal coH' volutions. Four outer: one ascend- ing. and three longitu- dinal. Inferior, ■with mar- ginal. Four jiarie- tal convolu- tions : first, or as- cending. second, or parietal lobule; third, or supra- marginal : A. Convolutions of the Outer Surface. About tlie middle of the hemisphere are two straight vertical convolutions, one on each side of the fissure of Eolando, R, which will serve as a starting- point. In front of those two the convolutions are longitudinal; and behind they take an oblique direction to the back of the brain. a. The frontal convolutions (fig. 60) form two sets, one on the outer, the other on the under surface of the fi-ontal lobe : those on the outer aspect are four, viz., one vertical or posterior, and three longitudinal or anterior, as follows :— The ascending frontal (■*) is the vertical, straight convolution, which bounds in front the Rolando fissure. It reaches down from the median to the Sylvian fissure (posterior limb). Along the anterior border it is joined by the three frontal convolutions ; and below it unites with the most anterior convolution of the parietal lobe round the lower ejid of the fissure of Rolando, R. The three loMjituclinal frontal convolutions are much subdivided and blended, and are separated by two intervening sulci. They are named superior (^), middle (*), and inferior : they communi- cate behind by secondary gyri with the ascending frontal (^), the highest having often two processes ; and are directed fonvards one outside another to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. The tmder or orbital surface of the firontal lobe, concave, is^ repreifcnted in fig. 61. Near the inner margin is a sulcus, the olfactory, lodging the olfactoiy nerve ; and internal to it is the lower end of the marginal convolution (''). External to the sulcus lies a convolution, which is i:)ointed behind, but widened and sub- divided in front, and encloses smaller gyri and sulci within its coil : tliis has been subdivided into three parts, an inner (^), a posterior (^), and an external ("). b. The parietal convolutions (fig. 60), like the outer fi'ontal, are four in number ; an anterior, or ascending, which is vertical along the fissure of Rolando, and three directed back fi'om it. The ascending parietal (^), narrow and straight, limits behind the fissure of Rolando, and reaches from the middle line to the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, S. Above, it runs into the parietal lobule, and below, it joins the ascending fi'ontal round the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. Behind it is separated from the other gyri of the parietal lobe by a sulcus, / P.^ The parietal lobule ('') appears to be an appendage to the upper end of the ascending convolution, and is continued back along the upper margin of the hemisphere as far as the parieto-occipital fissure. Subdivided on the surface into two chief parts it is joined behind to the occipital lobe by the small annectant gyrus (a). To its outer side lies the upper part of the intraparietal sulcus; and here it joins usually the following convolution, A. The supra-marginal convolution, A, lying outside and below the * The intraparietal sulcus (/ P, fig. CO, Turner), is placed between tb& ascending parietal and the supra-marginal convolution, A. Above, it is directed back near the xipper part of the hemisphere, separating the parietal lobule (5') and the supra-marginal convolution, A.OUTER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 205 Three occi- pital convo- lutions : preceding, is interposed between the iiitraparietal sulcus, / P, and the Sylvian fissure (outer end). Variable in shape it joins, b'el'ow the ascending parietal convolution f) ; it may communicate above' with the parietal lobule, and behind with the following. The angular convolution f), very complicated and not well defined, fourth, or IS placed at the extremity of the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, '"^"^^i^^- •and is composed of two or ' three pieces. Above it is the Fig. 61.* parietal lobule ; and below, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe which it joins. In front lies the supra-marginal convolu- tion ; and behind, the occipital lobe, with which it blends by the small annectant gyrus (h). c. The occipital convolutions {fig. 60) are small and very much divided, so that their outline is uncertain. They are three in number, lying one above another, and separated by sulci, something like the frontal gyri at the opposite end of the hemisphere. The upper (^"), forming part of the margin of the longitudinal fissure, receives an annectant gyrus from the parietal lobule. The middle ("), crossing \^—^^"^ middle, outwards the hemisphere, has two annectant gyri to other convolutions ; one (h) joining it above to the angular convolution, and another (c) passing to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution. The inferior ('-) occupies the tip of tlie hemisphere between the and lower, upper and under surfaces. At the inner end it is continuous with the upper gyrus; and at the outer end with the inferior temporo- splienoidal convolution (') by an annectant gyrus {cl). d. The temporo-sjihenoidal convolutions (fig. GO), tlu-ee in number. Three tem-] run from above down, and are separated from one another by two nowTuoii- sulci. volutions: The superior (') bounds posteriorly tlie horizontal limb of the upper. Sylvian fissure. At the upper end it is connected by a gyrus with t^ie angular convolution. The middle (^) is separated from the first by the parallel sulcus middle, (P). Above, it blends commonly with the angular convolution, and upiier. * View of the orbital lobule and the central lobe.—C. Island of Rail or median lobe. 0. Olfactory sulcus. 2. Internal; 3, posterior; and 6, external orbital convolution. 17. Marginal convolution of the hemisphei-e.206 DISSECTION OF THE BllAIX. is connected to the middle occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (c). lower. The inferior (^), less well marked than the other two, forms part also of the inner surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. By the upper end it is united to the third occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (d). with parallel The jj;oro7/e^ sulcus (P, fig. GO), named from its position to the sulcus. Sylvian fissure, extends from the lower end of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe to the angular convolution. Central lobe ^- The convolutions of the central lobe (C, fig. Gl), about six in convolu- number, are straight for the most part, and are separated by shallow sulci : they are directed upwards from apex to base of the lobe. The posterior gyri are the longest and broadest ; and the anterior joins the convolution of the under surface of the orbital lobule. Convoin- B. The CONA^OLUTIONS ON THE INNER SURFACE of the hemisphere tions on (flg, 62) are generally well defined ; but some being so long as to face of he- reach beyond the extent of a lobe, the arrangement of them in lobes misphere. cannot be followed, as on the exterior. How to see Dissection. Without the use of a separate hardened hemisiihere, them. ^YiQ parts to be now described will not be seen satisfactorily. If the student possesses only one brain, he may bring into view much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as- the white corpus callosum in the median fissure. Convolution Convolution of the corpus callosum, gyms fornicatus ('**), is long callosum. ^^^^ simple, and arches round the body from which it takes its name. Beginning at the base of the brain in the anterior perforated spot,, it bends'backwards in contact with the coi*pus callosum (CaZ), and below the back of that body blends by a narrowed part with the uncinate convolution ('') of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Anteriorly a sulcus separates it fi'om the following convolution ; and smaller gyri often connect the two across that sulcus. Marginal The marginal convolution ('') is named from its position on the convolution, ^^^^ ^-^^^ median fissure. Its extent is rather more than half the length of the hemisphere, for it begins in fi-ont at the anterior perforated spot, and tenninutes near the back of the corpus callosum just behind the fissure of Rolando. It is much subdivided both internally and externally; and on the under part of the frontal lobe (fig. 61) it lies internal to the olfactory sulcus. Between it and the preceding convolution is situate the calloso-marginal sulcus (i) which marks its hinder limit, andcalloso- The ccdloso-marginal sulcus (i, Huxley), designated from its. Sf''^ situation, begins in fi'ont below the corpus callosum, and ends. behind, near the back of the same body, by ascending to the edge of the hemisphere. Smaller gyri uniting the two bounding convo- lutions, fi-equently interrupt it, and secondarj^ sulci are prolonged from it into the same convolutions. Quadriiate- The quadrilateral lolule Q^) reaches from the marginal convolu- rai lobule, tion in front to the parieto-occipital fissure behind. It is much divided by sulci, and projects above to the edge of the hemisphere • it joins below the gyrus fornicatus. *INNER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 207 The occipital lohule (-') is triangular in shape, with the base Occipital upwards, at the margin of the hemisphere. Measm-ing about an inch and a half in depth, it lies between the internal parieto-occi- pital fissure, PO, and the calcarine sulcus (Z). Sulci running fi-om apex to base divide it into four or five narrow convolutions. Internal perpendicular or paneto-occipital fissure (PO, fig. 62) inner; separates the two preceding lobules. Continuous with the external fissure of the same name, it opens below into the following. fissure. The calcarine sulcus Z, (Huxley) is directed across the back of caicarine the hemisphere below the level of the corpus callosum, and ends sulcus, in front at the gyrus fomicatus (''), whose hinder limit it marks. Fisr. 62.* TS It receives above the internal perpendicular fissure; and it sinks into the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, forming the eminence of the hippocampus minor. Internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions (fig. 62) are two in Two tem- number, viz., the uncinate and dentate, and occupy the tentorial noi^ai^c^- surface of the hemisphere. volutions: The uncinate or hippocampal convolution Q'^), is prolonged from uncinate > the posterior end of the hemisphere nearly to the tip of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. It is somewhat naiTowed in the middle, where the gyrus fomicatus blends with it ; and is enlarged at each end, especially at the posterior where it is subdivided by sulci. Below it is a long curved sulcus, the collateral ; and above it are the calcarine (Z), and the dentate sulcus (in). From the anterior extremity a narrow part uncus) is prolonged back for half an inch on the inner side, like a hook. Below the uncinate convolution is part of the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution ('), before described, which forms the lower * Convolutions and fissures on the inner face of the hemisplierc.—P.O. In- ternal parieto-occipital fissure. Cal, Corpus callosum, cut. calloso-marginal sulcus ; I, calcarine sulcus ; m, dentate sulcus ; n, collateral sulcus ; 17, mar- ginal gyrus ; 18, convolution of corpus callosum ; 18', quadrilateral lobule ; 19, uncinate gyrus ; 19', crochet or hook of the uncinate gyrus ; 25, occipital lobule ; 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gyms partly seen.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". £08 with colla- teral and dentate sulcus : •dentate convolution. A convolu- tion has base and siunmit; IS gray outside and white within. Its strac- ture. Outline of ■cerebrum. €ut down to ovale minus of the hemi- sphere. Reflect gyrus fonii- catus. edge of the temporo-splieiioidal lobe, appearing more largely on the inner than the outer face. The collateral sulcus n, (Huxley) courses along the lower border of the uncinate convolution ; it projects into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and gives rise to the prominence of the emi- nentia collateralis. Secondary sulci emanate from it, and it is often interrupted by cross gyri. The dentate sulcus m, (Huxley) is the deep groove at the upper edge of the imcinate convolution ('^), and corresponds with the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Upwards it is limited by the corpus callosum (Cal) and downwards it inten'cnes between the hook and the body of the uncinate convolution. In the dentate sulcus is the gray substance of the hemisphere, which presents a notched border at the inner edge of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe ; this has been called the dentate convolution, and will be better seen in a subsequent stage of the dissection of the brain. Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous with the interior of the brain on the one side (base) ; and is free on the surface of the brain on the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts. On a cross section it will be seen to consist externally of gray cerebral substance as a cortical layer, which is continued from one eminence to another over the surface of the hemisphere ; and internally it is composed of white brain substance—the medullary jjart, which is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior. The cortical layer is composed of two, or in some parts of three strata, which are separated by their interven- ing paler laj^ers; and an outer white stratum, which covers the surface, is most marked over the internal and lower portions of the uncinate convolution. Interior of the Cerebrum. The cerebrum consists on each side of a dilated part or hemisphere, and of a stalk or peduncle. In the interior is a large central space, which is subdivided into smaller hollows or ventricles by the before-mentioned connecting pieces. And the whole, except the peduncle, is surrounded by a convoluted crust. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and. the connections between these by means of fibres. Dissection. Supposing both hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut ofl; to the level of the convolution of the corpus callosum. When this has been done, the surface displays a white central mass of an oval shape (centrum ovale mmus), which sends processes into the several convolutions. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping from the divided vessels. Next, the convolution of the corpus callosum is to be divided about the middle, and the two pieces are to be thrown backwards and forwards. Under it lies a thin narrow band, the covered band of Reil, which bends down before and behind the corpus callosum209 CORrUS CALLOSUM. The same steps of the dissection are to be taken on the opposite Same on side ; and the tops of the hemispheres being removed to the level of the corpus callosum, the transverse fibres of that body are to be defined as they radiate to the convolutions. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (larger oval Centrum centre), which has been named centrum ovale, Vieussens ; and the fs^deep"'^^"'^ white mass in each hemisphere is seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum reaches from the one half of the cerebrum Corpus to the other, and forais the roof of a space (lateral ventricle) in ^^1^"*^^™- each hemisphere. Between the halves of the brain, where it occu- pies the longitudinal fissure, it is of small extent, being about four inches in length, and somewhat arched from before backwards. It situation is nan-ower in front than behind, and extends nearer to the anterior ^""^ than the posterior part of the cerebrum. In front the corpus callosum is bent to the base of the brain Anterior T)fi.rt DP HQS (fig. 59, n), as before described (p. 201) ; and behind it ends in a dowTi. thick roll, which is connected with the subjacent fornix. On the upper surface the fibres are directed from the hemispheres Upper to the middle line,—the middle being transverse, but those from the anterior and posterior parts oblique. Along the centre is a ridge transverse or raphe, and close to it are two or more slight longitudinal white dimil fibres!' lines (nerves of Lancisi). Still further out may be seen other longitudinal lines (covered band,) beneath the convolution of the corpus callosum, if all of them have not been taken away in the removal of that convolution. The longitudinal fibres in the middle line are continued downwards in fi'ont, and joining the covered band or fillet are continued to the anterior perforated spot. Dissection. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, Dissection, and to bring into view the parts in contact with its under surface, a cut is to be made through it on the right side about half an inch from the central ridge ; and this is to be extended forwards and backwards, as far as the limits of the underlying ventricle. Whilst cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may observe that a thin membraniform structure lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in is thickest consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected from the ^ cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected Under part, with its under surface along the middle is the septum lucidum or partition between the ventricles (fig. 63, i), and still posterior to that is the fornix. This body is the chief commissural part of the halves of the Use. brain, and reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in the Dissection, same way as the right; and to prepare for the examination of the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the space is to be removed. A part of the ventricle extends down in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe towards the base of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to be earned outwards andDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 210 Five ven- tricles are in the brain. Lateral ventricle. Shape and I)osition; three comua. Consists of two parts. One is horizontal. Its roof: floor, and bodies along it. Jledian boundary-. Aperture between two. downwards, through the substance of tlic hcniispliere, along the course of the hollow. (Sec fig. 63.) Vkntricles of the brain.—The ventricular spaces in the interior of the cerebrum are derived from the subdivision of a large central hollow, and are five in number. One (lateral) is contained in each hemisphere ; and these constitute the first and second. The third occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface ; and the small fifth is included in the partition between the lateral ven- tricles. The fourth is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. The latei-al ventricles (fig. Gij) are two in number, one in each hemisphere ; they are separated incompletely in the middle line by a septum, as they communicate by an aperture below that parti- tion. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of areolar tissue covered by nucleated ej)ithelium (tlic ejiendyma ventriculorum), with cilia at some spots. Each is a narrow interval, which reaches into the anterior, pos- terior, and middle regions of the corresponding hemisphere. Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the extremities (cornua) are cui-\^ed. Thus there are three cornua in each, which have the following disposition :—The anterior is directed outwards from its fellow in the other hemisphere. The posterior or the digital cavity is much smaller in size, and is bent inwards in the occijjital lobe towards the one of the opposite side. And the inferior cornu, beginning opposite the posterior fold of the corpus callosum (a), descends in a curved direction in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, with the concavity of the bend turned inwards. For the purpose of examining its boundaries, the ventricle may be divided into an upper or horizoiital, and a lower or descending part. The upper or horizontal portion reaches from the frontal to the occipital lobe, and is shaped like the Italic letter/. The roof is formed by the corpus callosiun. The floor is irregular in outhne, and presents fi'om before backwards the following objects :—first, a small piece of the under part of the corpus callo- sum ; next, a large, gray body, the corpus striatum {e); behind this, the large white projection, named optic thalamus {g) ; and between the two last bodies is a white band (/), tajnia semicir- cularis. On the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold ut the pia mater (A),—the plexus choroides, together with the thin white half of the fornix (c). Close behind the thalamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus major) (e), in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated eminence, the hippocampus minor {i). The inner boundary (septum ventriculorum) is a thin layer wliich is sometimes named septum lucidum (fig. G3, h). Its extent corre- sponds with the central part of the corpus callosum. Below it and the fornix, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, is the aper- ture of communication (foramen of Monro) between the two lateral ventricles.211 BOUNDS (3F LATERAL YEXTRICLE. The lower or descending part gf the ventricle winds beneath the Thedescend- nptic thalamus, and forms a cm-ve like the half-bent fore finger. 1'="^* '■ The roof is formed by the optic thalamus and the contiguous part ' of the hemisphere. In the floor is a large curved, convex eminence, somewhat indented at the end,—the hippocampus major (1) ; and along its concave margin is a thin white band—tfcnia ((/), which is prolonged fi-om the fornix. External to the projection of the on1t°*^'®^ Fisr. 63.* hippocampus is another white eminence, the eminentia collateralis >(k), which tapers from above down. In this part of the ventricle is the vascular fringe of the plexus choroides. The septum lucidum (fig. 63, J), or the thin structure between the Septum lateral ventricles, is translucent, and hangs vertically in the middle line along the anterior two thirds of the corpus callosum. It is i.o.siUon, somewhat triangular in form, with the larger part turned forwards, io,.,„^ and the pointed extremity backwards. Its surfaces look to tlu; sm-faces, * View of the lateral ventricles : on the left side the descending cornii is laid open. (From a cast in the museum of University College, London.) a. Remains of the corpus callosum. 6. Septum lucidum, enclosing the small space of the fifth ventricle, c. Fornix, d. Posterior crus or tienia of the fornix, e. Corpus striatum. /. Tajnia semicircularis. g. Optic thalamus. h. Choroid plexus, i. Hippocampus minor, k. Eminentia collateralis. i. Hippocampus major, o. Digital fossa. p 2212 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. borders. composi- tion. Dissection. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix : position and form. Upper sur- face and borders. Posterior and anterior part. Under surface marked by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altogether to the- under surface of the corpus callosum ; and the lower border is. joined in part to the fornix (r), but in front of that body it is. inserted into the under or prolonged portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum. The septum consists of two layers, which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle ; and each layer is formed of white- substance, witli an external coating of gray matter. Dissection. The space of the fifth ventricle will come into view by cutting through the part of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and by detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum, and raising it. (See fig. 63.) The ventricle of the sejitum, or the fifth ventricle, is a triangular space in the fore part of the ventricular jjartition, where the depth is greatest. Like the septum containing it, its largest part is in front. Its surface has an ejjithelial covering like that in the lateral ventricles. In the adult it is closed ; but in the fetus it opens inferiorly into the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this- body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards; and the septimi lucidum should also be removed fi-om its upper surface. The fornix, or arch (fig. G3, c), is a thin white horizontal stratum beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into- the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it is continuous with the rest of the brain by processes or crura before and behind. To the upper surface of the body, along the middle line, the septum lucidum is attached. Each boi-der is fi-ee in the corres- ponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus ; and along it lies the choroid plexus. At its posterior part it joins the corpus callosum in the middle line, whilst on each side it sends; off a small riband-like band—taenia hippocampi (d), along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior part it is arched over the foramen of Moiiro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 218). If the fornix be cut across near its fi-ont, the foramen of Monro Avill be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (fig. 64). When the posterior part is raised, it will be foimd to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interpositum. And near its base (on the under aspect) between the two offsets of the tajnia) hippocampi, is a triangular surface, which is marked by transverse lines: the part which is so defined has been called the lyra (fig. 64). The fornix may be described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and afTer form-213 FLOOR OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. "ing the body of the fornix, is continued as a distmct piece to the •uncinate eonvokition. Theforaynen of Monro is the interval beneath the anterior part Thisaper- of the fornix, which opens on each side by a sHt between the edge latemf"^ of the fornix and the optic thalamus. In it the plexus choroides ventricles, lies; and through it tlie lateral ventricles communicate with one another and with the thhd ventricle. Floor of the Lateral Ventricle.—The student may leave un- in floor of touched, for the present, the membrane on which the fornix rests ; tricle is and proceed to examine, on the riglit side, the different bodies which have been enumerated as constituting the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corpus striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum) (fig. 63, striate ijocly «,) is the large gray body in the fi'ont of the lateral ventricle. It ie placed opposite the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius ; and it has received its name fi-om the striated appearance of a vertical section. Dissection. To see the composition of the corpus striatum, the pisseetiou student should slice off obliquely the upper and outer part until ture^. certain white fibres crossing it obliquely fi-om within outwards are reached. The knife should then be carried through this layer of white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the .first, is arrived at. The striate body is a pyriform mass of gray matter of consider- its form, able thickness, which is surrounded by the white substance of the liemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its and position is oblique with respect to the middle line of the brain, for i'^*"'*^"^ > the anterior part is near the septum of the ventricles, whilst the j^^'^^^^^®'^ posterior is external to the optic thalamus. By means of the jmrts by incision in the corpus striatum, white fibres can be seen to be ^^i^res. directed through it in such a way as to divide the gray matter into two parts, one being situate in the ventricle (intra-ventricular) above the white fibres, and the other outside the ventricular space ^extra-ventricular), below these fibres. The intra-ventricular piece (nucleus caudatus) is shaped like a One part kite, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed ventricle, forwards, is large and rounded; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum. The extra-ventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will be better seen, the other ^ afterwards, by sections made from the outer side or from below, cavity. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent •dissection will show. The toinia semicircularis (fig. 63, /) is a thin and narrow white T^rm^semi- band of longitudinal fibres, which lies between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. In front this band becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind it is continued, alongDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 214 ends in in- ferior cornu. Optic thalamus aftei-. Hippocam- pus in posterio coruu: how formed. Hippocam- pus major in lower cornu; lias a large eud and notched torder. Dissection. Structure of hippo- campus. Great trans- verse Assure is beneath fornix. witli the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white sub- stance of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the taenia is a yellowish semi- transparent layer (lamina cornea) ; and beneath this pass some small veins from the corpus striatum, in their course to the veins of Galen. The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage of the dissection, and its examination may be omitted till the third ven- tricle has been learnt. The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's spur (fig. 63, i), as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is pointed at its posterior extremity, and is covered on the free surface by a medullary layer continuous with the corpus callosum. When it is cut across a gray stratum will be found beneath the white ; and the eminence itself will be seen to be produced by the exten- sion inwards of the calcarine sulcus at the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 207). The Jiippocamjms major (fig. G3, Z) is the ciu'ved projection in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Convex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its concavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the largest, and presents two or three indentations, which give it the appearance of the foot of a feline animal; it is named pes hippocamjDi. Along the inner or concave margin is the small band or taenia (d) that is prolonged fi'om the fornix ; it ends below by joining the small recurved part of the uncinate convolution. Dissection. To examine more fully the hippocami^us, the parts • of the corpus callosum and fornix, which remain in the middle line,, should be divided longitudinally, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the bippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure yvill be manifest. The liippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a medullaiy layer, with which the ta3nia or the band of the fornix blends. On its opposite surface is the hollow of the dentate sulcus • on the exterior of the brain, Avhich is filled with gray substance. Along the fi-ee margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects- in the form of a notched ridge, the lamina dentata: this is external to the cavity of the ventricle, beneath the ta;nia, and has been named the dentate convolution (p. 208). Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. By drawing the separated right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thala- mus, and replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position, and the bomidaries of the great cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix, and opens into the lateral ventricle, on each side, along the edge of the fornix, from the fora- men of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The part215 VELUM INTERPOSITUM. of the slit entering the lateral ventricle is bounded by the edge of and reaches the fornix on the one side, and by the optic thalamus and crus brata"*^ cerebri on the other. A piece of pia mater projects into the trans- Pia mater verse fissure, forming a horizontal central piece, velum interposi- ^"^^'"'^ turn, beneath the fornix (fig. 64, «), and thinner lateral pieces with terminal fringes in the lateral ventricles, (/). But the slit through which the membrane enters the ventricle is closed by the lining structure of that cavity being continued on the intruded part. Fi.!'. Gl.* Parts ix the Middle Line oe Cerebrum. The student is now Parts in tiie to return to the examination of the parts in the centre of the brain, the brain, viz, the fold of pia mater and its vessels, with the third ventricle. At the same time the optic thalamus is to be seen. The velum interpositum (fig. G4, </) is the central part of the J^^^^J^^ fold of pia mater entering the great transverse fissure. Triangular mater, in shape, it has the same extent as the body of the fornix, and reaches in front to the foramen of Monro. The upper surface is in * Second view of the dissection of the brain, the fornix being cut through in front and raised. (From a cast in the Museum of University College, London.) a. Fornix, b. Hippocampus major, c. TjBnia hippocampi, or hinder crus of the fornix, d. Corpus striatum, e. Optic thalamus. /. Choroid plezas. g. Velum interpositum.DISSECTION OF THE ERAm. 216 is over third ventricle; on its lateral part is the cho- roid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Vessels of the velum. Arteries; veins; with veins of Galen. Dissection. Other choroid plexuses. Third ventricle is near Tjase of brain. Roof. Floor. Parts on the sides, in front, contact with the fornix, to wliich it supphes vessels. And the lower surface, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus : underneath it in the middle line are the two choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Along each side is another vascular roll of the membrane (choroid plexus). The choroid ^ilexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 64, /) is the red, somewhat rounded, and fiinged margin of the piece of pia mater in the interior of the lateral ventricle, which extends from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower end is larger than the upper. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous; and the villi, minutely subdivided, are covered by flattened nucleated epithelium, with fat granules and pigment in the cells.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus fi-om the cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 182) : they are three on each side, and supply the sur- rounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus re- ceive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two large veins Avith this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and by this they join the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositum has been raised and tlirown backwards, the third ventricle will be ^dsible (fig. 68). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be careful be- hmd of the pineal body (gr), which would otherwise be detached, as it is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the tliird ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two short and narrow fringed bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. The third ventricle is the inter^-al between the optic thalami (fig. 68). Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, below the level of the other ventricles with which it communicates ; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communica- tions are the following :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so that the depth of the ca^dty is about an inch in front and half an inch behind • it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie be- tween the crura cerebri and the median fissure (fig. 59), \iz. locus perforatus, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic ner\'es, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the caAdty are situate the optic thalami (&). In front of the space are the descend- mg pillars of the fornix, with the anterior commissure of the cere- • * Panicles of brain sand, like that in the pineal body, are sometimes present in the choroid plexus. ^ ico^^ui.217 THIRD VENTRICLE. brum (c) in the interval between them. Behind me the posterior ami behind, connuissure (e) and the pineal body {g). Crossing the centre of the ventricle, from one optic thalamus to anotlier, is a band of gray matter—the soft connnissure (d). This space comnumicates with the other ventricles of the brain (ipcuings in tlie following way :—In front it joins eacli lateral ventricle ieutScs through the foramen of Monro ; and in the fetus it opens into the lifth ventricle. Behind is a passage beneath the posterior commis- sure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, tliere is a depression opposite the in- Fundibulum (iter ad hifundibulum). Tlie lining of the ventricle (epcndyma) is continued into the Lining of neighboTu-ing cavities through the different apertures of comnmnica- '^'^^'•^y- tion, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Gra^/ matter of the ventricle. A stratum of gray matter covers Gray matter most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower part of each ventricle, optic thalamus it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in tlie floor of tlie cavity it exists in abun- dance, entering into the corpora albicantia. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft comviissure(d). mlssure" The anterior commissure of the cerebrum (e) is a round bundle Anterior of white hbres about as large as a crow-quill, which passes through both corpora striata, and cormects the opposite hemispheres. To see it in one half of its extent, the following dissection should be made:— Dissection. On the side on which the corpus striatum has been To see it, cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the interior of that stiiatum"^ body, by scraping away the intraventricular gray matter with the Ijandle of the scalpel. The commissure may be seen then to per- forate below the white fibres of the corpus striatum; and it should be followed through the extraventricular mass of gray matter of the same body. The anterior commissure is free in the middle line for about the Position: eighth of an inch, where it lies before the pillars of the fornix. Laterally it perforates the corpus striatum, passing in succession and course through the intraventricular gra}"- mass, the white fibres, and the extraventricular gray mass. Lastly, the commissure pierces the to hemi- white layer bounding externally the corpus striatum, and spreads ^i''"^™- in the hemisphere over the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle communicating with the temporo-sphenoidal and central lobes. The posterior commissure of the cerebrum (e) is smaller than the Po.sterioi- anterior, and is placed above the passage into the fom-th ventricle. Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus; and pierces this body to end in the hemisphere. The connections of the thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the Thalamus cerebrum (h) will be best seen on the side on which the inferior op*''^"*'- cornu of the lateral ventricle has been opened. It has the form of a cube, and bounds the lateral and third ventricles. The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral ventricle, ^^pkt^ -and is marked in front by a prominence—anterior tubercle, nearDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 218 Uuder part. luuer side. Outer side. anterior, and pos- terior euds. Corpora seuiciilata. Optie nerve. Origin. Dissection. Origin of fornix in thalamus ; liow forms cor^ins albicans. Joined by other fibres. Dissection. Pineal gland ; position, .shape, attachment to thalamus. the taenia semicirciilaiis. The under surface forms part of the roof of the inferior coriiu of the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By its inner side it enters into the third ventricle ; and along the upper part lies tlie peduncle of the pineal bod3\ On the outer side are the corpus striatum, the taenia semicircularis, and the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior end looks to the foramen of Monro. And the pos- terior part, which is free in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inferiorly two small roundish tubercles, which are placed one outside and the other inside the bend (genu) of the optic nerve, and are named from their position to it, internal and external genicu- late bodies. The structure of the optic thalamus will be subsequently referred to, p. 222. The origin of the ojitic nerve can now be seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract receives fibres from the thalamus which it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands :—One of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadi-igemina (nates) ; the other is connected with the internal geniculate body. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may be followed out next. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure, the anterior part of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of tlu^ optic nerves, should be cut along the middle line, so that the left hemisphere can be separated from the other. On the left hemi- sphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards through the gray matter of tlie third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and' then ui)wards into the optic thalamus. Anterior jnllar of the fornix. The fornix begins in the thalamus near the tubercle on the upper surface. From this spot it descends in a curved direction to tlie corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, and furnishes a white envelope to the gra}' matter of that body. The crus then ascends through the gray sub- stance in front of the optic thalamus, and is applied to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. It is joined by bands of fibres from the tienia semicircularis and peduncle of the pineal body. The pineal body and the corpora quadrigeinina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially on the right side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior part of the hemisphere of the same side may be taken away. The pineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body (fig. 08, g), which is situate above the posterior commissure, and between the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape like the cone of a pine, it is about a quarter of an inch in length, and has the base or Avider part turned forwards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two white bands,—peduncles of the pineal body (/) :.CORPORA UUADRIGEMIKA. 21f*> these begin at the base, and extending forwards, one on each side along the inner part of the thalamus, end by joining the crura of the fornix. At the base of the gland is a band of transverse white fibres which unites it with the posterior commissure. This body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses two or Structure, more cells containing a thick fluid, with amyloid bodies, and a calcareous material (brain sand) consisting of particles of phos- phate and carbonate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia and am- monia.* In its substance are large pale nucleated cells. The corpora quad rig emina (fig. G8) are four small bodies, which Corpora are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a median ^^^'^^"°' groove. Each pair is situate on the ujjper aspect of the cerebral peduncle of the same side. The anterior eminence (A, nates) is somewhat larger than the Anterior posterior, from which it is separated by a slight depression ; it is (iwtes)_ oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards a Avhite band to join the optic tract and thalamus. The posterior eminence (^, testis) is rounder in form and whiter Posterior in colour than the preceding : it has also a lateral white band (te'^tis). which is directed beneath the corpus geniculatum internum, and blends with the peduncular fibres in the thalamus opticus. These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped by Structure white, and are placed on the band of the fillet which forms the roof i^amis. of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cere- brum (p. 220). I^illet of the olivary body. If the upper margin of the cerebellum FOiet of ^^^^ be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of an inch in width, ^"'^ Avill be seen to issue from the transverse fibres of the pons, and to bend upwards over the peduncle of the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 65, *). This is the upper or commissural piece of the fillet (p. 127), which j^gfj^lfcor- passes beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and joins with the similar pora quadri- part of the opposite side over the Sylvian aqueduct. gemma. Structure of the Cerebrum. In each cerebral hemisphere three Three sets oi „, fibres m principal sets of constituent fibres are recognised, viz., diverging, cerebrum. transverse, and longitudinal. The former are in part derived from the spinal cord ; while the two latter, joining distant pieces of the cerebrum, are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their ofiice. Peduncidar or diverqinn fibres (fig. 5G). In the eras cerebri two Fii)res of 11 , 1 ,1 J. 1 • cms cerebri bundles of longitudinal fibres are collected ; these are separated, in to tiic hemi- part, by gray matter, and are derived from the medulla oblongata sphere, (p. 200). Dissection. A complete systematic view of the diverging fibres can- ^^.'^^^''^'j^'''"' not be now obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the chief * These particles are refen-ed to by Kolliker, as pathological products ; and the concentrically arranged masses amongst them are said to be incrustations of fibrin coagula.220 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. in the eor]ius striatum and optic tlialanuis. Fibres of ]iedunole ■diverge in corpus striatum and tlialanuis : their acces- -sory bands. Tn the hemi sphere they extend to •<-.onvo]u- ■tions. Fibres not reaching throughout, purpose is to show tlie passage of the radiatmg fibres from the crus through the two cerebral ganglia. To trace the diverging fibres onwards beyond the crus cerebri, and through the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus of this body should be scraped away (fig. 65); and the dissection should be made on the left side on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Keil comes into view, viz., gray matter passing between the M-hite fibres in the corpus striatum, and giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nucleus caudatus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those fibres, the upper part of the optic thalamus may be taken away at the posterior end, to denude the accessory bundles to the peduncular fibres, from the corpora quadrigemina and the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, ^): the last band lies beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Their arrangement (fig. 65, ^). Some of the diverging fibres radiate from the pedvmcle of the cerebrum to the surface of the hemi- sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus (^) and corpus striatum (^) ), and they form a conically-shaped bundle, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres forming the free or fasciculated part (crust) of the peduncle (fig. 66) pass through the striate body. The fibres on the opposite aspect, which form the tegmentum (fig. 57, (l)^ are trans- mitted through the under part of the optic thalamus, and through the corpus striatum, reaching as far forwards as, but much farther back than those of the crust. In the thalamus and the corpus striatum the fibres are greatly in- creased in number. The upper or sensory set receive also accessory bundles from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, ') in the crus cerebri (p. 200) ; and from the pair of the corpora quadri- gemina, and the corpora geniculata of the same side, in the thalamus. On escaping from the striate body and the thalamus the fibres de- cussate with the converging fibres of the corpus callosum, and radi- ate then into the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemisphere the fibres are continued to the convolutions : their expansion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in front and behind, form- ing thus a layer which is concave on the under side. Their extent. All the fibres of the peduncle do not reach the surface of the brain, for some end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially in the former. And some of the fibres in the convolutions begin in the ganglionic bodies before mentioned, and extend to the surface of the hemisphere.* Thus, in addition * AccordiDg to some authors none of the fibres of the peduncle reach farther than the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus.221 FIBRES OF CEREBRUM. to the fibres continued throughout, viz. from the crus to the surface, some unite the peduncle of the cerebrum with the ganglia, and others coimect the ganglia with the convolutions on the exterior. Their source. The fibres thus entering inferiorly the cerebrum through its peduncle, and continued thence to the periphery of the hemisphere, are derived from the component pieces of the medulla oblongata except the restiform body (fig. 57), viz., fronx anterior pyramid, lateral column and olivary body, and posterior pyramid (p. 191) : they serve to connect the spinal cord with the cerebrum. The decussation between opposite sides has been before referred to <p. 194). The transverse or commissural fibres connect the hemispheres of 65.* 8ource froni cord. Decussa-' tiou. Commissii ral trans- verse liljre!:- the cerebi-um across the middle line. They give rise to the great commissure or the corpus callosum (p. 209) : and to the anterior and posterior commissures (p. 217). Those bodies have been already examined. Longitudinal fibres. Other connecting fibres pass from before commis- backwards, uniting together parts of the same hemisphere. The ^"'{^Jjal"^' chief bands of this system are the following, the fornix, the tccnia fibres, semicircularis, and the peduncles of the pineal body. Other longi- * Connection posteriorly between the cerebrum and the medulla oblongata and cerebellum. 1. Superior peduncle. 2. Middle, and 3, inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. 4. Process from the fillet of the olivary body to the corpora quadrigemina : <in the right side it is cut and reflected. 5. Posterior pyi-amid. 6. Continuation of the lateral tract into the optic thalamus. 7. Corpora quadrigemina. 8. Optic thalamus. 9. Corpus striatum, 10. Corpus callosum.222 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. tudinal fibres may be enumerated on the upper and under surfaces of the corpus callosum, along the middle line, together with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : these fibres are connected with the anterior perforated spot of the base of the brain. Structure Structure of the optic thalamus. The thalamus is about an inch thalamus <leep, and the following is a summary of its structure, as displayed ill the previous dissections. The upper and inner half is formed chiefly of gray matter, with which the undermentioned white bands arc connected:—Thus through it pass the fornix in front, and the posterior commissure bclxind; whilst the peduncles of the pineal body lie along the inner side, and the taenia semicircularis along the outer. The lower and outer part consists mainly of wliite fibres directed upwards, and these are derived fi-om the peduncle of the cerebrum inferiorly, and fi-om the peduncle of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina superiorly : to the hinder part of them two slips of fibres are added fi-om the corpora geniculata. and of cor- The corpora geniculata contain gray substance inside. Into these Uito* bodies fibres of the optic tract enter ; and from each issues a band to join the fibres of the crus cerebri. They seem to serve as accessory ganglia to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Section of Corpus striatum. By slicing through the corona radiata on the left atmnfroin" bring into view the extraventricular nucleus of the •outside. corpus striatum, the extent and form of that mass, and the situation of the anterior commissure in it, will be apparent. Section of Crus cerebri. By a vertical section through the left peduncle of •crus ceretn. ^j^g cerebrum, the disposition and the thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres ; and the situation and extent of the locus niger between them, may be perceived. Section V. ^Prepare ■cerebellum. TarU to he separated from one ■another. Form and THE CEREBELLUM. Dissection. The cerebellum (fig. 59, h) is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife through the optic thalamus so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain united together. All the pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median fissure on the under surface; and the different bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus at the circumference, which is continued from the crus, between the upper and under surfaces. The cerebellum, httle brain (fig. 66), is flattened fi-om above down, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches across. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossae223 SURFACES OF CEREBELLUM. of the base of tlie skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres ;—the division being marked by a wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border Avhich receives the falx cerebelli. Upper Surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre (fig. G8), bu|; slopes towards the circumference. There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the halves are united by a central constricted part,—the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper fi-om the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards from the pons Varolii to the middle line of the cerebellum. The UNDER SURFACE is couvcx, being received into the fossoe of position of cerebellum. Divisions. No groove on the upper surface; halves joined by- median part. Horizontal fissure. A fissure below. Yi" 66. the base of the skull, and is divided into hemispheres (fig. 66) by a median hollow (vallecula). The central fissure, or the vallecula, is wider at the middle than which is at either the anterior or the posterior end, and receives the medulla valley, and oblongata. In the bottom of the fissure is a mass named inferior contains vermiform process (fig. 66, c to c), which corresponds with the j;^"^^."" central part connecting the halves-of the cerebellum on the upper sm-face. The two vermiform processes constitute the general com- missure of the halves of the cerebellum. Constituents of the vermiform process. In the inferior vermiform Constituents process are the following eminences, which may be easily separated process! * Under part of the cerebelhim, seen from behind, the medulla oblongata, h, being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, h. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to e. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of c. Uvula, d. Pyramid, c. Commissural lamincB. Lobes of each half of the cerebellum on the under surface. /. Subpedun- <;ular, g. Amygdaloid, h. Birentral. i. Slender. Jc. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the crus cerebri. 5. Two roots of the fifth nerve attached to the side of the pons Varolii.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 Uvula, nodule. furrowed band, velum. pyramid, and commis- sures. Lamintp and their ar- rani'ement. from one another with the handle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula (fig. 66, e), Avhich is named from its resemblance to the same part in the throat; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle (fig. 67); and on the side is a band of gray matter with ridges and sulci, the furrowed band (fig. 67, d), which unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected with the nodule is a thin white layer,—the medullary velum (h) ; but this, and the fuiTOwed band will be seen in a subsequent dis- section (p. 225). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named 2)yramid (fig. 66, d), which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse lamina?. Farther back are certain transverse pieces (e), extending between the posterior lobes of the hemi- spheres, of which they were considered by Keil to be the commis- sures. Sulci are shallow and deei). A lamina has white inside: collateral white libres: and gray oixtside. Seven lobes in each hemisphere. Two lobes on upper surface. Laviince. The surface of the cerebellum is covered by plates or laminaj (fig. 68), instead of convolutions, which form segments of circles with their convexity directed backwards. On the upper aspect the anterior lamina; pass fi'om the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those on the under aspect join the sides of the different commissures in the median fissure. Sulci. Between the laminaj are sulci, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to different depths : the shallower separate the laminaj ; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach downwards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interi-upted by cross laminaj. Structure of the laminm. On cutting across the laminaj of the upper surface on the right side they will be seen to possess a white internal, and a gray external layer (fig. 68). The white part is derived fi-om a central medullary mass ; and dividing, like the brandling of a tree, it ends in small lateral offsets which enter the subdivisions of the laminae. Besides the white stalk of the lamina;, derived from the central mass, there are other white fibres which pass from one lamina to another beneath the sulci. The stratum of gray matter enveloping the white substance re- sembles the cortical covering of the convolutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, which can be dis- tinguished by a difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is clear and gray, and about equal to the other in thickness ; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminae. Between the two a layer of ramified cells (Purldnje) may be recognised with the microscope. Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is subdivided into lobes on both aspects. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a225 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissm-e at the circumference. On the under sm-face of the cerebellum (fig. 66), there are five lobes ; and three of them are separated by sulci amongst the laminee of the hemisphere, but they are scarcely more distinct than the lobes on the upper surface. Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior lobe (A-), which joins the commissural laminfB behind the pyramid in the valley. Next in succession is the slender lobe (i), which is connected with the posterior part of the pyramid, as well as with the other transverse lamina) behind that body. And lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the hiventral lobe (Ji). The two other lobes, though smaller are more separate, and appear between the biventral lobe and the medulla oblongata : — One of these is the amygdaloid lobe (g), which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyramidal slip, which is directed outwards over (the under surface of the cerebellum being uppermost) the crus cerebelli, and is named Jloccidus, or subpeduncular lobe (/). Dissection. To see the flocculus and the posterior medullary velum, the biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted from the valley (fig. 67). The flocculus is laid bare by this proceeding, and pass- Fig. G/.* Five on sur- face, viz.. posterior, slender, and biven- tral. Two in valley : amygdaloid and floccu- lus. Dissection for floc- culus. ing fi-om it to the tip of the uvula is the thin and soft white layer of the posterior velum ; beneath the last a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can be fully seen now. Flocculus ami medullary velum. The position of the flocculus to the crus cerebelli has been before mentioned. This body (c) flo^cculus. * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebellum, with some of the lobes removed to show the posterior medullary velum, a. Uvula, e. Pyramid. b. Posterior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Sub- peduncular lobe or flocculus, d. Furrowed band. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside, g. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior surface. QDISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 226 Posterior inedullaiT veliuii. Form and attach- ments. Cerebellum is solid in- ternally. Dissection vf centre, and corpus dentatuni. White centre of cerehellum. Gives off- sets, viz., supenor peduncle Above fourth ventricle. Its fibres ]iartly de- ■cussate. • Valve of Vieussens between the two. resemLles the other lobes in structure, and may be considered a rudimentar}' lobe ; for it is divided on the surface into lamina?, and contains a white medullary centre which furnishes offsets to the laniin.T. Passing; from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior vermifonn process (nodule) is the half of a thin white layer (i), the iwsterior medullary velum, which serves as a commissure to the flocculi. On each side this band is semihmar in form. Its anterior edge is free ; but its posterior border is attached in front of the transverse furrowed band {d). In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united. Interior of the Cerebellum. In the ccrebelhnn there is not any cavitj^ or ventricle enclosed as in tlie cerebrum. In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding with that of the cere- brum, which furnishes offsets to the laminm, and to other parts of the encephalon. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminas from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accom- plished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and canying it inwards as far as the upper vermi- form process, so as to detacli the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. Medullary Centre. In the centre of each cerebellar hemisphere is a large white mass, containing in its substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are furnished to the different lamina?. And from the anterior part proceeds a large stalk-like process, the crus cerebelli, which is subdivided into three pieces or peduncles, an upper for the cerebrum, a middle piece for the pons, and a lower one for the medulla oblongata. Tlie sujjeriorpeduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is directed forwards towards the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 65,'). It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle : be- tween the processes of opposite sides the valve of Vieussens is situate. Its fibres, continuous behind with the inferior vermiform process, receive an offset from the interior of the corpus dentatum; and passing beneath the band of the fillet and the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the same side, enter the optic thalamus and are applied to the fibres of the crus cerebri (p. 220). Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the internal fibres of the peduncle are directed across the middle line, through the bundle prolonged from the fasciculus teres.* In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Between tlie superior peduncles is a thin, translucent, white layer, —the valve of Vieussens (vellum medullare anterius), which enters ♦ This intercomiuunication ^vas known to Reil, and was named " ansa" by him, b\xt the decussation has been since noticed by Stilling, Uebcr den Bau des nirnknotens: 1846.INTERIOR OF CEREBELLUM. 227 into the roof of the fourth ventricle (fig. 68, Jc). It is thin and pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of the vermiform process. Near the corpora (fuadri- ft-eniina the fourtli nerve C) is attached to the surface of the valve; and close to the cerebellum the surface is marked by some gray transverse ridges. The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem), commonly named Jiiddie the crus cerebelli (fig. Go, is the largest of the three peduncular l'"^^^"»cle processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the cerebellum, and ai'e directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transvei'se fibres, and unite with the peduncle of the opposite side. This peduncle is supposed to serve as a connnissural or connectinc" ^ luissure of band between the halves of the cerebellum. cerebeiiiuu The infenor peduncle (fig. 65, ^) (processus ad medullam) passes inferior downwards to the medulla oblongata, and gives rise to the restiform Jnedulla? body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the lamina of the upper surface of the cerebellnm. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. The fibres in the peduncles connect one cerebellar hemisphere Destination with the cerebrum ; with its fellow; and Avith the medulla oblongata °^ •of the same side, in the manner mentioned above. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the wliite Corpus den- mass of the cerebellum, and resembles the like part in the corpus ■olivare of the medulla oblongata. This body measures nearly an Situation inch from before back, and is situate near the inner part of the '^""^ white centre. It consists of a small plicated capsule, which, when ■cut across, appears as a thin, wavy, grayish-yellow line ; the bag is structure, open at the anterior part, and encloses a nucleus of whitish sub- stance. Through its aperture issues a band of fibres fi'om the nucleus to join the superior peduncle. Dissection. One other section (fig. 68) must be made to show the Dissection, fourth ventricle, and the structure of the vermiform process. The -cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes; and then the structure of the central uniting part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth A^entricle, may be obseiwed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the vermiform process (fig. 68). The upper and lower Vermiform vermiform processes of the cerebellum are united in one central part, ilke' other which connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this parts, •connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white portion and investing lamiucB. Here the branch- ing appearance of a tree (arbor vit;x)) is best seen, in consequence of the laminc'B being more divided, and the white central pieces l)cing longer and more ramified. The FOURTH VENTKICLE (fossa rhomlioidalis) is a space ])etwcen ^^'^^^^^^^^ the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata ?ind pons (fig. 68). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high Fom^aud ■as the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, to a level with Q 222S bioadth. DISSECTION OF TEE BRAIK the inferior end of the olivary body. Its greatest breadthjs oppo- site the lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in this situa- tion would divide the hollow into two triangular portions—upper Fig. 68.* cniamus and lower. The lower half has been named calamus sci'iptorius from scrirtoiius. resemldance to a writing pen. Lateral The lateral boundaries are more marked above than below. For lioundaiT. • View of the third and fourth ventricles ; the former being obtained by the removal of the velum interpositiira ; and the latter by dividing vertically the vermiform process of the cerebellum. (From a cast in the Museum of University College.) The third ventricle is the interval in the middle line between the optic thalami, h. a. Corpus striatum. 1). Optic thalamus, c. Anterior commissure, d. Middle or soft commissxire. e. Posterior commis- sure, fj. Pineal body. /. Peduncle of the pineal body, h and i. Left jmir of the corpora quadrigemina. The fourth ventricle, n, is at the Ijack of the medulla oblongata. Z.-. Valve of Vieusscns. I, Upper peduncle of the cerebellum, o, Eminentia teres, p. Anterior fossa, r. Posterior fossa, s. Posterior pyramid. 4. Origin of the fourth nerv'e from the valve of Yieussens.FOURTH VENTEICLE. 229 ^ibout half way down, the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (Z), which projecting over it forms part of the roof ; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body (fig. 55, ^). The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above Roof, by the valve of Vieussens (Z;), and the under part of the vermiform process ; and below, by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the spinal cord. The fioor of the ventricle is constituted by the posterior surfaces Floor, -of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along Parts in it its centre is a median fissure, which ends below, near the point of fissure"*^^"^" the calamus, in a minute hole,—the aperture of the canal of the ami ce'ntrui cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped elevation, cauaL the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (o). This eminence reaches the Fasciculus whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inferiorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more prominent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the lower border of the pons. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight Fovete, ^•oove, which points out the position of two small fossas (fovea anterior et posterior). The posterior (r) is near the lower end of posterior, the groove ; and the antenor (jj) is opposite the crus cerebelli. anterior. Above the anterior fossa is a deposit of very dark gray substance. Locus which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum <^r^s"^- covering it from it a bluish streak is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the White stria?, pons, are some white lines, which vary much in their arrangement (fig. 55): they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the iiuditory nerve (p. 188). Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other eminences Eminences in the floor of the ventricle indicating the position of the nuclei of nucleiJ^ origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the space are three slight eminences on each in lower side for the hypo-glossal, vagus, and auditory nerves :—that for ''^^^' the hypo-glossal is close to the middle line below, and corresponds nuclei of the with the lower pointed end of the eminentia teres. The other two, ^'"i''""''' outside that eminence, are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove (fovea posterior); the lower is vagus, the nucleus of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and the upper is the nucleus of the auditory nerve. Running into the lower auditory and rpart of the vagus nucleus, is the nucleus of the accessory portion accessory. ot the spinal accessory nerve. (See p. 189.) In the upper half of the space some other nex-ves take origin J^'^j^^iPi^c'' fi-om nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is placed over ' ' .the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial }ierve : it is a * The term locus cseruleus has been applied to the spot, and the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.230 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. nnclens of the sixth and facial. Openings of the ventricle. Its lining and ejiithc- liuui. Choroid I'lexiis of tlie cavity. Gray matter forms sur- face stratum. Special deposits. rounded elevation on the outer jjart of the eminentia teres, about a line above the white cross strife on the floor, and close behind the fovea anterior. The fourth ventricle communicates at the ujii^er part with the tliird ventricle through the Sylvian aqueduct ; and with the sub- arachnoid space of the cord and brain, through an aj^erture in the pia mater inten'^ening between the medulla and the cerebellum : laterally, the ventricular space is extended for a short distance be- tween the cerebellum and the side of the medulla oblongata. The lining of the other ventricles is jirolongcd into this by the aperture of communication with the third. Covering the floor is a columnar epithelium, which is continuous with that in the ujjper part of the central canal of the spinal cord (Clarke). In this ventricle is a vascular fold—choroid j^lexus, on each side, similar to the body of the same name in the other ventricles. It i* attached to the inner surface of the membrane (pia mater) which closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and it extends upwards on the side of the opening into the sub-arach- noid space. Its vessels are supplied by the inferior cerebellar arteiy. Graij matter of fourth ventricle. The gray matter forms a sur- face-covering for the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is continuous- below with the gray commissure of the cord, and extends upwards- to the aqueduct of Sylvius (p. 195). The special nuclei have beeii referred to already (p. 229).231 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Brachio- cephalic . , Common carotid . , External carotid . •2. internal carotid . 1. Superior thyroid lingual 3. facial 4. occipital / :!. 4. 5. 6. 5. posterior auricvilar 0. ascending pharjnigeal temporal S. internal maxillary 1. Arterise receptaculi. 2. ophthalmic. I Ilyoid branch . < larJ^lgeal (thyroid. /" Hyoid branch ) dorsal lingual \sublingual niuine. /Inferior palatine branch I tonsillitic I glandular I submental . ■{ inferior labial coronary. /inferior •' (superior lateral nasal ^angular. f Meningeal brancli (posterior cervical. } Stylo-mastoid branch ■| auricular ( mastoid. J PharjTigeal branches (meningeal. /•Auricular parotid articidar transverse facial middle temporal anterior temporal Vposterior temporal. /Inferior dental middle meningeal muscular posterior dental infraorbital spheno-palatine descending palatine vidian ^pterj'go-palatine. anterior cerebral anterior communicating middle cerebral l)(>sterii>r communicating, choroid. Lachrymal supraorbital central of the retina ciliary muscular ethmoidal ]ialpebral frontal \nasal. /I. Vertebral-^ 2. snbcla- \ viau . 2. internal mammary 3. thyroid axis . . ^Anterior spinal posterior spinal inferior cerebellar posterior meningeal transverse basilar anterior inferior cerebellar superior cerebellar, ^posterior cerebral. ■ Inferior thyroid suprascapular. transverse cervical 4. superior ( p intercostal ( ' . Ascending cervical. f Supraspinal • (infra.'^pinal. J Superficial cervical • I posterior scapidar. 2. left common carotid. ,3. left subclavian.VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 232 TABLE OF THE CHIEF VEINS OP THE HEAD AND NECK. ('Internal ju- gular Brachio-ce- l>halic is formed by/ tlie union i of 1. Lateral sinus ascending pharyngeal. 3. lingual /Superior longitudinal sinus inferior longitudinal sinus -! stniiglit sinus occijiitiil sinuses I ophtlialniic vein I superior jietrosal ^inferior petrosal. (Meningeal branches '(phaiyugeal. I" Sujierficial dorsal . < lingual I raiiine. 'Angular . inferior jialjiebral dorsal and lateral nasal veins. 4. facial /- Sujiraorbital I frontal palpebral I nasal. • anterior illary internal 5. occipital coronary buccal masseteric labial submental inferior palatine tousiUitic .glandular. (Mastoid vein ' 'i cervical. I superior ■ (inferior f Alveolar branches I infraorbital max- J descending palatine • naso-jialatine (^vidian. 6. Bnperior thyroid. {Jij:;;^, 7. middle thjToid. 1. Vertebral , subclavian .(2. external jugular f Spinal . ■< deep cemcal t ascending cervical. . Internal maxillary 2. temporal v3. anterior jugular 3. posterior auricular 4. branch to the internal jugular. 5. suprascapular '. 6. transverse cervical /Middle meningeal inferior dental • < deep temi)oral I'terygoid \ masseteric. {Anterior posterior middle temporal parotid anterior auricular transverse facial. f Auricular ' 1 stylo-mastoid. f Supraspinal ' (infrasjiinal. (Superficial cervical ' (posterior scapular.CRANIAL KERYES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 233 1. First nerve . 2. Second nerve 3. Third nerve . 4. Fourth nerve 5. Fifth or tri-facial nerve. TABLE OF THE CRANIAL NEEVES. Filaments to the nose. To retina of tlie eyeball. To muscles of the orbit. To superior oblique muscle. •'Meningeal Ophthalmic ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion superior maxil- lary lachrymal frontal .nasal ( Lachrymal ■ \ iialpebral. SSupraorbital supi-atrochlear. /- To lenticular ganglion I ciliary nerves \infratrochlear nasal. j'Connecting branches Veiliiuy nerves. /Orbital branch to Meckel's ganglion posterior dental anterior dental ^ infraorbital. ('Internal branches ( To nasal nei i to the third (to sympatlu ' To nasal nerve rd nerve [)athetic. Meckel's gang- i lion . . \ ascending descending , posterior f Malar ' (temporal. (Nasal ' \ naso-palatine. To the orbit. j" Anterior palatine , < jiosterior (.external. (Vidian 1 pharyngeal. /Deep temporal fSman or muscular paiJ |"uc^i^"'' Vpterj'goid. inferior maxil- , laiy . . \ Auriculo-teinporal Uarge or sensoi-y part / gustatory otic ganglion submaxillary , ganglion t Connecting branches ( branches for muscles. Connecting branches branches to the glands and tlie mucous mem- brane of the mouth. .inferior tlental { To Jacobson's ner\'e i to the fifth and sym- (. jiatlietic. To the gustatory, chorda tyiiipani, and sympathetic. (Articular and to meatus parotid auricular temporal. To submaxillary and sublingual ganglia to hyiKiglossal to the tongue. ("Mylo-hyoid . J labial (incisor.234 CRANIAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 6. Sixth nen e TABLE OF CRANIAL NEBVES—COntlnmd. To extenial loi tus. Connecting; branches Seventh nerve, or facial . ( Brandies for dis- tributioii To join auditor^' to Meckel's ^'anglioii tyinjianic and syni- l>atlietic nerves the chorda tynipani. , Posterior auricular ' digastric branch stylo-hyoid branch. teniiioro-facial 8. Eighth nen e, or auditory 9. Ninth nerve, or glosso-| pharyngeal . ' Connectintc branches Branches for (lis tribiitiou cervico-facial , To the portio dura I neiTe to cochlea. ■ nerve to vestibule C To vagus J to sympathetic. \ Jacobson's nen-e . ("To carotid artery to the pharj'nx tonsillitic branches ( Temporal . malar (infraorbital. C Buccal . J. supramaxillary (infraniaxillary. /To the common sac ' to the saccule ^. to the semicircular canals. f Joins otic ganglion, t supplies tympanum. -i Lonsiuuic muscular \lingual. (Connecting branches 10. Tenth nei-ve, or pnetimo-, gastric . • . .\ ,' To glosso-pharyngeal I .symjiathetic and au- i ricular nerves Lto the hypoglossal. Pharyngeal nerve. Branches for dis- > tribution superior laiyngeal cardiac nerves. Vnferior laryngeal / External laryngeal a.scending f to the , ,. { mucous descending (membrane to join the inferior laiyu- geal. ' Cardiac esophageal, tracheal to constrictor and muscles of larynx , to join superior larj-ngeal. f To pneumo-gastric . t to the cenical plexus. accessoi-y (Connecting branches Branches for dis- ( To stenio-niastoideus tribution . \ and trapezius. /"To the pneumo-gastric I nei-ve : to the sympathetic /Connecting I branches 12. Twelfth nerve, lingxial or J hjiioglossal • to loo]) of atlas vto gustatory nerve. / Descemlens noni Branches for dis-J thyro-hyoid nerve • tribution . j to the lingual muscles V and tongue.SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 235. TABLE OP THE SPINAL AKD SYMPATHETIC NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Spinal Nervc'is. /The fu-st four form the Cervical Plexu.s, which "ives /Anterior branuhes The cen-icnl spinal nerves- divide into ^Superficial asceudiu' superficial deseeudin;: deep intemal ( Small occipital uer\ o < great auricidar ■ (superficial cervical. I" Supraacromial < supraclavicular ■ (suprasternal. To the pneumo-gastric: to the hypoglossal to tlie synipatlietic to join the spinal accessory , nerves to descendens uoni. To rectus nauscles to diaphragm deep muscular . -j to the sterno-mastoideus j to the traijezius \to the levator anguli seapulic. posterior branches The last four and part of first dor- sal form the Brachial Plexus, which gives . ^ Are distributed to I the muscles of tho Branches above the clavicle ' The rhomboid nen'e to the phrenic nerve , suprascapular nerve I subclavian branch jiosterior thoracic I to the scaleni muscles. ^branches below Are dissected with the limb. upper 1 back, and give off cutaneous nerves. Sympathetic Ncr\ c. o : 2. MitMle cervical ganglion 3. Inferior cervical ganglion ( Ascending branches, which unite in plexuses 1. Superior cervical ganglion has . Carotid plexus, gives ( Branch to tympanic plexus s,which 1 to the vidian ."l^to tlie sixth and fifth cranial Cavernous jilcxus, which gives branches nerves. (To the third cranial nerve to the fourtli cranial nerve -{to the fifth and lenticular gani;- lion. [to tlie carotid artery and branches. external branches intemal branches branches to vessels |-External branches *i internal . (Anterior branches internal . To join i)neunio-gastric and hypoglossal nerves to the spinal nerves. (■ Pharyngeal branches \ superficial cardiac nen-e. Nervi molles. . To the spinal nerves. / Middle cardiac; nerve .-! to supi)ly tliyroid body ami ( join the external laryngeal. . To tlie subclavian artcrj-. ( To the spinal nerves forming ■ I vertebral plexus. , Inferior cardiac nen-e.CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Section I. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. Directions for the • dissection. Position of tlie 'body. ]\[arking of tlie surface. Arm-iiit. Head of 1 lone to he felt. Shoulder arch of bone. Iiitermus- ■rnilar de- pressions. Arm: its The parts included in this section, viz., the wall of tlie chest and the axilla, are to be learnt within a fixed time, in order that the examination of the thorax may be undertaken. Whilst the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his labours on the upper limb ; but, on the completion of that cavity, he must be ready to begin the part of the Back that belongs to him. Position. Whilst the body lies on the Back, the thorax is to be raised to a convenient height by a block; and the arm, being slightly rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle to the trunk. Directions. Before the dissection is entered on, attention should be given to the depressions on the surface, to the prominences of muscles, and to the projections of the bones ; because these serve as guides to the position of parts beneath the skin. Siaface-marking. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the arm-pit, in which the large vessels and nerves of the limb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the fore and hinder boundaries are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this spot the skin is of a dark colom-, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different directions, whilst the lingers of one hand are placed in the arm-pit, the head of the humerus may be recognised. On the outei- side of the limb is the prominence of the shoulder; and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed in- ternally by the clavicle, and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Continued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle, is a slight depression between the pectoral and del- toid muscles, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle, corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and sternal origin of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the bicepsPARTS ON FRONT OF THORAX. 237 muscle ; and on each side of that eminence is a groove, which prominence- subsides inferiorly in a depression in fi-ont of the elbow-joint. The '"^"^ gi"oov.w. inner of the two grooves, the deepest, indicates the position of the brachial vessels. If the elbow joint be semiflexed, the prominences of the outer Promi- and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, espe- j^^*:",',',^!^! t,,^ cially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it elbow joint, by a slight interval, the head of the radius projects ; it may be recognised by rotating the bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissection. As the first step in the dissection, raise the skin from Dissection the side of the cliest and the arm-pit, over the great pectoral muscle inte'nimon^^ and the hollow of the axilla, by means of the following incisions :— One is to be made along the middle of the sternum. A second, earned along the clavicle for tlie inner two thirds of that bone, is to be continued down the front of the arm rather beyond the anterior fold of the ann-pit, and then to be turned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hinder iold of the axilla. From the xiphoid cartilage a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The flap of skin now marked out should be reflected outwards Reflect skin, beyond the axilla ; but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used afterwards for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the same Fascifc, structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region it does not supernciai, contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger special and deep: fascia which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the side of the chest, but be- comes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An where incision through it, over the arm-pit, will render e^adent its increased ^'"ckest. strength in this situation, and the casing it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of confining an abscess in that hollow. Disi^ection. The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to Dis.section be next sought. At the spots where they are to be fo^^nd they are °erves or""* placed beneath the fat, so that the student must cut through it; the chest, and those on the clavicle He also beneath the platysma muscle. Small vessels will indicate the position of the nerves. Some of them (fi-om the cervical plexus) cross the clavicle at hom cervi- the middle, and the inner part. Others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each inter- costal space. And the rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about one inch below the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal and inter- space except the first : as the last-mentioned nerves pierce the wall ' of the thorax, they divide into an interior and a posterior piece.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 238 nerve of Wrisberg. -Cutaneous nerves of ■••ervical plexus. Cutaneous branches of intercostals; two rows. One along middle line. Tlie other I •on side of the chest: these have anterior and liosterior jiieces. ■One reaches .the arm. 'Third nerve. Office of the breast. The posterior pieces of the highest two nei-ves are larger than the rest. They are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junc- tion is to be found there with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous nerves of tlie cervical plexus. These cross the clavicle and are distributed to the integuments over the pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number and larger in size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near tlie lower border of the pectoralis major ; they join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived fi-om the trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs (fig. G9), Of these there are two sets:—One set, lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arise fi-om the trunks of the nerves about mid way between the spine and the sternum. The other set, anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves piercing the pectoral muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments as slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cerA^cal plexus ; and the others supply the integuments and the mammaiy gland. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany the nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves (fig. 69) issue Avitli companion vessels between the digitations of the serratus muscle, and divide into an anterior and a posterior piece. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk. The anterior offsets bend over the pectoral muscle, and end in the integuments and the mammary gland : they increase in size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second inter- costal trunk wants commonly the anterior offset. The jJosterior offsets C) end in the integuments over the latis- simus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula, and decrease in size from above down. The branch of the secoiid intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and perforates the fascia of the axilla ; it supplies the integu- ment of the arm (p. 26G), and is named intercosto-humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg (^) by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal gives filaments likewise to the arm-pit and the inner part of the arm. The MAMMA is the gland for the secretion of the milk, and is situate on the lateral aspect of the fore part of the chest.* * If the student has a male body, he may disregard the description of the mamma ; and if_ the body is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.MAMMARY GLAND. 239 Resting on the great pectoral muscle, it is hemispherical in form, Form and but it is rather most prominent at the inner and lower aspects. Its I'^'^'t'o"; dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a breast not enlarged by ahaensious lactation, the width is commonly about four inches. Longitudinally it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from six and weight, to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises Position and the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or manulla. This J^ippi",^ prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly tm-ned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring,— tho areola: the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is influenced by the complexion of the body, and is altei'ed during the times of men- colour is •struation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is provided with numerous papillae and lubricating glands ; giauds. and on the surface are some small tubercles marking the position of the ducts of the glands. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in Breast of general form, though it is less prominent; and it possesses a small ^^''^ nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. In its texture the mamma resembles those compound Structure, glands which are formed by the vesicular endings of branched -ducts. It consists of small vesicles which are united to form •lobules and lobes. Connected witli each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing fat, surrounds the gland, investing and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes ; but in the ultimate structure of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septa fix tlie gland and nbrous to the skin, and support it; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of " ^' Sir A. Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or cells at the ends of the most miimte Jcxture nnd 11 r>ii 1 -ji -11 iov\n of the ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with mdk or mercuiy vesicles. :^re just visible to the naked eye, being al)0ut the size of a small .pinhole in paper. (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes. A collection of the vesicles around their ducts form the lobule or glandule, which varies in size from a pin's head i„i,ules, and to a small tare. By the union of the lobules the lobes are produced, {J^'j^^gl^'' of which there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named Liictiferons from their office galactophorous ; they converge to the areola, where ^ they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sacculi) of one- sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become straight; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one240 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. open on end another, and gi-adually nan-owing in size, to open on the summit of nipple. apertures varying fi-om the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Structure. Like many other excretory ducts, tlie milk tubes consist of an external or librous, and of an internal or mucous coat; the}' and the vesicles are sheathed by a columnar epithelium, which becomes flattened towards the outer opening. Small glands Beneath the skin of the nipple and areola are branched lubricating of skin • glands, which open on the tubercles before mentioned. Arteries of Bloodvessels.—The arteries are supiDlied liy the axillaiy, internal mammary, the glaiul j^j^j intei'costal, and enter both surfaces of tlie gland. The veins end principally and veins, in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; but others enter the inter- costal veins. Nerves. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the thorax, viz., from the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. Lymphatics. The lymphatics of the inner side open into tlie anterior mediastinal glands : but on the outer side they reach the axillary glands. Dissection Dissection (fig. 69). With the limb in tlie same position to the nuisc'le?'^'^' trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat fi-om the sm-face of the great jiectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at the lower border on the right side, and at the upper border on the left side. Remove fat The fascia and the fat are to be taken from the axilla, without of axilla, injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning first the large axillary vessels at the outer part, Avhere these are about to enter follow the arm : and then following their branches which are directed vessels. chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundaiy, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves along the posterior boundary. Some arterial twigs entering the axillary glands should be traced out. Clean hack In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles in the posterior of space. boundary of the space, the small internal cutaneous nerve of the musculo-spiral should be looked for near the great vessels. Trace nerves The large neiwes of the brachial plexus are then to be defined, of plexus, rpj^g smallest of these, which possibly may be destroyed, is the nerve of Wrisberg : it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and on inner When cleaning the seiTatus muscle on the ribs the student is to wall. j^pgj. j^j^ surface the posterior thoracic nerve; and to trace the posterior offsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla. THE AXILLA. an!r'fnnn of axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig 69). the arm-pit. It is somewhat pyramidal in form, and its apex is directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as folloAvs : Boundaries. Boundaries. In front and behind the space is limited by folds.BOUNDARIES OF AXILLA. 241 Avhich are constructed by the muscles passing from the trunk to the upper limb. In the anterior fold are the two pectoral muscles, The pector but these take unequal shares in its construction, in consequence of fl'iut^"* the difference in their size and shape :—thus the pectoralis major ' A extends over the whole front of the space, reaching fi-om the ■clavicle to the lower edge of the anterior fold ; whilst the pectoralis minor B, which is a narrow muscle, corresponds only with the middle third of the space. In the posterior boundary, from above Fig. 69.* "downwards, lie the subscapularis f, the latissiraus dorsi miiscle D, «.nd the teres major E : this boundary reaches farther out than the ai"! latissi- nnterior, especially near the humerus ; and its lower margin, which a'nd^subswi- as formed by the latissimus dorsi, projects forwards beyond the level of the subscapularis. On the inner side of the axilla lie the first four ribs, with their P^iis at tue , ' inner una mtervenmg intercostal muscles, and the part or the serratus magnus ■c taking origin from those bones. On the outer side the space has outer sides. * View of the dissected axilla (Ilhistrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, b. Pectoralis minor, c. Serratus magnus. D. Latissimus dorsi. E. Teres major, f. Subscapularis. o. Coraco-bracliialis. H. Biceps. Vessels: a. Axillary artery, i. Axillary vein. c. Subscapular vein. d. •Subscapular artery, e. Posterior circumflex artery. Nerves: 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Ulnar. 4. Musculo-spiral. 5. Nerve of Wrisberg. 6. Internal cutaneous of musculo-spiral. 7. Subscapular. 8. Posterior pieces of the lateral cutaneous of the thorax. 9. Anterior pieces of cutaneous of the thorax. KDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 242 Situation of the apex and l>ase. Contents of the space. Position of lai'jje vessels and connec- tions witli vein and nerves. oflfeeta Situation of branches in front. l)eliiud. inside. but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus and the coraco-- bracliialis and biceps muscles (g and h). The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the forefinger may be introduced into the space for the purpose of ascertaining the upper- boundaries, and the depth. The base or widest part of the j^yraniid is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis reach- ing fi'om the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary vessels - and the brachial plexus, with their branches ; some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the tmnhs of vessels and nerves. The large axillaiy artery (a) and vein (&) cross the outer portion of the space in passing from the neck to the upper limb. The part of each vessel now seen lies- close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered only by the common superficial cover- ings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the subscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (g). On looking into the space from below, the axillary vein (6) lies on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median trunk (') to the outside, and the ulnar (^) and the small nerve of Wrisberg (*) to the inner side ; the internal cutaneous gene- rally superficial to, and the musculo-spiral (^) and circumflex ners^es beneath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this spot. Position of the branches of vessels and nerves. The several branches of the vessels and nerves have the imdermentioned position with respect to the boundaries :— Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic artery runs to the side of the chest; and taking the same direction though nearer the middle of the hollow, are the small external mam- mary artery and vein. Extending along the posterior fold, within its lower margin and in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the sub- scapular vessels and nerves {il and ') ; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nen'-e (e) ' bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks. On the inner boundary, at the upper part, are a few small branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle • but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free fi-om vessels with respect to any suro-i'cal operation. Lying on the surface of the sen-atus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforating the inner boundary of the space are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets243 PECTORALIS MAJOR MUSCLE. of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-humeral. The lymphatic glands of the axilla are arranged in two sets : one i.jnnphatic is placed along the inner side of the bloodvessels ; and the other occupies the lower and hinder parts of the space, lying near and along the posterior boundary. Commonly they are ten or twelve in number ; but in number and size they vary much. Small vas- cular twigs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands by the side of the bloodvessels receive the lymph- atics of the arm ; and those along the hinder boundary are joined by the lymphatics of the fore part of the thorax and posterior sur- face of the Back, as well as by some from the mamma. Most of the efferent ducts unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lym- end in the phatic duct of the neck of the same side ; some may enter separately duct!^^*'" the subclavian vein. The TECTORALis MAJOR, A, is triangular in shape, with the base at Pectoraiis the thorax and the apex at the arm. It arises internally from the ^ ^ front of the sternum, and the cartilages of the true ribs except the gj^^lj.'^a^'^™ last ; superiorly from the sternal half of the clavicle ; and inferiorly clavicle, from the aponeui-osis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions,—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those from the lower ribs upwards beneath the former ; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove ^"^^^^j'*'^ of the humerus for about two inches. humerus. This muscle bounds the axilla anteriorly, and is connected some- times to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures and the mamma, the platysma covers the pec- toraiis major close below the clavicle. A lengthened interval, which Parts cover- corresponds with a depression on the surface, separates the clavicu- ' lar from the sternal attachment. One border (outer) is in contact ifo°"i^i.s with the deltoid muscle, and with the cephahc vein and a small artery ; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. The parts covered by the muscle will be seen sub- sequently. Action. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle will move ^o^'^'''^ wards the limb until the elbow reaches the fi-ont of the trunk, and will rotate it in. When the limb is raised, the pectoraiis depresses and adducts it; raised, and acting with other muscles inserted into the opposite side of the humeiTis, it may dislocate the head of that bone when the lower end is fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both limbs fixed as in chmbing, the trunk will be ^^^'^^ raised by both muscles ; and the ribs can be elevated in laborious breathing. Dissection (fig. 70). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across Dissection, now in the following manner :— Only the clavicular part is to be first divided, so that the branches C'^y^^^^'^f" of the nerve and artery to the muscle may be found. Eeflect the the pectoral. B 2244 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Divide tlie rest of the muscle to see its insertion. Tendon of insertion of l>ectoralis. Parts covered Ity tlie muscle. Pectoralis minor arises from chest: inserted into coracoid. Connections "With parts around. Use on scapula, on Ids. cut part of the muscle, and press the limb against the edge of the table, for the pui-pose of raising the cla^^cle and rendering tight the fascia attached to that bone ; on carefully removing the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged frona the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous costo-coracoid sheath will be seen close to the clavicle, covering the axillary vessels and nen'-es. At this stage the cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses in- wards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromial thoracic artery, which perforate the tube of mem- brane around the vessels, are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut about its centre, and the pieces may be thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat coming into view is to be removed ; and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be followed to the humerus. Insertion of the pectoralis. The tendon of the pectoralis consists of two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to tlie bone ;— the anterior receives the claA-icular and uj^per sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wnde, and sends ujiM^ards one ex- pansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and another to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered by the pectoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the ])ectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOR (fig. 70, ^) resembles the preceding muscle in shape, and is extended like it fi-om the thorax to the arm. Its origin is connected by slips with the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages; and between the ribs, with the aponeu- rosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in forming the middle of the anterior boundary : in that position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- ing nerves. The upper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with the short head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis. Action. Acting with the serratus magnus it moves the scapula fonvards and somewhat downwards. In laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, as it takes its fixed point at the scapula. '245 COSTO-CORACOID SHEATH. Dissection. Supposing tlie clavicle raised by the pressing backwards Dissection the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels SS""'^"* will be demonstrated by niakhig a transverse cut in the costo-cora- fascia, coid membrane near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. By raising the lower border of the sub- clavius this muscle will be seen to be incased by fascia, which is attached to the bono both before and behind it. The costo-coracoul membrane, or ligament (fig. 70), is a firm Costo-cora- membranous band, which receives this name fi-om its attachment on \^^^ aue the one side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the scapula. Between those points it is inserted into the clavicle, en- conceals closing the subclavius muscle ; and is joined by the piece of fascia that incases the small pectoral muscle. From its strength and position it gives protection to tlie vessels suiTOunded by their loose sheath. When traced downwards it is found to descend on the axillary and joins vessels and nerves, joining externally the fascia on the coraco- vessels.*'^ brachialis muscle, and blending with the sheath of the axillary vessels beneath the small pectoral muscle. Its extent is not so gi'eat on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves, E, is derived from Sheath of the deep fascia of the neck, being prolonged from that on the "^^^^^^^ • scaleni muscles ; and resembles, in its form and office, the fiumel- shaped tube of membrane surrounding the femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, strongest where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior part of the ^'^^ ' tube is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromial thoracic artery (a), and the anterior thoracic nerve (^). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined. Clean the the remains of it are to be taken away; and the subclavius muscle, and the axillary vessels and nerves with their branches, arc to be carefully cleaned. The SUBCLAVIUS muscle (fig. 70, ^) is roundish in form, and is Subclavius placed between the clavicle and the rib. It arises by a tendon from the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in fi'ont of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres ascend is attached obliquely, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of a?id fet rib. the clavicle, which reaches between the two tubercles (internal and , external) for the attachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, Cormec- and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula ; but Use. if the shoulder is fixed it elevates the first rib. The AXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 70) continues the subclavian trunk Axninir to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name is applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the lower extent; border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (u).DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 246 course, In the axillar)^ space its position will be marked by a line from the middle of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis. arched in Its direction Avill vary with the position of the limb to the trunk ; the axiUa. f^j. ^v}ic„ the ami lies by the side of the body the vessel is cui-ved, its convexity being upwards ; and in proportion as the limb is re- Fig. 70.* The depth varies. Connec- tions :— ahove small pectoral; with muscles, moved to a right angle with the chest, the artery becomes straight. In the upper part of the axilla the A-essel is deeply placed, Init it becomes superficial as it approaches the arm. Its connections with surrounding parts are numerous ; and the description of these will be methodised by dividing the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. Above the small pectoral muscle the artery is contained in the axillary sheath of membrane, e. This part is concealed by the clavi- cular portion of the great pectoral nmscle. Behind it are the * Second view of the dissection of the thorax (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Pectoralis major, cut. b. Pectoralis minor, c. Serratus magnus. D. Subclavius. e. Axillary sheath, f. Rubscapularis. g. Latissimiis dorsi. H, Teres major, j. Coraco-trachialis. k. Biceps. Vessels: a. Acromial- thoracic branch, h. Long thoracic branch, c. Subscapular branch, d. Ax- illary artery, c. Cephalic vein. /. Brachial veins joining the axillary vein, g. Nerves: 1 and 2. Anterior thoracic branches. 3. Subscapular branch. 4. Nerve to the serratus. 5. Intercosto-huraeral branch.247 AXILLARY ARTERY. -intercostal muscles of the first space and the fii-st digitation of the serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein ((/). The cephalic vessels, vein (e), and offsets of the acromial thoracic artery and vein, cross over it. On the acromial side lie the two cords of the brachial plexus, nerves, separated fi-om the vessel by a slight intei-val. Superficial to it lies an anterior thoracic nerve ; and beneath, is the posterior thoracic. Beneath the xiedoralis, the pectoralis minor and major B and A . • are superficial to the axillary vessel. But there is not any muscle ^^.^^^ dmmediately in contact behind, for the artery is placed across the iimscles, top of the axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position re- ■-quired by the dissection. The companion vein (^7) lies to the inner side, but separated fi'om vein, the arterial trunk by a bundle of nerves. In tliis position the cords of the brachial plexus lie around it, one nerves, being outside, a second inside, and a third beneath the artery. Beyond the X)ectoralis minor the artery is concealed in part by the And. beyond lower border of the great pectoral muscle A, but thence to its tomlT'^" -termination it is covered only by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are the subscapularis muscle, F, and the tendons of the with lUUSClGS latissimus and teres, G and H. To the outer side is the coraco- brachialis muscle, J. The axillary vein remains as above on the thoracic side of the witii vein, artery. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves and nerves, into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer -side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nei-ve of Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter <?xtending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of Branches t» the thorax and the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in ^^^'^ t^oi-ax number ; two (superior and acromial thoracic) arise from the artery •above the pectoralis minor; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle; <ind one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. The last offsets are the external mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest offset, Upper.^ and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side ■ of the chest, anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. The acromial thoracic branch (fig. 70, a) is a short trunk on the Acrmuiai^ front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pecto- l.^I.ge, Talis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral iind deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed inwards, outwards, .:and upwards :— a. The inner set supply the thoracic muscles, and give a few offsets and suppUesDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 248 thorax and slioulder: inferior aei-oiuinal oifset, imiscular ofl'sets. Alar tho- racic. Long tho- racic. Extcrnnl mauiiimry. Subscapular has a dorsal branch, and infra- scapular. Two cireuin- flex. Muscular. Axillary vein, extent and connections, Branches. Dissection of brachial plexus. to tlie side of the chest to anastomose witli tlie intercostal and other- thoracic arteries. h. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid ; but one small artery accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance ; and another (inferior acromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and anastomoses on the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery of the neck. c. One or two small twigs ascend to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, and its place is taken by offsets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries y it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axillary space. The long thoracic branch is directed along tlie border of the pecto- ralis minor (fig. 70, b) to about the sixth intercostal space ; it suppKes the pectoral and sen-atus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic artericB. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. An external mammary artery is commonly met with, especially in the female ; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a companion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the preceding. The suhscajnilar branch (fig. 70, courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magims, and the latissimus doi'si and teres muscles : it gives many offsets to the glands of the space. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal branch roimd the edge of the subscapular muscle : this gives an ivfrascapular offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, Avhere it will be afterwards dis- sected. The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial; artery. The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise near the border of the subscapular muscle. One turns in front of, and the other behind the humerus. They will be followed in the examina- tion of the arm. Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis nmscle. The AXILLARY VEIN (<jf) Continues upwards the basilic vein of the arm and has the same extent and connections as the axillary artery.. It lies to the thoracic side of its artery, and receives thoracic and shoulder branches. Opposite the subscapular muscle it is joined externally by a large vein, which is formed by the union of the venas comites of the brachial artery; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. To follow out the branches of the brachial plexus cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid process, and turn it towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are next to249' BRACHIAL PLEXUS. be cut across below the second rib,*' and to be drawn down with hooks ; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS results fi-om the union of the anterior Nerves branches of the four lower cervical nerves with the first dorsal (in brachial part) ; and a slip is added to it above fi-om the lowest nerve in I'l'^^^'s. the cervical plexus. It is placed partly in the neck, and partly in ^^'^ situation the axilla, and is di^'ided opposite the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 72). The part below the clavicle has the same connections with the sur- and connec- rounding muscles as the axillary artery. The nerve trunks interlace in it generally in the followmg manner :— At first the plexus consists of two bundles of nei-ves, which lie Tiie nerves on the outer side of the JfrteryT-aod are thus constituted ;—the one cords*^'^'^^ nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical with the part of the first dorsal nerve; and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical neiTes. A little lower down a third or posterior cord is produced by the union of two fasciculi, one fi-om each of the other bundles ; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus con- around the .sists of three large cords, one being on the outer side, another on the inner side, and the third behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some deviation fi-om the above mentioned an-angement. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle arise from the and give several cords in the following way :— vlz.'^''^'*^''" The outer cord gives origin to one anterior thoracic branch, the from the musculo-cutaneous trunk, and the outer head of the median ner\^e. obiter. The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, the i""cr, and inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches, and ends posterior in the circumflex and musculo-spiral trunks. ' Onlv the thoracic and subscapular nerves arc dissected to their ^^'^ foUow- , •111 • 1 '11'*^ seen, tennination at present ; the remannng neiwes will be seen m the viz., aim. The anterior tJioracic branches (fig. 70, ^ and ^), two in number, two anterior- are named outer and inner, like the cords from which they come. '^i'^*-'^' The outer nerve crosses inwards over the axillary artery, to the o^^t^r under surface of the gi-eat pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch. The inner thoracic branch turns upwards between the artery and and inner, vein, and after receiving the offset fi-om the other, ends in many branches to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the gi-eat pectoral muscle, after passing either through the pectoralis minor or above its border. The subsccqndar nerves are three in number, and take their names Ti^^^J^^^J^l'- from the muscles supplied :— * The student must be careful not to cut tlie vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 aipper, lower, and louy siib- scai)ulai'. Tosterior tlioracic. Latissimus ilorsi. Insertion, Dissection of the ser- ratus. Seri'atus jiiuscle is attaclied to tlie ribs and scapula, . and its fibres seem to fonu tliree parts. Connections of tlie . muscle. Use on scainila. Dissection The branch of the snbscapiilaris is the highest and smallest, and enters the upper part of that muscle. The nerve of tlie teres major gives a small offset to the inferior part of the subscapularis, and ends in its muscle. A long nerve of the latissimus dorsi (^) takes the course of the subscapular artery along the posterior wall of the axilla, and enters the fleshy fibres near the outer end. Another small nerve, nerve to the serratus (*), (posterior thoracic), lies on the surface of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 72), from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; it descends behind the axillary arteiy, and enters that surface of the serratus magnus which is turned towards the axilla. The LATISSIMUS DOKSi MUSCLE, G, may be examined as far as it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising from the spinal column and the back of the trunk, and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove by a tendon, one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a bursa intervenes between them near the insertion. Dissection. To lay bare the serratus muscle between the side of the chest and the base of the scapula, the arm is to be drawn fi-om the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus may be cut through opposite the third rib ; and the fat and fascia should be cleaned fi-om the muscular fibres. The SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE (fig. 71, a) extends between the scapula and the thorax. It arises by nine pointed processes fi'om the outer surface of the eight upper ribs,—the second rib having two pieces ; and between the ribs it takfes origin fi'om the aponeurosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge towards the base and angles of the scapula, but fi"om a difference in their direction the muscle appears to consist of three parts. The V2^2^er part is attached internally to the first two ribs and an aponeurotic arch between them ; and externally, to an impression on the ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle. part, which is very thin, extends from the second, third, and fourth ribs, to the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, Avhich is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates Avith like processes of origin of the external oblique muscle ; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the special surface on the costal aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The serratus is applied against the ribs and the intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves : in the ordinary position of the arm the scapula and the subscapularis are in contact with it. Action. The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried forwards. But the lower and stronger fibres can move forwards the lower angle, rotating the bone around an axis through the centre, and raise the acromion. Dissection. The intercostal muscles will be brought into view by251 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. ■^detaching the processes of origin of the scrratus from the ribs for a couple of inches, and by taking away the loose tissue on the sur- face. Towards the front of the chest is a thin aponeurosis, which is continued forwards from each external intercostal to the sternum; this is to be retained in the third intercostal space. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The INTKRCOSTAL MUSCLES are named from their position between the ribs. There are two layers in each space, but neither occupies the whole length of the space. The direction of Fig. 71.* the fibres diifers in each stratum ; for, wliilst the fibres of the external muscle run very ob- liquely downwards and forwards, those of the internal have an oppo- site direction between the osseous parts of the ribs, so that the two sets cross. The external muscle is fixed to the outer mar- gin of the ribs of each intercostal space, and consists of fleshy and tendinous fibres. Pos- teriorly the fibres begin at or near the tubercle of the rib; and ante- riorly they end short of the middle line, but after a different manner in the upper and lower spaces :—In the intervals between the true ribs, they cease near the costal cartilages, and a thin aponeurosis is continued onwards fi'om the point of ending to the -sternum. In the lower spaces they arc continued between the cartilages (Theile) reaching the end of the ribs in the last two. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle will be seen by cutting through and removing the external layer and the fascia in one of the widest spaces, say the second ; it will be recognised by the 'difference in the direction of the fibres. Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib above, the intercostal nerve and artery will appear, A branch of the nerve 'to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscle ; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forwards in one or more spaces to the sternum, and the sur- face of the thorax. The hinder part of these muscles will be seen in the dissection of .the Back and thorax. of the inter- costal muscles. Intercostal iimscles are two layers. Outer layer is deficient anteriorly ; difference above and below. Dissection of deeper muscle,] of nerves and vessels. * Diagram of the serratus magnus muscle, a, attachments.DISSECTION OF THE TIPPER LIMB. 252 Inner layer ileficicut beliiud; joins inter- nal obli(iue below. Use of outer nmscles ; inner layer, laterally, in front. Both actintr. Dissection t>f internal nianiniaiy vessels. Triangularis stemi is in the tliorax and attaehcd to the libs. Connec- tions. Use. The internal infercosial muscle, attached to the inner border of the ribs bounding the intercostal space, begins in front at the ex- tremity of the ribs, and ceases behind near their angles. Posteriorly they do not end at the same distance from the spine, for the upper and lower approach nearer than the middle ; and, anteriorly, in the two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with the internal obliciue of the abdomen. One surface is covered by the external muscle and in part by the intercostal vessels and nei-ve ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Action. By the alternate action of the hitercostal muscles the ribs are moA^ed in respiration. The external intercostals elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, so as to enlarge the thorax in the antero-posterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspiration. The internal intercostals act in a different way at the side and foro part of the chest. Between the osseous parts of the ribs they depress and turn in those bones, diminishing the size of the thorax ; and they are brought into use in expiration. Between the rib-cartilages they raise the ribs, and become muscles of inspiration, like the outer layer. If both sets of muscles contract simultaneously the motion of the ribs will be aiTested ; or if two or more ribs are broken near the spinal column, the muscles of the space or spaces injured will be imable to move these bones. Dissection. To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilages of the true ribs, except the first and seventh, are to be taken away with the intei-vening muscles on the right side of the body;* but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nerves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI (fig. 72, a) is a thin nmsclc beneatlt the costal cartilages. It arises internally fi-ora the side of the xiphoid cartilage, from the side of the sternum as high as the third costal cartilage, and usually from the inner ends of the lower three true costal cartilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most oblique, and are inserted by fleshy fasciculi into the true ribs except the last two and the first, at the junction of the bone and cartilage, and into an aponeurosis in the intercostal spaces. The muscle is covered by the ribs and the internal intercostals^ and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura. Its lower fibres touch those of the transver- salis abdominis. Action. The muscle assists in depressing the anterior ends of the * On the left side the vessels and the muscle will have been destroyed by the injection of the body.253 INTERNAL MAMMARY VESSELS. courses through thorax to abdomen. Tibs ; and by diminishing the size of the tliorax, it becomes an ^expiratory muscle. The internal mammary artery is a branch of the snbcLavian Internal (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartihage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch fi-om the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixtli and seventh ribs ; there it gives ex- ternally a large muscular branch (musculo-phrenic), and passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath ■^of the rectus muscle in the wall of the -abdomen. In the chest the artery lies -on the pleura and the triangularis stevni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The follow- ing Jrauf/ies take ori- /£ IHffi^ MMK^^^^^^ Branches gin in the thorax:— a. A small brand i (^comes nervi plirenici) arises as soon as the Artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm along the phrenic nerve. h. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains mediastinal, of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni nniscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, intercostal, one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating branches^ one or two opposite each space, pierce jj^^l^Ti^gg"" the internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves: the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the musouio- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the wall of l]!-",""),*^ the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm : it supplies anterior brandies to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which Veins, opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves, seen now in the anterior part of their extent, intercostal are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and supply to phrenic nerve. * View from behind of the attachments of the triangularis sterni muscle, A.254 DISSECTIOX OF THE UPPER LIMB. course, termina- tion, and branches. Intercostal arteries branch into two: offsets. At this stage the tliorax and back are dissected. the wall of the thorax. Placed at first between the layers of the- intercostal muscles, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax, about niichvay between the spine and the sternum. Diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is con- tinued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal intercostal muscle as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends, as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The aortic intercostal arteries lie with the nerves between the strata of intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib bounding the intercostal space. About the mid point of the space (from before back) the artery bifurcates :—one branch follows the- line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib ; both, anastomose anteriorly with the intercostal offsets of the internal mammary artery. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous- nerve of the thorax ; and other branches are furnished to the thoracic wall. Directions. The dissector of the upper limb waits now the ap- pointed time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the body is turned he is to take his share in the dissection of the Back, and to proceed with the j^arts marked for liim in. Chapter Y. After the Back is finished the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through, the soft parts connected with the scapula. ^ Section II. Position. Dissection of muscles. Muscles inserted into upper margin of the scapula. into lo-wer margin ; SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS.. Position. After the limb has been separated from the trimk it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection. The different muscles that have been traced to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and the Back,, are now to be cleaned, and to be followed to their insertion into' the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining the osseous attachment. Between the larger rhomboid muscle and the serratus magnus at the base of the scapula, run the posterior scapular artery and vein whose ramifications are to be traced. * To the borders and the angles of the scapula the following muscles- are connected :— From the upper margin of the scapula arises one muscle, the omo- hyoid (fig. 73, E). At its origin that muscle is about half an inch wide ; it is attached to the edge of the bone behind the notch, and sometimes to the ligament which converts the notch into a foramen. The lower margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head of the-r SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE. 255. triceps (fig. 79, a), and to some fibres of the teres major ; but these attachments will be ascertained in the ^Drogress of the dissection. The 6ase of the bone has many muscles inserted into it (fig. 74). into the Between the superior angle and the spine is the levator anguli ^''^"^ • scapula?, H. Opposite the spine the rhomboideus minor, J, is fixed. And between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major, K, is attached : the upper fibres of this muscle end often in an aponeurotic arch, and are connected indi- rectly to the bone by means of an expan- sion from it. Internal to those muscles, and inserted into all the base of the scapula, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 73, n). On the inner surface of the upper and lower angles of the scapula the fibres of the serra- tus magnus are col- lected. On the outer surface of the inferior angle lies the teres major (fig. 79, g) which will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the fore part of the upper surface of the coracoid process may be ascertained at this stage of the dissection (fig. 73, f). Dissection. By the separation of the seiratus fi-om the subscapularis Dissection a thin fascia comes into view, which belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins : after it has been observed, it may be removed. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its insertion of sub- into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the off- ^^capuians. sets of these to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig. 73, a) occupics the under surface Subscapu- of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. The muscle arises fi-om the concave surface on nils tiic the ventral aspect of the scapula, except at the angles, and this at- gc"apuia°^ tachment reaches forwards nearly to the neck ; it is united also to * View of the subscapularis and the surrounding muscles. The other muscles fixed into the base of the scapula are shown in fig. 74. A. Sub- scapularis. B. Teres major, c. Latissimus dorsi. d. Serratus magnus. e. Omo-hyoideus. f. Pectoralis minor, g. Biceps, h. Coraco-brachialis. a. Supra-scapular artery. 1. Supra-scapular nerve imssing through tlie notch. Fig. 73.* coid process..DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. 256 is inserted into hunie- iriis. •Connee- 'tions. Use with ami loose and fixed. Dissection of the ••small infra- : sciipular : artery. Position of limb. Dissection •of the .fihoulder. •Cntaneous Kcrves. Dissection of deltoid muscle. the ridges of tlie bone by tendinous processes. Externally it is in- serted by a tendon into the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by ilesliy fibres into the neck for nearly an inch below that process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves and the sen-atus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which commimicates generally with the synovial membrane of the joint. The lower border projects much beyond the bone ; it is contiguous to the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and the long head of the triceps : along this border is the subscapular artery, which gives backwards its dorsal branch. Action. It rotates in the hanging limb ; and when the humerus is raised it depresses the bone. If the humerus is fixed the subscapularis supports the shoulder joint with the other scapular muscles. Dissection. The subscapular muscle is to be separated from the scapula, but a thin layer of fibres, in which the vessels lie, is to be left on the bone ; as it is raised its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder joint, and the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anasto- mosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres. The infrascapular artery ramifies on the ventral surface of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 248) : entering beneath the subscapularis muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra and posterior scapular branches. Position. The examination of tlie muscles on the opposite surface of the scapula may be next undertaken. For tliis purpose the scapula is to be turned over ; and a block, which is deep enough to make the shoulder prominent, is to be placed between that bone and the arm. Dissectioti. The skin is to be removed fi-om the prominence of the shoulder, by beginning at the anterior border of the deltoid muscle. After its removal some small cutaneous nen'-es are to be found in the fat:—the upper of these extend over the acromion ; and another comes to the surface about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid nuiscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, super-acromial, descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 57). A cutaneous hranch of the circumflex nerve (fig. 74, ") turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and fascia are now to be taken from the fleshy deltoid, its fibres being made tense at the same time. Beginning- at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards along the fibres, in order that its coarse muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. As the257 DELTOID MUSCLE. posterior edge is approached, the cutaneons nerve and artery escaping from beneath it, are to be dissected out. At the same time the fascia may be removed fi-onr the back of the scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE IS triangular in form (fig. 74, ^), with the Deltoid base at the scapula and clavicle, and the apex at the humerus. It arises from nearly all the lower edge of the spine of the scapula, ^'"'s^i- from the anterior edge of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into a triangular impression, two to three inches long and Insertion, about one inch wide at the base, above the middle of the outer ►surface of the humerus. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis major muscle Adjacent and the cephalic vein; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the trapezius to the bones of the shoulder ; the insertion is united with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus is attached on each side of it. Action. The whole muscle raises the humerus, and abducts it Use on fi'om the trunk. The limb being raised, the anterior fibres will ^^^'^ cany it forwards, and the posterior fibres will move it backwards. When the humerus is fixed as in climbing, the muscle assists in fixed limb, supporting the weight of the body, and strengthening the shoulder joint. Dissection (fig. 74). The deltoid is to be divided near its origin. Dissection and is to be thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels and ^eitoid?^^ ners'-e beneath will pennit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the head of the humerus comes into sight. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve ; and the size of the bursa having been looked to, the remains are to be removed. The insertion of the nruscle should be examined. Parts covered by deltoid. The deltoid conceals the head and upper Parts end of the humerus, and those parts of the dorsal scapular muscles the deltoid. which are fixed to the great tuberosity. A large bursa, sometimes divided into sacs, intervenes between the head of the humerus and tlie under surface of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. Dis-section. Bv following back the posterior circumflex vessels and Dissection ^ of iiostc^i'if f nerve through a space between the humerus and the long head of circumtlcx the triceps, G, their connection with the axillaiy trunks will be vessels, anived at. In clearing the fat from the space a branch of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous tissue. Arching outwards in front of the neck of the humerus, is the small and anterior. anterior circumflex artery : this is to be cleaned. The circumflex arteries arise near the termination of the axillary Two circum- g flex arteries258 DISSECTION OF THE CPPER LIMB. trunk (p. 248) ; they are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position to the neck of the humerus, anterior and The anterior hranck is a small artery, .^Inch benej h^^^ coraeo-brachialis and biceps muscles, and ascends m the bicipital groove to the articulation and the head of the humerus : it anasto- moses with small offsets of the posterior circumflex, posterior • The posterior circumflex artery (fig". 74, a), larger m size, winds postenor, ^^^^^^^^^^ ^ ^^^^^^ ^^.^^^.^.^ the humerus and the long head Fig. 74. of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromial thoracic and upper profunda arteries. its offsets. Branches are given from it to the head of the humerus and the shoulder joint, and to anastomose with the anterior circumflex artery. It supplies branches likewise to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integuments. One circnni- The circumflex nerve (fig. 74, ^) leaves the arm-pit with the posterior ilex nerve; circumflex arteiy (p. 249), and bends round the neck of the humerus, * View of the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula, and of the circumflex vessels and nerve. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Mxiscles: a. Supra-splnatus. B. Infra-spinatus. c. Teres minor, d. Teres major, e. Latissimus dorsi. F. Deltoid. 0. Triceps (long head), h. Levator anguli scapulae, j. Rliom- boideus minor, k. Rhomboideus major. Arteries : a. Posterior circumflex artery. I. Branch to teres minor, c. Dorsal scapular branch of subscapular. Nerves: 1. Posterior circumflex. 2. Its cutaneous ofl"set to the arm. 3. Branch to the teres minor muscle.DORSAL SCAPULAR MUSCLES. 259 beneath the deltoid muscle in which it ends. Many and large branches ends in lenter the deltoid, and terminate in it ; one or two filaments pierce '^'^^^^^ • .the fibres and become cutaneous. Branches. In the axilla it gives an articular filament to the under branches: part of the shoulder-joint. Behind the humerus it furnishes an offset f^i'ti'^i'ii"", ■ to the tei'es minor (■^), which has a reddish gangliform swelling on *° it. And at the edge of the deltoid it gives origin to the cutaneous cutaneous. nerve (') before noticed. The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 74, ^) occupies the infraspinal part infraspiua- of the scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus. The muscle frmn"^^** larises from the infraspinal fossa, except at tluee spots, viz. the neck, fossa of that and the lower angle and inferior border where the teres nuiscles "^"^^^' are attached ; it arises also from the lower side of the spinous pro- •<;ess, and fi-om the special fascia covering the surface. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle impression insertion, on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins the tendons of fthe supraspinatus and teres minor. A part of the muscle is subcutaneous, and the fibres arising fi'om partly the spine of the scapula overlay the tendon : the upper portion is |ieito\d! concealed by the deltoid ; and the lower end, by the latissimus dorsi. The lower border is parallel to the teres minor, with which other eon- it is sometimes united. The muscle lies on the scapula and the I'ections. humero-scapular articulation, but between it and the joint is a small bursa. Action. With the humerus hanging it acts as a rotator outwards ; Use. and when the bone is raised it will move the same backwards in concert with the hinder part of the deltoid. The TERES MINOR (fig. 74, ^) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often ^^^^f ^"'^"^j united inseparably with the precedhig muscle, along whose lower tue scapula, border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula from a special surface along the upper two thirds of the inferior costa of the bone, and from the investing fascia ; and it is inserted by a tendon into Insertion, the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy fibres into the humerus below that spot—about an inch together. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid ; it rests on the long Parts _^ liead of the triceps and the shoulder joint. Underneath it the dorsal '"^'"^"^ '' branch of the subscapular artery turns. Action. The arm hanging the muscle rotates it out and moves it Use on arm, back ; the arm being raised the teres depresses the humerus. In climbing it supports the joint like the preceding scapular on joint, muscles. The TERES MAJOR nmscle (fig. 74, ^) is extended from the inferior Teres major, angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from the rough Origin, ■surface on the dorsum of the bone at the inferior angle ; fi-om the inferior costa as far forwards as an inch from the long head of the triceps ; and fi-om the fascia covering the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon which is inserted partly into, and partly behind the insertion, inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla; Minoent 8 2260 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. tendon and bursaj. Use on swinfriuK and fixed limb. Spaces be- tween the teres. Anterior and posterior. Dissection of ligaments of the cla- vicle, capsular; and of scapula. Union of the <-laviclc and scapula. Coraco-cla- vicular has a conical and a square piece. and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the- humerus (fig. 70). At its origin it is covered by the latissimus- dorsi. The upper border is contiguous to the subscapularis muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. At the humenis the tendon of the muscle is one inch and a half to two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latissimus: the two are separated above by a bursa ; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa lies between the tendon and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs it is carried back behind the trunk and is rotated inwards by the muscle. The humerus being raised, the muscle depresses and adducts it. With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower angle of the scapula to move forwards. Below the scapula (inferior costa), where the teres muscles sepa- rate fi'om one another, is a triangular inten^il, which is bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and below by the teres muscles. This space is divided into two by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, which is of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve pass : and opposite the posterior triangular space, the dorsal branch (c) of the subscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection (fig. 75). In order that the acromion process may be sawn through to expose the supraspinatus muscle, the ligaments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injured by such a pro- ceeding, should be next dissected. A ligament (coraco-clavicular) ascends from the coracoid process to the mider part of the clavicle : on remo"\nng the areolar tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and posterior, diifering in size, and in the direction of the fibres. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be recognised by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passing transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process ; and a small fasci- culus (posterior proper ligament), placed over the notch in the superior costa, are then to be defined. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula (fig. 75). The clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct joint with the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-cla^^cular) between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two parts, each having <a different direction and designation. The posterior piece C), called conoid fi-om its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process ; and by its base to the tubercle and the contiguous part of the under surface of the claAncle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part (-), trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid261 LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE. piece : it is connected inferiorly to the inner border of the caracoid process along the hinder half ; and superiorly to the line on the under sm-face of the clavicle which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament support the scapula in a state Usoofiiga- of rest: they serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of Fig. 75.* that bone ; thus when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and when upwards, by the conoid piece. Acromio-clavicular articulation. The articular surfaces of the Joint with claAacle and acromion pi-ocess of the scapula are retained in contact by a capsule formed of strong fibres. Some of the fibres are tliicker Capsiiie. above and below, and are considered to constitute a superior and an inferior ligament. An inter articular fihro-cartilcuje generally exists at the upper part Fibro-carti- of the joint; but sometimes it forms a complete interarticular ^"^^e, septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there ai-e two synovial ana synovial membranes present in the joint; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. Movements. In this articulation there are limited fore and back Movements and up and down movements of the scapula. Besides, there is a gliding movement of the acromion on the in rotation clavicle in rotation of the scapula. For instance, when the aero- ° ^ mion is depressed, its articular surface moves from above down at tlie fore part of the joint, and from below up at the back. When * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the shoulder joint (altered from Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Anterior ligament of the scapula. 4. Posterior scapular ligament, o. Capsule of the shoulder joint. 6. Tendon of the long head of the biceps entering the joint. 7. Tendon of the subscapularis muscle. S. Coraco- humeral ligament.262 DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. Ligaments of scapula. Posterior and anterior: this is fonned of two pieces. Use. Dissection. Siipraspina- tus; origin is inserted into hume- rus. Connec- tions. Use. Dissection of sujtra- scapular vessels. Supra- tlie acromion is elevated the surface moves in exactly the opposite, way. Scapular Ligaments. The special ligaments of the scapula are two in number, anterior and posterior, and extend from one part, of the bone to anotlier. The 2^ost£rior ligament (^) is a narrow fasciculus of fibres stretching across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. By^^ one end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, tlu'ough which the suprascapular nerve passes. The anterior or coraco-acromial ligament (•') is triangular in form, and extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, .where it is much wider, it is . attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder joint. The ligament consists usually of two thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thin inten^ening part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder joint, which stope the ascent of the head of the humerus. Dissection. To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion process is to be sawn through, and to be turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle : but in the repetition of the dissection of the upper limb, the bone may be left uncut for the purpose of seeing the use of the coraco-acromial arch. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be taken away after it has been observ^ed. Tlie surRAsriNATUs muscle (fig. 74, ^) has the same fonn as the hollow of the bone it fills. It arises from the surface of the supra- spinal fossa of the scapula, except fi-om the cervical part ; from the upper side of the spine of the bone and from the fascia covering the surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder joint, and is inserted into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion process; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Action. It comes into use with the deltoid in raising the limb, and supporting the joint. Dissection (fig. 79). The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the scapula can be traced by detaching from behind foi-wards the supra and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nen^c which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinal fossa ; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath tlie teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anas- tomosis between those vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The suprascapular artery (a) is derived from the subclavian263 DORSAL SCAPULAR VESSELS. trunk, and is one of the branches of the thyroid axis (p. 70). scapular After a short course in the neck it passes over the Hgament at the "■'^^^^^ superior costa, and crossing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends ends in in the infraspinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus tus^aud muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular, and the posterior scapular artery of the subclavian. Beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes a supraspinal branch for gives a the supply of the muscle, the bone, and the shoulder joint. hruid.^'^^^ The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external vein, jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve Q) is a branch of the brachial plexus fj,"^',[|!^y'^^^' (p. 73). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it enters the supra- spinal fossa beneath the posterior special ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus; and is continued be- t>raiiches. neath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder joint, Articular, and other offsets to the scapula. The posterior scapular arteiij rims along the base of the scapula Posterior beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing offsets to them and the arte^f'^ surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the Back. The dorsal branch of the suhscapidar artery (h) (p. 248) turns Dorsal below the inferior costa of the scapula, opposite the posterior of subscapular the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infra- ai-tery. spinal fossa beneath the teres minor, it supj^lies that muscle and the infi"aspinatus, and communicates with the suprascapular artery. This vessel sends a branch along the dorsum of the scapula between the teres muscles, towards the inferior angle of the bone. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves Position on the fi-ont of the arm the hmb should lie flat on the table, with the front uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder parts and inci- of the arm and elbow' joint. To reflect it, make one incision along gj-^^^ the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the elbow ; and at the termination, a second cut half roimd the forearm. Strip now the skin from the limb, as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 76) maybe sought first in .^''^^ = Ig-J^y^^g' they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of the forearm is the median vein, wliich bifurcates rather below the elbow. External264 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Trace cuta- neous nerves of outer side and innef side of the limb. Superficial fat. Tlie cuta- neous veins are median vein: divides into two branches. Position and connections of median cephalic, and of to this is a small vein (radial) ; and internal to it are tlie anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the foreai-m. At the elbow these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cephaUc) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves may be next traced out. Where they per- forate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat; and this layer must be scraped through to find them. On the outer side of the arm, about its middle, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral are to be sought. In the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm; and rather external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset fi-om it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third, seek the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it encloses the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and the connections of the super- ficial veins in fi-ont of the elbow are to be attentively noted by the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised in one of them. The median vein of the forearm (fig. 76, -) divides into two branches, internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an olfset from a deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins (■') to form the basiHc vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The connections of the two veins into which the median bifur- cates, are described below :— The median ceplialic vein (fig. 76) is directed obliquely, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the forearm. Beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous neiwe ; and over it some small offsets fi-om that nerve are directed. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is generally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet, it does not generally yield much blood, in consequence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The median basilic vein (fig. 76, l) is more horizontal in directionCUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. 265 Fig. 76. than the precedmg, and crosses the brachial artery. It is larger than the corresponding vein of the outer side of the ann, and is firmly supported by the underlying fascia,—the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by fibres from the biceps tendon, intervening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerv'e lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median basilic is the vein on which the operation of blood-letting is com- monly performed. It is selected in con- sequence of its usually larger size, and more superficial position, and of the ease with which it may be compressed ; but fi'om its close proximity to the brachial vessels, the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The basilic vein (fig. 76, commencing as before said, ascends near the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, where it passes beneath -the deep fascia, and is continuous with the axillary vehi. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial arter3% The cephalic vein (fig. 70, -) is derived chiefly from the external branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small: it is continued to the shoulder along the ■outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most part along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the axilla. A few Ij^mphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and end as the others in the axillary glands. One or more superficial lymphatic glands are commonly found near the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves. SThe superficial nerves of the arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-humeral) all arc derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo-spiral and nmsculo-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves, large and small, (from the plexus,) a third internal cutaneous fi-om the musculo-spiral, and the intercosto-humeral nerve. median ba- silic vein. Veuesectrioa is jiractised iu this branch. Basilic vein on innei- side of the arm. Cephalic vein at onter side. Snperflcial lymphatics. Glands. The super- licial nerves. * Cutaneous veins and nerves at the bend of the elbow. (Qiiain's " Arteries.") —1. Median basilic vein. 2. Median vein of the forearm bifurcating. 3. Anterior ulnar veins. 4. Cephalic vein formed by radial from behind and the median cephalic in front. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is by the side of it. 5. Basilic vein, with the large internal cutanoous nerve by its side. 6. Brachial artery, with its companion veins (one cut). 7. Radial vein.266 DISSECTION OF THE AEM. Two exter- nal cutane- ous ol'iiius- ciilo-spirul, upper, and lower. One of nius- culo-cuta- neous. Two inter- nal cutane- ous of bradi- ial plexus: large and small. Cutaneous of niusculo- spiral. Intereosto- humeral. Deep fascia of the arm. Disposition above and below; foms inter- niusculav septa. Directions to be ob- ser^'ed. External cutankous Nervks. llie external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nei-ve are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the limb about the middle. The u]i2^er small one turns- forwards with the ccplialic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The loioer and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments, is continued to the forearm. The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. Internal cutaneous Nerves. The larger internal cutaneous nei^ve perforates the fascia in two parts, or as one trunk that divides, almost directly into two :—Its external branch passes beneath the median basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the internal winds over the inner condyle of the humerus to the back of the forearm. A cutaneous offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla,, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. The small infernal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nei-ve gives offsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces, and joins- above the elbow the inner branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. The internal cutaneous Iranch of the musculo-spiral nerve, becoming subcutaneous in the upper third, winds to the back of the arm, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The intercosto-lmmeral branch of the second intercostal nerve (p. 238), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and ramifies in the inner side and posterior surface of the ami in the upper half. But the size and distribution of the nerve will depend upon the develop- ment of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the musculo- spiral. The aponeurosis of the ann is a white shining membrane which sun-ounds the limb, and sends inwards processes between the muscles. Over the biceps nuiscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessoiy fibres from the subjacent tendons:—thus in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectorali& major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is continued to the foreann, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of the humerus so as to give rise to the intermuscular septa of the ann. Directions. As the back of the arm will not be dissected now the skin may be replaced on it until the front has been examiiiedMUSCLES OF THE ARM. 267: And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, these should be tied together with string in their natural position to one another, and fastened to the coracoid process. Position. The limb is still to lie on the back, but the scapula is j^"*'^*'^" to be raised by means of a small block ; and the bladebone is to ' " be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissection. The aponeurosis is to be reflected fi'om the front of Dissection the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the integuments ; and it is to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife nnist be an'i vessels,. can-ied in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle ; and to prevent the displacement of the brachial ai-tery and its nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elbow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels : elbow liollow the artery should be followed into it, to show its ending in the radial and ulnar tnmks. Muscles on the Front of the Arm. There are only three muscles on the fore part of the arm. The one along the centre of of the ana. the limb is the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the line above the outer condyle. The BICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 78, ^) forms the prominence obser\'able Biceps lias on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either loiig head end ; and the upper part consists of two tendinous pieces of dif- ferent lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head arises from the apex of the coracoid process in common with the coi*aco-brachialis muscle (fig. 73); and the long head is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder joint (fig 89). Muscular fibres sprhig from each tendinous head, and blend about the middle of the arm in a fleshy belly, which is somewhat flattened from before back. In- insertion feriorly the biceps ends in a tendon, and is inserted into the tubercle of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At the upper fi^^'^^ cover- part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid nuiscles ; and at the lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow, having previously given an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are the brachialis anticus nuiscle, the '?^"'^ beneath musculo-cutaneous nei-ve, and the upper part of the humerus. Its i,„icr border inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of 1.^^=^^'^;^^^.*? the humerus, but above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle inter- venes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius, will be afterwards learnt.DISSECTIOX OF THE ARM. 268 Use on radius, and tlie trunk, on humerus. Coraco- Imicliialis. Origin. Insertion. Connections of surround- ing pai'ts. 'U33 on linil), Jianging .-aid fixed. Brachial artery ex- tends to elbow. Position to bone, and in the limb. •Connec- tions with miiscles and fasci.T, with veins. Action. It bends tlie elbow-joint, and acts powerfully in supi- nating the radius. When the body is hanging by the hands it will apply the scapula firmly to the humerus, and Avill assist in raising the trunk. With the arm hanging and the radius fixed, the long head will assist the abductors in removing the limb fi'om the thorax ; and after the limb is abducted, the short head will aid in restoring it to the pendent position. The CORACO-BRACHIALIS (fig. 73, is roundish in form, and is named fi-om its attachments. Its origin is fleshy from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous short head of the biceps. Its fibres become tendinous, and are inserted, below the level of the deltoid muscle, into the ridge on the inner side of the liumerus : from the insertion an aponeurotic slip is continued ujDwards to the head of the humerus, and is joined by fleshy fibres. Part of the muscle is beneath the pectoralis major (fig. 78), and i'orms a prominence in the axilla ; but the rest is superficial, except at the insertion where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nen'e. The coraco-brachialis conceals the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex artery, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. Along the inner border are the large artery and neiT'es of the limb. Perforating it is the musculo-cutaneous nen'-e. Action. The hanging limb is adducted to the thorax by this muscle ; and the action is greater in proportion as the humerus is removed from the trunk. The humerus being fixed, the muscle will bring down the scapula, and assist in keeping the articular surfaces of the shoulder joint in apposition. The BRACHIAL artery (fig. 77, ^) is a continuation of the axillary trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminates raflier below the bend of the elbow, or " opposite the neck of the radius" (Quain), in two branches—radial and ulnar, for the forearm. In the upper part of its course, the vessel is internal to the humerus, but afterwards in front of that bone; and its situation is indicated by the surface depression along the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In all its extent the brachial artery is superficial, being covered by the^ integuments and the deep fascia ; but at the bend of the elbow it becomes deeper, and is crossed by the prolongation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following niuscular connections (fig. 78) :—Whilst it is inside the humerus it is placed over the long head of the triceps, r, for two inches, but separated partly by the musculo-spiral nen^e and profunda vessels; and over the inner head, g, of the same muscle for about an inch and a half. But Avhen the vessel turns to the fi-ont of the bone it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, c, and on the brachia'lis anticus, H. To the outer side are laid the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, c, and b, the latter overlapping it. Veins. Vena? comites lie on the sides of the artery (fig. 78, d)BRACHIAL ARTERY. 269^ encircling it with branches, and the median basihc vein crosses over it at the elbow. Tlie basilic vein is near, and inside the artery above, but is superficial to the fascia in the lower half of the arm. The nerves in relation with the artery are the following :—The and with internal cutaneous (-) tom uer\cs is in contact with the Fig. 77.* vessel until it perfo- rates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve C) hes to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco - brachialis muscle; and the mus- culo-spiral (fig. 69, "*) is behind for a dis- tance of two inches. The median nerve (^) is close to the A'essel throughout, but alters its position in this way :—as low as the insertion of the coraco- brachialis it is placed on the outer side, but it then crosses ob- liquely either over or imder the artery, and becomes internal about two inches above the elbow joint. Peculiarities in posi- tion. The brachial trunk may leave the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and course along the intermuscular .septiUD, with or without the median nerve, to the inner condyle of the hu- merus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinaiy position in front of the elbow, either through or beneath the fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide Deviation in position. * Axillary and brachial arteries and their branches. (Quain's "Arteries.") —1. Axillary artery and branches : the small branch above the figure is the highest thoracic, and the larger branch close below, the acromial thoracic. 2. Long thoracic branch. 3. Subscapular branch. 4. Brachial artery and branches. 5. Superior profunda branch. 6. Inferior profunda branch. 7. Anastomotic branch. 8. Biceps muscle. 9. Triceps muscle. The median and ulna nerves are shown in the arm ; the median is close to the brachial artery.270 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projecting bony point of the humerus. In muscular Muxcular covering. In some bodies the Immeral artery is covered by an coverii)^'. additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. Its branches iire muscular; ■snpenov jirofunda, inferior lirofuada, ■nutrient of the bone, and anas - toniotic. Aben-ant branches. Veins end in the axillary. Nerves on front of arm. Median iier\-e with the artcrj-; Branches spring both externally and internally fi-om the brachial artery (fig. 77). Those on the outer side, muscular^ supply the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus ; those on tlie inner side are named superior and inferior profunda, nutritious, and anastomotic. The superior jirofimla branch (') is larger than the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of the teres major; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the tricejis muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm. The inferior in'ofuncla branch (") arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nen-e to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It arises often in common Avith the superior profunda artery. A nutritious artery of the bone shaft begins near the preceding branch, and enters the large aperture about the middle of the humerus; it is distributed to the osseous and the medullar}- substance. The anastomotic branch (') arises one to two inches above the elbow, and courses inwards through the intermuscular septum to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery inosculates with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent branches, ar.d gives twigs to the triceps muscle : one of the offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus with a branch of the superior profunda. In front of the elbow joint the anastomotic branch sends an offset to the pronator teres muscle: this joins the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Vasa aherrantki. Occasionally long slender vessels connect the brachial or the axillary trunk with the radial artery : the accessor^'- vessel very rarely ends in the ulnar artery. The BRACHIAL VEINS (fig. 78, d) accompany the artery, one on each side, and have branches of communication across that vessel • they receive contributing veins corresponding with the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they miite into one, which joins the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Nerves of the Arm (fig. 78). The nen^es on the front of the ann are derived from the terminal cords of the brachial plexus. Few of them furnish offsets above the elbow, but they are con- tinued, for the most part without branching, to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been referred to (p. 265). The median nerve Q) arises from the brachial plexus by two roots one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord (p. 249). ItsNERVES OF THE ARM. 271 ilestiuation is to the palm of thu hand ; and it accomjianies the brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer side of the arlery, the nerve crosses over or under it about the middle of the arm, and is placed on the inner side a little above the elbow. It does not give any branch in the arm ; but there maybe a fasciculus has not any <.'onnecting it with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections •with muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ulnar nerve (■*), derived from the inner cord of the brachial Ulnarnerve plexus, ends at the inner side of the hand. In the arm the nerve Fig. 7S.* lies at first close to the inner side of the axillary, and the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; then leaving the blood-vessel, it is directed inwards through the inner intermus- cular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps, is without There is not any branch from the nerve till it reaches the elbow fo™as^tiie joint. elbow. The inUrnal cutaneous C') is a tegumentary nerve of the forearm, Tntemal , . , . . , 11-1 ii 1 1 • • r 1 • ciitaucous to whicli it is prolonged nke tlie others. Arising irom the inner nerve be- cord of the plexus, it is at first superficial to the humeral artery as J'^l^g^'.^^*^'"^ far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 266). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integu- ments of the arm. The small internal cutaneous nerve (^) (nerve of Wrisberg) arises Nerve of with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is iwrtiy xlirected inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and * Muscles, and deep vessels and nerves of the arm. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, b. Biceps-, c. Coraco-brachialis. D. and E. Latissimus and teres, f. Long bead of tbe triceps, o. Inner bead of triceps, h. Bracbialis anticus. iVmr.'?; 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Nerve of Wrisberg. 4. Ulnar. 5. Muscular to tlic triceps; and 6, internal cutaneous from tbe musculo-spiral.DISSECTION OF THE AEM. 272 Mnsculo- I'utaneous nerve in the ana. Its nuisciilar brandies. Dissection. Define bracliialis, bencatii tiie joins witli the intcrcosto-humeral nerve. Aftenvards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as tlic middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 266). The musmlo-cntaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii), named from supplying muscles and integuments, ends on the surface of the fore- arm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of tlie pectoralis minor (fig. 70) and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis : it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The neixe furnishes branches to tlie muscles in front of the humerus, viz., to the coraco-brachialis as it passes through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle Avill be brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be v/ell defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the bracliialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated the musculo-spiral nerve with a small arteiy comes into sight. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 78, ^) covers the elbow-joint, and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, viz. fi-om all the inner, but fi-om only the upper part of the outer (about one inch and a half). The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the fi'ont of the coronoid process of the ulna (p. 289). This muscle is concealed by the biceps. On it lies the brachial artery, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-spiral nei-ves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two parts the attachment of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy pieces of the flexor pro- fundus digitonnn. The iniicr border reaches the intermuscular septum in all its length; but the outer is separated from the external intermuscular septum below by two muscles of the fore- arm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus. Action. The brachialis brings forwards the ulna towards tlie humerus, and bends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in chmbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the elbow-joint by raising the humerus. Bradiialis anticus. OriKin. Insertion. Connection of surfaces, of borders. Use, fore- arm free, and fixed.TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF ELBOW. 273 BACK OF THE ARM. Position of the i)art. How to lay bare the triceps. and separate pieces. Position. Daring the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semitlexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 79). On the back of the arm there is one muscle, the triceps, with the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profimda vessels. The skin having been reflected already, the muscle will Fig. 79.* be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, cany an inci- sion along the middle of the limb to a little below the elbow ; and in reflecting it, the sub- aponeurotic loose tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads of the muscle, and trace the musculo- spiral nerve and vessels beneath it. Define the outer head which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve appears on the outer side. The TRICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 79,) is divided superiorly into three parts or heads of origin, iimer, outer, and middle : two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle piece, or head, A, is the longest, and has a tendi- nous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of the shoulder joint. The outer head, B, is narrow and ai'ises from the back of the of outer head, * Dissection of the dorsal scapular vessels and nerve, and of the triceps muscle of the arm. Muscles : A. Long head of the triceps, b. Outer head, with a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the humerus, c. Inner head of the triceps, n. Anconeus, longus. F. Extensor carpi radialis longus. o. Teres major. H I. Infra-spinatus, cut across, j. Supra-spinatus, cut tlirough. Supra-scapular, b. Dorsal scapular, c. Posterior circumflex, Supra-scapular. 2. Posterior circumflex. Triceps muscle has tlu-ee heads. Origin ot middle head. E. Supinator Teres minor. Arteries : a. Nerves • 1.274 DISSECTIOX OF THE ARM. and of inner head. Direction of the fibres. Insertion. Connections of the muscle. Use when ulna free. Two inter- muscular septa. An inner and outer. Dissection of vessels and nerve. Trace branches. Superior profunda artery lies hehind the hume- rus. humems above the spiral groove, extending from the root of the large tuberosity to that groove. The inner head, c, fleshy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually'- tapering upwards as far as the insertion of the teres major (Theile). From the different heads the fibres are directed with varying degrees of inclination to a common tendon at the lower part. Inferiorly the muscle is inserted into the end of the olecranon pro- cess of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part where it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, and conceals the niusculo-spiral nerve, tlie superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa; and the lower fibres are con- tinuous externally with the anconeus—a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the parts of the triceps combining in their action will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the elbow- joint. As the long head passes the shoulder it can depress the raised humerus, and adduct the bone to the thorax. The intermuscular septa are fibrous processes continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condjdes of the humerus : they intervene between the muscles on the fi-ont and back of the limb, and give attach- ment to fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and reaches as high as the coraco- bracliialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; and the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is thinner, and ceases at the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longus) arising above the condyle of the humerus : it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanying vessels. Dissection. To follow the superior profunda vessels and the mus- culo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps should be cut across over them, and the fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to be afterwards followed below the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery, which de- scend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery (p. 270) turns to the back of the humerus between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, and is continued onwards in the groove in the boneMUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 275 to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal off- ; sets :—One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- : spiral nerve to tlie fi-ont of the elbow, anastomosing with the re- current radial branch : whilst others continue along the intermuscular ; septum to the elbow, and join the radial and posterior interosseous recurrent branches. Branches. Most of the muscular offsets of the vessel descend to Supplies the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicate with the foms a cir- inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery 'youud. lOlllt (p. 270) ; and with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm except the anterior ulnar. One slender offset accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutamous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, Cutaneous • and accompany the superficial nerves. ottbet-,. The musculo-spiral nerve (fig. 70) is the largest trunk of the ^^'^1''^"^°"^ posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 249) and is continued along winds the back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the bracli- to outer side ialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle °^ of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The nerve gives muscular branches, Brauclies. and the following cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer parts of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm (fig. 78, ^) is of smaL internal • 1 1 1 cutaneous ; size, and arises m the axillary space m common with the branch to branch, the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it Saecomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 266). b. The external cutaneous branches springing at the outer side of '^''l'^ iial cuta- the limb are two in number: they are distributed in the integuments neous. •of the arm and forearm (p. 266). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply JJraiiciies to all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head, arises in '^'-^ps, common with the inner cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar -nerve till it enters the muscular fibres at the lower third of tlie arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus, appearing as ^"jj^^.'Jj"" if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. d. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies J'^-'i'^Jlficies the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz. oi foroann. supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Subanconeus muscle. A thin fleshy stratum of the under part of ^|.'.|'[^"[^"," the triceps near the elbow has been so named. It is described as consisting of two fasciculi, inner and outer, which are attached above meats, the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the synovial sac of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the extensor of the knee joint. T 237G DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Use. Action. It is said to raise the synovial membrane in extension of the joint. Directions. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder joint mitil it is examined with the other ligaments. Section TV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of Position. The limb is to be placed witli the palm of the hand tlielimb. uppermost ; and the marking of the surface, and the projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface of Surface-marIcing. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two the foieaim. ■jg^^^j.^^j depressions, corresponding with the position of the main vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only beyond the middle of the foreai*m, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. Bony pro- The bones (radius and ulna) are sufiiciently near the surface to- jections. traced in their whole length : each ends below in a jDoint,—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lowest. A transverse Line of the line separates the foreami fi-om the hand, and the articulation of the wiist joint. .^^,j.jg^ jg j^ijout an inch above it. Surface of On each side of the palm of the hand is a lateral projection ; the hand.°^ external of these (thenar) is formed by muscles of the thumb, and the internal (hypo-tlienar) by muscles of the little finger. Between the projections is the holloAv of the palm, Avhich is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it: the anterior one will direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, but is about a quarter of an inch behind the three inner joints when the fingers are extended. ^Slimr ardi "^^^ superficial palmar arch of arteries reaches forwards a little- p niai an i. ^^^^^ .^^^^ ^-^^ hollow of the hand, and its position may be marked by a line across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand, the^ftre^rs Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the joints of the- le ngei.s. ^^^^^^ fingers. The lines on the palmar surface of the fingers may be used to detect the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the- joint between the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found ft-S ''^^^"^ ^ ^^"^ ^^^^ transverse groove ; Avhilst tlie arti- culation between the last two phalanges is situate about a line in front of the single mark. !?M«" Dissection. With tlic limb lying flat on the table, an incision is to the skin. be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. The skin is to be reflected carefully277 CUTANEOUS VEINS OF FOREARM. from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves beneath; and it should be taken also fi-om the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along each margin to a little beyond the knuckles. The whole of the fore finger should have the integument removed fi-om it, in order that the nerves may be followed to the end. The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat; Seek the they have the following position, and most of them have been vessois'and partly dissected :—Along the inner side, in fi-ont of the forearm f^^^^ Avith the ulnar veins, is the contmuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset fi-ora the ulnar nerve. On the outer side with the radial vein is the super- ficial part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis which can be rendered prominent by extending the wrist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve ■should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close inside the pisiform bone, a small palmar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. At the back of the forearm the largest external cutaneous branch behiud, •of the musculo-spiral nen'^e is to be traced onwards ; and offsets are to be followed to this surface from the nerves in fi"ont. On the posterior part of the hand is an arch of superficial veuas. and on the Winding back below the ulna is the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; ^and. and lying along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be traced to the fingers. Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median, radial, Subcuta- and ulnar, from their position in the limb. ofthefore- Superficial arch on the hack of the hand. Tliis arch is more or less ^^"^ perfect, and receives the posterior superficial digital veins. At the ^^^^ sides the arch terminates in the radial and ulnar veins. The radial vein begins in the outer part of the arch above men- ra'-^i^'l; tioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. It is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein ■by its miion with the outer branch of the median vein (fig. 76, The ulnar veins are anterior and posterior, and occupy the front j.'^^'^'^^^^g and back of the limb :— The anterior arises near the wrist by the junction of small roots anterior from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow ; here it unites with the inner branch of the median, and forms the basilic vein (fig. 7G, ^). The posterior ulnar vein is situate on the back of the limb. It ^^^J^^^' commences by the union of a branch, "vena salvatella," fifom the back of the little finger, with an ofliset of the venous arch; it is continued along the back of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and bends forward to open into the anterior ulnar vein. The median vein takes origin near the wrist by small branches median, which are derived from the palmar surface of the hand ; and it is •directed along the centre of the forearm nearly to the elbow. Hero278 Superficial nerves of forearm and back of hand are, internal cutaneous; external cutaneous; external futaneoxis of mu.sculo- spiral. Ending of the radial nen'c by external and internal brancli, which sni)ply some digits. Termina- tion. Branch of ulnar ner\-e to back of DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. the vein divides into external and kiternal branches (inediaii basilie and median cephahc), which unite, as before seen (fig. 76, -), with radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median- receives a communicating branch from a vein (vena comes) beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. Some of the supei-ficial nerves of the forearm.- are continued fi-om the arm :—those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, from the- two external cutaneous nen'-es of the musculo-spiral, and the mus- ■ culo-cutaneous. On the forepart of the limb there is occasionally a small offset of the ulnar nen^e near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the tennination of the radial nerve, together with a - branch of the ulnar nen^e. The internal cutaneous nerve (p. 271) is divided into two parts. The anterior branch extends on the front of the foreann as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous otfset from the ulnar nerve. The posteHor branch con- tinues along the back of the forearm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle. The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nei-ve (p. 272) is prolonged on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial arteiy, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel and supply the carpus. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve sends backwards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and com- municates with the radial, and the following cutaneous ners'^e. The external cutaneous branch of the mi;sculo-spiral nerve (p. 275) after passing the elbow, turns to the hinder part of the foreami, and reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding cutaneous nerve. The radial nerve ramifies in the integument of the back of the hand and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so tliat the radial neive distributes the same nmnber of digital branches to the dorsum as the median nerve furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nen^es ; and the offset to the coiir tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twio- from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. * On the side of the fingers each of these dorsal digital brandies is united with an offset fi-om the digital nerve on the palmar surface" The dorsal branch of the tdnar nerve gives offsets to the rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid279 APONEUROSIS OF FOEEARM. process of the xilna, it joins the radial nerve in an arch across the hand and back of the hand, and is distributed to both sides of the Httle finger, m'gers. and to the ulnar side of the ring finger : it communicates with the part of the radial nerve supplying the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve furnishes branches to the same digits on the palmar surface. The aponeurosis of the forearm is continuous with a similar in- Deep fascia vestment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed ll^l'^ of fibres which cross obliquely : it furnishes sheaths to the muscles, and is thicker behind than before. Near the elbow it is stronger than towards the hand; and at that In front, part it receives fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus, and gives origin to the muscles attached to the inner con- dyle of the humerus. On the back of the limb the aponeurosis is On the back connected to the margins of the ulna, so as to leave the upper part of the bone subcutaneous ; and it is joined by fibres from the ten- don of the triceps. Horizontal processes are sent downwards from the aponeurosis to intermus- separate the superficial and deep layers of muscles, both on the front ^^^^^ pieces, and back of the forearm ; and longitudinal white bands indicate the position of the intermuscular processes which isolate one muscle from another, and give origin to the muscular fibres. At the Avrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament; and Atthewrist; near that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and receives a sheath from it. Close to the pisifprm bone there is an aperture through which the ulnar vessels and nerve enter the fat of the hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, giving rise to the posterior annular ligament; but on the back of annular the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin. ligament. Dissection. The skin is to be replaced on the back of the forearm Take away and hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. ncrvyg, and Beginning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the veins, student divide the aponeurosis as far as the wiist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous oifsets of the median and ulnar nerves near the wrist. In cleaning the muscles it vnW be impossible to remove the aponeu- rosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without detaching muscular fibres. In fi-ont of the elboAV is the hollow, already partly dissected, Clean out „ 1 « xi - J A hollow of between the two masses of muscles arismg ±i-om the mner and outer cibow. sides of the humerus. The space should be carefully cleaned, so as to display the brachial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the musculo-spiral nerve, and the recurrent radial and ulnar arteries. In the lower half of the forearm a large artery, radial, is to be laid bare along the radial border ; and at the ulnar side, close to the annular ligament, the trunk of the ulnar artery will be recognised, as it becomes superficial. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned ; but the collateral muscles should be fixed with stitches to prevent their displacement.DISSECTION OF THE FKONT OF THE FOEEARM. 280 Define anterior annular liganiout. Hollow in front of the elbow. Boundaries. Contents of the space and their position o one anotlier. Lymphatic glands. Superficial layer has five muscles, Pronator teres. Origin. Insertion. Connec tions. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which arches over the tendons passing to the hand, is next to be defined. This strong band is at some depth from the surface ; and whilst the student removes the fibrous tissue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and ulnar nerves to the palm of the hand. The ulnar vessels and nerve pass over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to its depth. Hollow in front of the elho%o (fig. 80). Tliis hollow corresponds with the popliteal space at the knee, and is situate between the inner and the outer muscles of the forearm. The interval is somewhat triangular in shape, and the wider part is towards the humerus. It is bounded on the outer side by the supinator longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space; and the bones, covered by the brachialis anticus and suiDinator brevis, form the deep boundary. Contents. In the hollow are lodged the termination of the brachial arteiy with its veins, and the median nerve ; the musculo-sjiiral nei've ; the tendon of the bicej^s muscle ; and small recurrent vessels, Avith much fat and a few glands. These several parts have the following relative position :—The tendon of the biceps is directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius; on the outer side, concealed by the supinator longus muscle, is the musculo-spiral nerve. Nearly in the centre of the space are the brachial artery and veins and the median nerve, the ner\''e being internal ; but as the artery is inclined to the outer part of the limb, they soon become distant from one another about half an inch. The brachial artery divides here into two trunks—radial and ulnar; and the recurrent radial and ulnar branches apjjear in the space, one on the outer and the other on the inner side. Two or three lymphatic glands lie on the sides of the artery, and one below its point of splitting. Muscles on the front of the forearm (fig. 80). The muscles on the front of the forearm are divided into a superficial and a deep layer. In the superficial layer there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus, mostly by a common tendon, and lie in the undennentioned order fr-om the middle to the inner side of the limb:—pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris ; and deeper and larger than any of these ie the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep layer will be met with in a subsequent dissection (p. 287). The PRONATOR RADII TERES (fig. 80, ^) ariscs from the inner con- dyle of the humerus by the common tendon; fr-om the ridge above the condyle by fleshy fibres ; from the inner part of the coronoid process by a second tendinous slip ; and from the fascia, and the septum between it and the next muscle. It is inserted 'by a flat tendon into an impression, an inch in length, on the middle of the outer surface of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is281 EADIAL FLEXORS OF WRIST. ■covered by the radial arteiy, and some of the outer set of muscles, supmator longus, aiid radial extensors of the wrist. The VIZ Fig. 80. t pronator forms the inner boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the flexor carpi radialis. By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the ulnar artery and the median ner\-e: the second small head of origin is di- rected inwards between that artery and nerve. Action. The pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius over the ulna, so as to pronate the hand. When the radius is flxed the muscle raises that bone towards the humerus, bending the elbow-joint. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 80, •*) takes its or/gin fi'om the common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becom- ing free fi'om fleshy fibres about the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, outside the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted mainly into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger. The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum ; but near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus pollicis,—a muscle of the deep layer. As low as the middle of the forearm the muscle corre- sponds externally with the pronator teres, and below that with the radial artery to Avhich its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris longus muscle, and for about two inches above the Avrist, with the me- dian nerve.** Action. The hand being free the muscle flexes first the wrist joint, inclining the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and will assist in bringing •10 Jl Use oil radius caiiil elbow. Kadial flexor of the wrist. 2 Tlie muscle is super- ficial : is the guide to radial arterj'. Use on \vTist and radius. * In the body of a ■woman which was well developed, the muscle was absent on both sides. t Superficial view of the forearm (Quain's Arteries). 1. Radial artery with its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve where they are su2)erficial. 3. Pronator teres. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor sublimis. 7. Flexor carj)! ulnaris. 8. Sui^inator longus. 9. Biceps.DISSECTIOX OF THE FKONT OF THE FOEEAEM. 282 con- Loiig palmar muscle lies over annular ligament and joins tlie fascia of palm. Use. Flexor carpi uluiuis. Origin. Insertion into pisi- fonn bone. Adjacent parts. Use. Course and extent of the radial arten". Situation in the forearm. forwards the lower end of the radius in j)ronation. Still tinning to contract, it bends the elbow. The PALMARis LONGUS (fig. 80, is often absent: or it may present great irregularity in the i^roportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. Its ori{/in is connected, like that of the preceding muscle, to the connnon tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its. long thin tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, and to join by a tendinous slip the short muscles- of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Eendering tense the palmar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the other muscles of the superficial layer. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (fig. 80, ") has an aponeurotic origin from the inner condyle of the humenis ; from the inner side of the olecranon; and from the ridge of the ulna between the internal and posterior surfaces for thi-ee fourths of the length. Most of the fibres are continued vertically downwards, but others obliquely forwards to a tendon on the anterior part of the muscle in the lower half, some joinijig it as low as the wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, an offset being sent to the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia ; and its: tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmai'is and flexor digitorimi sublimis muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the foreaiTn. Action. The wrist is bent and the hand is drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 80, ^) is one of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk; and its destination is the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearms as far as the end of the radius; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone : and it enters finally the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cir- cuitous course the artery will be found in three different dissections, viz. the fi-ont of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this part of the limb the positiom of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line fi'om the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. At first it lies on the inner side of the radius but afterwards over that bone. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artcr}', though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk ; and it is partly deep and partly superficial, but28a RADIAL AETERY AND BRANCHES. whore it is more superficial in the lower half it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its upper half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus Connections. (^) ; and rests successively on the following nmscles, the fleshy i\"if''^"^^" supinator brevis, the pronator teres (''), part of the thin origin of with the flexor sublimis (^), and sometimes on the biceps tendon ('■'). Veins. Vena3 comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over veins, the arterj'. Nerve. The radial nerve is parallel to, and outside it, but separated an^l nerve., by a slight interval. In its lower half the ai'tery with its vcnm comites is superficial, in^lpwer being covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. Here it is placed in a hollow between the tendons of the supinator longus (^) muscles, and flexor carpi radialis('*). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two other muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Nerves. The radial nerve is still on the outer side until it passes nerve, backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and becomes cutaneous. Superficial to the lower end are the ramifications of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, some of Avhich reach the vessels (p. 278). Branches. The radial artery furnishes many unnamed muscular Brandies, and nutrient offsets to the surrounding parts ; and three named branches, viz. recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the radial re- • curi'Gnt muscles of the outer side of the limb. Its course is almost trans- verse to the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. b. The superficial volar branch (fig. 83, c) arises usually near the superficial lower end of the radius. It is directed towards the palm of the^°'^'" hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and anterior will be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles. '"^'^''^' Arising rather above the end of the radius, it passes transversely at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery : from the arch thus formed, offsets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radicd artery. When the radial arises high in the arm, Variations, its course is close to the hracliial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle ; "jj^;.,! and in passing the bend of the elbow it may be occasionally subcutaneous, viz.,)above the deep fa-scia, and be liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm it may be likewise subcutaneous and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, the Dissection o 9 , oi flexor flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near sublimis.DISSECTION OF THE FKONT OF THE FOEEARM. 284 the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen entering the under surfaces of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. Superficial The FLEXOR DIGITOKUM SUBLIMIS vel TERFORATUS (fig. 80, is the Tnilr^.^ largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and is named from Origin. its position to another flexor in the deep layer. It arises from the inner condyle of the humeras and the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermuscular septa in common with other muscles : it takes origin in addition from the bones of the forearm, viz. from the inner part of the coronoid process of the ulna; fi-om the oblique line below the radial tubercle; and fi'om the anterior margin of the radius as far as, or one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Kather below the middle of the forearm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued beneath the annular liga- insertion. ment and across the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. Connections The flexor sublimis is concealed by the other muscles of the aroumL^^ superficial layer ; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist;— the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the coro- noid and condyloid attachments, the nuiscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor digitorum profundus and flexor pollicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Use on Action. This flexor bends primarily the middle joint of each .tingerb, finger ; and is then able to bring the nearest phalanx towards the pahu in consequence of being bound thereto by a sheath. But when the nearest plialanx is fixed by the extensor of the fingers, it remains straight whilst the superficial flexor moves the second phalanx. and wrilt. ^^^^ fingers are bent the muscle Avill help in flexing the wrist and elbow joints. Sdsin'^dm "^^^^ ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 81, is the larger of the two branches of hand.^' coming fi-om the bifurcation of the brachial trunk; and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins offsets of the radial artery. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction ; and its I depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of its course. jTlefimif ^" ^"'^-^ ^^"^^^'y inclined obliquely inwards from .nppei la . ^j^^ centre of the elbow to the inner part of the limb, midway • Connections between the elbow and wrist. It courses between the superficial and Sscles. ^e^P '^^y^}'^ 0^ muscles, being covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor subhmis. Beneath it lie the brachialis anticus, for a short distance, and the flexor profundus, c.ULNAR ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 285 with muscles. voins. Veins. Two companion veins are situate on the sides of the artery, Position of and join freely over it. ^"^"^^ Nerves. The median nei-ve lies to the inner side of the vessel and nerves^ for about an inch, but then crosses over it to Fis- 81-* gain the outer side. About the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve (■*) ap- proaches the artery and continues thence on the inner side. In the knver half it has p '^:lML #^><dr ) Lower half a straight course to the pisifonn bone, and is covered by the teguments and fascia, and the flexor carpi ulnaris as far as the wrist. To the outer side are the tendons of the flexor sublimis. Beneath it is the flexor profun- dus, c. Veins. Two companion veins accompany the ar- tery, as in the upper part, and are united across it at inten^als. Nei-ves. The ulnar nerve (■•) lies close to, and on the inner side of the vessels ; and a small branch (^), sending twigs around the arter)-, courses to the palm of the hand. On the annular ligament of the wrist the artery has passed through the fascia and lies close to the pisiform bone. The ulnar ners^e, with its palmar branch, still ac- companies the vessel on the inner side. Branches. The greater its branches number of the collateral offsets of the artery are distributed to the '^^'^ muscles. But the named branches are the following :— * Dissection of the deep layer of muscles of the forearm, and of the vessels and nerves between the two layers of muscles of the forearm. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Pronator teres. b. Flexor longus poUicis. c. Flexor digitorum perforans. D. Pronator quadratus. e. Flexor carpi nerves. Position on tlie annular ligament.DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. •386 anterior and posterior ■I'ecurreiit, a. The anterior uhuir recurrent branch (d) arises generally in common witli the next, and ascending on the brachialis anticus muscle inosculates with the small anastomotic artery beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives offsets to the contiguous muscles. b. The 2^"sterlor ulnar recurrent branch (d), of larger size than the anterior, is hiclined beneath the flexor sublimis nmscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. There it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profinidca and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve. c. The interosseous branch is a short thick trunk, about an inch long, which is directed backwards towards the interosseus membrane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous: these branches will be aftei-wards followed. metacarpal, d. The metacarjial branch arises fi-om the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of wliicli it is the inner dorsal branch. €. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carious, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. interos •seous. and carpal. 'Tlie origin and course may vary. Ulnar ner\'e in the fore- arm. Its tranches are to elbow joint, to two mus- cles of fore- arm, 'Cutaneous Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The ori'jin of the artery may be trans- feiTCcl to any point of the main vessel in the arm or axilla. Once the origin was found between tAvo and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) When it begins higher than usual it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow (only one exception, Quain), but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm ; though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. The ULNAR NERVE (fig. 81, ■*) enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the fore- arm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the arteiy. It furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as below:— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments to the joint arise. b. Muscular branches. It furnishes offsets near the elbow to two muscles of the forearm ; one enters the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the other supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand. xVbout the middle of ulnaris. Arteries: a. Radial trunk, h. Cutaneous branch of it to the palm of the hand. g. Ulnar trunk, d. Its recurrent branch. /. Branch with the median nerve, c. Anterior interosseous, g. Brachial trunk. Ncrces: 1. Jledian. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Cutaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.287 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. "the forearm arises a small palmar branch (^), which courses on the branch of ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous offset perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. cl. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches cutaneous above the end of the ulna, and passes oblicpicly backwards beneath {'"X^of' the flexor carpi idnaris : perforating the aponeurosis it is lost on i»aud. the back of the hand and fingers (p. 278). The MEDLVN NERVE (fig. 81, ') leaves the hollow of the elbow Median l)etween the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the "^^^'^ middle line of the Hmb to the hand. It is placed beneath the £ SJT^^'^ flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, I'lycrs of ihuscIgs where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons ■of that nuiscle. Lastly the nerve passes beneath the annular liga- ment to the palm of the hand. The nei-ve supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and fm-nishes a cutaneous offset to the liand. «. Muscidar offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow. Supplies the and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except |.'ies*except the flexor carpi ulnaris ; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep one and a layer through the interosseous branch (p. 289), except the inner half of the flexor profimdus digitorum. b. The cutaneous ixilmar branch (•*) arises in the lower foiuih of a eutaneous the forearm ; it pierces the fascia near tlie annular ligament, and pahifo/*^ •crosses over that ligament to reach the palm of the hand. hand. The RADIAL NERVE is the smaller of the two branches mto which Radial nerve the musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed along ^ ^ ^ the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus ' {fig. 80), and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the ^vl•ist, where it becomes cutaneous at the {posterior border of the supinator tendon. On the surface of the limb it ends on ■divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand, and digits (3|) (p. 278). No muscular offset is furnished by the nerve. Dissection (fig. 81). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will Dissoc tion be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm layer'^of the pFonator teres ; to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, "'uscies: ■and to remove its fleshy part. The areolar tissue is to be taken from the deep muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels und nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Above the ends of the forearm-bones the arch of the anterior show caqiai carpal arteries may be defined. Deep Layer of Muscles. Only three deep muscles are present Three mus- on the front of the forearm. One lies on the ulna, and is the deep ,ieop layer, flexor of the fingers ; a second covers the radius, viz. the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which lies beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. The flexor digitorum profundus Vel PERFORANS (fig. 81, ^) arises Deep flexor ^ ° of fingers.288 DISSECTIOX OF THE FRONT OF THE FOEEAEM. Oriinn. Insertion. Parts around It. Use on fingers and wrist. How fingers are bent. Long flexor of tliiunb Oriuin. Insertion. Parts above and beneath it. Use. Pronator quadratus is deep in position. Use. Anterior in- terosseous arterj'. from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of the length of the bone ; from the inner half of the interosseous, ligament for the same distance ; and from an aponeurosis common to the muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in tendons which, united together, pass beneath the annular ligament, and are inserted into the last phalanges of the lingers. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the ulnar nerve and vessels, the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor pollicis longus and the anterior interosseous vessels and nen^e ; and the inner is connected by aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. Action. The muscle bends the last joints of the fingers and the Avrist; but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. The fingers are approximated and the joints bent in the following- order :—firstly, the articulation between the metacarpal and the middle phalanx is flexed, secondly, the last phalangeal joint, and thirdly the metacarpo-phalangeal. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 81,^) arises from the hollowed anterior surface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus ;: fi-om the outer part of the interosseous membrane; and by a round distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna, internal to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. On the cutaneous surface of the muscle is the flexor sublimis, with the radial vessels for a short distance inferiorly. The muscle lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Action. It bends both joints of the thumb, but firstly the distal or ungual. After the phalanges are drawn downwards the muscle flexes the wrist. The PRONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 81, ^) is a flat muscle, and lies on the lower fourth of the bones of the forearm. It arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna, where it is somewhat widened, and is inserted into the fore part of the radius for about two inches. The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along its lower border' is the arch formed by the anterior carpal arteries. Action. The end of the radius is moved forwards over the ulna by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. The anterior interosseous artery (fig. 81, c) is continued on the front of the interosseous membrane, between the two flexors or in the fibres of the flexor digitorum, till it reaches an aperture beneath289 ANTERIOll INTEROSSEOUS VESSELS. the pronator qiiadratiis. At that spot tlie artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the carpus, where it ends by anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous muscles. JTuseniar a. One long branch (/), median, accompanies the median nerve, ^jg^j^^'^ •supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or extends teneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. h. About the middle of the forearm two nutrient vessels of the nutnent to Tadius and ulna arise fi-om tlie artery. ^""^""^ c. Where it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane ^'^^^ it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is •contiruied beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median (fig. Anterior «l,2),and accompanies the artery of the same name to the pronator nerve ends <[uadratus muscle, the under surface of which it enters. Some pronator, lateral brandies are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. Dissection. The attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus to Dissection, the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and examined. Tlie insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broad insertion of ... brachialis thick tendon, about an inch in length, Avhich is fixed into the coro- anticus. noid process of the ulna, except at the inner edge ; and into the ■contiguous rough part of the bone. Insertion of the biceps. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into insertion of the inner part of the tubercle of the radius, and slightly into the ^"^®i^^- bone behind it. A bursa intervenes between it and the fore part of the tubercle. At its attachment the anterior surface becomes ex- ternal ; and the opposite. The supinator brevis muscle partly sur- rounds the insertion. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection (fig. 83). The digits being separated and fixed finnly Dissection, with tacks, the skin is to be reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre seek the from the wrist to the fingers ; and tlie other is to be made fi'om side a2.i^4'sr''* to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin and muscle, of the hand ; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifications of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be traced. The student should remove the fat fi'om the palmaris muscle, and Define tiie from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand ; and he should take care not to destroy a transverse fibrous band (transverse ligament) which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning u290 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. vessels and nerves. and exiiose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves. One of median, other of ul- nar nerve. Palmar! s brevis is subcutane- ous. and ends in the skin. Use. Palmar fascia. Its central pai-t ends in a piece for each finger. and in the skin. Di.s.section. Deep endinfj of the itieces of fascia. the fat from tlie palmar fascia he will recognise, near the digits^ the digital vessels and nen^es ; and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be defined. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheatlis of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nen^es may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nei-ves. Some unnamed twigs are furnished to- the integument fi-om both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two named cutaneous nerves ramify in the palm. One is an offset of the median nerve (p. 287), and crosses the annular hgament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united Avith the palmar branch of the ulnar: a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerv^e (p. 286)^ it has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and its distribu- tion in the palm may be now observed. The PALMAKis BREVis (fig. 83, h) is a small subcutaneous muscle^ about two inches Avide, whose fibres are collected into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nen^e. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Action. Drawing inwards the skin of the inner border of the hand towards the centre, it deepens the hollow or cup of the palm. The i^almar fascia or aponeurosis consists of a central and twa lateral parts; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb- and little finger, are so thin as not to require separate notice. The central x>art is a strong, white layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but is expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Posteriorly the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued for- wards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the processes from one another some trans- verse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle, and the digital artery and nei-ve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are pro- longed to the integuments near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To follow one of the digital processes of the fascia to its termination, the superficial fibres being first removed, it must be divided longitudinally by inserting the knife beneath it' opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Endinrj of the processes. Each process of the fascia sends down- wards an ofEset on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep ligament connecting together the ends of the metacarpal bones and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance.IJLNAR VESSELS AND NERVE. 291 Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are continued The superficial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous band, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin forming the rudiment of a web be- tween them onwards to their terminations, Sheath o f the flexor temlons (fig. 82). Along each finger the flexor tendons are retained in position against the jihalanges by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of each of the two nearest phalanges the sheath is formed by a Fig. 82.* strong fibrous band (e and/) (ligamentum vagi- nale), which is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) be- tween the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers, may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and the median and ulnar nerves, become apparent. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Artery (fig. 83). In the palm of the hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the fore- finger (/). The curved part of the arteiy, which lies across the hand, is named the super- ficial palmar arch (d).—Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand fi'om the cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial; it is covered in greater part by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Venee comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and fi'om the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The profunda or communicating branch (fig. 84, 5), passes * The extensor tendon of the finger with its accessory muscles, and the sheath of tho flexor tendons, a. Extensor tendon, with b, interosseous, and c, lumbricales muscles joining it. d. Flexor tendon ; e and /, thicker parts of its sheath. u 2 Ligament of the lingers. Sheath of the tendons varies in thickness. Has a sjTio- \'ial sac. Dissection. Superficial palmar arch. Position in the hand and connections. Branches arc to join the deep arcli,292 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. four digital branches: in the hand. they join offsets of the deep arcli. termination on the fingers, offsets, and arches. Ulnar nerve in tlie hand. has a deep and superficial part. Digital nerves are two. Median nerve suji- plies mus- cles and fingers. Branch to the muscles. downwards with a branch of the uhiar nerve between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the Httle finger, to inoscuLate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. b. The digital branches (fj) are four in number, and supply both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, corresponding with the three inner interos- seous spaces, bifurcate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, Avhich they sometimes pierce. Near the root of the fingers they receive communicating branches from offsets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger has its communicating branch about the middle of the hand. Fi-om the point of bif-urcation the branches extend along the sides of the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of oppo- site sides unite in an arch, from whose convexity ofi^scts proceed to supply the ball of the finger. Collateral offsets are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons; and small twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones—an arch being close behind each joint. On the dor- sum of the last phalanx is another arch near the nail, from which the nail-pulp is sui^plied. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Nerve (fig. 83,The ulnar nerve divides on or near the annular ligament, into a superficial and a deep branch. The cleejy branch accompanies the profunda artery to the muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel (fig. 84). The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the unier part of the hand, and ends in two digital nerves, for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next. Digital nerves ('-). The more internal nerve is undivided, like the con-esponding artery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides : in the palm of the hand this last branch is connected with an offset Q) of the median nerve. - Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar Part of the Median Nerve (fig. 83, ^). As soon as the median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes enlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remain- ing two fingers and a half : the more external of the two por- tions furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered by the palmar fascia; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The branch to muscles of the thumb (*) supplies the outer half293 MEDIAN NERVE AND BEANCHES. of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and opponens pollicis muscles. h. The digital nerves (') are five in number. Three of them, Five digital Avhich are distributed to tlie sides of tlie thumb and the radial side of the fore finger, are undivided, and come from the external of the two pieces into which the trunk of the median spHts. The Fig. 83.* other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are bifur- cated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one being on each side, First two, and the most external is said to communicate with branches of the radial nei-ve. * Dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves of the palm of the hand, "vvlth some of the siiperficial muscles. (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Abductor pollicis. c. Flexor brevis. D. Adductor poUicis. H. Palmaris brevis. Arteries: a. Trunk of ulnar, and 1), of radial, c. Superficial volar branch, d. Superficial palmar arch. e. Branch uniting the arch with / the radial digital branch of the forefinger, rj. Four digital branches of the sui)er- ficial arch. Nerves: 1. Ulnar, and 2, its two digital branches. 3. Median, and 5, its digital branches to three fingers and a half. 4. Branch of the median to some muscles of the thumb. 5. Communicating branch from the median to the ulnar.294 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. third, fourth, nfth. On the sides of the lingers: lateral offsets. Dissection of the deep tendons. Divide ligament, open sheaths. Synovial sac snrroiinds tendons. Snperficial flexor in the hand. Insertion. Slit for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers: it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. Oil thefinrjers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are super- ficial to the arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments for the ball and the pulp beneath the nail. In their course forwards the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches: one of these is directed backwards by the side of tlie metacarpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 278), is continued to tlie dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection. The tendons of the flexor muscles may be followed next to their termination. To expose them the ulnar artery sliould be cut through below the origin of the profunda branch ; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been divided, the palmar arch is to be tin-own towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned forwards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexgii tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are suiTounded by a large and loose synovial membrane, wliich projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of the thumb and that of the little finger.'-* Flexor suhlimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs, as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the sheath of the fingers (fig. 82, e), and are inserted each by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor subhmis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but near the front of the first phalanx it is split for the passage of the tendon of the latter muscle. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- brical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the AVTist, and thrown towards the fingers. Aftei-wards the areolar tissue should be taken away. Flexor prof undus. At the lower border of the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four * Theile refers the notice of tliis fact to M. Maslieurat-Lagemard in No 18 of the "Gazette Medicale," for 1839. u, m i>o. ijs295 MUSCLES OF THUMB. ipieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the fore finger is distuict fi-om the rest. From the Ugament the four tendons are cross the directed through the hand to the fiiigers, and give origin to the ^'^"^ •small lumbricales muscles. At the root of the fingers each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted mto the base of the last to their ^phalanx. iuseition. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are thin membranes, short folds one for each. By means of this each tendon is connected Avith the flexor teu- •capsule of the joint, and the fore part of the phalanx immediately iious. beliind the bone into wliich it is inserted. The lumhricales muscles (fig. 84, l) are four small fleshy slips, Luinhrical which arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular "^^'^l'^'*- ligament; 'and are directed to the rachal side of each finger, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 82, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by tlie tendons Connec- and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise fi-om single tendons, but each of the others is Different connected with two tendons. ongm. Action. By their insertion into the long extensor tendon they Use as will aid it in straightening the two last phalangeal joints ; and '^^ when the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are much bent they may and flexors, assist in maintaining the flexion of these articulations. Tendon of the flexor pollicis Jongus. Beneath the annular ligament Tendon of ihis tendon is external to the flexor profundus, and turns outwards of"fn'Jf,'^|°'^ between the heads of the flexor bre^as pollicis (fig. 84), to be in- serted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial its insertion, auembrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 84). The deep palmar arch of the radial artery, Dissection with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and the interossei muscles, yf thuml^ Avill come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and tlu'own with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preserve two fine nerves and vessels entering the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and the and little little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making *'"sei. a satisfactory separation of the difEerent small thumb muscles; but those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of thk Thumb (fig. 84). These are four in number. Four mns- ■and are named fi-om their action on the thumb. The most super- ^l^^ ficial is the abductor pollicis ; beneath it is the opponens pollicis, thumb, viz., which will be recognised by its attachment to the Avhole length of ;the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor. And the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS, A, is about an inch wide, and is thin, and Abductor, superficial to the rest. It arises fxova the upper part of the annular296 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Attach- ments. Is the most superficial. Vse. Dissection. Oppouens fixed to iuetacaii>al bone. beneatli fonncr. Use. Flexor brevis. Origin; is inserted by two parts. It is deep in the hand. Adductor joins short flexor. ligament at the radial side, and fi-om the ridge of the os trapezium and is inserted into the base of tlie first phalanx of the thumb.^ ^ The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is connected oftentimes at its origin Avith a slip from the tendon, of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. It removes the metacarpal bone of the thumb from tho other digits ; and when it has so acted it may assist slightly the short flexor in bending the mctacarpo-phalangeal joint. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the fore part of the meta- carpal bone, where there is usually a slight intei-val. The OPPONENS POLLICIS, B, arises from the annular ligament beneath the preceding, and from the os trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserte(P into the fi-ont and outer border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it pro- jects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the flexor brevis- pollicis. An insertion into the external sesamoid bone is described by Theile. Action. From its attachment to the metacarpal bone it is able to- draw that bone inwards over the palm of the hand, turning it at the same time, so as to allow the ball of the thumb to be applied to the ball of each of the fingers, as in picking up a pin. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS, c, is the largest of the short muscles of the thumb : it consists of two pieces (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are imited at the origin. Posteriorly it arises- from the os trapezoides and os magnum ; from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones ; and fi-om the annular ligament, at the lower part. In fi'ont it is inserted by two heads into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb,—the inner piece being united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each head at its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on this muscle, occupying the inten^al between the processes of insertion ; and the deep palmar arch of the radial artery issues fi-om beneath the inner head. Action. The muscle bends the metacaipo-phalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS, D, is pointed at the thumb, and wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the anterior or lower two thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit, on the palmar aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the short flexor, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb. The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the deep surface lies over (in this position) the first dorsal interosseous muscle, j. and the second and tliird metacai-pal bones with the intervening muscle.MUSCLES OF LITTLE FINGER. 297- Action. By its contraction the thumb is apphed to the radial Use. border of the hand, and approximated to the fingers. Short Muscles of the Liti-le Finger (fig. 84). There are Two or three commonly two muscles in the ball of the little finger,—an abductor ntti'e ttujer. Fig. 84.* and an adductor. Sometimes there is a short flexor between the other two. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI PiGlTi, E, is the most internal of the sliort Abductor muscles. It arises from the pisiform bone and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base is tiie most of the first phalanx of the little finger ; an offset from it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the phalanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Action. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; use. but continuing to act it bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. * Deep dissection of the palm of the hand. (IHustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Abductor pollicis. c. Opponens 23ol]icis. c. Flexor brevis pollicis. D. Adductor pollicis. E. Abductor minimi digiti. r. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. o. Ojiponens minimi digiti. i, Lnmbricales. j. First dorsal interosseous. Vessels: a. Ulnar artery, cut. b. Profunda In-anch. c. Deep palmar arch. d. Radial digital artery of the index finger, c. Artcria magna pollicis. /. Interosseous arteries. Nerves: 1. Ulnar nerve, cut. 2. Deep branch of the palm of the hand, and 4, its continuation to end in some of the thumb muscles. 3. Offsets to the inner two lumbricales.298 DISSECTIOX OF THE HAND. Flexor brevis is often absent. Use. dpponens] pollicis. The FLEXOR BRKVis MINIMI DiGiTi, F, appears often to be a part of tlie abductor. Placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle, it takes ori<jm horn the tip of the process of the uncifonn bone, and slightly fi'om the annular ligament; it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies on the adductor; and near its origin it is separated from the abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. The first phalanx is moved towards the palm by this muscle, and the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is bent. The ADDUCTOR vel orroNEXs minimi digiti, g, resembles the ppponens polhcis in being attached to the metacarpal bone. Its origin is fi-om the process of the uncifonn bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament: its insertion is fixed into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The adductor is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar arteiy and nen^e pass. Action. It raises the iimer metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the palm of the hand. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be requisite to detach the orighi of the flexor brevis pollicis. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when the dissector has observed its connection Avith the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacar^Dal bones. Eadial Aktehy in the Hand (fig. 84). The radial artery enters the palm at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle : and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, with its venaj comites, forming the deep arch. The deep j^cihnar arch (c) extends from the interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, Avhere it joins the profunda communicating branch (&). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed forwards ; and its position is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the flexor brcAas pollicis. The branches of the arch are the following:— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose Avith the other carpal arteries. Perforating. h. Three perforating arteries pierce the three inner dorsal interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. Use. Dissection of deep arcli and interossei muscles. Kadial artery in hand forms deep arcli wliicli lies near cari)al bones, and Ijeneatli all muscles. Branches: Recxirrent. Inter- osseous. c. Usually there arc three ixilmar interosseous arteries (/), which occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining299 RADIAL ARTERY AXD OFFSETS. the digital branches of the superficial pahnar arch at the cleft of the fingers. These branches supply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three imier lumbricales ; they A^ary much in their size and distribution. d. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) Digital (art. princeps pollicis) runs between the first metacarpal bone and ^•^'^"'^•I'^s- the flexor brevis pollicis, to the interval between the heads of the uie^t^fumi). muscle, where it divides into the two collateral branches of the thumb: these are distributed like the arteries of the superficial ■arch. e. The digital branch of the index finger (cl) (art. radialis indicis) Artery of is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle, J, and beneath nuger'*^' the short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of the fore finger. At the free or anterior border of the adductor pollicis, D, this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the digit it unites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery. The deep branch of the idnar nerve (-) accompanies the arch of the ^/^^j^„!^'^'^°'^^ radial artery as far as the muscles of the thumb, and terminates nerve, in offsets to the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the short flexor. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the Muscular ■ offsets muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (^), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The transverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of Ligament of the four inner metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is hollowed metacarpal Avhere the flexor tendons cross it; and beneath it the interossei ijones. muscles pass to their insertion. To the posterior border the fascia covering the interossei muscles is united. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interossei muscles. The INTEROSSEI MUSCLES, SO named from their position between the Seven inter- metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles occupy each °j|g^^ space, except in the first where there is only one ; they arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanx of the fingers. Tliey are divided into palmar and dorsal interossei ; but tiivided into all the small muscles are evident in the palm of the hand, though dorsal.' some project more than the others. Th.Q palmar muscles (fig. 85), three in number, are smaller than Nuinbcrand the dorsal set, and are most prominent in the palm of the hand, palmar They arise from the palmar surface of the metacai-pal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz., those of the fore, ring, and little fingers ; and they are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the other two digits. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 82, b):— SiTIlf the fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first ijutu sets, ■or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. The dorsal interossei (fig. 8G) extend farther back tlian tlic palmar Dorsal set. set, and arise by two heads from the lateral surfaces of tlie meta- 0"g"i-300 Airangc- iiieut. Action as flexors and extensors. DISSECTION OF THE HAND. carpal bones between which they He. The dorsal mtiscles are thu^ allotted to the digits :-two belong to the second finger, a third is connected with the radial side of the fore, and the fourth with the ulnar side of the ring finger. , . . . k,. Action They help to bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by their attachment to the first phalanx ; and assist in the extension. Fig. 85. Fig. 86.t and adduc- tors. of the two last phalangeal joints through their union with the extensor tendon. as abductors Further they can separate and approximate the fingers :—thus the palmar set adduct to the second finger ; and the dorsal abduct from the middle line of the second finger—the two attached to this digit moA'ing it to the right and left of that line. Dissection. Dissection. The attachments of the annular ligament to the carpal bones on each side are to be next dissected out by taking away the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. Before reading its description, the ends of the cut ligament may be placed in ap- position. The anterior anmilar ligament is a firm ligamentous band, which arches over and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached externally to the front of the os scaphoides, and to the fore and inner parts, and ridge of the os trapezium ; and internally to the unciform and pisiform bones. By its upper border it is con- nected with the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and by its anterior surface it joins the palmar fascia. On it lie the palinaris longus and the ulnar artery and ner%'e. * Three palmar interosseous muscles, a. Muscle of the little finger ; b, of the ring finger ; and c, of the forefinger. t Four dorsal interosseous muscles, d. Muscle of the forefinger, called sometimes ahductor indicis. e and /. Muscles of the middle finger, Muscle of the ring finger. Annular _ ligament'of front of " wrist.301 SUPINATOR LONGUS MUSCLE. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis Dissection, through the os trapezium to its insertion into the metacarpal bones. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore- insertion of arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os trapezium between the r^di'^is'''^^^ attachments of the annular ligament to the bone, but outside the arch of that ligament ; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the "base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. During tlie dissection of the back of the forearm the Position, limb lies with the fore part undermost, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Dissection (fig. 87). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and Take away vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and from the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the and the fascia in the forearm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior interosseous vessels, which are in contact with it on the inner side in the lower third. A thickened band of the fascia •opposite the carj^us (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that strip the tendons may be traced to the end of tlie digits. flngers. The several muscles should be separated from one another up to Separate their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. muscles. The posterior annular lixjament, K, consists of the special aponeu- Annular Tosis of the limb, thickened by the addition of some transverse hHXtlie fibres, and is situate opposite the lower end of the bones of the wrist, forearm. This band is connected at the outer part to the radius, and at the inner to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the extensor tendons. The ligament will be subsequently examined more in detail. Superficial layer of muscles (fig. 87). The muscles are arranged Superficial in a superficial and a deep layer, as on the anterior part of the fore- geven'mus- arm. The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise cies, viz. mostly by a common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus, and have the undermentioned position one to another from without inwards;—the long supinator. A, the two radial extensors of the wrist, B and c (long and short), the common extensor of the fingers, D, the extensor of the little finger, E, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist, F. There is one other small nmscle near the elbow, the anconeus, g. The SUPINATOR radii LONGUS, A, reaches upwards into the arm, Supinator and limits on the outer side the hollow in front of the elbow. TheDISSECTION OF THE FOREAEM. 302 origin. insertion. Connec- tions. Fis. 87.* Is the guide to the radial artery. Use, radius rce and fixed. Extensor carpi longus. muscle arises from the upper two third.s of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and the front of the external intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a tendon, which is inserted into- the lower end of the radius, close above the styloid process. In the arm the margins of the supinator are directed towards the surface and the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened over the others, with its edges fonvards and backwards. Its an- terior border touches the biceps and the pronator teres ; and the posterior is in contact with both radial extensors of the wrist. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the brachialis anticus and mus- culo-spiral ners'-e, the extensors of the wrist, the radial vessels and ner\-e, and the radius. Action. The chief use of this supinator is to bend the elbow joint. But if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supinated the muscle can put the hand into a state intei-mediate between pro- nation and supination,—the thumb being brought above the fore- finger. If the radius is fixed as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the humerus, bending the elbow. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS- LONGiOR, B, cm'ses fi'om the lower- third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and the front of the contiguous intermuscular sep- tum ; and from the septum be- tween it and the next muscle. The muscle lies on the short radial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and * Superficial layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, with some vessels. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles : A. Supinator longus. b. Extensor carpi radialis longus. c. Extensor carpi radialis brevis. d. Extensor com-EXTENSORS OF DIGITS. 303 the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the meta- insertion, carpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long extensor straightens first the wrist, and bends Use, next the elbow joint. ^''^'"^ ^''^ If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus like and fixed, the long supinator. The EXTENSOR CARri RADIALIS BREVIOR, C, is attached to the outer Extensor condyle of the humenis by a tendon common to it and the three '""^'^ iJiens. following muscles, viz. common extensor of the fingers, extensor Origin, of the little finger and ulnar extensor of tlie wrist : it takes origin also from the capsular ligament of the elbow joint. The tendon insertion, of the muscle is closely connected with the preceding, and after passing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, this Parts extensor rests on the radius and some of the muscles attached to '"^^"^"^"^ it, that is to say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres. Along the ulnar side is the common extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb come between it and tlie digital ex- tensoi-. Both radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at the insertion. Action. Tliis muscle resembles its fellow in extending the wrist, u.seon but differs from it in extending the elbow. ^^^^^ Acting with the long extensor of the wrist it will move the lower and radius, end of the radius in supination. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM, D, is single at its origin, but Common is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises firom the common muscie. tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and the muscles around. Origin, aud fi-om the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle ; below the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the last two phalanges of the fingers. On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following insertion arrangement. On the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an pimianges. expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles (fig. 82). At the fi-ont of that phalanx it divides into three parts (fig. 87, n) :—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. On the fore and little fingers munis digitonim. E, Extensor minimi rligiti. r. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 0. Anconeus, h. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. i. Extensor primi inter- nodii. J. Extensor secundi internodii polhcis. k. Posterior annular ligament. 1. Hands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. s. In.sertion of the common extensor into the last two phalanges. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseus. 1, Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. d. Meta- carpal branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and forefinger.DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 304 •Connections of the muscle. Use. ■on tlie fin- gers, on elbow •and wrist. Extensor of little finger. Origin. Tennina- tion. Use. Extensor •ciirpi ulna- ris. ■Origin. Insertion. •Connec- tions. Use. Anconeus. origin, insertion Joins the tricei)8. tlie expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits ; and opposite tlie first two articulations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wist and little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross pieces, L, which are strongest between the I'ing finger tendon and its collateral tendons; they prevent the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. Action. The muscle straightens the three phalanges of the fingers from root to tip, and separates the four digits from each other. It can extend the nearest joint of each finger whilst the two farthest are kept bent by the flexors ; and it can straighten the last two articulations when the nearest is bent. The digits being straightened, it will assist the other muscles in extending the wrist and the elbow. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DiGiTi, E, is the most slender muscle on the back of the forearm, and appears to be but a part of the common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the extensor com- munis, but it passes tlirough a distinct sheath of the annular liga- ment. Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, and only one unites by a cross piece with the tendon of the common exten- sor : both finally join the common expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. Action. It extends the little finger and moves back the wrist and elbow. As the inner piece of the split tendon is not united with the common extensor it can straighten the digit during flexion of the other fingers. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARis MUSCLE, F, arises from the common tendon, and the aponeurosis of the forearm ; it is also fixed by fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its tendon becomes free from fleshy fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a sepa- rate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little finger, with the posterior interosseous vessels. Action. As the name expresses, the muscle puts back the wrist and inclines the hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow joint. The ANCONEUS, G, is a small triangular muscle near the elbow. It arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and on the ulnar side of the common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third of the posterior surface of the ulna. The upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supi- nator brevis muscle, and the recurrent interosseous vessels.305 BEEP EXTENSOR MUSCLES. Fig. 88.' Action. Commonly it acts on the ulna, and assists the triceps in extending the elbow. Dissection (fig. 88). For the display of the deep muscles at the back of the forearm, and the pos- terior interosseous artery and nerve, tliree of the superficial muscles, vizu extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be detached fi-om their origin and turned aside: in this proceeding the small branches of the nerve and arteiy entering the muscles may be divided. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed fi-om the muscles, and the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles should be made carefully, because the highest two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep layer of muscles (fig. 88). In this layer there are five small muscles, viz. one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor muscles of the thumb and fore- finger. The highest muscle, sur- rounding partly the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis, D. Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following order :—the extensor of the meta- carpal bone, E, the extensor of the first, F, and that of the second phalanx, o. On the ulna the indi- cator muscle, H, is placed. The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI P0LLICI8, E, is the largest and high- est of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis. It Use. Dissection of deep layer of muscles. and interos- seous vessels and nerve. Five mus- cles in the deep layer, viz. Extensor metacarpi pollicia. * Dissection of the deep layer of muscles, and the vessels and nerve on the back of the forearm. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Supinator longus. B. and o. Radial extensors of the carpus, cut, d. Supinator brevis. E. Extensor osais metacarpi poUicis. f. Extensor primi intemodii. o. Ex- XDISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 306 Origin. Insertion. Tlie muscle is at lirst deep, but afterwards superficial. Use. Extensor of first phalanx origin. Insertion. ■Connec- tions. Use. Extensor of second phalanx. Origin. Insertion. Is lower than the preceding two. Use. Indicator muscle. arises from tlie posterior surface of the radius for three inches below the supinator brevis ; from the ulna for the same distance by a narrow special impression on the upper and outer part of the posterior surface ; and from the intervening interosseous mem- brane. The tendon is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and by a slip into the os trapezium. The muscle is concealed at first by the common extensor of the fingers ; but it becomes cutaneous between the last muscle and the extensors of the wrist, about two inches above the end of the radius (fig. 87). Opposite tlie carpus the radial arter}^ winds backwards beneath its tendon. Between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis the posterior interosseous artery (a) aji- pears. Action. By this muscle the thumb is moved backwards from the palm of the hand, and the wrist is extended on the radial side. The EXTENSOR PRiMi iNTERNODii POLLicis, F, is the Smallest muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon accompanies that of the preceding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below the attachment of the preceding muscle. The tendon passes through the same space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted, into the metacarpal end of the first phalanx of the thumb. With respect to surrounding parts this muscle has the same con- nections as the preceding. Action. It extends first the nearest phalanx, and then the wrist, like its companion. The EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODII POLLICIS, G, arises from the ulna for four inches below the anconeus, along the ulnar side of the ex- tensor of the metacarpal bone; and from the interosseous membrane, below, for one inch. Its tendon passing through a sheath in the annular ligament, distinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is covered by the same muscles as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes superficial nearer the lower end of the radius. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the radial artery, and the extensors of the wrist. Action. Its use is similar to that of the extensor of the first phalanx. When the phalanges arc straight, the two extensors will assist in cariying back the metacai-pal bone. The EXTENSOR iNDicis, H, (indicator) arises from the ulna for three or four inches, usually beyond the middle, and internal to the tensor secundi intemodii. h. Extensor indicia, i. Posterior annular liga- ment. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous, h. Recun-ent interosseous, c. Dorsal part of the anterior interosseous, d. Dorsal part of the radial, c. Dorsal brandies to the thumb and forefinger. /. Dorsal carpal arch. g. Two posterior interosseouB (ulnar) of the hand. Na-ves: 2. Radial. 3.' Posterior interosseous at its origin, and 4, near its ending in a swelling on the back of the carpus.POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS VESSELS. 307 preceding muscles ; and from the interosseous ligament below. Origin Near the annular ligament the tendon becomes free fi-om muscular fibres, and passing tln-ough that band with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external tendon of and inser- that muscle in the expansion on the phalanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the ■superficial layer, but it is afterwards subaponeurotic. Action. The muscle can point the fore finger even when the three Use. inner fingers are bent, inclining it towards the others at the same time. And it will help the common extensor of the digits in pull- ing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection ■to detach the anconeus fi-om the external condyle of the humerus, b^vls'"^*'"" and to cut tlirough the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which- lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The SUPINATOR BREVIS, D, surrounds the upper part of the radius. Origin of except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone below it. It arises nator^"^'' from a depression below the small sigmoid ca^^ty of the ulna, from the external margin of the bone for two inches below that pit, •and from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. The fibres pass outwards, and and inser- ■are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, except at the inner part, reaching downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the hollowed anterior surface. The supinator is concealed altogether at the posterior and external Overlying aspects of the Hmb by the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial vessels and ners'-e lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the pos- and con- terior interosseous artery (a) intervening. Through the substance pfr[y|^^ of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve Q winds to the back of the limb. Action. When the radius has been moved over the ulna as in Use. pronation, the short supinator comes into play to bring that bone again to the outer side of the ulna. The posterior interosseous artery(&g. 88, a) is an offset from the Posterior common interosseous trunk (p. 286), and reaches the back of the a^yry'*^®'^"^ forearm above the ligament between the bones. Appearing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends at first between the superficial and 1'®*'^^°"^*'"' deep layers of muscles ; and afterwards, with a superficial position musoles, in the lower third of the forearm, along the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris as far as the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing and supcr- with the carpal and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes """^" muscular offsets to the contiguous muscles, except the two or three outer ; and the following recurrent branch :— The recurrent branch (h) springs fi'om the artery near the com- its recur- X2 ^ branch.308 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. InteTOsseoos nerve. Position to muBcles. Termination on back of the carpus. Its muscular offsete. Radial artery on back of wrist. Connections with parts around and nerves. Branch eg are small. To back of carpus, dorsal inter- osseous. metacarpal branch. dorsal arteries of thumb mencement, and ascends on or through the fibres of the supinator,, but beneath the anconeus, to supply both those muscles and the elbow joint, and to anastomose with the superior profunda arterjr in the last-named muscle, as well as with the recurrent radial. The posterior interosseous nerve (^) takes origin from the musculo- spiral trunk (p. 275), and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the ners'e is placed between the superficial and deep layers of muscles as far as- the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous membrane to the back of the carpus. Finally the nerve enlarges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, and terminates in filaments to the ligaments and the articulations of the carpus. Branches. It furnishes offsets to all the muscles of the deep layer; and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three following, viz. anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radiali* longior. E.\DiAL Aktery at the "Wrist (fig. 88). The radial artery (d),. with its venas comites, winds below the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and beneath the tendons of the extensors of the meta- carpal bone, E, and first phalanx of the thumb, F ; but afterwards: it is more superficial, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, G. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery, and the radial nerve is superficial to it. Its branches are numerous but inconsiderable in size :— a. The dorsal carpal branch (/) passes transversely beneath the extensor tendons, and forms an arch with a corresponding offset of the ulnar artery; with this arch the posterior interosseous artery joins. From the carpal arch branches (g) descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interos- seous arteries: at the cleft of the fingers each divides into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. In front they communicate with the digital arteries ; and behind they are joined by the perforating branches of the palmar arch. b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch (fig. 87, b), reaches the space between the second and third metacarpal bones' arid anastomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces' with a perforatmg branch of the deep palmar arch. Finally it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the supei-ficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal branches to the index and second fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb (c) arise opposite the metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border to be distributed on its posterior aspect. 'rOSTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT. 309 d. The dorsal branch of the imlex finger is distributed on the radial and foro- «dge of that digit. ^°ser. The different compartments of the annular ligament may be seen Sheaths of more completely by dividing the sheaths of the ligament over the i^g°JjJent •several tendons passing beneath. There are six diflEerent spaces, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most external ^'^^"jj^^^^j one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist ; and a very .small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; And then comes a separate compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi ^"^^^^^ ^ ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in the'tendons. hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the ex- ception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be di\'ided by a vertical inci- To see iiiS6rtion «ion, and reflected fi-om the radius, its attachment to the bone will supinator be better understood. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- ^^^y™^^*^"^® form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The dorsal surface of the posterior interossei muscles of the hand ^'^'^ P*^^' ^ . , , . . . . ossei mus- may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and then- msertion mto cles. the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior perfor- atuig arteries appear. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the Directions, limb, which are still moist, may be examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, whilst the student learns the others. Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the l^^issection shoulder-joint the tendons of the surrounding muscles, viz. sub- Jlgaments of scapularis, supra and infi-aspinatus, and teres minor, must be shoulder, detached from the capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint. Shoulder Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 89) is formed Shoulder between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the ouUiue of. ;scapula. Inclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous baiidDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may- be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. Tlie capsular ligament (fig. 75, 5) surrounds loosely the ai-ticular ends of the bones ; it is thickened above and below, and receives' fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper edge it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. At the lower edge the ligament is fixed (fig. 89) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little distance- therefi-om below; and its continuity is interrupted between the tuberosities (h) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, over which it- - is continued along the bicipital gi-oove (fig. 75). On the inner side there is generally an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is con- tinuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The following muscles surround the articulation;—above and be- hind are the supraspinatus, infiraspinatus, and teres minor ; below,.. the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapularis; but in- ternally it is well supported by the last-named muscle. On the front of the capsule is a rather thick band of fibres,—the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 75, •"^), which springs from the base of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the front of the joint, is attached to the margins of the bicipital groove, and to the tuberosities. Dissection. To see the interior of the articulation cut circularly through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be manifest. The tendon of the hiceps muscle arches over the head of the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in restraining the upward and outward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula (fig. 89, d), and is united on each side with the glenoid ligament. At first flat, it afterwards becomes round, and entering the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, it is surrounded by the sjniovial membrane. The glenoid ligament (fig. 89, f) is a firm fibro-cartilaginous band', which surrounds the fossa of the same name, deepening it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is about two lines in depth, and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. The synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the capsule, and is continued through the aperture on the inner part to join the bursa beneath the subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the bicipital gi'oove of the humenis.LIGAMENTS OF SHOULDEE. 311 Articular surfaces (fig. 89). The convex carticular head of the Surface of humerus is two or three times Larger than the hollow in the ii'^^'erus, scapula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is joined to the shaft at an angle as it is in the femur, and a rotatory movement is possessed by the humerus in consequence. The glenoid surface of the scapula is oval in form with the large of scapula, end down, and is very shallow ; it is not large enough to cover the head of the humerus. Movements. In this joint there is the common motion in four Kinds of directions, with the circular or circumductory ; and in addition a ^"o'^enieut. movement of rotation. In the sfioinginrj or to and fro movement, the carrying forwards of Flexiou the humerus constitutes flexion, and the moving it backwards, ex- ^^'^ tension. Flexion is freer than extension ; and when the joint is extension, most bent the scapula, rotating on its axis, follows the head of the j^J^q'*^^ humerus, so as to keep the centre of the glenoid fossa applied to flexion the middle of the articular surface of the arm-bone. In extension j,^ ^j.. the articular surface of the scapula does not move after the humerus, tension. During these movements the head of the bone rests in the bottom Movements of the glenoid fossa, tmning forwards and backwards around a line of representing the axis of the head and neck; and it cannot be dis- lodged by either the rapidity or the degree of the motion. The muscles have more influence than the loose capsule in con- Muscles, trolling the swinging motion. ^^^'^'^ Abduction and adduction. When the limb is raised, it is abducted, and when depressed, adducted; and in both cases the humerus rolls on the scapula which is fixed. * View of the interior of the shoulder-joint, a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital gi-oove. c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa, d. Tendon of the biceps fixed to the top of the fossa.312 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Abduction. Btato of bone and capsule. Adduction. Bone and capsule. Circum- duction, Rotation In, state of bone; and out, state of bone. and capsule. Dissection of the elbow joint. Bones form- ing the elbow joint. The liga- ments are External lateral. Internal lateral. During abduction the head of the humerus, descends to the lower and larger part of the glenoid fossa, and projects beyond it against the capsule ; whilst the great tuberosity rubs against the arch of the acromion. In this condition a little more movement down of the head either by muscles depressing it, or by force elevating the farther end of the bone, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction the head of the bone rises into the socket, the limb meets the trunk, and the tense capsule is set at rest. After the reduction of a dislocation the limb is fixed to the side in this position of security against further displacement. In circumduction the humerus passes in succession through the four different states before mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, whose apex is at the shoulder and base at the digits. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory movement, viz. in and out; and in each the motion of the head and shaft of the bone has to be considered. In rotation in, the great tuberosity is turned forwards, and the head rolls from before back across the glenoid fossa so as to project behind. The shaft is moved forwards round a line lying on its inner side, which reaches from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. In rotation out, the osseous movements are reversed : thus the tuberositj'- turns back, the head rolls forward so as to project in front, and the shaft is carried back around the line before said. The upper thickened part of the capsule will be tightened in rotation, but the muscles are the chief agents in checking the movements. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles con- nected with the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments—anterior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow Joint (fig. 90). In this articulation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge-like arrangement; and the upper end of the radius assists to form part of the joint. Wliere the bones touch the sur- faces are covered with cartilage, and their articular ends are kept in place by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is attached by one end to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backw^ards to the external margin of the ulna. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape. It is pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of the318 LIGAMENTS OF ELBOW. Fig. 90.* m humerus. The fibres diverge, and are inserted in this way :—The anterior, which are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the coro- noid process; the posterior are attached to the side of the olecranon ; whilst a few middle fibres join a transverse ligamentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nei-^^e is in contact with the ligament ; and vessels enter the joint by an aperture be- neath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is inserted into the front of the humerus, and by its lower into the front of the coronoid pro- cess and the orbicular ligament. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner and looser than the anterior and is covered com- pletely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of jthe fossa before men- tioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane of the joint can be traced fi-om one bone to another along the inner surface of the connectmg ligaments. It projects between the radius and the orbicular ligament, iind serves for the articulation of tlie head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The humerus presents inferiorly two distinct aiiicular faces for the bones of the forearm. The one for the radius, on the outer side, consists of a rounded •eminence (capitellum) on the front of the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the anterior aspect. The surface in contact with the ulna is limited internally and externally by a prominence, and hollowed out in the centre (trocldea). On the front of the humerus above the articular surface are two depressions which receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexure of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the large sigmoid cavity is narrowed in the centre, but expanded in fi-ont and behind (fig. 91). A shghtly * The ligaments of the elbow joint, and the shaft of the radius and ulna (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Capsule of the elbow joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps. A notoli on inner side of the joint. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament. Dissection. Synovial membrane. Lower end of the humerus. Two articu- lar surfaces. and three fossx. End of the ulna.DISSECTION OF THE UPPEE LIMB. 314 raised line extends from front to back, and is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus. Across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting completely, or for a greater or smaller distance. End of the The end of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised radius. margin. In the bent state of the joint the hollow of the radius fits on the outer eminence of the humerus, and the bone is supported during rotation of the limb. Kind of Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, and permits motion: ^^^^ flexion and extension. bending. In flexion the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its own articular sm-face, so as to leave the back of the humerus, uncovered. The extent is checked by the meeting of the bones of the arm and forearm. Owing to the slanting surface of the humerus the hand falls inside the limb when the joint is fully bent. state of liga- The ligaments are relaxed, with the exception of the following^ ments, ^j^^ ^j^^ posterior, and the hinder part of the internal lateral, extending, In extension the ulna and radius are earned back over the articular surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- bone. This movement is checked by the olecranon touching the humerus. state of liga- Tlie anterior ligament, and the fore part of the internal lateral ments. ligament are made tight, but the hinder fibres of the internal lateral are relaxed. Kadiiis is Union OF THE Eadius AND Ulna. The radius is connected with vOiia.'^^*" the ulna at both ends by means of distinct ligaments and synovial membrane ; and the shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. At tlie upper Upper rudio-ulnar articulation. In this joint the head of the radius tnd by received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band :— H ^ament "^^^^ annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 91, a) is about one third aroumrthc of an inch wide, and is stronger behind than before ; it is placed K,"^*'"^ around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posteiior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the widest, is connected with the ligaments of the elbow joint; but the lower is fi-ee, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the- cavity of the ulna, the radius moves freely, and synovial The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining the elbow ]omt ; It projects mferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the annular ligament. Union of the Ligaments of the shafts of the bones. The aponeurotic stratum connecting together the bones in nearly their whole length consists of the two following parts :— v.ine!ri,?the """^^^ interosseous membrane (fig. 90, ^) is a thin fibrous layer, milidie'by ° which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna^ Smtone ''^"'^ ^^^^'^^ incomplete septum between the muscles on the front and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquelyEADIO-ULNAR JOINTS. 315 inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. Superiorly the membrane is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior inter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels ; and the largest of these is about two inches from the lower end, through which the anterior interosseous Fig- 91.* artery turns to the back of the "vvrist. The membrane gives at- tachment to the deep muscles. The round ligament (fig. 90, *) is a slender band above the inter- osseous membrane, whose fibres have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coro- noid process, and by the other to the radius below the tubercle. The ligament divides the space above the interosseous membrane into two parts. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articula- tion cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist joint (p. 317). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- wards around the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the hand towards the ground, is called pronation ; and the back- ward, by which the palm of the hand is placed upwards, is named supination. In pronation the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament without shiftmg its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In siqjination the lower end of the radius turns backwards over the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external ; and the upper end rotates fi"om within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the centre of a circle of which the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna is a segment (Ward). The upper end of the bone is kept in place by the orbicular liga- ment ; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supi- nation, and is relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case * View of the orbicular ligament (a) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna. this is defi- cieut above. By round ligament. Tlie lower- end after. Kind of niotioii^of ratlins, * pronation; supination ; motion around an axis ; use of liga- ments ; in fracture316 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. motion ceases. Dissection. Bones form- ing wrist united^by] ^ because the radius cannot be moved except it is entire ; and m the other, because the uhiar support is wanting for the revolving radius. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wrist-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back : and the fibrous structures and the small vessels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist Joint (fig. 92). The lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bones, except the os pisiforme, enter into the wrist-joint. Four liga- external lateral. nitemal ^1 lateral, anterior and posterior ligament. IDissection. •Surface of radius. Fig. 92.* ments maintain in contact the osseous surfaces, viz, anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from this articu- lation by means of a piece of fibro-cartilage. The external lateral li- gament is a short and strong band, which inter- venes between the styloid process of the radius and the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. Tlie internal lateral li- f/ament is smaller than the external, but is longer than it. It is attached by one end to the styloid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough, upper part of the cuneiform bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 92,takes origin from the radius and the fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform, at the anterior surface. The iJosterior ligament (fig. 95,is membranous, like the anterior, and its fibres are directed dowmvards and inwards. Superiorly it is attached to the radius and the fibro-cartilage ; and inferiorly it is fixed, like the anterior, to the three outer carpal bones of the first row, but on the posterior aspect. Dissection. The see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior liga- ment, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces. The end of the radius, and the fibro-cartilage uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the reception of the carpal * Front view of the articulations of tlie wrist joint, and carpal and meta- carpal bones (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Anterior ligament of the wrist joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the os trapezium. 3. Pisiform bone, with its separate joint and ligamentous bands. 4. TransTerse bands to the head of the metacarpal bones.LIGAMENTS OF WRIST JOINT. 317- bones (fig. 93) ; cand the surface of the radius is divided by a pro- minent Hne into an external triangular, and an internal square im- pression. The three bones of the first carpal row constitute a convex eminence (fig. 94), which is received into the hollow before men- tioned in this way ;—The scaphoid bone (a) is opposite the external mark of the radius ; the semilunar bone (b) touches the square impression, and all or part of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; whilst the cuneiform bone (e) is in contact with the capsule (Henle), and sometimes with part of the fibro-cartilage. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple joints. This joint communicates occasionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Movement. The wrist is a condyloid articulation, and possesses angular motion in four different directions, with circumduction. Flexion and extension. In flexion the hand is moved forwards and inwards, whilst the carpus rolls on the radius from before back, and projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension the hand is carried backwards and outwards, and the row of carpal bones moves in the opposite direction, viz. from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The hinder movement is freer than the forward. Abduction and adduction. The row of carpal bones moves trans- versely inwards in the former, and outwards in the latter state; and the movement is freer towards the ulnar than the radial side. The lateral ligaments are put on the stretch, the inner in abduction and the outer in adduction ; and the motion is limited on the outer side by the meeting of the styloid process of the radius with the scaphoid bone. Circumduction. The hand describes a cone in this movement, whose apex is at the wrist and base at the digits ; and it moves more freely in extension and adduction than in the opposite directions. Lower Radio-ulnar Articulation. In tliis articulation the con- vexity of the end of the ulna is re- ceived into a concavity on the radius ; —an arrangement just the opposite to that between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro-cartilage ; but a kind of capsule consisting of scattered fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage (fig. 93, c) is placed transversely beneath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating * The wrist joint opened to sliow the arch formed by the bones of the fore- arm with the uniting fibro-cartilage, c. a. Radius. J. Ulua. Of first row of carpal bones. Surfaces touching. SjTiovial sac. Kind of motion : flexion; extension; Fig. 93.* Abduction. State of liga- ments. Circumduc- i tion. Lower ends, of radius and ulna joined by capsule. Triangular fibro-carti- lage.318 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Attach- ments fliid connec- tions. Synovial iiiemLrane. Use. Bones are joined into two rows. Dissection of carpal and meta- carpal .ioints. How first row is luiited. Separate ligaments of pisiform Ijone. Second row is like first. A gliding movement. Transverse <iarpal joint, ^interior, posterior, mai" surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that point of bone. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior liga- ments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into different joints, viz., the wrist, and the lower radio-ulnar. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and ascends between the radius and the ulna: it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The use of this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 315). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands; and the two rows are connected to each other b}- separate liga- ments. Dissection. The articulation of the carpal bones with each other will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefully the whole of the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments of the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth metacarpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the metacarpal with the carpal bones and with one another should be dissected. Bones of the first row (fig. 94). The os semilunare is united to the lateral bones, viz. scaphoid and cuneiform by a dorsal (fig. 94, d)^ and a palmar transverse band ; as well as, it is said, by an interos- seous ligament at the upper jjart of the contiguous surfaces.* The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the cuneifonn by a distinct capsule and a synovial membrane (fig. 92, ^). It has further two special firm ligaments ;—one of these is attached to the process of the os unciforme, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The hones of the secoTid row are connected together in the same way as those of the first, viz. by a dorsal and a palmar band of fibres fi-om one bone to another. Between the contiguous rough surfaces of the several ossicles arc interosseous ligaments, one in each interi'al. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the interosseous ligaments uniting one to another ; and this is less in the second than in the first row. One rovy 7i;ith another (transverse carpal joint, fig. 94). The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and and two lateral ligaments. The anterior li(jament (p) consists of strong irregular fibres and intervenes between the two rows (except the pisiform) on the pal- aspect. The posterior ligament, which is longer and looser, * Interosseous ligaments in this row, distinct from the other bands, can scarcely be said to exist. posterior,319 AETICrLATIONS OF CARPUS. and lateral ligaments. Surface of each row in contact. Fiff. 94. and the gi-eater number of whose fibres are transverse, lias a corre- sponding attachment on the dorsal aspect of the same bones. Of the lateral ligaments the external {!>:) is the best marked, and extends between the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone ; the internal ligament (I) reaches between the cuneiform and unciform bones. Dissection. After the division of the lateral and posterior ligaments, Dissection, the one row of bones may be separated far enough fi-om the other, to allow a sight of the articular surfaces. Articular surfaces. The first row of carpal bones (except pisiform) forms internally an arch with the scaphoid (a), semilunar (rZ) and cuneiform bone (c), whose hollow is turned towards the second ; and externally a prominence with the scaphoid (a), which is received into a conca^^ty in the other row. In the second row the OS magnum (</) and os uncif orme (Ji) present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned ; but the two outer bones (trapezium and trapezoid, e and/) are much below the level of the others, and form a slight hollow for the reception of the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. One synovial memhrane sen'^es for the articulation of all the ^carpal bones, ex- cept the pisiform with the cuneiform. Lining the joint between the two rows of the carpus, the membrane sends upwards and downwards prolongations be- tween the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes join the synovial membrane of the wrist joint; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued to all, or only to some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their carpal bones. Movements. The transverse carpal joint is partly condyloid, but only forward and backward motion is permitted. A\\ lateral and circumductory movement is arrested, if the rows are closely applied together, by the scaphoid striking against the os magnum on the one side, and the cuneiform against the unciform on the other. Flexion. As the hand is bent forwards the lower row of carpal * Articulations of one carpal bone ■witli anotlier, and of the two rows with each other. The joint between the two rows is opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. h. Semilunar, c. Cuneiform, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium bone. /. Trapezoid, g. Os magnum, h. Unci- form, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones. k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal lateral, p. Anterior ligament. One synovial membrane for the carpal bones, and some metacarpals. Kind of iiiotion. Flexion.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 320 Extension. Metacarjial Fis. 05/ by side union and by their heads. bones moves backwards, and renders prominent the posterior liga- ment. This motion is also brought into play in full bendmg ot the wrist. . . , Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. As the lower carpal row moves towards the palm, its progress is checked by the anterior ligament of the joint, and by the strong flexor tendons. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the bones joined fom- fi„gers are connected at their bases by the following hga- by bases ^^^^^^ superficial dorsal (fig. 95) and jjahnar fasciculus of fibres passes transversely from one bone to the next; and the band» in the palm are the strongest (fig. 92). Besides, there is a short interosseous hgament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Lateral nnion. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage ; and the articular surfaces are furnished with prolongations; of the synovial membrane serving for their articulation with the carpus. At their anterior extremi- ties the same four metacar- pal bones are connected by the deep transverse ligament, which was seen in the dis- section of the hand (p. 299). Union of the Metacar- pal AND Carpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpal hone of the thximh articulates with the os trape- zium ; and the ends of the bones are incased in a separate capsular ligament (fig. 92, ^). The joint is furnished with a synovial mem- brane which is simple in its aixangement. The thumb-joint possesses angular movement in opposite direc- tions, with opposition and circumduction, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed the metacarpal bone is brought into the palm of the hand, Avithout the ball of the thumb being turned to the tips of the fingers. Extension of the joint is very fi-ee, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed fi'om the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the metacarpal bone is placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. ♦ Posterior ligaments of the -wrist, and carpal and metacarpal tones (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb,—3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones. Carpal and metacarpal joint: that of the thumb. Motion. Bending. Extending. Lateral motion and opposition.321 CARPO-METACARPAL JOINTS. Opposition. In this movement the ball of the thumb is turned towards the tip of each finger by a half circumductory motion of the metacarpal bone ; and in picking up a pin the joints of the thumb, and the two last joints of the fingers will be bent. The metacarpal hones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands Joints of from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus:— other fingers The dorsal ligaments (fig. 95) are two to each, except to the bone tlirough of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the os trapezium and os trapezoides; those of the third metacarpal are attached to the os magiium and os trapezoides ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bauds from the os magnum and OS unciforme; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament fi-om the unciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 92) are weaker and less constant than and palmar the dorsal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the little finger. These ligaments may be oblique in direction ; and a band may be divided between two, as in the case of the ligament attached to the os trapezium and the second and third metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is Lateral a longitudinal lateral hand, which is attached above to the os ^^^^' magnum and unciforme, and below to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening behind the articulation be- I'ow seen, tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. 3Iovement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement Gliding exists in the articulations of the bases of the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers; but in the ring and little fingers the motion is greater, with slight abduction and adduction. Dissection. The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo- Dissection, metacarpal articulatioii may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger presents Articular a hollowed articular surface, which receives the prominence of the ^u'*'^'^^^- OS trapezoides, and articulates laterally with the os trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the unciform bone and the os magnum. And the httle finger bone is opposed to the os unciforme. Synovial membranes. Usually two synovial membranes are inter- ^J^g^^^'^J posed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz. a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and offsets of the common carpal or three, synovial sac (p. 319) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the os unciforme with the two inner metacarpals. Y322 luter osseous ligaments. metacarpal, Hiid carjial. Dissection »'f linger joints. Motacariuil hones and ]>halan>,'e.s : lateral ligaments. interior ligament, posterior. .Synovial sac. Joint of tliumb. Kind of motion. Extending Ucnding. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Intenmeous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detachmg one bone from another. There are also strong fibrous pieces be- tween all the carpal bones in the second row ; and slight ones are described as present on each side of the os semilunare in the first row. 1 1 J 4! Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head ot the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will he requisite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Union of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 9G). ^ In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal l)one is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, Fig. 96. and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligaiiient (a) is the same o*i both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by its upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the side of the pha- lanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament (I)) is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor tendon : to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon ; this takes the place of a dorsal ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side which serves as a capsule to the articulation. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are connected with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opposite directions, and circumduction, exist in these condyloid joints. Extension ami flexion. The phalanx moves backwards in extension, so as to give an angle with the metacarpal bone. The anterior liga- ment and the flexor tendons are stretched, and control the move- ment. In flexion the phalanx glides forwards under the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the stretch as the joint is bent.LIGAMENTS OF TIIALANGES. 323 Abduction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger Lateral from or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament ■of the side of the joint which is convex will he tightened, and the other will be relaxed. The circumductonj motion is less impeded in the thumb, and in CLroumdue- the fore and little fingers than in the others ; and in the thumb it allows the turning of the last phalanx towards the other digits in the movement of opposition. Union op the Phalanges. The ligaments of the first joint are joints of tiK similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, viz. two ^ave^"*''^^'* lateral and an anterior. The lateral lujaments are triangular in form. Each is connected lateral and by its apex to the side of the phalanx near the anterior part; and by its base to the contiguous phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament has the same mode of attachment between anterior the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, ^'K'""^"^- but it is not so strong ; and the extensor tendon takes the place of a posterior band as in that articulation. There is a simple synovial memhrajie present in the joint. Synovial The joint of the second with the last phalanx is like the preced- ing in the number and disposition of its ligaments ; but all the ^^^'''^ Joint, articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular Surfaces. The anterior end of each phalanx is marked Surface of by a pulley-like surface. The posterior end presents a transversely ^^^^ i^'J"*^"*- hollowed fossa, and is provided with a crest which fits into the central depression of the opposed articular surface. Movements. The two interphalangeal joints can be bent and Kind of ■straightened like a hinge. Flexion ami extension. In flexion, the farther phalanx moves Bending, under the nearer in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between tlie middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most extensive. In extension the farther phalanx comes into a straight Extending, line with the nearer one and the motion is stopped by the anterior ligament and the flexor tendons.324 CHIEF AETERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTEEIES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. ' Superior thoracic, acromial thoracic . long thoracic alar thoracic subscapular . exteraal inammary anterior circumflex .posterior circumflex. The smhclaTian is continued in the ana by . . 1. Axillary / arteiy ^ < Muscular ,} inferior acromial (humeral thoracic. f Dorsal artery \ muscular (Infrasca- ( pular. 2. brachial artery 3. radial artery 4. ulnar ^ arterj- To coraco-brachialis superior profunda . nutritious ' inferior profunda . anastomotic muscular. C Muscular to triceps . } and anconeus ( anastomotic. f Muf5cular to triceps • \ anastomotic. (Reciirrent muscular superficial volar posterior carpal anterior carpal metacarpal dorsal of the thumb. of the index finger priiiceps pollicis radialis indicis , deep arch Anterior recurrent posterior recurrent t Recurrent J perforating j interosseous V communicating. interosseous muscular ■{ Anterior posterior Nutritious-, muscular. ' Recmi-eut ' muscular. , T i, 1 1 f Dorsal caiiial dorsal of the hand, or. j^^^,^^^. j^^tg,.. metacarpal . . . osseous. anterior carjial 1^ superficial arch !Communicating four digital branches cutuneoiis muscular.325 SPINAL NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES OP THE UPPER LIMB. /Anterior thoracic -{S"*^*^^^^ ( Superior subscapular . . < inferior (.long. circumflex nerve of Wrisberg. internal cutaneous {Articular cutaneous to teres minor to deltoid. /"Small cutaneous , ■< anterior of foreann ( posterior of forearm. Brachial Plexus gives off below the clavicle . musculo-cutaneous median ulnar ITo coraco-brachialis biceps and brachialis anticus cutaneous external of foreann articular to carpus. (To pronator teres to muscles of forearm, except flexor ulnaris and part of profundu.s anterior interosseous cutaneous palmar to muscles of thumb in part ^.five digital branches. i' Articular to elbow to flexor carin lUnaris to flexor profundus in part cutaneous branch of foreann and ])alm dorsal cutaneous of the hand superficial pabnar division Uleep palmar nerve. <■ Communicating . ■< two digital ( branches. Vmusculo-spiral, /' Internal cutaneous to triceps and anconeus external cutaneous to supinator and extensor radialis longus posterior interosseous . . radial {Muscular articular. {Cutaneous of hav.k of thumb, and of first two fingers and half the next.CHAPTER lY. Dcfiniti®n. Contents of cavity. Dissection to open tliorax. SteTnnni to he kept. Foim in sceneral. On a cross seetion. Parts on sides, in front, DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. —•— Section I. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. The cavity of the thorax is the space included by the spinaK column, the sternum and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals- of the bony framework. In it the organs of respiration, and the heart with its great A'essels are lodged : and through it the gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. When the soft parts covering in front the bony parietes of the thorax have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing a portion of the anterior bomi- davy. To make a sufficient opening in the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first two ribs, and again between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (pleura) from the inner surface of the chest, the student is to cut through the true ribs, except the first and seventh,* as far back as he can conveniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be removed l)y dividing the internal mammary vessels, the triangularis sterni, and the intercostal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The bag of the pleura, and the ca-s-ity with its contents will be now ready for examination. The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be l equired here- after for the dissection of the ligaments. Form. The included cavity is irregularly conical, with the apex above and the base down ; and it appeare, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly fiHed by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a horizontal section its shape would appear- somewhat cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spinal column, and is projected backAvards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs with their intercostal muscles ;, whilst in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. * The student must be mindful to leave those ribs uncut: the division of them will not be advantageous to him, and will injure the dissection of the neck and abdomen.327 BOUNDARIES AND SIZE. The base is constructed at the circumference by the last dorsal bchiiui. vertebra behind, by the end ot the st ernum before, and by the Tin; i>ase, ribs on the side ; whilst the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm. The base is wider transversely than from front to back, and is suifuce, convex towards the chest; though at certain spots it projects more than at others. Thus in the centre it is lower than at the sides, and is on a level with the base of the xiphoid cartilage. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth rib ""^l ''eight: near the sternum ; and on the left to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib.*' From the lateral jDrojections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave a narrow interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached part will iu aidu be marked by an oblique line over the side of the chest from the base of the xiphoid cartilage to the tenth rib ; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left (fig. 97). The apex of the space is continued higher than the osseous boun- Apex dary, and reaches into the root of the neck. Its highest point is neck)^^ not in the middle line, for there the windpipe, bloodvessels, &c. lie ; but is prolonged on each side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid, is UM. Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and under the How subclavian bloodvessels ; and in the interval between them lie the '^o'l'^'^^^^- several parts passing between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions. The extent of the thoracic cavity does not cori^e- Exterior size spond with the apparent size externally ; for the space included by cavity, the ribs below is occupied by the abdominal viscera, and the cavity reaches above into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm , the Depth varies depth of the space varies greatly at different points. At the centre, before; where the depth is least, it measures about seven inches, but at the beiiind; back as much again ; and the other vertical measurements can be sides, estimated by means of the data given of the level of the base on the wall of the thorax. Altei-ations in aqxieity. The size of the thoracic cavity is ^1^°^.^^^ stantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and dia- ufe; phragm in breathing. The horizontal measurements are increased in inspiration, when transversely the ribs are raised and separated from one another ; and are dimi- " ' nished in expiration as the ribs approach and the sternum sinks. An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the diaphragm in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the lungs, increasing thus the cavity ; and ascends when the air is ex- pelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efiiorts. But the movement of the ^^^i^^^^'JJ^; diaphragm is not equal throughout, and some parts of the cavity * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm.328 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. will be iiicreaBcd more than others. For instance the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves but slightly ; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend fi-eely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separa- tion from the thoracic parietcs. Thorax les- The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm being sened, how? pugj^g^j upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the ^^scera in the upper part of the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE TLEVTIM. Sac of the pleura. Fomi. Outer sur- face. Inner sur- face. Disposition in thorax. Difference in sac of right and left side. The con- tinuity is here traced over the lung and above it. Along mid- dle the sat s form a par- tition. The pleurae are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of tlie thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; they ap- proach each other along the middle line of the body, forming a tlioracic partition or mediastinum. Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the first rib (fig. 97), and its base is in contact with the dia- phragm. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung and the wall of the thorax by areolar tissue, but the inner surface is smooth, and secerning. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part—pleura costalis, and of a visceral jjart—pleura pul- monalis. There are some differences in the shape a)id extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left ; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung and the wall may be traced circularly from a given point to the same, in the following manner :—Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it may be traced on the wall of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is reflected over the viscus, covering its surface, and connecting together its diftercnt lobules. From the front of the root the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold, the lif/nmenfum laiinn pulmonis, which intervenes between the inner surface of the lung and the side of the peri- cardium. If the serous sac be traced above the root of the lung, it describes a circle Avithout deflection over a viscus. The mediastinum. The median thoracic partition, or the medi- asthium, is formed by the approximation of the pleural bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two layers,—one being- derived frona each sac. About midway between the sternum and the spine the contiguous strata of the mediastinum are widely separated by the heart; but in front of, and behind the heart they329 REFLECTIONS OF FLEURA. :approach near each other. To the parts before and behind that viscus the terms "anterior and posterior niediastina" are sometimes applied. The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) extends from rait of seji- the back of the sternum to the pericardium. Behind the second of"lie\ea"t* piece of the sternum tlie pleural bags touch each other, but above and below that spot they are separated by an interval; so that the space between them (interpleural) is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the Contents, •space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the h3'oid and thyroid muscles ; and in the lower part is some ■areolar tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. The part hehhul the heart (posterior mediastinum) intervenes Part behind between the back of the pericardium with the roots of the lungs, lai^ei' space, and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are the opposite pleural sacs, which are separated here by a larger intei-pleural in- terval than in fi-ont of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the lung on the right side, the extent of the space and its contents will appear :—in it are contained the different bodies on the front its contents, of the spine, viz. the aorta, the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, the CESophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned fi'om Clean peii- the side of the pericardium. c.udium and The root of the lung is to be dissected out l)y taking away the tiie root of pleura and the areolar tissue fi-om the front and back, without in- ^""^s- juring its several component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic Trace the artery and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with '^^^'^''^^ a few nerves (anterior pulmonary) ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches; and arching above it is the large azygos vein. aiid vein. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. The thymus hocly is a fetal organ, like the thyroid body, whose Thymus use is unknown. It occupies chiefly the upper part of the thorax ; fetus. and it may be best examined in a full-grown fetus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and is of a grayish Size colour ; it possesses two lobes of a conical form, which touch each other. Its upper end is pointed and extends on the trachea as high and extent as the thyroid body ; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and large at birth, vessels, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium. In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather Eemains in firm material in the interpleural space beneath the upper part of the ^ " sternum. In its perfect state it resembles much the thyroid body; and a Structure, whitish fluid, containing lymph-like corpuscles, escapes from it when it is cut.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 330 CONNECTIONK OF THE LUNGS. NuniLcr aud use. Form. Ba.se touches diapliiafiin sha]ie anil level. Apex is in the neck. Anterior edge is.tUiu position on right and left .side. Posterior edge i.s thick. E.\temal surface. Tnteriial surface gives attach- ment to the root. Division into lobes. Left lias two, and the right three lobes. The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavit}- of the thorax, one on eacli side of the spinal cohnnn. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. The lung is of a somewhat conical fonn, and takes its shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner part where the vessels enter ; and it is covered liy the bag of the pleura. Its base and apex, borders and surfaces can be dis- tinguished by differences in form : it is divided also into lobes by fissures; and it has a root fonned out of its vessels and nerves. The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the circumference, and fits on the convexity of the diaphragm. Follow- ing the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower posteriorly than anteiiorly. Its position with respect to the Avail of the thorax may be ascertained externally by taking the level of the diaphragm as a guide (p. 327) ; and it Avill be a rib's breadth lower in front on the left, than on the right side (fig. 97). The apex is rounded, and projects an inch to an inch and a half above the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the sub- clavian artery. The anterior edge or border is thin, and overlays in part the peri- cardium. On the right side it lies along the middle of the sternunt as low as the sixth costal cartilage (fig. 97). On the left side it reaches the mid-line of the chest as low as the fourth costal carti- lage ; but below that spot it presents a A'-shaped notch (fig. 97), whose apex is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Two fissures are seen in the border of the right luug, but onl\- one in that of the left. The posterior border is as long again as the anterior, and projects inferiorly betAveen the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column. The outer surface of the lung is convex, and is in contact Avith the Avail of the thorax: a large cleft diA'ides it into two pieces (lobes of the lung), and on the right side there is a second smaller fissure. The inner surface is flat Avhen compared Avith the outer : altogether in front is the hollow corresponding Avith the heart and its large vessels, Avhich is greatest on the left lung ; and behind this, but nearer the posterior than the anterior border, is a fissyre about three inches long, hilinn pulmonis, Avhich receives the vessels forming the root of the lung. Each lung is diAnded incompletely into tAvo parts or lobes by an oblique fissure, Avhich begins near tlie apex, and ends in the anterior border near the base : from the form of the lung and the direction of the fissure the loAver lol)e is necessarily the largest. In the rio-ht lung a second horizontal fissure is directed fonvards from the middle of the oblique one to the anterior border, and cuts off a small tri- angular piece from the upper lobe : this is the third lobe of theROOT OF LUXG. 33t lung. Occasionally there may bo a trace of the third lobe in the left lung. Besides the difference in the number of tlie lobes, the right huig Difference is larger and heavier, and is wider and more hollowed out at the s'-i^onh" base than the left; it is also shorter by an inch. The increased i^'uss- length and the narroAvness of the left lung are due to the absence Fig. 97.* of a large projecting body like the liver under it, and to the direc- tion of the heart to the left side. The root of the Iwuj consists of the vessels entering the fissure on Root of the the inner surface ; and as these are bound together by the pleura and some areolar tissue they form a foot-stalk, which fixes the lung to the heart and the windpipe. The root is situate at the inner Situation, sui'face, about midway l)etween the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth from the posterior border of the lung. In front of the root on both sides, are the phrenic and the anterior Connec- pulmonary nei^ves, the former being at some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus ; and on the left side tSiere is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above on the right side is the vena azygos; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligamentum latum 2>nlmonis. In the root of the lung are collected a branch of the pulmonary c'onsti- arteiy, two pulmonary veins, and a division of the air tube (bronchus); tile'root;. * Diagram to show the difference in the anterior border of the right and left lung, the edge being indicated by the dark line; and to mark the different level of the base on the two sides.332 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves a,nd lymphatics. The large vessels and the air tube have the following position to one another :— their rela- On both sides the bronchus is most posterior, the pulmonary .tion/'°'*'' '"'^^^ anterior, and the pulmonary artery between the other two. In the direction from above down the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side the bronchus and artery have changed places, con- sequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This diiference in the two sides may be accounted for by the left branch of tiie air tube being at a lower level than the right. THE PERICARDIUM. Pericar- dium. Clean ves- sels of heart. First aorta. then inuo- ininato veins 4ind branches, and upper cava. Seek small nerves cross- ing arch of iiorta. Dissect sujierficial ]ilexiis in arch of aorta. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the pleural of opposite sides. Dissection. Supposing the surface of the pericardium to be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the large vessels con- nected with the heart, and the nen^es. The large artery curving to the left above the heart is the aorta, which furnishes three trunks to the head and the upper limbs, viz., innominate to the right, next left common carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side lies the pulmonary artery. Above the arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left innominate, crosses over the three before said arteries, and ends by uniting on the right side with the right innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, which may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter this trunk. Define the brandies of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side, which is the left superior intercostal vein. The large vein by the side of the aorta Avhich enters the top of the heart is the upper cava : look for the azygos vein opening into it behind. Seek the following nerves of the left side which cross the arch of the aorta :—The nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the vagus ; the next largest in size on the right of the vagus is the phrenic. Between the preceding nerves, and close to the coats of the artery, are the two following,—the left superficial cardial nerve of the sympatiietic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, tiie last is the smaller, and on the right of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be pursued onwards to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the con- cavity of the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to be traced down- wards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the anterior coronary artery of tiie heart; and anotiier prolongation is to be fomid coming forwards fi-om the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus: tiiis dissection is difficult, and will require care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will beSTRUCT (JRE OF PERICARDIUM. 833; followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. The pericardium is larger than the viscus it contains. Somewhat Pericar- conical in form, the wider part of the bag is tm-ned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards to the large vessels of fonn'!"^^ the heart. Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the sternum, rositiou. and projects below on each side of that bone, but much more to- wards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond with Connec- the objects in the interpleural space ; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- Composi- tcrnally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is pierced by Fibrous part the different vessels of that organ : it gives prolongations around fi\elths to the vessels, and the strongest of these sheaths is on the aorta. Infe- vessels, riorly it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the diaphragm. Joins dia- This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of gtruc- fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal, tme. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior of the fibrous pericardium, and Serous is reflected over the surface of the heart. Like other serous mem- ifbrous"^^ branes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral ])art. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives and covers tlie shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface i^eart!^ of the heart by the diflierent vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the pulmonary artery it contains those vessels in one tube, not Peculiarities, passing between their contiguous surfaces ; and at the posterior "^^^^J*^ reflec- part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of opposite sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer fonns a Vestigial vertical band, the vestigial foJd of the x)ericardium (Marshall), which includes the remains of the left innominate vein of the fetus. On separating the pulmonary artery and bronchus, the band will be better seen. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the Vessels- internal mammaiy, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives nerves Nerves, from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular viscus, and is the agent in the propulsion of the blood through the body. Into it, as the centre of the vascular system, veins enter ; and fi'om it the arteries issue.DISSECTION OF TEE THORAX. ^34 Form. Sui'fa'^es and borders Size and weight. ituation in the cliest; its axis, oblique, ydaeed al- most hori- zontally. Only some jiarts touch the wall. Limits of base and apex of upper margin, lower border. Lateral limits. circular :ind longitu- dinal : how placed. Form. When the heart is distended, its form is conical, but it is rather flattened from Ijefore backwards. Its surfaces, and borders have the followinj^ differences ; tlie anterior surface is shghtly con- vex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat : the left border is thick and round, but the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size. The size varies gi-eatly, and in general the heart of the woman is smaller than that of the man. Its average weight is fi'om ten to twelve ounces in the male, and fi-om eight to ten m the female. The measurements may be said to be about four inches and three quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness. Position and Direction. The heart lies beneath the lower two-tliirds of the sternum, and projects on each side, but more on the left than the right. Its axis is not parallel to, but is incHned obliquely across that of the body ; and its position is almost horizontal with the base directed backwards and to the riglit, and the apex forwards and to the left side. The left margin of the viscus is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. In consequence of the direction of the heart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in contact with the parietes:—thus the right half and the apex will correspond with the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intei-vening, whilst the base is directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages : and the left half will be imdermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 98). The Hmits of the whole heart are the following : the base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds with four dorsal vertebrae (5th to 8th). The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life just below the fifth rib, near the junction with the cartilage. The upper limit would be shown by a line across the stenunn on a level with the tipper edge of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit would be marked by a line over the junction of the stcrmun with the xiphoid cartilage, drawn from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it projects from one to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is constantly varying Avith the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the apex projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the breast bone. Componentxmrts. The heart is a double organ, and is made up of two similar halves. In each half are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle ; these on the same side communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. On are grooves indicatory of this composition. Thus passing circularly isoimd the heart, nearer the base than the apex is a groove which cuts off the thin auricular from the fleshy ventricular part. A longitudinal sulcus on each surface marks the situation of a median partition between the ventricles: this sulcus does not occupy The heart is double. Grooves, the surface335 COMPOSITION OF HEART. itlie mid spcace cither on the anterior or the posterior aspect, but is nearer the left border of the heart in front, and the right border behind; so that most of the anterior surface is formed by the right, •and the greater part of the posterior surface by the left ventricle. The auricles are two (right and left) and receive their appellation Numlicr from the resemblance of the appendices to the dog's ears : they are tion of the auricles. Fig. 98.* placed so deeply at the base of the heart, that only the tip of the Veins cuter inght one comes forwards to the sternum. The auricles are much ^^^^^^ tliinner than the ventricles. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two aspects of the The ven- heart:—thus the right one forms the thin right border and the -greater part of the anterior surface ; Init the left enters alone into the apex, and constructs the left border, and most of the i:)osterior surface of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart the coronary arteries are to Dissect be dissected on the surface, with the small nerves and veins that veKs"h;'Mn.i .accompany them. The two arteries appear on the sides of the ii<;i vcs, pulmonary artery, and occupy the grooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat: one branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With the anterior artery is .-a plexus of nerves, which is to be followed upwards to the superficial * Diagram showing the position of the heart to the ribs and sternum, the •soft parts being removed from the exterior of the tliorax. The edge of each lung is shown by a dotted line.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 336 and coro- nary sinus. Two arteries of the heiirt, viz.. right coro- nary. left coro- nary artery. Veins of the heart. Coronary sinus; extent; veins .]om- ing it. Valves in the veins. Ijarge car- iliac vein is siuglc. cardiac plexus ; and witli the remaining artery anotlier plexus is to be sought. In the groove at the back of the heart between the auricles and ventricles, the student will find the large coronary vein, and the dilated coronary sinus in which it ends on the right: the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The coronarij arteries are two small vessels which are so named from their course around the heart: they are the first branches of the aorta. One is distributed mostly on the right, and the other on the left side of the heart. The right coronary branch appears on the right side of the pul- monary artery, and is directed onwards in the depression between the right auricle and ventricle to end in the left half of the heart on the posterior aspect. In its course branches are distributed up- wards and downwards to the right half of the viscus. Two of these are of larger size than the rest:—one runs on the anterior aspect of the right ventricle towards the free margin; the other descends on the back of the heart towards the apex, along the septum between the ventricles. The left coronarrj branch is inclined behind the pulmonary artery to the left side of that vessel, and in the groove between the left aiu-icle and ventricle to the back of the same side of the heart. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes offsets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle of its side : the largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus over the septum ventriculorum towards the apex. The veins of the substance of the heart (cardiac) are not the same in munber, nor have they the same arrangement as the arteries. There may be said to be three sets, but for the most part they are collected into one large trunk, the coronary sinus, which opens into the right auricle. The coronary sinus (fig. 99, ') will be seen on raising the heart to be placed in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch usually in extent, it is joined at the one end by the great coronary vein (^) ; and at the other it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its right end it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles (^ and j-) ; and nearly at its left extremity another vein (2),—the oblique vein (Marshall), which ascends along the back of the left auricle. On slitting the sinus with a scissors the openings of its different veins will be seen to be guarded with valves, with the exception of the oblique vein; and at its right end is the large Thebesian valve of the right auricle. The great cardiac or coronary vein begins in front near the apex of the heart, in the substance of the ventricles. The vessel turns to the posterior surface in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens into the coronary sinus (fig. 99, ■*). It receives, collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves.NERVES OF HEART SUBSTANCE, 337 Antenor and posterior cardiac veins. Some small veins on the anterior part of the right ventricle open separately, by one or more trunks, into the lower part of the right auricle. Similar small veins exist over the back of the ventricles ; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum ventriculorum: they enter the coronary sinus by separate valved openings. Smallest cardiac. A third set of veins (vena; minimai) lie in the substance of the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nei-ves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta, and pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to •^^S- 99. the pulmonaiy artery, and part beneath ; and an off- set is sent fi-om each with a coronary ailery. Only the superficial pai*t of the plexus can now be seen. The superficial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, and by the side of the ductus arte- riosus. The nerves joining it are the left superficial cardiac of the sympathetic, the lower cardiac of the left vagus (p. 355), and a considerable bundle from the deep cardiac plexus. A «mall ganglion is some- times seen in the plexus. Tnferiorly it sends off ner\''es on the right coro- nary artery to the heart. A few filaments pass on the left division •of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. The right coronary nerves pass fi'om the plexus to the right coronary •artery, and receive near the heart a communicating offset from the ■deep cardiac plexus. Tlie left coronary nerves are derived, as will be subsequently seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompany the left coronary artery to the heart. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular ■substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. * Back of the heart with the coronary sinus and its veins. (Marshall.) A. Right auricle, b. Left auricle, with the auricula, c. 1. Coronary sinus. 2, Oblique vein. 3. Vein from the right side of the heart. 4. Left or great cardiac vein, f f Veins joining the sinus from the back of the ventricles. Small ante- rior and lK)sterior cardiac veins. Smallest cardiac. Cardiac nerves. Superficial idexus ends in anterior ci irouary. .\nterior coronary idexus. l>osterior plexus, ending in the lieart.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 338 Fomi of right auricle. Its base; Fourcavi- The CAVITIES ov THE HEART may be examined in the order in heart^""' which the cuiTent of the blood passes through them, viz. right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to to open right removed from the body. To open the right auricle, an mcisioii auricle. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^.^j^^ ^^.^^ border, and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; from the centre of that incision the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of those cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be exa- mined. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE (fig. 100) is of an irregular form,'' though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex below and to the left. The base or wider part of the ca^^ty is turned towai-ds the right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and in- ferior cava?. Between those vessels the cavity projects a little, and presents a slight elevation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near its upper part is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or auricula (/t), which will admit the tip of the httle finger. Around and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati,, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. HXiQ posterior wall corresponds for the most part with the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart, fossa ovaiis. Qn it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis (fZ), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the fetus. Inferiorly it merges into the lower cava. A thin semi-transparent structure fonns the bottom of the fossa ; and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture at its upper part. Around the upper three-fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of Annulus of muscular fibre, called annulus sen isthmus Vieussenii, Avhich is most Vieussens. prominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides in- feriorly. Apertures of Altogether at the lower part of the posterior wall is the aperture sinus p£ ^i^g coronaiy sinus (e). Other small apertures are scattered over this surface :—some lead only into depressions ; but others are the and smallest mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (vena) cordis minima)), vems. jjj^j named foramina Thebesii (/). Situation of The cliief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavse, <=ava-, coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava (a), * The term cavity of the auricle has been sometimes applied to the appendix, and the term sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle. apex. Anterior wall pre- sents auricula. Posterior waU is marked IjvRIGHT AURICLE OF HEART. 339 Fig. 100. is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is forwards. The inferior cava (6) enters the back part of the cavity near the septum, and is directed backwards to the fossa ovaUs (d). The auriculo-ventricular opening (e) is the hvrgest of all, and is situate at the lowest part of the cavity. Between this and the septum is placed the opening of the coronary sinus (e) which is about as large as a turkey-quill. All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eusta- chian valve, which is only a remnant of a much of auriculo- ventricular opening, of coronaiy sinus. Valves of chief ai)er-. tures. Inferior cava has Eustachian valve. largrer stracture in the fetus. This valve in its perfect state is semi- lunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. It is wider than the vein opening, and its surfaces are directed for- wards and backwards : its free margin is often reticular. The aper- ture of the coronary sinus is closed by a thin fold of the lining membrane—valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with valves, which prevent blood rmming back into the auricular cavity. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle towards the ventricle. But in the fetus there are two streams in the cavity; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth approaches. The placental or pure blood entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, tlu*ough the foramen ovale in the septum; whilst the current of sys- temic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows down- wards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right ventricle, the student should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, and cut out inferiorly near the apex of the heart without injuring * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava. i. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. _ e. Opening of the coronary sinus. /. Foramina Thebesii, the openings of veins. g. Aperture of the pulmonary artery, h. Auricular appendix. z 2 one to coro- nary sinus, and to auriculo- ventricular opening. Course of blood ill auricle in adult, and in the fetus. To open right ventricle.340 Cavity oi right ventricle. Apex. Base and its openings. Anterior and posterior wall. Interior of the cavity is uneven: on it tliere are three sets of fleshy coluniiis. Opening from the auricle; position; form and size; is guarded by tlie tri- cuspid -valve: "the pieces Structure of valve: DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the antx^rior part of the ventricle. In the examniation ot the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. _ . The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 100) IS triangular m form, and has the l)ase turned upwards to the auricle of the same side.' On a cross section the cavity Avould appear semilunar m shape, with the septum between the ventricles convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance from the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c); the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pul- monary artery (g). The part of the cavity communicating with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infundibulum or conus arteriosus. The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds with the sep- tum between the ventricles, and is much tliicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is irregular, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular fibres, the columnm carnecc; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kmds. Some form merely a prominence in the ven- tricle, as on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle (trabeculaj carneaj). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi iminllares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the ventricle, and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third costal cartilages. It is slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval from side to side, its shape being maintained by a strong fibrous band around it; and it measures one mch and a quarter in diameter. Prolonged from the circumference of the opening is a thin mem- branous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is undivided, but it presents three chief points at its lower margin, and is named tricuspid ; to the lower margin are attached small tendinous cords (chorda3 ten- dineas), which unite it to the nuiscular bundles of the ventricle. Its three slips or tongues are thus placed :—one touches the front of the ventricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall; and tlie remainuig slip, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the auricle and pulmonary artery. The tricuspid valve is constructed by the lining membrane of the341 EIGHT VENTRICLE OF HEART. heart, which encloses fibrous tissue. The central part of each tongue is strong, whilst the edges are tliin and notched; and between the primary pieces there are sometimes secondary points (Kiirschner). The chordce teruUnece which keep the valve in position ascend attachment from the musculi papillai-es into the interA'als between the pieces nous^cords. of the valve, and are connected with both.** They end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening;—some reaching the attached upper margin ; others entering the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the tongue. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close its use. the opening into the auricle; and its protrusion into the other cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The valve participates in the production of the first sound of the heart. Tlie mouth of the puhnonary artery (g} will be seen when the Mouth of incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. artery"*'^ liound in shape, it is situate on the left of the opening into the position; auricle, and is opposite the inner end of the second intercostal space of the left side. Its diameter is rather less than an inch. Into it the funnel-shaped part of the right ventricle is prolonged, ^^j^^g'®® and in its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves. Semilunar valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the vessel by its convex border; and is free by the opposite edge, in which there is a slightly thickened nodule—the coi-pus Arantii. In the wall of the artery opposite each valve is a slight hollow, the sinus of Valsalva, which is better marked in the aorta. The valves resemble the tricuspid in structure, for they are fonned structure of of fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining membrane. In each valves, valve the fibres have tliis arrangement: there is one band along the attached margin ; a second along the free edge, which is connected with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is directed from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a semilunar interval on each side near the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of the valves is obvious, viz. to give free passage to fluid Their use. in one direction, and to prevent its return. Wliilst the blood is entering the artery the valves are placed against the wall; but when the elasticity of the vessel acts on the contained blood the valves are thrown towards the centre of the vessel, and an-est the How of the fluid into the ventricle. They are concerned also in giAang rise to the second sound of the heart. Dissection. To open the cavity of the left auricle the apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle fi-om the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another short incision should be made downwards at right angles to the first. The apex of the heart must necessarily be raised during the examination of the cavity. * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, whoso ten- dons enter the interval on each side of the anterior tongue of the valve._ In the interval between the left and posterior segments of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and are connected with the septum ventriculorum.342 PISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Shape of cavity of left auricle. On anterior wall is auricula. On septum remnant of foramen ovale. Openings: four pul- monary veins, and to ventricle. Valves. Current of blood in adult; in fetus. How to open left ventricle. Fig. 101. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE (fig. 101) is Smaller than that of the right side. Irregularly conical in shape, the wider part is turned towards the spinal column, and receives the pulmonary veins ; and the narrowed pai't (Z) opens inferiorly into the left ventricle. On the left side towards the upper part, is the aperture of the pouch of the auricula which is narrower than that in the right auricle. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around tlie entrance, are Heshy fibres (muscuU pectinati) which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. On the part of the wall correspond- ing with the septum auricularum, is a superficial fossa (fig. 101, o), the remains of the oval aperture through that partition ; this is bounded below by a projecting ridge, concave up- wards, which is the edge of the structure or valve that closed the opening in the fetus. This impres- sion in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, be- cause the aperture between the two in the fetus is an oblique canal through the septum. The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmonary veins, two on each side, together with the opening of communication with the left ventricle. The mouths of each pair of pulmonary veins are close to one another ; those from the right lung (i) open into the extreme right of the auricle near the septum, and those fi-om the left lung Qi) enter the opposite part of the cavity, near the auricula. The pulmonary veins are not provided with valves. The aperture into the ventricle (Z) will be subsequently seen to have a large and complicated valve to guard it, as on the right side. In the adult the blood enters this cavity from the Itmgs by the puhnonary veins, and passes to the left ventricle by the large inferior opening between the two. In the fetus the lungs arc impen-ious to the air and the mass of the circulating fluid ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. Tlie left ventricle may be opened by an mcision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended upwards * Diagram of the two cavities of the left side of the heart, k. Left pul- monary veins, i. Right pulmonary veins, o. Remains of the foramen ovale. I. Left auriculo •ventricular opening, of the aorta. m. Auricular appendix, n. Aperture343 LEFT VEXTRICLE OF HEART. so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the caAaty \vill be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE (fig. 101) is longer, and more Form of left conical in shape than that of the opposite venti-icle ; and is oval or ^eitricie. almost circiUar, on a transverse section. The apex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The hose Apex, -is turned towards the auricle, and is not sloped like that of the Base with its right ventricle ; in it ai-e the openings into the aorta (h) and the "P'^"'"g«- left auricle {I). The icalls of this ventricle are thickest, and the anterior boundary Walls, is formed by the septiun ventriculoruin. Its surface is irregular, like that of the riffht ventricle, in con- inner sur- sequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or carneae columiue; fleshy but near the great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There columns, iire three sets of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle. But the set (nuisculi papillares), which project into the ca^^ty, and and some receive the small tendinous threads of the valve, are the most marked: ^'^^^ these are arranged chiefly in two large bundles, and spring from the anterior and posterior walls of the cavity. The aperture into the left auricle (J) (auriculo-ventricular) is placed Leftauri- beneath the orifice of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous cular\per- band intervening between the two. It is rather smaller than the t^"^^- corresponding aperture of the riglit side, being somewhat more than ^j^"" '^^^ fin inch in diameter, and is longest in the transverse direction. Placed, as before said, beneath the aortic aperture, it extends also Position, to the right, so as to lie beneath the left extremity of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. ,It is furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, as well as to the aortic fibrous ring, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its seg- segments, ments lie one before another, with their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the fi'ont and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior segment. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office structure. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also secondary pieces between the two primary seeinents. The tendinous cords ascend to be attached to the valve attachment o of cords in the notches between the tongues; and they end on the segments in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both poi-tions of the valve. When the blood enters the cavity, the pieces of the valve are Use. raised as on the right side, and meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in pro- ducing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is next Aortic open- tbe septum of the ventricles. Its aperture is round, and ratherDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 844 position and fonu. Is gnanled l)y three sigmoid valves. Sinus of Valsalva. Use. Position of apertures. of arteries and auricles; and from before back. Stnieture of the heart. Directions. Fibrous bands fomi rings around auri- culo-ventri- cular and arterial openings. To the last the sigmoid Valves, and middle coat of the artery are fixed smaller than that of the pulmonar)' arteiy, and measures about three quarters of an inch in diameter. It is situate opposite the inner end of the third left intercostal space. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves, which aro larger and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. the corjius Arantii,is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pul- monary artery, though in u greater degree, and presents a little hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed behind two of tlie valves. Like the valves in the pulmonaiy artery these meet in the middle line to stop the blood passing back into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonaiy) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally foiTned from one tube, they are close together, but the pidmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of communication with each auricle is nearer the circumference of the heart, and is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The position of the openings to one another from before backwards has been before referred to;—viz., the right is partly before the left auriculo-ventricular; and the opening of the pulmonaiy artery is anterior to that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. Structure. The heart is composed of strata of muscular fibres, and of certain fibrous rings with a fibro-cartilage. Tlie structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue des- troyed by boiling, so as to allow of the fibres being separated. The description of the stmcture of the heart may be omitted by the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous stmcture forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with those oiienings. Tlie auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral I valves. They are distinct from the bands encircling the mouths of the arteries, except at the front of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and arterial circles blend. An arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and pulmonarj'), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment to some muscular fibres' It is a circular band, Avith three notches in the margin towards the artery ; these are filled by corresponding projections of the arter}-, and give attachment internally to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. Tlie artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in the manner :—Its middle coat presents three projections, following345 AURICULAE FIBRES OF HEART. which are received into the notches of the fibrous ring, being joined thereto by fibrous tissue ; and the junction between the two is strengthened externally by the outer arterial coat and the peri- cardium, and internally by the endocardium, Behmd the aortic aperture, between it and the auriculo-ventricular Fibio-carti- orifices, is apiece of Jibro-cartilage, with wliich the fibrous rings are united. The muscular fibres belong to the involuntary class, though marked with transverse striaj, and form concentric layers, which enclose the cardiac caAnties. In the aiu-icles the fibres are separate from those in the ventricles. In the icall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. 102, a), and are best marked at the lower part, though they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. la«e. Muscular substance of heart. Disposition in tlie auricles. Fis. 102.* Besides this set there are an- nular fibres around the append- ages of the auricles, and the endings of the different veins. Lastly a few oblique fibres (c and (I) pass upwards over the auricles both in front and behind. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been leanit, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and fi-om the ante- rior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart let the student note that the anterior surface is to be z'ccogniscd by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band above about half an inch wide ; and that at the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. Separate partly the ventricles in front along the septum by dividing the band near the base, and sinking the , knife for about an inch into the groove between them. Disjoin then the aorta and pulmonary firtery along the middle line, so as to leave one attached to each ventricle as in fig. 103. To show the laminar composition of the left ventricle divide its * Muscular fibres of the auricles. /. Inferior cava, and e, superior cava of the right auricle. ^. Right, and h, left pulmonary veins of the left auricle. a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, transverse fibres of the left auricle, entering the septum auricularum. c. Oblique fibres of the left, and cl, of the right auricle. Annular fibres surround the auriculas and the veins. where they are trans- verse, annular, and oblique. Detach tlie- auricles. Partly .sej)arate ventricles. To show layers of left ventricle.DISSECTION OF THE THOHAX. layer. 5. The outermost of the three inner strata. 546 L.iyei"s of left ven- trii-le. Number. Arrange- ■jiient. Extent. Willi it)iit;kest. fibres in front lonj?itudinally near the septum, and transversely about half an inch below the left auriculo-ventricular opening ; but the cut is to be very shallow, because seven layers, each about a« thick as the thin end of the scalpel, are to be demonstrated. From the lines of incision reflect the different layers downwards to the apex, upwards to the auriculo-ventricular aperture, and backwards into the septum. As the layers are raised the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction ; and the outer three to be thimier than the three internal. The LEFT VENTRICLE is a hollow cone, and its wall is fonned of layers of fibres, as if a flat muscle had been rolled up into a conical 103). Seven layers enter into the construction of the wall; and they are arranged figure (fig Fig. 103.^ :ainl •thinnest." Direction of til)res in the three •<juter, ni iildle. And three inner layers. into three external (1, 2, 3), three internal (7, G, 5), and a central one (4). All are not prolonged equal distances on the ventricle, for the outer- most and the innermost reach farthest towards apex and base; and the second exter- nal and its corresponding inner layer (sixth) extend farther than the third and the fifth. The fourth is the shortest of all. Consequently the wall is thickest about the middle third where all the layers are present, and gra- dually becomes thinner up- wards and downwards, xmtil there is only the outennost layer at the apex, and the most external and internal (1st and 7th) at the base. (Dr. Pettigi-ew, Phil. Trans. 1864.) Direction of the fibres. Each stratum is formed of fleshy fibres with the undermentioned direction, supposing the ventricle standhig on the apex, and the anterior surface towards the dissector. In the three external strata (1,2, 3) the fibres are inclined down- wards from the base and septum to the apex of the ventricle, and become less vertical in each. The fourth or mid layer (4) possesses transverse fibres; and it is nearer the outer than the inner surface of the wall. In the three inner strata the fibres change their direction, as is shown by 5, and are directed upwards from the apex and septum to the base of the ventricle ; so that they cross the fibres of the outer layers like the legs of the letter X, and, becoming more oblique in each layer, are almost vertical in the internal. * A diagram of the arrangement of the fibres in layere in the left ventricle. 1. First or externallayer, 2. Second external. 3. Third external. 4. CentralVENTRICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 347 Continuity of the fibres. With a piece of muscle rolled into a cone, Fibres eou- as before said, the fibres of the different layers would be necessarily t'"""^** continuous at the apex ; but in the heart they are united at apex and base. Thus the outermost layer is continuous at the apex and at apex and base with the innermost, the fibres being curved in at the tip and out at the base. In like manner the fibres of the second layer are united with those of the sixth, and the third stratum with the fifth. From the three outer layers, fibres are continued to the The com- right ventricle at the back of the heart, forming the " common fibres." Each of the three outer layers consists of two sets of fibres, Spimi which occupy the front and back of the ventricle. By the turning tUrJe outer inwards of the two bundles on opposite sides of the apex, the wall layers, is prevented from having a slanting side, like a piece of paper rolled into a cone. And by the turning outwards of two sets of fibres (anterior and posterior) at the base of the ventricle from each inner layer, the sides of the auriculo-ventricular opening are Coui-se in made level like those of the apex. Many of the fibres of the outer layers are attached to the fibrous ring around the aorta. The fibres of the fourth layer are continued into the septum in central ventriculorum. laj'er. Dissection. To display the layers and fibres of the right ventricle, To show great care will be needed because of the thinness of the wall; but of HgUt veu- the same number of layers exists in this, as on the other side of tricle, the heart. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect fi'om the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle; and reflect the several layers forwards and backwards fi-om that incision. As the three outer are raised let them be traced on the one hand into the part of the septum detached from the left ventricle ; and on the other into the left ventricle through the continuity of the common fibres behind. The RIGHT VENTRICLE possesses seven layers in its wall, like the Number of left, though they are much thinner. They are arranged as in the ^'"^y^""^- other ventricle into three external, three internal, and a fourth or intermediate. In like manner the wall decreases from the centre Tlilckness. towards the base and apex, but at the tip it is thicker than the apex of the left half of the heart (Pettigrew). Directions of the fibres. In this as in the other ventricle, the fibres Direction of of the three outer layers run down fi'om the base to the fore part lll'yiree of the septum and the apex of the heart: the outer being most outer, vertical. In the fourth stratum the fibres have a transverse direc- central, tion, as in the corresponding layer of the left ventricle. And in and tij''<'<'_^^^ the three inner layers they are directed upwards from the apex to '^^^ the base of the ventricle across the fibres of the three outer strata, the deepest being the most vertical. Continuity of the fibres. The fibres are not distinct from those of Derivation the left ventricle, but are derived in the three outer layers fi'om the outer'layers " common fibres " and the septum, and fi-om the auriculo-ventricular opening. They are then continued forwards to the front of the348 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. and in central, not spiral at apex. Common fibres in front. arrange- ment. Septum of ventricles. septum ventriculomm, wliere they leave the surfcace, and bending- back construct the right part of the septum : at tlie back of that partition they blend with the " common fibres " of the left ventricle. The fourth layer fibres are continuous for the most part with the "common fibres" crossing]the posterior groove. At the apex the three outer layers do not enter in a whorl as in the left ventricle ; but at the base they are continuous with the three inner as on the other side of the heart. Many of the fibres of the external layer are attached to the ring of the pulmonary artery ; and the narrow sHp from the right to the left ventricle, near the base in front, receives its fibres from the two outer strata. In this ventricle the fibres are arranged as if there had been ori- ginally one common cavity in the heart—the left ventricle, from which the right had been detached during the growth by a pushing inwards of a partition from the fore part. Septum ventriculorum. This partition between the two cavities has been divided anteriorly into right and left parts by the previous dissection ; and the layers of the ventricles may be traced into them. It is rather thicker than the wall of the left ventricle, and is formed by the fibres of both ventricles. About one-third belongs to the right, and two-thirds to the left ventricle. Where the two portions touch the fibres mingle, and altogether behind lie the " common fibres " of the two ventricles. Endocardium. Lining the interior of the cavities of the heart is a thin membrane, which is named endocardium. It is continuovis on the one hand witli the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. Where the membrane jiasses from an auricle to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an arterj', it fonns duplicatures or valves, in Avhicli fibrous tissue is enclosed ; and in the ventricles it covers the tendinous cords of the valves, and the projecting mus- cular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. In its structure it resembles a serous membrane. Great Vessels of -ihk Heart, The arteries which take origin from the heart are the aorta and the pulmonary. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coronary, are the superior and inferior cava, and the pulmonary. The PULMONARY ARTERY is a short thick trunk, which conveys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle the vessel is directed rtiyides into upwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and A\o or le ^ ^jj. ^^^.p inches, it divides into two branches of nearlj' equal size for the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular appendix. Near the bifurcation of the arteiy is a ligamentous cord about as large as a crow-quill, the remnant of the arterial duct, which passes How formed fibres. Lininsj forms folds in the inte- rior. Thickness and struc- ture. Vessels'of the heart. The pulino- naiy artei-y lungs. Connec- tions. Ligament of arterial duct.349 PULMONARY ARTERY. Fis. 104.* from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductus arteriosi. The right branch is longer than the left. In its course to the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava superior, and rests ou the bronchus or piece of the air tube : and as it passes outwards it lies above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe. The left hvanch is rather smaller than the right ; it is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fis- sure of the root of the lung, wiiere it ends in two branches for the two pul- monic lobes. Rif,'ht braiK^h is longest. As the right and left Left branch. branches of the pulmo- nary artery pass outwards, they cross the air-tubes residting from the divi- sion of the trachea, and enclose with them a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. The ligamentous structure was the continuation In the fetus of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period the vessel receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arteriosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the origin of the last great vessel <it the head and neck from the arch. As the lungs do not give passage to tlie circulating fluid liefore birth, the impure blood in the pulmonary artery passes througli the arterial duct into the aorta below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may l)e transmitted to the placenta to be purified. But after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of tlirough the arterial •duct; and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is obliterated before the eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The AORTA is the great systemic vessel which conveys the blood from the heart to the dilferent parts of the body. It arches back- wards at first to reach the spinal colunm, and is continued on the spine through the chest and abdomen. In the thorax the vessel is Space at the bifurcation. Condition of tlie artery in the fetus. Use. Tliis great vessel ex- tends * The formation of the septum ventriculorum by the fibres of both ventricles is represented in this cut.DISSECTIOX OF THE THOEAX. 350 tbrough oliest and abdonieu. Its first, part is arched. The extent and divi- sions of the arch. First part: length and connections. Gives origin to coronarj- arteries. Second part is tran.s- verse. Connec- tions. Gives origin to large vessels. divided into two parts—arch of the aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta. AreJi of the aorta (fig. 105). The aorta has its origin in the left ventricle, and curving backwards over the windpipe and the gullet,, fonns an arch which ceases on the left side of the spinal column, at the lower border of Fig. 105.* the fifth dorsal vertebra, The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and its con- cavity to the root of the left lung ; and from it the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take their origin. For the purpose of reducing to order the numerous con- nections of this portion of the aorta, it is divided into three parts — as- cending, transverse, and descending. The Jirst or ascending part is about two inches in length, or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, and close to the sternum : it reaches as high as the upper border of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the peri- cardium. At first the pulmonary artery is supei-ficial to it; but, as the vessels take different directions, the aorta is soon uncovered, and remains so to its tennination. Behind it are the right branches of the pulmonary vessels. On the right side is the descending cava ; and on the left, the pulmonary artery. Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite the semilunar valves (fig. 105). There is some- times another dilatation along the right side, which is named the great sinus of the aorta. The second or transvei'se portion receds from the stenium and . reaches from the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra (the lower border). It rests upon the trachea above the bifurcation, and is placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Lying in fi-ont of this part of the artery are the vagus, phrenic, and superficial cardiac nerves of the left side,—the first nerve sending backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the left innominate * Arch of the aorta and its great vessels, a. Aortic arch. h. Innominate artery, c. Left common carotid, d. Left subclavian, c. Ligamentum ductus, arteriosi. /. Vena cava superior, g. Left innominate vein. Right in- nominate vein. i. Left upper intercostal vein. k. Vena azygos major. I. Left subclavian vein. n. Thoracic duct. o. Coronary artery.351 AORTIC ARCH AND BRANCHES. vein (g), to which the left upper intercostal vein {i) is directed over the left part of the arch ; and to the lower border near the termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. From this part arise the three gi-eat vessels of the head and upper hmbs. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, extending Third pa i t, from the lower ed^e of the fourth to that of the fifth dorsal ver- j"* without tebra.'- It lies against the fifth vertebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the fourth, and is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the root Parts cow- of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its the'Trclu arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than those parts, the CESophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands, may be recognised. The branches of the arch of the aorta ai'e five in number; two Five come fi'om the ascending, and tlu-ee from the transverse part. The of t'ue arch: first two are the coronary arteries of the heart (o), which have been already noticed (p. 336). The other three are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the large ti"unk of the innominate artery (h) ; close .to it is tlie left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left sub- clavian (d). The INNOMINATE ARTERY (J) (brachio-cephafic), the first and largest innominate of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two f/i*(?arotra * inches in length. Ascending to the right beneath the sternum, it and sub- divides opposite the sterno-clavncular articulation into the right common carotid and the subclavian artery. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (^7), and lies Length and behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the hyoid ^oi^^^*-*^"^"^* and thyroid muscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side (Ji). Usually no lateral branch arises fi'om the artery. Left Common Carotid Artery (c). The common carotid artery Leftcom- of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance aHses'from^ between the arch and the top of the sterniuTi. aorta"* In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left stemo- Q^j^jjeg^ipn clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece of the sternum in the and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and '^''o™^- lar}nix. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein ((7), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but it crosses aftei-wards to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is tlie left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. * It ia usually said that the second part of the aortic arch ends opposite the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and the third part, opposite the lower edge of the third vertebra. After examination, I liave adopted the statement of Mr. "Wood respecting the position of the aortic arch to the dorsal vertebrae. (Journal of Anatomy and Physiology for 1868.)DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 352 Left sub- <'liivian flrterj-. Course and connections in the thorax. "Veins of tlie heart are :— Superior <'ava ; formed by innomiuate veins; •ends in heart. Connec- tions. Its branches. Innominate veins are right and left. Right, an incli and a half, long ; left, twice as long and oblitine in direction. Their branches. In the neck tlie connections of the vessels of opposite sides are not the same (p. 118). The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ((1) ascencls to the neck tlirough the upper aperture of the thorax. Beyond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are aHke (p. 117). The trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the imier margin of the first rib. In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral colunm and the longus colli muscle. It is invested by the left plem-al bag in all its extent. On its inner side is the trachea, and near the upper opening of the thorax the oesophagus with the thoracic duct is inside it. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in tiie same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. Veins of the Heart (fig. 105). In addition to the cardiac veins (p. 33G) there are the superior and inferior cava, and the pulmonaiy veins :—the former are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs into the left auricle. The superior or descending cax\ ( f) results from the imion of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed on the right side of the sternum, opposite the interval between the cartilages of the first two ribs. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleiu-a, and the phrenic nerve is in contact Avith it. To the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. When tlie cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined by the large azygos vein of the tliorax (A-) ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are* united inferiorly in the trunk of the descending cava. They are two in number, right and left; and each is formed near the inner end of the clavicle, by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their connections with the surrounding parts. The r'u/ht vein is about one inch and a half long, and descends vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the plu-enic nerve is placed. The left vein (g) is twice as long as the right, and is directed obliquely downwards above the level of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerv'^es descending over the arch. The branches of the veins are nearly alike on the two sides. EachCAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. 353 receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyroid, and tlic superior intercostal of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, Sometimes but descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct sepLateiy opening in the risrht auricle. When such a condition exists, the '"to the right vein takes the course of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung ; but the left vein descends in fi-ont of the root of the left huig, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch connects the two above the heart.* This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very This usual early period of the growth of the fetus ; and two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. in fetus. Chawjc of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two ♦luring the growtli of the fetus, to produce the arrangement common in the i'ji^o'^one"* adult, concern the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. ' First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innominate vein. Next the left trunk below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and imdergoes transformations at each end:—At the upper end ^''^^ coyo- it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower paii; it formed""" remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 336), is a remnant of the trunk of the vein tliat lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a vestige of the occluded vessel in the form of a fold of Vestige in the serous membrane of the pericardium in front of the root of the left lung ; ^jj^j^j^^j' this Mr. Marshall names the vcstijial fold of the pericardium (p. 333).f The INFERIOR or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon inferior as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen. The pulmonary veins are two on each side. They issue from the Four pui- fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their '"'iJIs.'^'^ position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 332. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the aorta Right veins and the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots fi-om the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one Left veins, springs from each lobe of the lung. nerves of the thorax. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera Nerves of of the thorax. Through tlie cavity courses the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for its exa- To trace the ^ nerves, * An example of two large vessels, "double vena cava," opening into the right auricle in the adult, is contained in the Museum of University College. t See a paper by Mr. Marshall on the development of the veins of the neck (Philosoph. Transac. 1850.)DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 364 partioularly vagus. Phrcnin nerve of tlie cervical plexus, passes to diaphragm. Right non e above root of lung. Left ner\-e above root; is longer than right Some off- sets. Intenial mammary artery gives phrenic branch. Vagus nerve. Riglit vagus above the root. mination ; but the student should trace the vagus nerves through the thorax. The vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that jiosition is to be dissected out: a few filaments of the gangliated cord of the symiDathetic coming forwards over the spinal column to the plexus, must be looked for. In fi-ont of the root on the left side, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments. Beyond the root the vagus is to be pursued along the cesojjhagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE is a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 73). In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the pei'icardium, and at a little distance in front of the root of the lung, with a small comijanion artery. When near the diaphragm it is divided into branches: these perforate the muscle, and are distributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their connections above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first, and is also shorter and straighter than the left. In entering the chest it crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vem and superior cava till it reaches the root of the hmg. The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, but has the same position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the cavity. In the thorax it is directed in fi-ont of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nen^e is placed external to the left common carotid artery ; and crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nen'-e on the arch. Branches. Some small filaments are said to be fin-nished fi'om the nerve to the pleura and pericardium. Internal mammary artery. A small part of this artery, which lies beneath the first rib, and winds roimd the phrenic nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be learnt. It gives the following offset:— The superior x>hrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a very slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the dia- phragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomosing therein with other branches of the aorta, and with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary (p. 253). The TNEDMO GASTRIC NERVE (p. 188) passcs through the thorax to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the nerves of opposite sides have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the right and left nerves differ much. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet. ' The right vagus is posterior to the left in position. It enters the thorax between the subclavian artery and the innominate veinVAGUS NERVE AND BRANCHES. 355 and is directed obliquely backwards, by tlie side of the trachea, and between this tube and the oesophagus, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continued to the 'ind on back of the gullet, and unite below into one trunk, which reaches a^^oph'l.riis. the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of j the left i^^ft nerve common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and of lung"" beneath the root of the hnig, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or two branches and on pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the l^^sorlwgus- right ner\'e in a plexus; but its pieces are collected iinally into one trunk, which is continued on the fi-ont of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax are the Bi-anches following:— are,— a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recunent side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left, at the lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this iDranch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath, the arch of the aorta. b. Cardiac branches (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- Cardiac nished by the A'-agus in the neck, other offsets pass in front of the » trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from i;he trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are sup- plied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each lower cervi- ■vagus nerve (p. Ill) may be now seen. The branch of the right branch.'*^ lies by the side of the innominate arter}', and joins a cardiac nerve ■of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial •cardiac plexus. c. Pulmonary branches. There are two sets of nerves for the Pulmonnry Sung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of • the root. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and small in f'"/*^!- tsize, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerv^es are best seen on the left side. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most nume- ^^^^f . I " . posterior, rous. Forming a plexiform arrangement (posterior pulmonary form a plexus) behind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting i'^*^^"**- of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the lung on the divisions of the air tube. d. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest CEsoi.liagc^ar abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the form a'*"* branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the u3sophagus with I'lexus. a network (jdexus (juice). A A 23oG DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. t>yiiil>athctie in tlionix ci'iisists of a gangliateil conl, anil a ooii- tr.il canliat- liK'xns. Dissection of the l)lexns. To llnd the l iglit ]>ai t. To pxposf the h-rt. llppi) cardial' ])1<'XUS. Its situa- tion ; two parts. Hi;ilit part, hiiw fonncd JJranclies to Sympathetic Neuve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- sists of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, whiclf communicates with the spinal nerves : and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and thp- lungs. Tlie gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. Tl»e CWKDIAO PLEXUS lics at the base of the heart around the great blood-vessels. A part of this network, the superficial cardiac plexus,,has been already described (p. 337). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Directions. The cardiac i)lexus has been injured by the pre^-ious- examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire. Dissection. The arch of the aorta is to be cut across near the- heart and close above the pulmonary artery, and is to be drawni over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above- the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lower part is to be thrownf down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lym- phatic glands, the right part of the ])lexus, in which the nerves of" the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above- the right branch of the pulmonaiy arteiy. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the tnmk of the jjulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the- left side of the body enter, the arch is to be cut through a second, time, to the right of and close to the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it; and the transverse part of the arch is to bo turned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic- glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the posterior coronary plexus of the heart, are to be cleaned. Deej) cardiac lylexus. lliis large centre is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pul- monary artery. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympa- thetic of both sides of the neck, except the highest nerve of the left side : and the cardiac branches of the vagus in the neck and chest with the exception of the lowest cervical branch of the left side From it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled in ai plexifonn mass in front of the trachea ; but those of the right side unite together on the right of the air tube, and those of the left have a like junction on their side. right part of the j)lexus is placed above the right branch of the pulmonar>' artery, and receives the nerves of the right side viz. the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck ; the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, in both the neck and chest • and the cardiac offsets of the recui-rent branch. ^ The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly tc357 TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. the right side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behind mitcrior the right branch of the puhuonary artery : those in front running IX^xus"^^ on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the anterior coro- nary plexus (p. 337) ; and the nen-es behind supply the right auricle -of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch of the artery a low go to to the root of the lung. "^"^ " The left half of the plexus lies close to the ligamentum arteriosuiu, i-eft i)ait: and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac entering it: •nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest; and numerous and large branches of the left recuiTcnt nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and "^^j^*^ ^^^^ •trunk of the pulmonary arteiy, and after supplying branches to the nary plexus, left auricle, terminate in the posterior coronary plexus (p. 337). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the hga- mentum ductus arteriosi to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some and in root Tierves reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac brandies of the sympathetic nerve of Other car- the neck (p. 115). diacneiTes. On the right side there are usually only two cardiac nerves enter- Two right , . enter deei» ing the thorax, for the highest nerv^e is blended commonly with one plexus, of the others. The middle and inferior ner\'^es pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus : they com- mimicate with the branches of the recun-ent larjnigeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the One left aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a supediciai, branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve, ^jggp the lower cardiac, may be seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, as the middle one throws itself oftentimes into it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see the pieces of the air tube in the root of the To see the^ iung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery with its itsdivisions. branches, and the pulmonary veins. And when the transverse part of the arch of the aoila, wliich has l^een already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the ner\'-es, and the fibrous tissue fi-om the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into wliicli it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to the Ti-aciiea lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the fifth cer^'ical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends in_ fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. Its point of splitting majr be a vertebra lower. Its connections in the neck are described in p. 120, and its structure in the neck. in p. 167. The part in the thorax remains to be studied.368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Its coiiuec- tions in tlie tlionix. Bront-hi lie in tlie roots ot the lungs are like the trachea in fonn. The right differs frojri the left hranch. Conrse and connections Remove the lungs. Take away heart and ]iericar- Uiiun. Surface of lung is smooth: is marked hy lobules and small cells. Colour varies with Accidental colour. Consi.stence, Crex'itation, In the tliorax the trachea is situate -with the great vessels in tlie space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innonunate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the air tube is the asophagus, which is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the vagus, and the innominate artery, for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the vagus with its recuiTent branch. The branchi, or the branches of the air tube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are sun-ounded by vessels, glands, and nerves. " Near the lung eacli is divided into as many iirimary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronclii resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in fi-ont, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonaiy vessels has been described at j). 332 ; but the cha- racters of each are now to be noticed. The right branch is about an inch in length, and is larger than the left ; it passes outwards, on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra, beneath the arch of the aorta and the ujiper caA'a, and above the right i")ulmonary artery : the vena azygos arches above it. The left branch, about two inches long, is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aoi-ta, and joins the root of the left lung a vertebra lower than on the opposite side. The tube lies on the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and on the aorta; it is at first below the level of the coiTcsponding pulmonar}^ arteiy. Dissection. The lungs are to be removed now from the body by cutting through the vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the dia- phragm ; in removing the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the parts contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical Characters of the Lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided by septa, into small iiTCgulariy-sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be per- ceived in it. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes giayish, and presents here and there dark gi-ay spots or lines of pigment, whose shade deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be bluish-black fi-om the accumulation of blood. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance appears porous and spongy ; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives\he air fi-om the containing cells through the pulmonary stnicture, and produces theSTRUCTURE OF LUNG. 369 noise known as crepitation. If tlic lung contains serum, a frothy- red fluid will run out when it is cut. The toxtux-e of the lung is very elastic; this elasticity causing the and elasti- organ to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of Specific dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water ; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and -sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is and weight influenced greatly by the quantity of other material contained in its °^ texture ; ordinarily it ranges from eighteen to twenty-one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection. By tracing the large branches of the bronchi, and the Follow blood-vessels and nerves into the lung, the mode of branching of the vesseis^nto air tubes will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the lung, the ^^'^ ^^^S- cellular structure may be seen. But the arrangement of the small air cells about their tube, and the disposition of the different vessels, cannot be ascertained without fine injections and a micro- scope. Structure of the Luxg. The spongy pulmonary tissue consists ^^^^^'^^^ of minute recesses or cells, in which the smallest branches of the t he lung. air tube tenninate ; and the mass of the lung is fontned by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of the lobules into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from its fellows, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its set of vessels concerned in the function and nutrition. The parts of the lung are imited by a serous covering, prolonged Covering continuously over the surface ; and by a subserous layer of areolar ™yers."*'°^ tissue which penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Sei'Otis and subserous coverings. The casing derived from the pleura Serous is thin and transparent, and forms an entire capsule for the lung, except at the root where the vessels enter. The subserous areolar layer contains filn-es of elastic tissue, and not only covers the sur- and areolar face, but extends inwards, establishing tlie division of the mass into lobules : where it separates the lobules it is named interlobular tissue, and is fi-ee from fat. Bronchial hranches in the lung. When a bronchus is followed into the pulmonary structure it is found to divide generally in a binary jn the lung, order, and to diminish in size at each subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule the tube has a diameter till they end of Jo to of an inch. When this last degree of diminution is reached, the tube gives origin to the air cells. The larger l)ronchial branches have the same composition as the Difference trachea, but they arc round in the lung, instead of being semi-^^^.1^, elliptical as in the trachea. The smallest branches want some of V360 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Clianges in air tulie iu the lung. Pieces of caililage. Fibroiis and elastic tissue. Muscular libres. Mucous membrane. Lobules, how formed. Lobes. Nature and foi m of the air cells; position on air tubes. Size. Structure. Vessels of the lung. Pulmonaiy artery and vein. the elements found in the larger bronchi; and those from wliich the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with continuous walls. Changes in the bronchi. The modifications of the component parts of the bronchi are the following :—The pieces of cartilage are broken up in the smaller bronchial tubes, and are scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Becoming thinner and smaller as the sub- division of the air tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of the bronchial tubes are continued to the air cells, but in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are dif- fused, and, much chminished in strength, blend with the fibrous or areolar tissue to form the wall. The muscular fibres are diffused over the inner surface of the smaller bronchi, where they have an annular arrangement; they extend beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, but ihey cease where the cells begin to be formed. The mucous membrane becomes thinner as it extends onwards in the bronchial pieces, and is finally continued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its epithelium is columnar and ciliated in the bron- chial tubes, but is changed to squamous or laminar in the air cells. Lobules and lobes. A lobule is a cluster of air cells around a terminal branch of the air tube. Varying in size and shape, each lobule is invested by areolar tissue, and possesses its own offset of the air tube, as well as distinct branches of vessels and nerves. The lobes are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. The air cells are the little recesses or dilatations connected with the smallest branches of the air tube. They are polyhedral in form, except on the surface of the lung, and are distinct one from another, save through the channel of the air passage. The cells are clustered in groups around the teniiinal branches of the air tube, with which they communicate by large orifices. These small spaces are about of an inch across, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than in the deeper parts of the lung. The cell wall is fonned by areolar and elastic tissue, and is lined by a transparent mucous membrane possessing laminar epithelium. Beneath the mucous lining is a network of capillaries of the pulmonaiy vessels. Vessels of the Lung. Two sets of vessels are furnished to the lung, one being concerned in its fimction, the other in the nutrition. The vessels conveying blood to the lung to be aerated, and carrying that fluid away after it has been subjected to the respiratory process, are named pulmonary. The vessels connected with the nutrition of the texture are called bronchial. The pulmonary artery divides^ like the bronchus, which it accom- panies to the lobule. At the lobule the arterial branch is minutely subdivided, and its ramifications enter the interlobular fissure to end in the cell wall in the following way:—Over the bottom of the cell they form a very fine capillary network, but at the circum- ference they give rise to a circular vessel; and the circles of several cells communicate with each other. The pulmonary veins begin in the vascular network before men-AORTA AND BRANCHES. 361 tioned. The twigs issuing from the several lobules are destitute of valves, and are united in larger tubes wliich course to the root of the lung. Although the small lobular branches of the arteries remain separate fi-om one another, the corresponding veins anasto- mose together. The bronchial arteries enter the lung on the air tube, and supply Bionehiui deep branches to it and the contiguous glands, to the large blood- vessels, and to the interlobidar areolar tissue of the lung. On the smallest air tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. Superficial tortuous offsets of the artery ramify beneath the pleura, Supeiiu iai forming a capillary network. The bronchial vein begins by twigs corresponding with the super- Bronchial ficial and deep branches of the artery. Leaving the lung at the root, the vein ends differently on opposite sides of the body (p. 362). Nerves and lymphatics. The lung receives nerves from the vagus Pulmouaa-y and the sympathetic; and the offsets follow the branches of the air tube, but their ending is uncertain. Remak describes small ganglia Lymphatics, on the sympathetic filaments. The lymphatics of the lung are both superficial and deep, and enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. PARTS ON THE SPINK AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. In front of the spinal column are the several parts lying in the interpleural space of the posterior half of the mediastinum, viz. the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, oesophagus, and splanchnic nerves. Dissection. The thoracic duct should be found first near the dia- ^j^j ^''^jj"? phragm by removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a duct, c row quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta : this slender vessel may be injected with tallow. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away from the tlifterent parts before mentioned ; and the azygos or intercostal ^^j®*^^^^'^ veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, should be •dissected. Next follow the thoracic duct upwards beneath the arch of the aorta, and along the oesophagus beneath the pleura, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the pleura also from the inner surface of the chest, ''^,"^jjg[ig'^'"" the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying over the heads of the libs. Branches are to be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inwards over the bodies of the vertebra;,—the lowest and largest of these forming the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic A'cssel above the diaphragm. Its extent is fr oni the lower border ^^.^gjif.. of the fifth dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the interpleural space in front of tlie spine, the '^oursc; vessel is rather cun-ed, lying at its upper part on the left, but below on the front of the spinal column. Beneatli it are the vertebraj andDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 ami connec- tions. Brandies. Arteries of the lung : distribu- tion : two left. one riiiht. Vein of the lung. Pericardial branches. CEsophageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal ai'teries : number. course to intercostal spaces. right longest. The anterior branch of upper occupies intercostal space the smaller azygos veins. In front of the vessel is the root of tlie left lung with'the pericardinm. On its left side it is covered through- out by tlic pleura; and on its right side are the ocsopliagus and the thoracic duct, though near the diaphragm the gullet is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the surrounding parts, and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they ramify (p. 361) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and inferior), which arise from the front of the aorta at a distance from each other. The arterj' of the right lung arises in common with one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of the right side. Broncki<d veins. A vein issues from the root of each lung, and ends in the following manner:—the right joins the larger azygos vein; and the left ends in the superior intercostal vein of its own side. b. The pericardial branches are some irregular twigs, which are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac bag. c. Oesophageal branches arise at different points of the aorta, and are four or five in number. Kaniifying in the gullet, the vessels anastomose with one another ; above, ihey communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery near the j^haiynx ; and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. c1. Small mediastinal branches (i^osterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are ten on each side ; nine are furnished, to the same number of lower intercostal spaces, whilst the last lies below the twelfth rib : to the upper two spaces branches are sup- plied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These small vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebra?, beneath the cord of the sympathetic ncn^e, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine the right vessels are the longest : the right also pass beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the azygos vein. Many twigs are sujiplied to the bodies of the vertebrae. In the spaces bounded by the true ribs, the anterior branch, the larger of the tAvo, continues onwards between the muscular strata nearly to the anterior third of the intercostal space, where it ends in two pieces, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammaiy (p. 253). At first the artery lies in the middle of the intercostal Ri)ace, beneath the pleura and a fascia from the internal intercostal muscle, and resting on the external intercostal363 INTERCOSTAL VEINS. layer; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to tlie upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the intercostal A^ein and nerve,—the with vein vehi being commonly above, and the^ nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than tlie artery. Below the true ribs the vessels are contained partly in the thoracic Anterior and partly in the abdominal wall. Behind they have the same 1",;^'^'^;'' course and connections as the higher intercostals ; but in the wall enters wall of the abdomen they lie between the two deep nuiscles ; they will of abdomen, be noticed hereafter. Brandies are furnished to the intercostal and abdominal muscles. Offsets, and to the ribs. About the centre (from front to back) of the inter- costal space a superficial twig arises, which accompanies the cuta- neous nerve. The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses Anasto- with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian arteiy ; and "io**es. the lowest (below the true ribs) enters the abdominal wall, and anastomoses with the arteries of that part. The posterior 'branch turns backwards between a vertebra and an posterior ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the Back. J'^'''*""^'! . o _ t) ) turns to As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a small spinal the back, branch to the vertebrfB and the spinal cord. (See Vessels op the Spinal Corp.) The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in, its course and intercostal branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal bi-anch, and then joins an azygos vein. The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk (p. 71) Superior descends over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the sympathetic, and supplies a branch to the first intercostal space : ^^J'^^'J^''^ continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it spaces, anastomoses with the upper aortic l)ranch. Its intercostal ofilsets divide into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The vein accompanying the artery opens into the innominate vein its vein of the same side. The left superior intercostal vein (fig. 105, i), on the riglit foi-med by branches from the two or three highest spaces, is joined side.'^ by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. The INTERCOSTAL or azygos veins are two in number on the left, Tiirec and one on the right side, and receive branches corresponding with y^- the offsets furnished by the thoracic aorta. The Hght or larger azygos (fig. lOG, ^) begins in the lumbar veins Largo on the right side of the spine, and its origin is described with the rigift°side oi vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic ^^1''"^. opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the. thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebra?. Opposite the fourth intercostal space the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior nnd joins cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very in- cava.'"' complete, so that blood may flow either way ; and the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Branches . joining it. Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right side below the upper two spaces ; some of the intercostals of the ■Use of vein. L.eft lower Teiu begins in 4»bdoinen, •ends in larger •azj-gos. Branches. Left upper vein. (Esophagus in the thorax ] losses through -iliaphragni. Parts covering it, beneath it, .and on sides. Three coats are in it. A muscular coat of left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins ; and some small tcsophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial vein. By means of the right vein the inferior communicates with the superior cava, so that blood may reach the heart fiom the lower part of the body, or the opposite,^if one of the cavae should be obstructed. The left loioer azygos vein (fig. lOG, begins in the abdomen m the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Entering the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the dia- phragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that vessel and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left upper azygos vein (fig. 106, *) is fonned by oflisets from the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding, lle- ceiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The a=:sorHAGUS or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which extends fi-om the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion has been described at p. 120, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing m the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diaphragm, Avhere it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the esophageal opening of that muscle. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the longus colli muscle and the vertebra?; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the intercostal vessels, and the aorta. Laterally it touches the left pleura above the arch, and both pleura? beloAv, but more of the right than the left. Below the bronchus the pneuinogastric nerves sur- round the a'sophagus with their branches; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with tow, it will be easy to show a muscular, fibrous, and mucous coat, one within another. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and possesses two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the fibres are red, but below that spot the colour becomes paler.THORACIC DUCT AND LYMPHATICS. The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which external form an entire covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres J^l'lf^'tn'ii- begiu opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 132) ; and at intervals vary- ing from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are connected with tendinous points fJ^ to of an inch long) like the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above with the and inteinaB fibres of the pharynx; they are more oblique at the middle than at litres" either end of the (esophagus. The fibrous layer is situate between the nmscular and mucous piim.us coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. ^'''y^''- The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube: it is Mucous reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- nected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. Lining tlie interior is a thick layer of scaly epithelium ; and the surface is studded with Kpitiieiium . •!] and papillii.'^ mmute papula?. ^ '■ Some compouml glamh (oesophageal) are scattered along the tube ; some at the lower part of the gullet they are most numerous, and form a si'i"ds. ring (cardiac) close to the stomach. Lymi'HA'I'ICS of the Thouax. In the thorax are lymphatic vessels Lymphatics, of the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of glands, and "horlfx. end in one or other of the two lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic, ylaiuls. Along the course of the internal mammary Sternal artery lies a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, which receive lymphatics from the front of the chest, the thymus body, the peri- cardium, and the upper surfaces of the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as intercostal, between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of intercostal glands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the division and along Broncliial the side of the trachea, tlu-ougli which the lymphatics of the lung- pass ; and beneath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, and cardiac to which the lymphatics of the heart are directed. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of msopha- (Esophageal. geal glands, wliich are joined by the lymphatics of the resopliagus, and communicate with those of the lungs. The thoracic duct (fig. 106, ') is the main chaimel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of the lower half of the body, and of ^^"'^^ the left side of the upper half of the body, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an enlargement (chyli receptacuhuTi), and ends in the left subclavian vein of the neck, men and It is about eighteen inches in length, and is contained in the thorax, ^'g'^f^ except at its origin and termination. It has the undermentioned connections:— Entering the cavity on the right of the aorta and through the Connec- tioiis 111 Liio same opening, the duct ascends on the right side of that vessel, thorax:DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 366 may be divided; is furnished with valves, receives most lyui- jihaties. Eight duct 3s in the aieck : receives lymjihatics ■t)f one- fourth of Lody. Structiire. Thoracic cord of sympathetic has twelve ganglia. Fig. 106. J as liigli as tlic arcli. Opposite the fifth dorsal A-ertebra it passes beneatli the aortic arch, and is applied to the left side of the a'sophagns, on which it is conducted to the neck under the left 6ul)cla\ ian artery. At the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 117), to open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the tul»e is oftentimes divided in two, whicli iniite again ; or its divisions may even form a plexus. Near its termination it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at intervals, like a vein; and these are in greatest number at the upper part. Branches. In the thorax the duct re- ceives the lymphatics of the left half of the cavity, viz., from the sternal and inter- costal glands; also the lymphatics of the left lung, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and oesophagus. The right lymphatic duct (fig. 27) re- ceives large l)ranches from the viscera of the thorax. It is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 71): its open- ing is guarded by valves. Branches. Into this trunk the Ijnnphatics of the right upper limb, and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few larg-e trunks, which ascend beneath the innomi- nate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Structure of the ducts. The wall of the tube resembles that of the blood-vessels in structure (p. 118). Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve. The thoracic part of the gang- liated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and is i)laced over the heads of the ribs, and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nen'^e, but this number varies much. The upper ganglion is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the * View of tlie thoracic duct, and the intercostal veins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of the duct in the left subclavian vein. 3. Large or right azygos vein. 4. Left lower azygos or intercostal vein. 5. Left upper azygos or intercostal. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut through.SYMrATHETIC NERVE AND OFFSETS. 367 to joiu spinal nerves to supply viscera. Upper six gaugli I oflf- sets are small. others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebras. Each ganghon furnishes external branches to communicate with Branches the spinal nerves, and internal for the supply of the viscera. External or connecting branches (fig. 107). Two offsets pass out- wards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (in- ^ig- 107.* tercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic nerve fibrils are combined; but one (Ji) consists almost entirely of spinal, and the other (^) nearly altogether of sympathetic }icrve fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size nnd distribution, according as they are derived from the upper or lower six ganglia. The offsets of the iq^per six are very small, and are distributed to the aorta, and the vertebra} with the ligaments. Mr. Swan des- •cribes a plexus in front of the spine, from the union of the branches of oppo- site sides. Fi'om the third and fourth ganglia offsets arc sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six are larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen : these are three in number (large, small, and small- est,) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives roots apparently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on tlie knotted cord as high as the thii-d ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebras, it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in tlie semilunar ganglion of the al)domen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may {^resent a ganglion. * Scheme to illustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganglion, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, c. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. {/. Ganglia on the cord. /;,. White offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nei've. i. Grey ofTset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve. lower six, lar},'e, and form great splanchnic to semilunar ganglion;368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. siiuiii The small splanclmic nerve l)egins in the tentli and eleventls- si-iarnhnic p-antrlia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly to ca'liac no) o Pill i.lexus; througli tlie crus of tlie diaphragm, and enters the part o± tlie solar plexus by the side of tlie ca'hac artery, smallest The smallest splanchnic nerve springs from the last ganglion,, to'renal'"*' accompanies tlie other nerves through the diajihragm : in the- plJxus. abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent^ and its place may be taken by an offset of the preceding. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Soft parts bounding the thorax. Infracostal position, attach- ments : irregulari- ties. Use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib. Connec- tions. Outer layer cxtend.s back to head of the lib. Use. Trace ncr\'es. Intercostal nerves. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles,, Avith the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside them lies a thin fleshy layer behind,—the infracostals. At the base of the thorax is the diaphragm. The INFRACOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise- from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the like surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they ar& smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. These thin muscles approach the ribs to one another, diminishing the size of the thoracic ca-saty, and act thus as expiratory muscles. Intercostal Muscles. The anterior part of the muscles has been described (p. 251); and the posterior part may be now examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches backwards; to the angle of the ribs in the middle spaces, but, higher and lower, the muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the fibres: cease, a thin fascia is continued backwards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the infracostal muscles-- have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres, cross those of the inner intercostal layer. Whilst this muscle ex- tends backwards to the tubercle of the rib, it does not reach farther fonv'ards than the rib cartilages, as before said. Action. The use of the intercostal muscles in respiration is given in p. 252. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and arterj-- traced out- wards. The intercostal nerves are the anterior primary branches of the- dorsal nerves. Twelve in number, they occupy the intercostal spaces, without communicating in a plexus ; and tlie last is placed belowINTERCOSTAL NERVES, 369 the twelfth rib. The upper six lie between the ribs, and are confined Upper six to the wall of the thorax : whilst the lower six are prolono^ed into i!f.noL the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. Upper six. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and sub- Coimec- jacent fascia and the external intercostal muscle, with an artery and Xscies"' vein ; but they enter soon between the intercostals and extend forwards to the middle line of the body. Near the head of the rib each is joined by filaments from the sympathetic. In its course witii sympa- each supplies hranches to the intercostal muscles and the ribs, and cutaneous offsets to the surface ; these are described in the dis- Offsets, sections of the upper limb and wall of the abdomen. There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the ^Exceptions , ., m first two. arrangement aboA'e specified. The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the liighest rib, fn^j.g"^^^*^ and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it mostly bra- supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which furnishes "^^"'^^ plexus, muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous offset from this branch, except in those cases in wliich the second nei-ve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 238). In front it ends like the others. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the muscle is Upper sur- tendinous, and the sides are fleshy. In contact with the upper diaphragm, surface are the lungs laterally, and the pericardium in the middle: the phrenic vessels and nerves pierce this surface, external to the ^^^^^j^^ pericardium. In the diaphragm are the following apertures :—one ^pg^.^^^rgg for the oesophagus and the pneumogastric ners'es, a second for the in it. vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azygos, and a fourth on each side for the splanclmic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diaphragm towards the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 327). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the "^^^ '^i??®"' examination of the Back is made. Aftei-wards he is to learn the Back is uow ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in the following Section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. Tlie ligaments of the vertebrje, ribs, and sternum, arc included in this Section. Articulation of the Ribs. The osseous part of each rib is united to the spinal column on the one side, and the rib cartilage on the the verte- B B370 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. l)r?e and the cartilage. To see liga- ments of the verte- l)rie; of ril) and sternum. Ligaments of head of rib are costo-verte- Lral or stellate: attach- ments. differs in certain Tibs. Inter- articular, Fig. 108.' other, by three sets of h"gameiits, viz., one between the head of the bone and the bodies of the vertebne ; a second from the neck and tubercle to the transverse processes of the vertebra?; and a tliird between it and the cartilage. Dissection. For the purpose of examining tlie ligaments between the rib aiid the vertebra?, take a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will be .able to define, as below, the ligaments passing from the head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebras. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the Head of the Rib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebras, the articulation is provided with two retaini]ig ligaments — costo- vertebral and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The costo-vertehral ligament (fig. 108, ■•'), named stellate ivom its form, is composed of radiating fibres, and is placed in front of the joint. Attached by one end to the rib, it is di^aded at the other into three sets of fibres :—The upper, the largest, ascends to the body of the vertebra above the rib head ; the lower descends to the vertebra below the head ; and the central part is united with the fibro-carti- lage between the vertebrae. Where the rib is in contact with only one vertebra, as in the first, eleventh, and twelfth, the ligament has but two sets of fibres. The chief fibres in those three joints arc fixed into the body of that vertebra which is touched by the costal head ; whilst the ascending band is attached to the body of the vertebra immediately above. In the first rib-joint the ascending band is continued to the last cervical vertebra. The interarticular ligament will be seen when the stellate is divided It IS a short thin band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular surfaces on the head of .J, f ^""'^ (Bourgery .-1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae. 2. Lateral part of the anterior ligament of the spine. 8. Ligament (stellate) between the vertebra; and head of the rib 4 Ascending costo-transverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament 'LIGAMENTS OP THE RIB. the rib, and on the other to the libro-cartilage between the vertebrae. In tlie joints of tlie first, eleventli, and twelfth ribs, wliere the liead is not in contact witli tlie intervertebral substance, tlie ligament is ■absent. Synovial sacs. There are two sacs in the articulation, one on each ^vitii twi> side of the interarticular ligament. In the three joints before men- sai'h"^"^^ tioned (1st, 11th, and 12th) there is but one sac. Movements. In the costo-vertebral articulation there is a gliding Kind of of the rib up and down, and forwards and backwai-ds. The move- "'o^'enicut; ment of the head is more limited in the iirst seven ribs which are fixed to the sternum than in the others ; and is greatest in the last degree, two, in consequence of the ribs being fi-ee anteriorly, and not fixed l)ehind by a joint to the transverse process. During the increase and decrease of the chest the body of the Motion of rib is rotated out and in, around a line subtending the arc of the ^' " circle of which its fore part is a segment. The degree of motion is ^•reatest in the longest ribs. Ligaments of the Neck and Tubercle. Three ligaments (costo- Ligaments transverse) pass fi-om the neck and tubercle of the rib to two trans- rib^*^*^ " verse processes. And there is a synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. The anterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 108, is larger and anterior longer than the others. It ascends fi-om the upper edge of the neck verse"*^''^"^" to the transverse process of the upper of the two vertebrae witli which the head articulates : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this ligament and tlie vertebra the posterior branches of the inter- <:ostal vessels and dorsal nei^ve pass ; and externally it is joined by the fibi-ous membrane between the strata of the intercostal muscles. The posterior costo-transverse (tig. 115, •'') is placed at the posterior J.'°gto-traus- ^ispect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the rough verse, part of the tubercle and the tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebne touched by the rib head. This band is longest in the lowest two articulations. The mulclle or interosseous costo-transverse is placed horizontally middle between the neck of the rib and the transverse process with whicli verse! the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish areolar tissue. In the lowest two ribs the interosseous costo-transverse blends in in the two one band Avith the posterior costo-transverse ligament. ^^^^ Synovial sac. If the posterior ligament is divided, a synovial mem- Synovial hrane will be exposed in the joint between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process. In the lowest two ribs, which do not touch transverse processes, where the synovial sac is absent. Movement. In the motion of the rib, the bone glides upwards and Motion, downwards on the articular facet of the transverse process ; and the degree will be limited by the surrounding costo-transverse ligaments. B B 2DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 372 Union of the costal cartilages. Cartilages with the .stenmiii. S^'no^^al sac. Second car- tilage has a double joint. Costo- xiphoid ligament. Costal fartilagc with rib. Cartilages with QUO another. Motion. False carti- lages. Union of pieces of stemiim. Afotiiin slight. Two sets of lij^anients unite the vertebra'. How to see the several ligaments. Ligaments of the Sternal Cahtilages. The cartilag-es of the- true ribs except the first are luiited to the stenuim by a fibroiisi capsule, which covers a synovial membrane ; and externally they are joined to the osseous part of the rib. The first is generally ossified to the sternum ; and some of the lower cartilages touch each other, and are connected together by fibrous bands with synovial membranes. In the chondro-stemal articulation (fig. 51, ■*), the cartilages are received into the dei^ressions on the side of the sternum, and are fixed in their position by a capsule of surrounding fibres. In front and behind the capsule are thickened bands, wliich have been de- scribed as anterior and posterior ligaments. Between the cartilage and the bone is a synovial membrane. In the joint of the second cartilage tliere is an interarticular ligament (fig. 51, as in the head of tlie rib, which joins the caiiilage between the pieces of the sternum. A synovial sac exists^ on each side of the interarticular ligament. A separate band of fibres joins tlie cartilage of the seventh r\\> to the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xixihoid ligament. Costal cartilage vnth the rib. The bony part of the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cartilage, and the periosteum of the rib is the investing membrane between the two. Costal Cartilages to one Another. The contiguous surfaces of the costal cartilages from the sixth to the ninth are flattened, and are connected by ligamentous fibres ; each articulation is provided with a synovial membrane. Movement. There is only a limited gliding motion in the chondro- stenaal and the interchondral articulations. The second rib-cartilage joint is the most moveable. Asternal Cartilages. The cartilages of the three first false ribs, are united only by end-bands of fibrous tissue, and are freer to move than those which are attached to the sternum. The lowest two, which are separate from one another, are the least fixed of all. Articulation of the Sternum (fig. 51). As the two pieces of the bone are united by cartilage without any synovial membrane,, the kind of articulation is sometimes named synchondrosis. The articulation is strengthened by anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. Movement. In articulations through the medium of cartilage, as here and in the pelvis, there is very little motion to be perceived, even when the osseous pieces are forcibly pulled by the hands. Articulation of the Vertebr;e. The vertebraj of the spinal column arc united together by two sets of ligaments—one for the bodies, and tire other for the arch and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will suffice except for those between the first two vertebrje and the head, and in the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the preparation' of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebra. The anterior liga-373 LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRA. ment of tlic bodies will be defined Avith very little trouble, by- removing the areolar tissue. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebras ia laid bare; but if the canal should not be open, the neural arches of the vertebnc are to be removed by sawing through the pedicles. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones, may be dissected on the piece taken away in opening the spinal canal. Ligaments of the Bodies. The bodies of the vertebras are united by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, with an inter- vening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament (fig. 109, a) reaches fi-om the atlas to the sacrum: it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebras, and is naiTowed upwards. It consists of a central wide and thick part (a), and of a thinner portion (6), on each side of the body of the vertebra. If the central piece be cut across at intervals it will be ^^S- 109- seen to be thickest opposite the hollow of the bodies. The fibres of the middle part are longitudinal in direction. By detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen to reach three or more vertebras, whilst the deep extend from bone to bone. A greater number of the fibres are attached to the in- tervertebral fibro-cai-tilages than to the bones; and more are fixed to the margins than the centre of the body. The posterior common ligament (fig. 110), much thinner than the anterior, is contained in the spinal canal, lying on the posterior sur- face of the vertebrfe, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone. This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- wai-ds, just the opposite of the anterior. In the neck, A, it is loose, and extends across the bodies. In the back and loins it is a narrow band, B, which sends off on each side a pointed process to be at- tached to the pedicle of the neural arch; and it is wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the bodies, so that the margins are dentate. One surface of the ligament is in contact with the dura mater; and between the band and the vertebras are the intraspinal vessels. Its fibres are superficial and deep as in the anterior ligament, and The bodies are united by: Anterior common ligament, width, and thick- ness : length. attachment of fibres. Posterior common ligament. Form. Connec- tions. Attach- ment of libres. * Anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebra, strong part, and i, lateral thin part of the ligament. a. Middle374 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. arc more closely united with the inter^^ertebral substance than witb the bone. . , Dissection. To see the intei-vertebral substance, the anterior and To sec tlic intf- 1 posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra substence. should 1)0 detached from the fibro-cartilage to obtani a horizontal view of this structure ; and two other vertebrae should be sawn Inter- vertebral substance has the widtli of the bones. constituent parts; the OTiter lamina', how ari-angetl; all not vertical; the fibres of the layers cross. vertically to see the difference in the consistence and arrangement of the laminae. The intervertebral substance (lig. Ill) is placed between the con- tiguous surfaces of the bodies of the vertebne, fi'om the axis to the sacrum. It forms a flattened disc between each pair of the ver- tebr£e, and its width is detennined by the size of the bones. It is connected in front and behind Avith the anterior and posterior common ligaments, and on the sides Avith the stellate ligament of the head of the rib. By means of the dissections before made, the intei'vertebral sub- stance may be observed to consist of two distmct parts; an external, fii-m and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic (fig. 112). The outer laminar part (fig. 113, «) fonns more than half of the disc, and is composed of pieces of fibro-cartilage with layers of fibrous tissue. All the strata are arranged one within another, like the scales of an onion, and are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebra?; but all have not a vertical direction, for whilst the outer pieces are straight, the inner are bent with the convexity outwards (fig. 112) (Humphry). The laminaa do not form com- plete rings, but those composed of fibrous tissue reach farther than those of fibro-cartilage: the fi'ee ends of both layers overlap. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres ; and the fibres of one layer arc du-ected across those of another like the parts of the letter * Two views of the posterior common Hgament, c, of the bodies of the vertebrse, to show the difference in shape. A, refers to its form in the neck and B, to its shape in the loins. *INTERVERTEBEAL SUBSTANCE. 375 X (fig. 111). Tliis disposition of the fibres will be best seen on the discs between the lumbar vertebrie ; and it may be rendered evident by dissecting layer after layer. Fig. 112. t Fig. 113.: The central or pulpy portion of the disc (fig. 113, J) is very soft and elastic, and projects when two vertebrte and the interposed mass are sawn through. Placed nearer the back than the front of the disc, it is more marked in the loins and neck than in the dorsal region. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient in the stratiform arrangement so conspicuous at the circumference. Towards the confines of the two i>ortions of the intervertebral substance, there is an alternating arrangement of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, though the former is gradually diminishing; but to- Avards the centre a loose fibro- cartilaginous material with large cells preponderates. The surfaces of the vertebra? in contact with the disc, have a cartilaginous covering ; this may be seen by cutting the interverte- bral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but towards the circumference it consists of separate pieces. The discs are thicker between the lumbar and cervical, than ♦ Intervertebral substance in the himbar region with its laminse displayed. «. Superficial, and b, deeper layer, the fibres in each taking a different direc- tion. f Vertical section of the intervertebral substance to show the direction oi the layers, a. Circumferential layers bent outwards, h. Central pulpy part. + A horizontal cut through an intei-vertebral fibro-cartilage.—a. Laminar external part. 6. Pulpy central part of the fibro-cartilage. Inner part: situation, where largest. Structure; is fibro-car- tilagiuous. Cartilage covering boaes. ThicknessDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 376 and form of discs. Unites vertebrae. admits movement, makes column convex. and .adds to the_ length. Several ligaments of tlie vertebral processes. Articular have capsnle and sac. Motion and degree. How pro- cesses act. Ligaments of arches. Attach- ments. Structure. between the upper and middle dorsal vertebrae; and where the spinal column is arched forwards, as in the loins and neck, they are deepest at the anterior edge, being wedge-shaped. The thinnest piece is situate between the second and third cer%acal vertebraa, and the thickest between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. Use. The intervertebral substance unites together the vertebras 80 firmly as to prevent displacement of those bones without rupture of it. By means of the central elastic part the revolving motion of one bone on another is produced ; and the degree of the movement is limited by the circumferential laminar portion. Through its wedge-shaped form the disc is chiefly instrumental in giving rise to the convexity of the spinal column in the loins and neck ; and through its elasticity it moderates the efl'ect of jars or shocks transmitted fi-om bone to bone. The depth of its several pieces amounts to about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the spinal column ; but as it yields under pressure, the height of the body will be shorter from half an inch to an inch in the course of the day, according to the fatigue undergone. Ligaments of the Neural Arch and Processes. The several processes of the vertebra} have special uniting ligaments:—thus the articular processes are joined by a capsule and a synovial membrane ; the neural arches are connected b}'^ yellow ligaments ; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between them ; and the transverse processes are provided with intervening bands of fibres. Ligaments of Articular processes. Between the articulating pro- cesses there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres, enclosing a synovial membrane. In the cervical part of the spine the capsular ligaments are looser than in the dorsal or lumbar region. Movement. With flattened articular surfaces is combined a gliding of one bone upon another. This movement is least limited in the neck, the loins, and the lower dorsal vertebne. ^ By the difference in the shape of the articulating processes, the kind of motion in the spine is determined ; and by their arrange- ment the degree is limited, and the vertcbrai are partly maintained in situ. In dislocation of the spinal column they are generally broken before a vertebra can be dislodged from its imbricated position. Ligaments of the arches. The ligamenta suhflava (fig. 114, go named fi-om their colour, are situate between the neural arches of the vertebra, and close the spinal canal behind. Between each pair of arches are two ligaments, one for each half of the arch, which approach one another along the middle line, and reach on each side from the pedicle of the arch to the root of the spinous process. Each consists of elastic yellow tissue. It is attached above to the inner surface of the one, but below to the upper border and outer surface of the other neural arch.LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBK-Sl. 377 Between the first two vertebrae and the skull there are si)ecial librous ligaments in the corresponding situation (see p. 172). Ligaments of the spines. Along the tips of the spinous processes Ligaments of the dorsal and lumbar vertebra is a longitudinal band of fibres ^P"'*''" {fig. 115, —the supraspinous ligament. It is thickest in the Fig. Ill* Fig. 115.t lumbar region of the spine, and is formed by superficial and deep fibres; the former reach over three or more spines, whilst the latter pass from bone to bone. It is closely united with the tendons of the muscles. The band of the ligamentum nuchas, which is composed of fibrous tissue, takes its place in the neck. Along the spinal column there are also thin membranous inter- andbe- spinous ligaments (fig. 108, which reach from the root to the ^""^^ ^^^^^ tip of the spinousjprocesses. The strength of these bands is depen- dent upon the interval they fill; they are more marked in the lum- bar than the other vertebrae, and they are least strong in the cervical region. Ligaments of the transverse x>rocesses. In the loins the inter-trans- Ligameiits verse ligaments are thm membranous bands in the intervals betwecji processes, the processes. In the dorsal vertebrae they are round bundles of fibres (fig. 115, ^). And in the neck the fibres exist only at the apex of the processes, or they may be wanting here and there. * An inner view of the neural arches of the vertebtiB, with their interposed ligaments.—1 and 2. Ligamenta subflava. (Bourgery and Jacob.) •{- Ligaments of the processes of the vertebrae, and of the ribs. (Bourgery.) —1. Suioraspinous band of ligament. 2. Ligamentum subflavum. 3. Pos- terior costo-transverse ligament: on the opposite side the band has been re- moved and the joint opened. 4. Intertransverse ligament.DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 378 Ligaments of spec ial vertebne. Kinds of motion. Flexion ; degree. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Extension ; ■where most, and least. Movement of bones. State of liKameuts. Side bend- ing; extent. Movement of bones. State of ligament.s. Rotation: ■where present. Motion of bones. Ligaments of Sricci.M. VKRTEBRiE. The ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertebra?, will be given with the dissections of the neck (p. 172) and of the pelvis (Section vii.). MovEMKNTS OF SriNAL CoLUMN. The Spinal column can be bent fonvards, backwards, and to each side ; and can be rotated. In flexion the vertebra) between the axis and sacrum are bowed forwards. The gi-eatest movement takes place between the last two lumbar vertebrae and the sacnim (Humpluy) ; there is an inter- mediate degree in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front^ whilst they are separated behind. The inferior pair of articular processess of the second vertebra glide upwards on the upper articular of the third vertebra ; the inferior of the third bone move in like manner on the upper jDrocesses of the fourth ; and so on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is loose, but the posterior, and those uniting the neural arches and processes, are stretched. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is squeezed and tliinner, and the back is elongated. In extension, the vertebraj are arched backwards, but not to so great a degree as when the spine is bent forwards. The motion is most in the neck ; and is least in the dorsal vertebrae, which are fixed by the true ribs and tlie sternum, and are impeded in their movement by the overlapping spinous processes. The posterior parts of the vertebras are approximated, whilst the anterior are separated ; and the inferior articular processes of each (fi'om the second ceiwical to the sacrum) glide downwards, on the upper articular processes of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion. Thus, the intervertebral discs are compressed behind and widened before ; the spinous and subflaval are relaxed ; the anterior common of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be curved to the right or the left side. Like the other movements, this is least in the more fixed upper dorsal vertebra^, and is greatest in the neck. On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the bodies are brought nearer together; and are carried away from each other on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints with the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the inter- vertebral substance compressed ; and on the left those structures will be tightened so as to check the movement. Rotation is the twisting of the bodies of the vertebraj around a line tlirough their centres, the fore part being turned to the right and to the left. Its degree is greatest in the cersacal and the upper dorsal vertebra?, but is absent in the lumbar part of the column. The verteV)ral bodies are directed horizontally, and the articular processes move differently on the two sides. Supposing the faceMOTION OF SPINAL COLUMN. tiunccl to the right, the processes of tlic right side glide inwards towards, and those of the left side outwards from the spinal canal. The flat ligaments and the inter%''ertebral discs of the bodies, and state of the ligaments of the neural arches, will be less tight on the side to I'S'^^ients. which the face is directed than on the other. Dislocation of one vertebra from another without fracture seldom Di.siocation occurs, in consequence of the way in which the inferior pair of of ^i'""'. articular processes are placed behind the superior of the next fol- fracture lowing bone, like scales. In the cerv ical region, where the articular a„,i ^^ith- snrfaces are more horizontal, simple displacement may occasionally take place.CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. Position of 1)0dy. atratA ill l)acli. To raise the sliiii. JSeek cutaneous nerves. Directions. The dissection of the Back may be undertaken by one student; or conjointly by the dissectors of the head and upper hmbs,—the former preparing the neck, and the latter making ready the parts in the dorsal and lumbar regions. If the Back should be allotted to more than one student, the dis- sector of the upper limb may attend chiefly to the paragraphs marked with an asterisk ; and the dissector of the neck may study specially the paragraphs which are not so marked. But as many of the dissections in the earlier stages require the co-operation of the students employed on the same side of the body, a general attention may be given to the whole by each. The dissector of the abdomen is to examine the arrangement of the fascia lumborum, after the first layer of muscles has been learnt. Position. The body lies with the face downAvards ; and the trunk is to be raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the dissecting table. To make tense the neck, the head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are five successive strata of muscles, amongst which vessels and nerves are interspersed. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps, by means of the following incisions :—One cut is to be made along the middle of the body from the occipital protuberance to the back of the sacrum. Another is to be carried from the last dorsal ver- tebra to the acromion process of the scapula. The flap of skin above the last cut is to be turned outwards by the dissectors of the head and upper limb. By another transverse incision opposite the iliac crest, the remain- ing piece of integument may be detached, and reflected by the dis- sector of the upper limb in the same direction as the other flap. Under the upper flap of skin is placed the trapezius, and under- neatli the lower one the latissimus dorsi muscle. The cutaneous nerves may be now sought in the superficial fatty layer: they are accompanied by small cutaneous arteries which will guide the student to their position. The nerves vary much in size in the different parts of the Back, and their number is also irreo-ular:SUPERFICIAL NERVES. as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck. To find them in the cervical region look near the middle line, in the neck, from the 3rd to tlie 6th vertebra, and trace an offset from the third nei-ve upwards to the head : the branch of the second nerve (large occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the head (p. 5). Opposite the upper part of. the thorax, they will be best found near the spines of the vertebra?, where they lie at first beneath the in thorax fat; but at the lower part, and in the loins, tliey issue in a line '""^^ with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the ^iicrai. dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nen'es are derived from Cucaneous the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves, which sub- aeiiml.'"^^ divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompanying the greater number of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves. In the neck the nerves are derived from the inner the neck, of the two pieces into wliich the posterior trmiks bifurcate : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the Source, head. They ai'e four in number, viz., one from each, except the first and the tlu-ee last. The branch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and ac- Second companies the occipital arteiy to the back of the head (p. 8). The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset ami third to the neck, and then ascends to the lower part of the head, where it is distributed near the middle line, uniting with the great occipital nerv^e. * Dorsal nerves. These are obtained from both the inner and outer in the dor- pieces—the upper six from the inner, and the lower six fi-om the ^'^^ region, outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The upi^er six perforate the trapezius near the spines of the Upper six vertebra? ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The loioer six pierce the latis- Lower six. simus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; they are oftentimes uncertain in nximber. * Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from the in the loins, outer pieces of the first three ; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spina3, and crossing the iliac crest of the innominate bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. * First Layer of Muscles (fig. 116). Two muscles, the trape-Two nms- clsH ill iirst zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. layer. Dissection. The superficial fatty layer is to be taken from tlie Dissection, trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper lind) is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch different portions of the muscles.382 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Some of the cutaneous nerves and vessels may be left, in order that they may be traced afterwards tln-ough the muscles to their origin. . Trapezius. The TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE (fig. HG/) is triangular in shape, with the base towards the spine, but the two have a trapezoid form. Fig. 116.* Origin. Tlic musclc has an extensive aponeurotic origin along the middle line from the spines of all the dorsal vertebra? and their supraspinous ligament; fi-omthe spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra; from the ligamentuni nuchre between the last point and the head; * Muscles of the back. On the left side the first layer is shown, and on the right side the second la)'er, with part of the third, a. TrapeziuB. B. Latissimus dorsi. c. Levator anguli scapulne. d. Rhomboideus minor. K. Rhomboideus major, f. Splenius. g. Serratus posticus inferior.TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE. 383 nnd lastly from the inner third of tlie superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed out- wards, converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer insertion, third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect; into the posterior border of the acromion; and into the upper edge of the spine of the scapula as far as an inch from the root of that process, as well as into a rough impression on the surface of the spine near the hiiader part. The muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest fleshy Connec- fibres end in a small triangular tendon, which glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The an- terior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the Jieck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds witli the origin of the deltoid muscle. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on Use: the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column; but the fuoveiue upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevating, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trape- in rotation zius imparts a rotatory movement to it, and raises the aci'omion. ^"e. Dissection. The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided near the Trace spinal scapula, over the situation of the spinal accessory nerve, so that the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction witli the branches of the cervical plexus may be observed. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colli) accompanies the nerve. The spinal accessory cranial nerve (p. 112) having crossed the pos- Spinal terior triangle of the neck, passes beneath the trapezius, and forms nen-eTii^ a plexiform union with branches of the third and fourth nerves of trapezius, the cei-vical plexus. The nerve is distributed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. To see the parts covered by the trapezius, the pieces Dissection of the divided muscle are to be thrown inwards and outwards. trapezius; The dissector of the neck should now clean the splenius, and to prepare <lefine the parts beneath the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and vessels ; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulas, and rhomboid muscles. If the trazepius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nuchie, fi-om which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the ^'f^'*"^*'^® rhomboidei and levator anguli scapula* muscles, wliich are [fixed to musck^s. the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being do)ie, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fleshy fibres. * Parts covered by the trapezius. The trapezius conceals in the ^^^^^^^^^ ^ neck the splenius, a small part of the complexus, and the levator trapezius.^ anguli scapuhe; in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles, —the rhomboidei, the erector spinas, and the latissimus dorsi. Near the insertion it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The Uqamentum nucha; is a narrow fibrous band, which extends Ligamen- ^ turn nuchae.384 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. I.atissimus dorsi. Origin. Insertion into Inunenis. Connec- tions. Use: on the limb when free. and fixed. Dissection to reflect latissimus. Parts covered Ly the latissimus. from the spinous process of tlic seventh cervical vertebra to the occipital protuberance. From its under part processes are attached to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebras, so that it serves a« a partition between the muKcles of opposite sides of the neck. In man it is not formed of elastic tissue. * The LATISSIMUS DOKSi (fig. 116, is the widest muscle in the back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its inner attachment. It arises- along the middle line from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper two sacral vertebra?, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. On the outer side it arises by an aponeurosis from the outer edge of the jjosterior half of the iliac crest; and by three or four fleshy processes from as many of the lower libs, which digitate with pieces of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And between the outer and inner attach- ments it is inseparably blended below with the subjacent tendon of the multifidus spina^. All the fibres converge to the inferior angle of the scaj)ula, and after crossing that point of bone, are continued fonvards to be inserted by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus (p. 250). The muscle is subcutaneous, except a small part of the upper border which is covered by the trapezius. Near the scapula there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid muscles appear. The lower or anterior border overlays the edge of the exteniaf obhque muscle of the abdominal wall in the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest, with the exception of a small part below. Frequently the latissimus has a distinct fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. Action. If the arm is hanging loose the muscle can move it be- hind the back, rotating it in at the same time. If the limb is raised, the latissimus, combining with the pectoralis and teres, will depress- the humenis. From its attachment to the scapula this bone can be depressed with the arm. Supposing the arm fixed, the fibres may elevate the ribs as an' inspirator}- muscle; or they may assist the pectoralis major in drawing the moveable tnmk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. * Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway be- tween the spines of the vertebra and the angle of the scapula, and' the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner part of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either tlie thin lower serratus with Avhich it is united, or the aponeurosis, continued upwards from the serratus. In the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the apo- neurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. - Parts covered ly the latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the erector spina?, the serratus posticus inferior, and the lower ribs with their intercostal muscles. As it rests on the angle of the scapula it conceals the teres major, and part of the riiomboid muscle. Its position to the teres is worthy of note:—at the angle of the scapulaFASCIA LUMBORUM. 385 it covers the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the humerus it turns round the lower border, and is inserted in front of that Forms muscle. Between the angle of the scapula and the humerus the '^^^^^^^ latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissection of fascia lumhoriun. After the latissimus dorsi has been Dissection reflected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition umijorum of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lum- borum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. aVfter the removal of those muscles the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves:—one, the last dorsal with an artery near the last rib: and the other, the ilio-hypogastric with its vessels, close to the iliac crest. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from this fascia to the trans- Show two verse ^jrocesses. To see the more superficial layer which passes fro"°i*'ft*^'^ l)eneath the erector spinfe to the apices of the processes, the latis- «imus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy superficial, part) by a horizontal incision directed outwards from the spinous processes, on a level with the third lumbar vertebra. On raising the outer border of the erector spina; muscle which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing transversely this first prolongation, another muscle aud deep, ^quadratus lumborum) will be seen ; and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumhorum (fig. 136, ^) is the posterior aponeurosis or Fascia tendon of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the in-1""^^°""" terval between the last two ribs and the crest of the hip bone. By its cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique muscle, and sometimes to the external oblique. The last dorsal Q) *ind ilio-hypogastric (") nerves, accompanied by vessels, pierce it in their course from the abdomen. From the inner part of the ],ng ^^^^ q^-. aponeurosis two offsets are prolonged to the transverse processes ««ts behind, of the lumbar vertebrae, and enclose the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. The more superficial of the two is the strongest; it lies beneath superficial the erector spinje in this position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intervals between them: at the outer border of the erector spinai it blends with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and inferior serratus. The deeper or anterior prolongation passes on the abdominal sur- and deep, face of the quadratus lumborum, and is fixed to the tips and borders of the transverse processes. In like manner the erector spina) lies in another slicatli, which which form is foi-med by the vertebral aponeurosis and the tendons of the ;''„u.seies. ""^ latissimus and serratus on the one side, and by the superficial of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. * Second Layer of Muscles (fig. IIG). This stratum contains the Second c c386 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. muscular layer. Dissection. Elevator of angle of scapula. Attach- ments and con- nections. Use: on scapula. on the neck. Rhomboid muscles are two. Small muscle. Attach- ments. Large muscle. Origin. Insertion. C'oniiec-, tious. Use: bj- lliemselves: with others. Posterior elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhom- boid muscles ; besides these, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nerves turning backwards towards: the scapula are included. Dissection. By the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus, and by the dissection made subsequently (p. 383), the several parts in this layer will have been sufficiently prepared for learning, * The LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULAE (fig. 116, ^) arises by tendinous: slips from the posterior transverse processes of the upper three or four cers'ical vertebra?. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle,, and are inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior angle. At its origin the muscle lies beneath the stemo-mastoideus, and at its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it touches the serratus magnus muscle; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior tri- angular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cei'vical muscles, viz., splenius colli and cer\dcalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the scapula^ and depresses the acromion ; but united with the upper part of the trapezius, Avhich j^revents the rotation down of the acromion, it shi'ugs the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can be bent laterally to the same side. Ehomboidei Muscles. The thin muscular layer of the rhomboidei is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces,, large and small, which are separated by a slight interval. * The rJwmhoideus minor (fig. 116, ^) is a thin narrow band,, which arises fi-om the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebras, and the ligamentum nuchre ; it is inserted into the base- of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. ^ The rJiomboideus major (fig. 116,^) is larger than the preceding- by the width of three or more spinous processes. It arises fi-om the spines of four or five dorsal vertebrre below the rhomboideus- minor, and from the supraspinous ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be fixed to the base of the scapula between the spine and the lower angle. Sometimes all the fibres do not reach the scapula directly, some ending on a tendinous arch near the bone. The rhomboidei muscles are covered chiefly by the trapezius and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger rhomboid is subcutaneous near the angle of the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei will draw the base of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to- depress the acromion. In combination with the trapezius they will carry the scapula directly l)ack ; for as one tends to raise, and the other to depress the acromion, the bone will be moved in a direc- tion between the two forces. By their united action the muscles help to fix the scapula. The OMO-HYOID muscle consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior andSCAPULAR VESSELS. 387 posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only the belly of omo- posterior half is now seen. iiyoideus. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind Origin the notch, and fi-om the ligament converting the notch into a fora- men. The fibres form a thin, riband-like muscle, which is directed ana temi- forwards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoideus (p. 64). The fleshy belly of Connec- the muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius ; and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It crosses the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the bracMal plexus near the scapula. Action. For the supposed use of the posterior belly of the omo- Use. hyoideus, see page 64. The sujjrascajndar artenj, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is Supra- directed outwards across the lower part of the neck to the dorsum ^tery'^"^ of the scapula. The vessel courses behind the clavicle with the g^ds on suprascapular nerve, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid ^ack of muscles to the supraspinal fossa. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve, an offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73), Supra- is inclined backwards to the superior border of the scapula. It neire.^'^'" passes through the notch in the upper costa of the bone, and ter- minates beneath the supraspinatus in the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula (p. 263). The transverse cervical artery, also a branch of the subclavian Transverse CGrvic3il (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the artery upper part of the scapula, but it is higher than the clavicle. Cross- ing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into the two following divides into branches—superficial cervical and posterior scapular :— a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed cliiefly to the superficial C6rvic^ 8.n(x imder surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. h. The posterior scapular branch crosses beneath the elevator of posterior the angle of the scapula, and turns along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. If the rhomboid muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them ; and to give small anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises veiy frequently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The supra-scapular and transverse cervical veins have the same Accoinpany- course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender nerve of the brachial plexus (p. 72) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the muscle, scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on the under surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. c c 2DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 388 Tliird layer of niuBcles. Dissection. Seirati are two in number. Smaller at top of thorax. Attach- ments. Larger at bottom of thorax. Attach- ments. Fig. 117. Connec- tions. * Third Layer (fig. 117). In this stratum are the following muscles :—the serratus posticus superior and inferior, with the splenius. * Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upj^er serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The splenius and the inferior serratus have been previously ex- posed by the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus. * The SERRATi muscles are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebr£E. * The serratus xwsticus superior (fig. 117, ''^) arises from the liga- mentum nucha?, and fi"om the sjiinous processes of the last cersacal, and two or three upper dorsal vertebrje. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slips into the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is covered by the rhomboideus major. * The serratus posticus inferior (fig. 116,") occu- pies the lumbar region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia lumborum, and is con- nected to the spinous pro- cesses of the last two dorsal and first three lum- bar vertebrae The fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted into the last four ribs in front of their angles, each successive piece extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spina;; and with its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. * Part of tlie third layer of the Back-muscles, a. Serratus posticus superior B. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, d. Ilio-costalis. e. Longissimus dorsi F. Spinalis dorsi.SERRATI AI^D SPLENIUS MUSCLES. 38»: Action. The superior serratus raises the upper ribs, and officiates uaeofboth as an inspiratory muscle ; and the inferior, depressing the lower ribs, ^J'^^^lQ^gj. becomes an expiratory muscle. Theile supposes the inferior to act indirectly as a muscle of inspiration, because, by fixing the lower ribs, it enables the diaphragm to contract more effectiA'-ely. * The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, which is spread Vertebral over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines the erector spina3 in ^PO'^eurosis. the vertebral groove. mentsV Inferiorly it is thickened by the tendons of the latissimus and above, lower serratus ; but it is continued above beneath the splenius, without joining the upper serratus, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. Internally it is attaclied to the spinous processes. Externally it inside and is connected to the posterior third of the iliac crest, uniting with outside, the tendon of the latissimus ; between the hip-bone and the ribs, to the fascia liimborum ; and in the dorsal region to the ribs and a Below, fascia over the intercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and vertebral attachments, it blends with the underlying tendon of the erector spinae and multifidus. * Dissection. The upper serratus is to be cut through, and the Dissection, subjacent vertebral aponeurosis to be taken away ; and the part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. The SPLENIUS muscle (fig. 117) is thin and elongated ; it is un- Splenius has divided internally, but is split externally into two parts. It takes P*^^ • origin along the middle line from the six upper dorsal spines, from the seventh cervical, and fi'om the ligamentum nuchaj as high as the third cervical vertebra. Some fibres ascend to the head (splenius capitis), and others to the neck (splenius colli). The splenius colli, c, is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- one to the tenor transverse processes of the upper three cervical vertebra? with, ^^'^'^^" attach- but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the ments: scapula. The splenius cajntis, B, much the largest, is inserted by a thin one to the tendon into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. ments. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and Connec- the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the occipital bone is be- neath the stemo-mastoideus. The complexus muscle projects above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Action. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head Use of directly back ; and one will turn the face to the same side. capitis. The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical splenius vertebra); but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. * Fourth Layer. In this layer are included the spinalis dorsi; j^o^^^^^^ the erector spina?, with its divisions, and accessory muscles to the mugcies. neck ; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the Back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig. 118). To lay bare the complexus muscle in the DissectionDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 390 of com- plexus. Define off-' sets from the erector spins. Show the erector spin86 and its divisions, viz. Sacro- lumbalis: offset to the neck. Vessels and nerves. Separate spinalis dorsi; longissi- inus dorsi: and its offset to the neck. Vessels and nerves. Spinalis dorsi, along the dorsal vertebra;; neck, the splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. And whilst the large erector spinas is being displayed in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations from it to the cervical vertebra and the head are to be defined by the dissector of the neck:—One, a thin narrow muscle, the cervacalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs fi-om the outer piece of the erector (ilio-costahs), and is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger offset of the inner piece of the erector (longissimus dorsi) ; blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus, it is divided afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (trachelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (trans- versalis colli). * The serratus inferior is to be detached with the vei-tebral aponeu- rosis from the spines in the dorsal region, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spince which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is the beginning of an intermuscular interval, which divides the erector spinas into an outer piece (sacro-lumbahs), and an inner (longis- simus dorsi). By sinking the knife into this interval the sacro- lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to iincover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs: a muscular slip (cervicalis ascendens) is prolonged fi-om this to the neck. * In preparing the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external pieces of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will appear. * Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be needful to detach, and raise towards the spinous processes the thin muscular fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between that muscle and the spines of the vertebrje in the dorsal region. Then the attach- ments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrfe by rounded tendons ; and for the pur- pose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus should be drawn away from the spinous processes, and its superficial aponeurosis should be cut tlurough below the ribs, along the line of separation between the muscle and the fleshy multifidus spinas on the iimer side. From this muscle, as fi-om the sacro-lumbalis, a fleshy piece (transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into the neck. * Between the longissimus and the multifidus sj^in^ are the in- ternal pieces of the dorsal and lumbar ners'^es, and of the intercostal and lumbar arteries and veins. * The SPINALIS DORSI is placed on the side of the spines of the dorsal vertebras, and is united with the longissimus dorsi. In- feriorly it arises by tendinous processes from the spines of the last two dorsal and first two lumbar vertebras, and by fleshy fibres from the contiguous tendon of the longissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend, forming arches, whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by tendinous processes to the spines of the dorsalERECTOE SPINiE AND OFFSETS. 391 TertebrjB as low as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. Action. Both muscles contracting will extend the dorsal region of use of the spine. Perhaps the muscle of one side may tend to incline the ^i'^"^'^- spine laterally. The ERECTOR SPIN^ is the muscular mass on the side of the Erector spine in the lumbar region. It is single and pointed below ; and glngi^ at its its cutaneous surface is covered near the sacrum by a wide and oiiyi"- strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spina?. The muscle arises at the pelvis fi'om the posterior fifth of the crest 4e*nte^" of the liip-bone at the inner aspect, except opposite the upper spinous process: in the lumbar region it is attached by fleshy and tendin- ous pieces to the transverse processes, to the tubercle (process, accessorius) at the root, and to the layer of the fascia lumborum external to each. Opposite the last rib it divides into ilio-costalis Divides at and longissimus dorsi. into two"^ The ILIO-COSTALIS (SACRO-LUMBALIS) is the smallest of the two gaero- pieces resulting fi-om the division of the erector spinte. Its fibres lumbaiis end in six or seven flat tendons, wliich are connected together by their margins, and are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs is inserted and the neck by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under- lower ribs, mentioned muscles:— The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem begins by a series Muscuius of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the lower six ribs, ^°<^essonus internal to the insertion of the ilio-costalis; and it ends in tendons, which are inserted into the remaining ribs (upper six), in a line with is attached the ilio-costalis, and into the posterior transverse process of the ^bl!^ "^w^^ seventh cervical vertebra. The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip prolonging the Cervicaiis accessorius into the neck: this muscle is attached to four ribs ^'^scendens (third, fourth, fifth, and sixth), and is inserted into the posterior reaches the transverse processes of three cervical vertebra?, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth. * The LONGISSIMUS DORSI gradually decreases in size as it ascends Longissi- along the thorax. Internally the muscle is inserted into the trans- ""^^ verse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae by a series of tendinous insertion: and fleshy bundles; and externally it is attached to the ribs, except the first two or three, by thin fleshy processes between the tubercle and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is is continued united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two follow- ^.y the"^'^ ing pieces:— The transversalis colli (fig. 118,^) arises from the transverse pro- t^'^n^^'^^- cesses of the upper six dorsal vertebra?, and is inserted into the ^'^ ^ posterior transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, except the first two and the last. The trachelo-mastoid muscle (fig. 118, ^) (transversalis capitis?) ^^J'^J^^Jldi urises in common with the preceding, and is attached, besides, by mastoid, distinct tendons to the articular processes of the last three or four cervical vertebrae. The muscle is thin and is inserted beneath theDISSECTION OF THE BACK 392 Connec- tions of erector spinw in lumbar. dorsal, and cervical regions. Use of both erectors: in breath- of one on spine. Use of accessory muscles : on neck, and ribs; on neck. on head. Coniplexus. Origin. Insertion. splenius into the upper Iialf of the posterior part of the mastoid process: its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide.* * Connections of the erector spince. The erector spina? and its pro- longations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cers'ical parts of the Back. In the loins the muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath (p. 385), and has the multifidus spina? on its inner side: its attach- ment on the inner surface of the innominate bone corresponds iui part with the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer side. The superficial tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus, will be described with the last mentioned muscle (p. 401). Opposite the ribs the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi are con- cealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck its accessory small muscles lie underneath the splenius and the trapezius:—the cervicalis ascendens is attached in a line with, but below the splenius colli ; and the transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between the splenius and cervicalis and the complexus. Action. Taking their fixed point at the pelvis both erectors will' keep the spine straight in sitting and standing; and, in rising from stooping to the ground, they will bring the trimk into the erect posture. In laborious respiration, the spine being fixed, the muscles, are able to depress the ribs, and assist in the expulsion of the air from the thorax. One muscle will incline the spinal column laterally and to it» own side. The cer\acal prolongations of the erector act on the neck and head, as below :— The cervicalis ascendens. Taking their fixed point below, both muscles will extend the cer\'ical part of the spine; and acting from the transverse processes they will elevate the ribs. One muscle will give a lateral movement to the neck. The transversalis colli bends back the neck if the muscles of both sides contract together; or laterally towards its own side, if only one is used. The trachelo-mastoiclms will extend the head in concert with it& fellow ; or by itself will turn the face to its own side, and then help to approximate the head to the shoulder. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 118, ^) is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous pieces from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal vertebrte, from the spine of the last cendcal, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebra? as liigh as the third. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the os occipitis, which reaches * The anatomy of the prolongation from the longissimus might bo simplified by describing it as the transversalis muscle with a double insertion, like the splenius, into the head and neck. In accordance with the nomenclature of the splenius the part to the head might be named transversalis capitis and the part to the neck transversalis coUi, as at present.] '393 COMPLEXUS MUSCLE. outwards nearly two inches fi'om tlie occipital crest towards the trachelo-mastoideus. The inner part of the complexus having two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon, is described often as a separate muscle with the name hiventer cervicis. Biventer The complexus is concealed by the splenius and trapezius: and couuec- tions. Fig. 118.* the cutaneous surface is marked by a tendinous cross intersection towards the upper end. Two or three of the cei-vical neiwes per- forate it. Along the inner side is the semispinalis muscle, with the ligamentum nucha?. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinahs, and the cervical nerves and vessels. Action. Both muscles will move the head directly back. One use. will draw the occiput down and back towards its own side. Dissection of vesssls and nerves (fig. 119). In the neck the nerves Dissectiou and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus nerves of tlie neck; * Dissection of the muscles underneath the splenius. a. Longus colli. B. Transrersalis colli. c. Trachelo-mastoid. d. Complexus. P. Splenius capitis, cut. g. Splenius colli, cut. H. Semispinalis dorsi. a. Occipital artery. 1. Great occipital nerve. 2. External piece of the second nerve. 3. Outer piece of the third nerve.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. ■394 inner and •outer branches. Find sub- occii)ital; and the ^•essels. Nerves and vessels in the dorsal region: in the lum- bar region. Posterior branches of spinal nerves. In the neck they divide into two, except first. External branches •are small. Internal •branches: from the occipital bone and the spine of the seventh vertebra, and throwing it outwards carefully from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in wliich are contained the ramifications of the cervical nerves, and the deep cervical and other vessels. Each nerve except the first divides into an inner and an outer piece. Dissect out first the inner pieces of the seven lowest, which lie partly over and partly beneath the fil)res of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external pieces C) are very small; they are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks appear; they are to be looked for outside the complexus, and enter the muscles prolonged fi-om the erector spina?. The first or suboccipital is %lie most difficult of the set to find : this little nerve is a short trunk, which is contained in the interval between the small recti and obhqui muscles near the head ; it will be best fomid by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinalis muscle ; a part of the vertebral artery will be found in contact with the suboccipital nerve ; and the occipital artery will be seen crossing the occipital bone. Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will be readily displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse pro- cesses. Externa] and internal pieces are to be traced from eax;h nerve and vessel into the muscles ; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. '* The two pieces of the lumbar nerves and vessels -will be found in the same line as the dorsal; but the inner set are the most difficult to be discovered. The small sacral nerA-^es are placed beneath the multifidus spinfc, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 401). Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cei-vical and sacral groups, bifurcate in the intervertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches (p. 170). The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. Li the necJc. The posterior primary branches of the cervical ner^'-es are eight in number, and issue between the transverse processes ; but tliose of the first and second, which begin on the neural arches of the atlas and axis, cross those arches. All, except the first divide into internal and external pieces. ' The external jneces (fig. 118) are very inconsiderable in size, and end in the splenius, and in the muscles prolonged fi-om the erector spinse. The internal pieces (fig. 119) are larger than the external; they are directed towards the spinous processes, the three lowest nen^es passing beneath the semispinalis, and the four next over that muscle. By the side of the spine cutaneous branches are furnished to therOSTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES. 395 «eck and the head by the nerves that are superficial to the semi- some give spinaHs ; these cutaneous of nets ascend to the surface through the ^ff^gty""'' splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are dis- " ''^ ^' tributed as before seen (p. 381). In their course to the spine the Fig. 119.* nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz., complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinse, and interspinales. The cutaneous branches of tlie second and third nerves reach the head, and require a separate notice. That of the second ners'-e (fig. 119,named great occipital, ap- * Deep dissection of the back of the neck. (Illastrations of Dissections.) Muscles: a. Rectus posticus major, b. Rectus posticus minor, c. Obliquus inferior, d. Obliquus superior. E. Splenius capitis. f. Complexus, cut across. g. Semispinalis colli. Arteries: a. Occipital, and h, its cervical branch, c. Vertebral artery, and d, its cervical branch, e. Deep cervical artery of the subclavian. Nerves : 1. Suboccipital nerve (posterior branch). 2. Inner piece of the posterior primary branch of the second nerve. 3. Inner piece of the third nerve. 4. Inner piece of the fourth. And the remaining figures point to the inner pieces of the respective nerves.DISSECTION OF THE BACE:. 39G Tliiril snji- l)lies neck and head. Suboccipital nerve different branching; ends in muscles. Posterior cervical plexus. Dorsal nerv'cs liave inner and outer branches. Outer branches of upper six. of lower six; give cuta- neous. Inner branches: upper six have cuta- neous off- sets. lower six not. Lumbar nerves are divided into two. pearing beneath tlie inferior oblique muscle to which it gives offsets, is directed upwards through the complexus and trapezius to end on the occiput (p. 8). The branch of the third ncn-e (fig. HO,'*) supplies an offset to the integuments of tlie neck ; and ascending to the head through the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the great occipital nerve." Usually this nei-ve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The 2>osterior i^rvnary hranvli of the suboccipital or first spinal nerve (fig. 119,^) is very short, and appears in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral arterj'. The following branches radiate from its extremity :— One enters the under surface of the complexus near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles bounding the space in which the nei-ve is contained, viz., the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique : the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally this nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. Posterior cervical plexus. Sometimes there is an intercommunica- tion between the suboccipital nerve and the internal pieces of the next two cervical nen'es beneath the complexus ; this forms the posterior cendcal plexus of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region. The posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between the trans- verse processes. Each divides into an internal and an external piece ; and these are distributed after the same plan as in the neck. * The external ineces increase in size fi-om the first to the last, and are differently distributed above and below. The xipper six or eight pass beneath the longiseimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as the interval between the longissimus and the ilio-costalis, and end by supplying these muscles and the levatores costarum. The loioer six or four have a similar arrangement and distribution with respect to muscles; but, after reaching the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. * The internal pieces decrease in size from above downwards, and are directed inwards between the semispinaHs dorsi and multifidus spinai muscles ; offsets are supplied to the muscles between which they are placed. The uj^iur six become cutaneous along the side of the spinous processes by perforating the seiratus, rhomboideus, and trapezius. The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus spinge muscle. * In the loins. The posterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the erector and multifidus spinse. In their mode of dividing and general an-angement they resemble the dorsal ners^es. Cutaneous offsets are furnished by the external set of branches.397 POSTERIOR CERVICAL VESSELS. The ea-ternal jneces enter the erector spina^, and supply it and External the small intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector ^\''*'»ches spnifc, and become cutaneous after pertoratnig the aponeux'osis of neous from the latissimus. The branch of the last nerve is connected with the "'"^'^ corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the bones. * The internalineces are furnished to the multifidus spinai muscle, internal Near their origin they are difficult to find, in consequence of being ^'''I'liciies. contained in grooves on the articular processes. * Vessels IN THE BACK. The vcssels now dissected are the occipital The vessels and the deep cervical; part of the vertebral; and the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries for the most part. In tlie neck. The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the verte- in the neck. l)ral, and the deep cerA'ical. The occipital artery (fig. 119, a) coui-ses along the occipital bone. Part of the Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed arteiy!^^ Lackwards beneath the sterno-mastoideus, the splenius, and some- times the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line it perforates the trapezius, and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6). It sup- wliich ]dies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the following branch to the neck:— The cervical branch (h) (ram. princeps cervicalis) distributes twigs cervical to the under part of the trapezius, and passing beneath the com- plexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery (fig. 119, c) lies on the neural arch of the Part of the first vertebra, behind the articulating process, and appears in the artery"^^ interval between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches arc given to the surrounding liarts, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The deep cercical artery (fig. 119, e) is a branch of the superior Deep cervi- intercostal (p. 71), and resembles the posterior branches of the other '^'^^^^'T- intercostal arteries. Passing back between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the Jieck of the first rib, it ascends Letween the complexus and semispinalis muscles, as high as the npper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cer^'-ical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. In the dorsal reqion. The posterior branches of the intercostal Dorsal n'tGrics fire vessels (p. 362; pass back between the vertebraj and the anterior \y,\\t into costo-transverse ligament and are divided like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. The inner hranchea end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus inner and spinas and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and onter supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches ^•"-^"ches, of this set are the largest and extend to the surface.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 398 and give a branch to spinal eoixl. Lumbar arteries are also divided into inner and outer branches. Veins are deep cer- vical. occipital, dorsal and lumbar. and deep veins. Muscles of the fifth layer. Dissection of the last layer of muscles. Eectus capi s major; attach- ments. Connec- tions. Use of both and one muscle. Rectus capi- tis minor; As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the spinal canal. ** In the loins. The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the longissimus dorsi and multifidus spinfG. Each gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. * The internal branches are small, and end in the multifidus spin» muscle. * The external branches supply the erector spinas; and oifsets are continued onwards to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins. With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, vena lyro- funda cervicis, which communicates with the occipital and other deep veins in this region, foraiing the posterior plexus of the neck, and passes forwards with its artery, between the transverse processes, to join the vertebral vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and communicates sometimes with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond in their branching and distribution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the inter- costal veins and the vena cava. In contact with the spinous processes and plates of the vertebrea is a deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anastomose freely together, and open into the veins in the interior of the spinal canaL * Fifth Layer. In this layer are the folloAving small muscles ;— the recti and obliqui, semispinalis, interspinales, multifidus spinas, and intertransversales. Dissection. Most of the remaining muscles of the Back are un- covered by the previous dissection. Between the first two vertebrte and the occipital bone the small straight and oblique muscles extend.. * In the cei-vical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle appears, with the small interspinales internal to it; and occupying- a corresponding position in the loins, is the multifidus spina3. * The small intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be found by removing the erector spina?. . The RECTUS CAPITIS rosTicus MAJOR (fig. 119, a) is the largest of the muscles between the occipital bone and the first two vertebrae, and arvies fi'om the side of the spinous process of the axis. It is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. The muscle is directed outwards very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space which contains the suboccipital nerve and the vertebral artery. Its upper attachment lies beneath the superior obhque muscle. Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be put backwards. By one rectus the face will be turned to the same side ; and after the head has been so rotated, the muscle will assist in extending the head. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 119,^) is internal to theOBLIQUI AND SEMISPINALIS. preceding, and is shorter than it. Arising from the neural arch of attaoii- the atlas, the muscle is inserted, close to the middle line, into the ^^^^^^^ > inferior cur\'-ed ridge of the occipital bone, and between this and the foramen magnum. connec- This small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus ^'""^^" major : it covers the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone. The two small recti muscles correspond Avith the inter- they are spinales between the other vertebra3. interspinals. Action. Both muscles, or one, will have the same use, viz., to Use. approach the occiput to the atlas. The OBLIQUUS INFERIOR (fig. 119,*^) slants between the first two P^%^"'f vertebrae. It arn^ses from the spinous process of the axis, external to the rectus major muscle, and is inserted into the tip of the trans- attach- j. ,1 ,1 ments. verse processes or the atlas. Action. One muscle turns the face to the same side by rotating Use of one;. the atlas on the axis. If both muscles act at the same time they of both, will assist in keeping the head straight. The OBLIQUUS SUPERIOR (fig. 119, ^) takes origin from the upper Obliquus part of the transverse process of the atlas, where the preceding ^^^1^®"°'^' muscle terminates ; and is directed inwards to be inserted between attach- incuts' the curved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process. This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo-mas- connec- toideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion is beneath the splenius (e), but above the rectus major muscle. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying Use of both; backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the occiput will of one. be inclined backwards to the same side. The SEMisriNALis (fig. 119, ^) occupies the vertebral groove in Semispinaiis the dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse-^^q^''^^''^ and articular processes to the spines of the vertebrfc: it is undivided at the outer, but bifurcated at the inner attachment. It arises externally from the transverse processes of the ten upper dorsal vertebra?, and fi-om the articular processes of the four lower cervdcal ; and it is inserted by two pieces, as below:— The lower piece, semvipinalis dorsi, is inserted into the spinous semi-spina- processes of the upper four dorsal and the last two cervical l^'i^^f vertebrae. The upper piece, semispinaiis colli, is inserted into the spines of semi-spina- the cervical vertebra? above the attachment of the semispinaiis dorsi, ^ the atlas not receiving any slip. The semispinaiis muscle is covered by the complexus, and the conncc- deep cervical artery. Some of the cei-vical nerves are supex-ficial, and others beneath it. To its inner side is the multifidus spina) muscle. Action. The muscles of both sides acting together will extend the Use of both; spine. One muscle will rotate the cendcal and dorsal parts of the of one iiiiisclc spine, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. * The INTERSPINAL MUSCLES are placed, as their name expresses : interspinal they are an-anged in pairs, one on each side of the interspinous li"p^ir^ ligament ; and they are best seen in the neck and loins.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 400 in the neck; in tlie back; in the loins. Use on the sjiiue. Ilnter- transversc muscles in iA\o neck, in the dorsal region, in the loins. Use on the spine. Dissection ■of niulti- ifidus spinfc. Jn the nock. •over sacrum ^and over Jibs. "Multifidus .SJliUiL'. Origin on sacrum; in loins; in Back. In the cervical region the muscles are absent from the intei-val between the first two vertebra?. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and below to the bifurcated apices of the spines. In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary ; they exist between the first two, and the lowest two pair of spinous processes, and between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. In the lumbar region they are tliiii fiat muscles, which reach the length of the spines. Action. By the approximation of the spinous processes these small muscles will help in extending the spine. Necessarily the movement of each pair is very slight, but the aggregate of all would amount to perceptible motion. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra?; but only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the neck they are double, like the inters^^inal muscles of the same vertebras (p. 170). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, and are found only between the lower processes : their number varies from three to six. * In the lumbar region the anterior set are four thin and fleshy planes. The posterior set are rounded bundles, which are attached to the accessory points at the roots of the transverse processes : these have been named interaccessorii. Action. The small intertransversales help to incline laterally the spine by approximating the transverse processes : the motion be- tween a single pair of bones would be scarcely appreciable, as in the case of the interspinales. Dissection. The multifidus spina? muscle, which fills the hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now dissected. The upper part of the muscle is to be prepared and learnt by the dis- sector of the head and neck. It will be laid bare by cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and everting this. * Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis covering the multifidus and the erector spiufe must be turned aside. In the dorsal region tlie muscle will appear on detaching, and drawing the semispinalis from the spines. The MULTIFIDUS SPIN^ muscle extends from the sacrum to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis than in the neck. On the back of the sacmm it takes origin between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture; from the inner surface of the iHac spine (posterior superior) of the hip bone • and fi-om the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. It is attached difl;erently along its outer edge (origin) in the several regions of the spine :—In the loins it arises by large fasciculi from the accessory and the articular processes. In the dorsal region from the transverse processes. And in the neck, from the articular processes of the five lower vertebrse. From these attachments theSACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. 401 fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the Insertiou. neural arches of the vertebrse from the second cervical to the third sacral. This muscle fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is concealed ^^"g^^' by the erector spinas and the semispinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves in the back lie along its outer border. The small muscles described below may be said to be parts of the raultifidus. Action. By the use of the muscle of both sides, the spinal column Use of both, can be extended; and by the contraction of one, the spine will be rotated in the dorsal region and the neck, the face being turned one to the opposite side. * Rotatores dorsi (Theile). These are eleven small muscles be- Rotatores neath the multifidus spinas in the dorsal region, and are separated partfof"* from that muscle by fine areolar tissue. Each is attached inferiorly inuitifldus. to the tip and upper edge of a transverse process, and superiorly to the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. Action. These small rotators will assist the larger muscle (multi- Use. fidus) in turning the trunk to the opposite side. The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector spinas is Aponeurosis fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to mI^^'^*'^' the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is united with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrae and sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being connected at the last spot with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is con- tinued some way on the surface of the erector spinee, but further on the longissimus dorsi than the ilio-costalis. Below, the latissimus dorsi and the vertebral aponeurosis blend with its cutaneous surface (p. 389). * Dissection (fig. 120). To find the branches of the sacral nerves. Dissection it will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas uerves.*^' which covers the sacrum. The first three are split into two each: their external pieces will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to be recognised. The lowest two nerves are very small, and are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spina3. They are not bifurcated like the others, but unite together, and with the coccygeal nerve in loops. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, the fifth between tlie sacrum and coccyx; and the coccygeal is still lower. Sacral Nerves (fig. 120).—The posterior primary branches of Five sacral the sacral ners^es are five in number. Four issue fi-om the spinal ""^^^^» canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the are diffor- . , \ . T, ., -1 entlydistn- common division into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal ii^t^a. nerves ; but the last two are undivided. D D402 First three have inner and outer branches; Fig. 120. the last give cutaneous otfsets. Last two are midivided. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. « The first three nerves are covered by the multifidus spina?, and divide regularly. i xi, i <■ llh^ inner pieces Q) are distributed to the multifidus; and the last of this set is very fine. . The outer pieces f) are larger, and have commumcatmg ottsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum: further, the branch of the first nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the last lumbar ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and become cutaneous. (Dissec- tion OF THE Buttock.) * Last tv)o nerves (4 S and 5 S). These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regu- lar branching of the others : they are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior primary branch issues through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx. It is joined by a loop from the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior surface of the coccyx. Small sacral * Sacral Aeteries. Small branches leave the spinal canal with arteries. sacral nerves ; they supply the muscular mass of the erector spina?, and anastomose with branches on the back of the sacrum fi'om the gluteal and sciatic arteries. Dissection * Dissection. The examination of the posterior part of the wall mus°cies^ of the thorax may be made before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite the ribs, the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi, Coccygeal ner\'e. * Dissection of the sacral nerves (Lond. Med. Gazette, 1843). Muscles : A. Multifidus spinse, and b. Erector spinas: both cut. c. Gluteus maximus detached from its origin, and tlirown down. D. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves : 5 I. Last lumbar. 1 *S to 5 S, the five sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve, escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and first three sacral (these are too large in the cut) ; and 2, external offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior primary branch, and 4, posterior of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The nerve de- rived from the anterior primary branches of the lower sacral nerves, which pierces the sacro-sciatic ligament.403 LEVATORES COSTARUM MUSCLES. the snicall levatores costarum will be uncovered. The hinder part of the external intercostal muscle will be denuded at the same time. * The LEVATORES COSTARUM are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, Levatores which are connected with the hinder part of the ribs. Each, except the first, arises fi'om the apex and lower border of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra; and is inserted, the fibres spreading Attach- out, into the upper border of the rib beneath, from the tubercle "^^^t^. to the angle? The muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical The first, vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of Other the four lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that next ajuscies succeeding : these longer shps have been named levatores longiores costarum. Action. The muscles raise the hinder part of the ribs, as the name Use of the signifies, and the lowermost draw the bones somewhat back. muscles. The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards along the Outer ribs as far as the tubercle, and is overlaid by the elevator muscle, musde!*^^^ Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection, of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut tlirough in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. * The dorsal nerves split in the intervertebral foramina into anterior Dorsal nei-ve and posterior primary branches. * The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to posterior the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and have been examined (p. 396). The anterior, named intercostal, is continued between the ribs to and anterior the front of the chest: its anatomy is learnt in the dissection of the thorax (p. 369). * The intercostal artery has an almost exact correspondence with intercostal the dorsal nei-ve in its branching and distribution. arteiy. D D 2CHAPTER YI. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Cord is con- tained in spinal caual, invested by membranes. Dissection to show the cord and the membranes. Tlirec mem- branes of the cord. Dura mater surrounds cord loosely. Size of sheatli. Connec- tions. The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal nerves, and is lodged in the osseous canal formed by the bodies and neural arches of the vertebra?. It is invested by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, wliich form sheaths around and support it. Dissection. After all the muscles have been taken from the arches and spines of the vertebra?, the spinal canal is to be opened by sawing through the neural arches, on each side, close to the articular processes ; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, but not higher in the neck than the fourth cervical vei'tebra. As it is difficult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to complete the division of the vertebral arches. The tube of the dura mater is covered by some veins and fat; and by a loose areolar tissue containing fluid sometimes, especially at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel ; and the lateral prolongations of the membrane through the intervertebral foramina are to be defined. Membranes of the Cord (fig. 122). Three membranes, like those on the brain, surround the cord, viz., an external tube of dura mater, an internal sheath of pia mater, and an intervening arachnoid or serous covenng. Offsets on spinal nerves The dura mater (a) forms a strong tube, and is continuous with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It forms a loose sheath along the spinal canal, as far as the second or third piece of the sacrum (fig. 121); but beyond that point it is continued by a slender impervious cord to the back of the coccyx (fig. 121, h). The capacity of the sheath is greater than is needed for the contents ; and its size is larger in the neck and loins than in the back. On the outer aspect the dura mater is smooth, when a comparison is made between it and the part in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the osseous surfaces are some vessels and fat ; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebra? by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dura mater sends offsets along the spinal nerves in the intervertebral foramina ; and these several ofl;sets becomeSPINAL DURA MATER. 406 gradually longer inferiorly (fig. 121), where they form tubes which ^ enclose the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance within the spinal canal. In the midst of the tubes, below, is the slender imper- 9^^^^^^, vious cord (6), wliich blends with the periosteum covering the back piece, of the coccyx. Dissection. To remove the spinal cord with the sheath of the Dissection t-o rcinovp- ■dura mater from the body, the lateral processes in the intervertebral cord. Fig. 121.* Fig. 122.t apertures are to be cut; and one or two of them in the dorsal region should be followed outwards beyond the intervertebral fora- men by cutting away the surrounding bone. The central pro- longation may be now detached from the coccyx ; and the cord and * Lower end of the dura mater with its central and lateral processes. (Museum University College, London.) a. Large sheath of the dura mater. l. Central fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx. The lateral offsets encasing the last two lumbar, and the five sacral nerves, with the coccygeal nerve, arc ^so shown. Each nerve is marked by the numeral, and the first letter of its name. + View of the membranes of the spinal cord. a. Dura mater cut open and reflected, h. Small part of the translucent arachnoid, left. h. Pia mater closely investing the spinal cord. c. Ligamentum denticulatum on the side of the cord, shown by cutting through the anterior roots of the nerves, d. Processes joining it to the dura mater. </. Anterior spinal artery and the fibrous band (linea splendens) on the cord. e. Anterior roots of the nerves, cut; and /, posterior, each entering a separate hole in the dura mater. \DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. 406 and see next covering. Arachnoid membrane has a parietal or attached, loose or visceral layer, and space heneath. To exijose sub-arach- noid space. Sub-arach- noid space contains a fluid, and opens into cavities of brain: imperfect septum behind. Dissection of next covering. Pia mater supports the cord, gives ofisets. its membranes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebrae, and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface upper- most with the lateral offsets widely sepai-ated. To show^ the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle as far as the small terminal fibrous cord before referred to ; but the membrane is to be raised wliilst it is bemg cut through, so that the loose arachnoid on the cord may not be injured. Lastly, fasten back the dura mater with pins. The arachnoid membrane (fig. 122, l) is the thin serous covering of the cord which is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like the corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the spinal cord and lines the dura mater, and consists thus of a visceral and a parietal part. The outer or parietal ])SiVt\?. inseparably joined to the inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to that membrane a shining appearance.*'' The inner or visceral layer surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable interval between the two (sub-arachnoid space). At the lower part of the spinal canal the loose sheath is largest, and envelops the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. As the different spinal nerves extend to the intervertebral foramina, they receive loose tubes from the araclmoid, but lose the same when they perforate the dura mater. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath the visceral layer ; or by putting a piece of the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and blowing air beneath the serous membrane. The suharachnoid space separates the loose or visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, from the spinal cord invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than the upper part of the spinal canal it con- tains a special fluid—cerehro-spinal; and it communicates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by an aperture in the fourth ventricle. Crossing the space, at the posterior part of the cord, are bundles of fibrous tissue, which are most marked in the neck. In the space are contained the seiTations of the ligamentum denticu- latum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the next covering of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be taken away ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reflected, as in the wood-cut 122. The pia mater (fig. 122, Ti) is much less vascular on the spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a thin prolongation into the anterior median fissure ; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nei-ves. • According to the opinion of Kolliker, tlie arachnoid membrane is a simi^le tube corresponding with the visceral layer in the text.SPINAL PIA MATER. 407 The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the front is a central, anterior fibrous band (linea splendens, Haller) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is Fibrous attached to it. Scattered through the membrane are branched pig- ment cells, which give a dark appearance in the cervical region. Where the medulla spinahs ceases, viz., about the lower part of it ends the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the tube of the pia mater is SSSrJus suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of a round fibrous P'^ce, the cord (fig. 124, b). This cord-Kke part (filum terminale) is provided with nervous substance above ; and blends, below, with the central impervious prolongation of the dura mater. It serves to fix the lower end of the medulla spinalis, and has been named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery central accompany this fibrous piece, and distinguish it from the surrounding ^'S*^®"^*- nerves. The ligamentuvh denticulatum (fig. 122, c) is the white, fibrous The dentate toothed band, on each side of the spinal cord. It is named from ^'sament, its serrated appearance ; and it has the same structure as the dura mater, except that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, is fixed on the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends cordf ^ inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections (rf), which are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the apertures and on other of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty-one ^^ter * denticulations ; of which the first is attached to the dura mater Number and opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite o^polj^g^* the twelfth dorsal, or the first lumbar vertebra. ^ This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a Use. ligament from that circumstance. Vessels and nerves of the viembranes. The dura mater of the cord Vessels and norvcs of has but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for its dura mater, office is different. Nerves are said to be furnished to it from offsets on the vessels supplying the cord. The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous membranes in general ; and proof of its containing nerves, in man, is yet wanting. The pia mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked than in the part on the brain ; and from them offsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves, derived from the sympathetic. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken from the fibrils of the roots of the nerves on one side ; and the roots are to nerves, be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater for each nerve. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some ^^^^^^^^ length, is to be laid open to show the contained ganglion.^ The student should define one ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 123 b), and should trace a bundle of threads of ^rir/'J^ luJla/unt aff^im Om^'i^^^MJuniA 0/ra.c4i, ound ^/idc^J/.^. oys^DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 408 Trunks of spinal nerves. Number and groups. Last nerve of a group below the vertebra. Primary divisions. Roots anterior and posterior. Posterior larger than anterior: forms two biuidles that enter theganglion. Fig. 123. the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior beyond the ganglion. SpraAL Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves ; and each nerve is constructed by the blending of two I'oots (anterior and posterior) in the inter\'-ertebral foramen (fig. 123). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in num- ber as the vertebrEe, except in the cei-vical region of the spine where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. In consequence of the number of nerves in the neck exceeding that of the vertebrte, the last is placed below the seventh vertebra; and the lowest nerve of each group, except the coccygeal, will be below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two primary branches, anterior and posterior, the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots of the Nerves (fig. 123). Two roots (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the inter- vertebral foramen. The posterioi- root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The 2^osterior or ganglionic rooU (fig. 123, h) surpass in size the anterior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils. They are attached to the side of the cord between the posterior and lateral columns in a straight line, which they keep even to the last ners'^e. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bundles (fig. 123 B, h) which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from A. rian of the origin of a spinal nerve from the spinal cord. a. Anterior root, b Posterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root, d Anterior primary branch, c. Posterior primary branch of the nerve trunk B. A drawing to show the arrangement of the nerve-roots, and the form of the ganglion in a lumbar nerve, h. Posterior root gathered into two bundles of threads, c The gang ion, bifid at the inner end. a. Threads of t^e anterior root, also gathered into two bundles.409 NERVE ROOTS AND GANGLION. the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganghon. The intervertehral ganglion (fig. 123). Each posterior root is pro- Number of vided with a ganglion (c). The ganglia are reddish in colour, and oval in shape whilst they are surrounded by the dura mater; and construc- their size is proportioned to that of the root. By means of the ti'^"- previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at the Each is inner end (fig. 123 b), where it is joined by the bundles of fibrils of the root (b) ; it might be said to possess two small ganglia, one for each bundle of fibrils, which are blended at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or suboccipital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots (fig. 123 a) arise from the side of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly—not without in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower S'^'^S^^o^' end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- Pierces ^ . ^ . dura mater, vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have and joins a separate sheath of the dura mater. In their further course to the roou'eyond trunk of the nerve they are gathered into two bundles (fig. 123, b, a), ganglion, and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk. Characters of the roots. Besides variations in the relative size of ^f'^roots'^'^ the two roots, the following characters are to be noted:— Union of the fibrils. The fibrils of contiguous anterior roots may be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots join. may be connected in a like manner; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Size of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than Posterior . , , . . , 1 ji 1 r root largest, the anterior, except m the suboccipital nerve; and the number ot the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior is proportionally ^YjyPi"^*j°g^ larger in the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves in neck! there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Size of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the 1^°°*^*^^^^ nerves for the limbs arise, than at any other part of the cord; and down. they are greater in the nerves to the lower than in those to the upper limbs. They arc smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. hirection and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission Oblique in * ■% f* * ' f* ii Liicir course* from the spinal canal are not opposite the place of origin ot the nerves, the roots must be directed more or less obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper cervical nerves the roots are horizontal, but in the lumbar and sacral nerves Most so they have a vertical direction around the end of the medulla spinalis, "'''^''"''^i' The appearance of the long fibrils around the end of the cord (fig. 124) resembles the extremity of a horse's tail, and bears appro- "j^l^J/"™ priately the term cauda equina. equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliquity. P'^J^S^^^^^g Between the origin and the place of exit of the roots of the lower cer- vical nerve the increase amounts to the depth of one A^ertebra ; in the J°^j^^^"ve lower dorsal nerve it equals the depth of two vertebra); and in theDISSECTIOX OF THE SPINAL COED. 410 Union of the roots in inter- vertebral foramen. except in iirst two cervical. the sacral. and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cen'ical, sacral, and coccygeal. Arteries of cord are Anterior .spinal, a single arterj-. Termina- tion. Offsets. Posterior arteries are two; lie on sides of coixl. Veins. Termination at top of cord. lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of vnion of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot mto anterior and posterior primary- branches (fig. 123, d and e). But deviations from this arrange- ment are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column in the following nei-ves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the coiresponding vertebraa; and the anterior and poste- rior primary branches diverge from the trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place within the spinal canal; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its tnink escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed conmionly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the position of those ajDcrtures is irregular, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal column, they have the following situation :—In the first two nerves they lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Vessels of the Spinal Cord. The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It begins by the union of two small branches of the vertebral artery (p. 180); and it is continued to the lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived fi'om the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in the Back. Inferiorly it supphes the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolonga- tion of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries^ one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nei-ves. These vessels are furnished from the same source as the anterior, and their continuity is maintained by a series of anasto- motic branches, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some offsets enter the posterior fissure of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches; after communicatmo-411 SPINAL COED. Fig. 124.* a with the intraspinal veins, these join in the skull the inferior cere- bellar veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. The SPINAL CORD (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical elongated part of the cerebro-spinal centre,which is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before examined, the medulla occupies about two thirds of the length of the vertebral canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the spinal cord is from the tipper border of the atlas to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches throughout the spinal canal, but it gradually recedes as the smTounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. Its length is usually from fifteen to eighteen inches. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and inferiorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by one or two swellings, and ends in the fibrous prolongation, named the central ligament of the cord or filum terminale (fig. 124, .7). The size of the spinal cord is much increased where the nerves of the limbs are attached. There are therefore two enlargements on it, viz. cervical and dorsal: the one in the neck reaches from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other in the Back is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal vertebra. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before back rather ex- ceeds the other. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished from the posterior by a central fibrous band and the anterior spinal arteiy ; and by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student should possess a piece of the medulla which has been hardened in spirit, for the cord which is -d Situation of the cord. Extent varies below. and in the embryo. Length. Inferior tennination in the adult. Its size differs at spots. Anterior surface, how known. Dissection to see con- stituents of cord. * Membranes of the spinal cord laid open, to show the lower end of the cord with the filum terminale. a. Dura mater, and h, the fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx, c. Pointed lower end of the cord. d. Filum terminale of the cord.DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 412 Fissures of the cord are anterior median. posterior median, ateral lissiire and poste- rior CTOove. The cord is divided into antero- lateral column. posterior column. Fig. 125 r « obtained from the spinal canal at this period, is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface, with the roots of the nerves left on one side, the student will be able to obsen^e the following divisions of the medulla. Fissures of the Cord (fig. 125). On the anterior and posterior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft—the anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its division into halves ; and along the line of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another sht—the lateral fissure. The anterior median fissure (fig. 125) is wider than the posterior, and penetrates about one tliird of the thickness of the medulla: it is lined by a piece of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance lines the fissure ; and in the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood- vessels. The jjosterior median fissure (fig. 125) is not so wide, or so well marked as the anterior : but it is best seen at the upper part of the neck, and in the lower or dorsal enlargement. Vessels of the posterior surface of the cord enter it. The lateral fissure is situate along the line of attachment of the fibrils of the posterior roots (fig. 125, d). Between the lateral and posterior median fissures is a slight groove on the surface (fig. 125, e). Sometimes a lateral fissure is described along the line of origin of the anterior roots (/>;), but there is not any cleft in that situation. Segments of the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median fissures is divided into two parts by the lateral sulcus (fig, 125, d): the piece in front of that slit and the posterior roots of the ner^'es is called the antero-lateral column (a); and the piece behind, the posterior column (t). The antero-lateral column (fig. 125, a) includes rather more than two thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the ner^'es, and gives attachment to the anterioi- roots. The posterior column (fig. 125, I) is situate between the lateral fissure (^7), with the posterior roots of the nerves, and the central median fissure. Near the median fissure is a slight groove (e) * A section of the spiual cord, to sLow its composition, and its divisions Fissures in the muldle line are the anterior and posterior median-the rteri'; being the wider, d. The lateral fissure, c. The slight groove between tV lateral and the posterior median fissure, which marks the iLTt of the Serior median column. Columns : a. Antero-lateral. Posterior, c. Pos crior median. Composition : <j. Gray crescent, surrounded by white fibres h. Gray transverse commissure, and canal of the cord in it. j Posterior and anterior root of a nerve entering the gray crescent. "''lerior.413. COMPOSITION OF CORD. which marks olf a slender piece, the posterior median column (c) : this portion is best seen in the cervical part of the cord. A central piece, or the commissure of the cord, connects the and eom- halves of the medulla, and limits the depth of the median fissures. Different division of the cord. Each half of the cord is sometimes Different divided into three columns—anterior, lateral, and posterior, whose limits are the following:—The anterior reaches fi-om the anterior roots of the nerves to the median fissure in front. The lateral column is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves. The posterior with its small posterior median segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind. Composition of the Cord (fig. 125). A horizontal section of the Cordoon- medulla shows more distinctly its division into halves, with the and*'whitr^ commissural or connecting piece between them. The same cut "latter. demonstrates the existence of a mass of gray matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in each half) united by a cross piece, and surrounded by white substance. The commissure (fig. 125, h) consists of two parts, viz., a trans- The com- verse band of gray matter, with a white stratum in front. nussure. The gray transverse band (gray commissure') connects the The gray opposite crescents, and consists of nerve cells, and of transverse ' nerve fibres derived from the halves of the cord and the roots of the nen'es. In its centre is the slu"imken canal of the spinal cord (fig. 125, g) its central, which is best seen in the fetus. It reaches the whole length of the '^^'^^^ medulla, and a cross section of the cord shows it as a round spot. Above, it opens on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and below it is continued into the filum terminale. It is lined by a columnar lined by ciliated epithelium, and is obstructed by a granular material near epiti^elmm. the upper opening (Clarke). The white piece of the commissure is formed partly by fibres of The white the anterior column ; and partly by fibrils of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from the one half to the other. It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. The half of the medulla. In the half of the cord as in the com- The half of missure, gray and white portions exist; the former is elongated from before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. The gray crescent (jg) is semilunar in form, with the horns or The cres- cornua of the crescent directed towards the roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the middle line (fig. 125). The crescentic masses in the opposite halves of the cord are united by the gray commissure. The posterior comu is long and slender (fig. 126, '), and reaches ^^^^j^^"*^'" near the fissure along the attachment of the posterior nerve-roots. At its extremity, where it is sUghtly enlarged, it is encased with a rather transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been named the substantia gelatinosa (fig. 126, ^). The anterior cornu (fig. 126, ^) is shorter and thicker than the ^^.'j^^J^^tkDISSECTION OF THE SriNAL CORD. 414 Special tracts. VesicuLn- column. Intemie- Uiate tract. Size and extent. White sub- stance of the half of the cord. Areolar tissue. Gray and white sub- stance vary. Crescents alter their shape. Deep origin of nen'es uncertain. Anterior root enters lateral column, anterior columu of other side, Fiff. 126.' other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outUne. Mr. Clarke describes two special collections of cells, one on the outer and the other on the inner side of the gray crescent, which extend through the cord below the cervical swelhng, and with which the roots of the ners^es are connected.* The inner group, or the posterior vesicular column (fig. 12G, ^) is close behind the transverse commissure (*) ; wliilst the outer group, or the intermediate tract (^) is placed outside the crescent, about midway from firont to back. The first is best marked in the dorsal enlarge- ment, and the last in the upper part of the dorsal region. Above the cervical swell- ing of the cord only rudiments of those tracts remain; and the cells in a line with the intermediate tract are traversed by the roots of the spinal accessor}"^ nerve. The white substance of the cord is composed cliiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. A fi-amework of very fine areolar tissure extends through the substance of the spinal cord, supporting the fibres and cells : this is continuous with the pia mater on the surface. Modifications in the gray and white substance. The white sub- stance exceeds the gray in quantity in the neck and back; but it is less abundant in proportion to the gray matter in the lumbar region. The coniua of the gray crescents decrease in length £rom above down, especially the posterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Origin of the Nerves. The deep origin of the spinal ner\^es is uncertain, like that of the cranial ner^'^es, but the fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord (fig. 125). The anterior root (Z;) traverses the longitudinal fibres of the antero- lateral column in distinct bundles ; and entering the anterior comu of the gray crescent, it is resolved into three sets of fibres, external, internal, and middle :— The outer set penetrate into the antero-lateral column. The inner set pass through the anterior column and across the median fissure to the opposite half of the cord, decussating with like fibres of the opposite side. * Further researches on the gray substance of the spinal cord. By J Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S., Philosoph. Trans, of the Royal Society for 1859] Part i. + A representation of the gray substance in the interior of the spinal cord near the middle of the dorsal region (Clarke). 1. Posterior cornu (caput comu, Clarke) of the crescent. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Casing of the sub- stantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Transverse commissure 6. Tractus intermedio-lateralis. 7. Cervix cornu of Clarke, reaching from the anterior points of the substantia gelatinosa to the level of the canal 8. Posterior vesicular column.415 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. The middle set enter the substance of the crescent, and are lost t'*'' in it and in the cells of the intermediate tract. crescent. The posterior root (j) pierces chiefly the posterior column of the Posterior cord, and enters the posterior cornu of the crescent : but a few ^"""^ fibres penetrate by the lateral fissure. It terminates in two bundles of fibres. One bundle courses round the outer side of the vesicular column, j"ins vesi- some fibres enclosing, and others entering it; and a few fibrils escape into the posterior column of the cord, becoming longitudinal. column!'' The second bundle is prolonged into the crescent and the inter- gr<ay com- mediate tract, as well as into the transverse commissure behind the "r|fsce^t '^^^ central canal of the cord. Intraspinal Vessels (fig. 127). Arteries supply the cord and its Vessels of membranes, and the bodies of the vertebrfe. The veins form a re- the spinal markable plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless the veins have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (a) are derived fi'om the vessels along the Source of sides and fi-ont of the spinal column, viz. from the vertebral and gphiai*'*' ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in the Back, arteries, and from the lumbar and lateral sacral below. They are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- Distribution men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the ^,r,^^amUhe" point of division the branches are directed, one (i) upwards and cord the other {c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebr;©, and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- * Intra-spinal arteries in the loins (Museum of University College, London), a. Branch of the lumbar artery, b. Ascending, and c, its descending offset. d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. + Intra-spinal veins in the loins, a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. h. Anterior longitudinal vein, one on each side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrae.DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. 416 Ly loops; ;iud a cen- tral vessel. Intraspinal veins are large. Anterior longitudinal are on bodies of vertebne. Veins of the vertebra. Posterior spinal veins are in eon- tact with arches. spinal artery above and below. And from the loops offsets (d) are fiUTiished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebrie. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebra?. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the bodies of the vertebrte, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal veins (fig. 128) consist of two anterior longitu- dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebrai ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. The anterior- longitudinal veins (a) are close to the bodies of the vertebrje, one on each side of the posterior common ligament; and they are irregular in outline, owing to cei-tain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the inter- vertebral foramina they have branches of communication (a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the bodies of the vertebras. Within the canals in the bodies of the vertebrae are large veins, which join on the front of the bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the body they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater- and the arches of the vertebra. A large vein may be said to lie on each side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Off- sets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral fora- mina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse pro- cesses.CHAPTER YII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 1 Section I. PERINJEU:\[ OF THE MALE. Directions. The perinajum may be allotted with greatest advan- Before the tage to the dissector of the abdomen ; and its examination should pligg^^cathe- be made first, as the distinctness of many of the parts is destroyed ter. soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student may practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. Whilst the body lies on the Back it is to be piacc the <lrawn to the end of the dissecting table, till the buttocks project J^osition f?lightly over the edge ; and a moderately-sized block is to be placed beneath the pelvis, to raise the perinfBum to a convenient height. The legs are to be raised and kept out of the way by the following and fasten means :—After the knees have been bent, and the thighs bent thrie^t^ upon the trunk, the limbs are to be fastened with a cord in their raised position. For this purpose make one or two turns of the ■cord round one bent knee (say the right) ; carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. When the position has been -arranged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small piece of cotton wool or tow within the anus, but let him avoid distending the rectum. Superficial limits and marldng. The peiingeal space in the male is The surface, limited, on the surface of the body, by the scrotum in front, and by limits, the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. This region is of a dark colour, and is covered with hairs. In the middle line is the aperture of the anus, wliich is posterior to a The anus, line extended from the anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In fi'ont of the anus the surface is slightly convex •over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent line or ra/;/ie, the ruiihc, which divides this part of the space into two halves. Between the hoUow on anus and the tuberosity of the hip bone the surface is somewhat" ■depressed over the hollow of tlie subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous converging £ E418 DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. and folds and veins arountl that opening. Bounding parts same as those of outlet of pelvis. Fonn of the space, and measure- nieuts. Depth of the space. A line be- tween the tuberosities divides it into two. folds, but these are more or less obliterated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting oftentimes- through and around the opening are some dilated veins (hasnior- rhoids). Deep boundaries. The deep bomidaries of the j^erinasal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to con-cspond with the infei-ior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits ma}' be seen on a dry or j^repared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the individual boundaries with his finger. In front is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior part is the tijD of the coccyx, with the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the jDortion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz. from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity ; and still further back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included witliin the boundaries above said has the form of a lozenge, and mieasures about four inches fi-om before backwards, and three inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perina^um from the surface to the floor may be said to be generally about three inches at the anus, but this, measurement varies in different bodies ; and it amomits to about an inch near the pubes. Division. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to the coiTesponding point on the other, will divide the perinatal space into two ti-iangular parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the penis and the urethra, with their nuiscles and vessels and nerves. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. Contents and general l)osition, of anal half. Dissection of spliincter POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perinatal space contains the loAver end of the rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscle and the muscles acting on the anus. The gut does not occupy however the whole of the interval between the pehdc bones ; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in Avhich is contained much loose fat, with the vessels and nei-vcs for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissect ion (fig. 129). The skin is to be raised from this part of the perinajum by the employment of the following cuts : One is to be made across the perinaium at the fi-ont of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the middle and around the anus. Tlie flaps of skin thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line: in detachino- the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial subcutaneousISCHIO-EECTAL FOSSA. 419 spliincter muscles may be injured without care, for they are close to and sub- the skin, without the intervention of fat. The dissector shoidd trace the sphincter back to the coccyx, and forwards for a short " distance beneath the skin ; and define a fleshy slip at each side in front and behind to the subcutaneous fatty layer. The next step is to bring into view the ischio-rectal hollow piffcrence between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip bone, the^isciilo? On the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference ^^^^ fossa-, to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissec- tion is to be made of tliera. To take out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the outer margin of the sphincter ani, and proceed forwards Dissection and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend farther ofieftischio- than the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be dissected. On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and nerve should be denuded : they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance fi-om the surface. On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular fibres. On rigM 1 . side seek when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at vessels and the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hgemor- i^erves. rhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to the pudic trunks: some of the branches, wliich join the superficial perinieal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and vessels turning roimd the border of the gluteus. Near the fi'ont of the fossa is a superficial perinfeal artery and nerve (of the pudic); and the last, after communicating with the haeraorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perinatal nerve with a deeper position may be found at the front of the hollow. The isciiio-nECTAL fossa (fig. 129) is the space intervening situation between the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. °^ It is a somewhat conical interval, uncovered by muscle, which is Form. larger behind than before, and diminishes in width as it sinks into Dimensions. the pelvis. Its width is about one inch at the surface ; and its depth about two inches at the outer part. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very oblique, and is Boundaries, bounded by the levator ani (d), together with the coccygeus muscle posteriorly ; but the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) ; and behind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the largest gluteal muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlaid in part by the gluteus e and the sphincter externus A. Position of vessels. Along the outer wall lie the pudic vessels and ^^'J^^^^^^^^^^ nerve (a), which are contained in a tube of fascia; opposite the outer wall,' ischial tuberosity, they are situate an inch and a half from the surface, but towards the front of the space they approach to about half an inch from the edge of the pubic arch. Crossing the centre E E 2420 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN.EUM. and nerves of the liollow are the mferior hfeniorrhoidal vessels and nerve (6), in the space. branches o£ the pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance, are two superficial perinteal nerves (-) (of the pudic) ; and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve (^), with cutaneous offsets of the sciatic vessels (c) and nerve (■*) bending round the gluteus. Into this space the surgeon sinks his knife in the first incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy ; and as he carries it from First cut in lithotomy enters this space. Fisr. 129. imfi:,' i/.'i'f Wiiscle.s of rectuiu. ■Corrngator •cutis. Attach- ments. before backwards, he will divide the superficial lijeniorrhoidal vessels and nerv'^e. Muscles. Connected with the lower end of the rectum are four muscles, viz. a fine cuticular muscle, and two sphincters (external and internal) with the levator ani. Corrugaior cutis anif (fig. 129, ^). This thin subcutaneous layer of involuntary muscle surrounds the anus Avith radiating fibres. Externally it blends with the subdermic tissue outside the internal sphincter ; and internally it enters the anus and ends in the sub- mucous tissue within the sphincter. * A view of the dissection of the rectal half of the iierinfeum (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. External sphincter, b. Oorrugator cutis, only- part left. c. Intei-nal sphincter. D. Levator ani. e. Gluteus maximus. Arteries: a. Trunk of the pudic artery, b. Inferior hajmorrhoidal. c. Branches of the sciatic. Nerves: 1. Inferior hreniorrhoidal. 2. Superficial perineeal. 3. Perinreal branch of tlie fourth sacral. 4. Small sciatic. + Illustrations of Dissections, p. 243. Lond. 1865.421 MUSCLES OF ANUS. Action. By the contraction of the fibres the skin is raised into use. ridges radiating from the anus, such as may be seen wlien that aperture is firmly closed. The EXTERNAL SPHINCTER (fig. 129, ^) (sphincter ani externus) is External a flat, thin, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the lower part of the rectum. The fibres form ellipses around a central aperture, as in other orbicular nmscles. It arises posteriorly by a fibrous band Origin, from the back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the subcutaneous fatty layer. Its fibres pass for- wards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture; and in front they are inserted into the central point of the perinajum, and insertion, into the superficial fascia by a rather wide fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and conceals partly the Connec- levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa, and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Action. The muscle gathers into a roll the skin around the anus, Use: and occludes the anal aperture : by its contraction it makes tense also the central point of the perinanun. Commonly the fibres are in a state of involuntary slight contrac- usual state, tion, but they may be firmly contracted under the influence of the will, unusual. The INTERNAL SPHINCTER (fig. 129, ^) (sphincter ani intenius) is internal situate around the extremity of the intestine, internal to the pre- pale'band* ceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine jp part of in texture, quite separate from the surrounding external sphincter, intestine, and encircle the lower part of the rectum Jn the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, which is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus ; Use. and its contraction is altogether involuntaiy. The LEVATOR ANI musclc (fig. 129, ^) can be seen only in part; f"^f^^j.°^jji^ and the external sphincter may be detached from the coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from its origin at the inner aspect of the hip bone, and is inserted into coccyx along the middle line from the coccyx to the central point of the fj-out'of^ perinteum:—The most posterior fibres are attached to the side of it; the coccyx ; and between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle into rectum, fibres are blended with the side of the intestine (rectum). And the |l",',\Je of the anterior are joined with the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, perina;um. in the central point of the perina?um. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side, and ^^1^'"^*^*^' unites Avith its fellow to form a fleshy layer, convex downwards, through which the rectum is transmitted. Deeper than the muscle is the recto-vesical fascia. Along the hinder border is placed the coccygeus. o i Action. Its action on the rectum is to elevate and invert the lower use on end of the gut after this has been protruded and everted in the I'^ctum, passage of the feces. ^422 DISSECTION OF THE PERINvEUM. on urethra. Arteries of tlie space. Pudic artery. Course. Posterior jiart iu fossa. Depth and connections. Offsets. Inferior liajiuorrhoi- dal. Muscular offsets. Branches of the sciatic. Veins. Nerves. Pudic nerve, Course and con- nections. Inferior hfcmorrhoi- dal. Termina- tion. Perinreal brancli: With tlie description of the muscle in the pelvis its action on the urethra will be referred to. Arteries (fig. 129). The pudic artery, with its inferior hasmor- rhoidal branch, and other small offsets of it and the sciatic, are now Adsible. The pudic artery (a) is derived fi'om the internal iliac in the pehas, and ascending to the genital organs, distributes offsets to the perinaium; one portion will be laid bare in the hinder, and the other in the anterior half of the perina?um. As now seen, the vessel enters the posterior part of the ischio- rectal fossa, and courses fomards along the outer wall at the depth of one inch and a half behind, but of only half an inch at the fore part. It is contained in an aponeurotic sheath wliich attaches it to the obturator fascia. The usual companion veins lie by its side ; and two nerves accompany it, viz. the trunk of the pudic, and the perinajal branch of the same nerve which is nearer the surface. Its offsets in the posterior half of its course are the following:— The inferior hoemorrlioidal branch (b) arises internal to the ischial tuberosity ; it sends offsets inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa to the teguments, and the sphincter and levator ani muscles. On the rectum it anastomoses with the upper hasmorrhoidal branch, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run fonvards to the anterior part of the perina^um, and to communicate with the supei'ficial perinatal branch. Small muscular brandies cross the fi'ont of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. The branches of the sciatic artery (c) appear on the inner aspect of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the fat. Veins accompany the different arteries, and have a like course and ramification: the pudic end in the internal iliac. Nerves (fig. 129). The nerves to be learned in this part of the perinaeum are, the trunk of the pudic and its inferior hajmorrhoidal and perinasal branches; an offset of the fourth sacral; and some branches of the small sciatic. The imdic nerve comes from the sacral plexus, and accompanies the artery to the genitals. In the anal half of the perina?um it is placed deeper than the artery, and furnishes the two subjoined branches. The inferior JuBmorrhoidal branch (1) crosses the ischio-rectal fossa, and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous off- sets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perineal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the tliigh. The perineal branch arises about half way along the fossa, and becomes superficial to the blood-vessels. It is larger in size'than the continuation of the nen^e to the penis, and divides into cutane- ous, muscular, and genital offsets. Its two cutaneous offsets (super-423 URETHRAL HALF OF THE REGION. -ficial perinfBal) may be seen on the right side, where they lie offsets to for a short distance in the ischio-rectal fossa. mln^^"" The hcemorrlioidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve reaches Branch of the ischio-rectal fossa by jDiercing the fibres of the levator ani. s;vcrai nerve Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, near the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphincter, and the integinnents ypl^lJ^jf^gj. ■behind the anus. and skin. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve C) turn ^^^^^^ °^ round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the tegu- sciatic, nients on its surface. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINiEAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinteal space are lodged the crura of Urethral the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed about midway and^ge'iierai between the bones, the urethra is supported by the triangular ligament of the perinjeum, and by its union with the penis. ^' Muscles are collected around the urethra to aid in the expulsion of the contents of that tube : some of these are superficial to, and some within the triangular ligament. The vessels and nerve lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards offsets. Dissection (fig. 130). To raise the skin from the anterior part of incisions to the perinroum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the g|\^ : scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the Blow up skin the subcutaneous fat (superficial fascia) which covers the fesdl^and front of the perinfeal space, is to be blown up by means of a pipe reflect it. introduced beneath it posteriorly. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate a partition along the middle line, and a septum between the perinatal space and the tliigh which prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa; and after ^reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To demonstrate more completely the attachment of this subcutaneous layer to the pubic arch between the pcrinasal thigh anV ■space and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away fi-om the left l^^'^^;^^ limb the fat on the fascia lata, external to the line of the bone. In the fat of the thigh on the right side the student should seek On right the inferior pudendal nerve, wliich pierces the fascia lata one inch inferior' anterior to the tuber ischii, and about the same distance from the 1^'^^^^^^'^'^^ margin of the pubic arch ; and should trace its junction in the fat with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia in the middle line.DISSECTION OF THE . rEEINiEUM. 424 SuixTticiai The suhcntmeous fatty layer or the svperfidal fascia of the anterior ia«cia: i^^if of the pcrinKiuu is continuous with that of the adjoniing- regions ; and its depth, and the quantity of fat in it, Avill vary with the condition of the body. It resembles tbe con-esponding- stratum itstliickness of the groin and upper part of the thigh, in consisting of two vzirics different portions. Supei-nciai One, a subcutaneous fatty part, continuous with that of the rest '""^ of the body, which loses its fat towards the scrotum, and obtains there involuntary muscular fibres. The other deeper, but more membranous part, is of limited extent, deep part and is connected with the finn subjacent structures. Externally it is fixed to the pubic arch of the hip-bone, outside the line of the eras penis and its muscle, extending as low as the ischial tuberosity. Posteriorly the stratum bends down to join the triangular ligament of the urethra ; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to Forms a the scrotum and penis. By means of similar connections of the infront;^'^'^ membrane on both sides, a space is enclosed over the anterior half this divided of the perinaium. From its under surface a sej^tum dips down- by a septum, -wards in the middle line, and divides posteriorly the subjacent space into two ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect, or may disappear. * Superficial dissection of the anterior half of the perinaeum (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Ejaculator urinae. b. Erector penis, c. Trans- versalis perinsei. d. Levator ani. e. Gluteus maximus. g. Crus penis, h. Urethra. Arteries: a. Transverse perineal, h. Superficial perinjeal. c. Branch of sciatic. Nerves: 1. Inferior htemorrhoidal. 2 and 3. Superficial perinseal. 4. Inferior pudendal.425 PERIN^^AL AETERY AND NEEVES. Air blown beneath the fascia passes foi'wards to the scrotum ; course of and this direction is given to it by the deep connections of that membrane with parts around. Should urine be eiiused beneath the urine, superficial fascia, the lluid will necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. The superficial vessels and nerves are to be dissected Dissection on the right side of the perimeum, by cutting through the super- afui vessels ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long ^j'^^^''^'''* slender artery then visible is the superficial perinajal, which gives a transverse branch near its connnencement. Two superficial perinteal nerves accompany the artery ; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perinfeal and the inferior ha^morrlioidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backw^ards. Artekies (fig. 130). The superficial and transverse perinasal Superficial arteries beneath the fascia are branches of the pudic, and are two pu<iic.'' or three in number. The superficial periimal branch (fig. 130, i), arising at the fore Superficial part of the ischio-rectal fossa, runs over or under the transverse i^''^'^"''^'^^ muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in fiexuous branches. As the vessel lies ends in internal to the pubic arch, it supplies ofiisets to the muscles beneath ; ^"^t*^^"^' and in fi-ont it anastomoses with the external or superficial pudic branches of the femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second supplies. , , , " muscles. pennaaal branch. The transverse artery of the perina3um (fig. 130, a) arises fi'om Transverse the precethng, and is directed transversely to the nuddle of the ^^'t*^^T- perinatal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the muscles between the urethra and the rectum. It anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. Branches of veins accompany the arteries, and open into the Veins witli tnmk of the pudic vein: those with the superficial perina;al artery aiteries. are plexifonn at the scrotum. Nerves (fig. 130). There are three cutaneous nerves of the scrotum Cutaneoiis on each side, viz. inferior pudendal of the small sciatic, and two super- scrotum, ficial perinatal branches of the pudic nerve. The suinrficial perincml nerves, two in number, are named anterior Two super- and posterior fi'om their relative jjosition: both arise in the ischio- iJ^Jai. ^"^ rectal fossa from the perinfeal branch of the pudic nerve (p. 422). The postei 'or branch (-) is continued forwards, beneath the super- rosterior ficial fascia, \v ith the artery of the same name to the back of the toTiie'^"^^'^ scrotum. Whilst in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to scrotum, the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior htemorrhoidal nerve. The anterior hranch (^) passes under the transverse muscle, and ij"s same"°'' accompanies the other to the scrotum. Muscular offsets are fur- course as' nished by it to the levator ani and the other superficial muscles. po^tenoi . The superficial perina;al branches communicate with one another,DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. <26 tlistributed to scrotum and penis. Muscular ■branches ; Inferior ]mdendal nerve ■ends in Bcrotuni. Dissection •of muscles of the urethra and jienis. «0f nerves. Three imiscles over tri- angular ligamenti Central point, where mus- cles join. Erector jienis. Origin. Insertion. Use. Ejaeulator 11 rinse. and the posterior is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender lilaments, which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these ner^'■es supply the labia pudendi. Other muscular branches of the pudic ^^■ill be afterwards exa- mined (p. 431). The inferior 2}udenflal nerve (■*) is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perintEum, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- tions take place between this nerve, the inferior hismorrhoidal, and the posterior of the two superficial perinoeal branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to the labium. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the fatty layer, as well as the vessels and ner^^cs of the left side, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perinaeal space. Afterwards a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the muscles. Along the middle line lies the ejaeulator urinai ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres fi'om it on the same side,—one in fi'ont, the other behind. On the outer part of the space is the erector penis. And behind, passing obliquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of the two superficial perinasal nerves to the underlying muscles; and beneath the transversalis, an ofliset of the perinatal branch which supplies the deep muscles and the urethra. Muscles (fig. 130). Superficial to the triangular ligament in the anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz. the erector penis, the ejaeulator urina?, and the transversalis perina?i. Other muscles of the urethra are contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and Avill be subsequently seen. Central2)oint of the 2>erinaiuin. Between the urethra and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, half an inch in front of the anus. In it the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra are united ; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The ERECTOR PENIS (fig. 130, ^) is the most external of the tliree muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis ; and its fibres arise from the ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and firom the bone on each side of the crus. Superiorly the muscle is inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from that organ by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the continuance of distention. The EJACULATOR URiN/E musclc (fig. 130, ^) lies on the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perinaeum (origin). TheSUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF URETHRA. 427 fibres are directed outwards, curving around the convexity of tlie origin at uretlu-a, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following '"'^'^'^ insertion :—The most posterior fibres are lost on the front of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, which are the longest ■and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect insertion by before the erector ; and, according to Kobelt,* they send a ten- P*^^"*^**- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, surrounding it for two inches, and join its fellow by a tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the urethra for three Surrounds inches in front of the triangular ligament.f If the muscle be cut ^^^'^ i"et)ira. through on the right side, and turned oif the urethra, the junction Avith its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the Use, urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the ■end of the process, when the passatre has to be cleared. The action voluntary . . , , ^ • Ji • • p .r andinvolun- is mvoluntary m the emission or the semen. tary. The TRANSVERSALIS PERINiEI (fig. 130, ^) is a small thin muscle, Transversa- which lies across the pei-inajum opposite the base of the triangular P'^''"^'^'- ligament. Arising from the inner surface of the pubic arch near Origin. the ischial tuberosity, it is inserted into the central point orf the ^'^"l^ *' ' , ^ central perinseum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the point, sphincter ani and the ejaculator urins^. Behind this muscle the ^iupei-ficial fascia bends down to join the triangular ligament. Sometimes tliere is a second small fleshy slip, anterior to the Accessory transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws sails, itself into the ejaculator muscle. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw Use. backwards the central point of the perinfeum, and help to fix it, pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. The three muscles above described, when separated from each A triangular other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- twien the lator urina) forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer tiuee^ :side, and the transversalis perinasi muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the superficial periucXial vessels and nerves. Should the knife tiio knife enter the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions "n'utho-'^^ in the lateral operation of lithotomy, it will divide the transverse ^omy. muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinatal vessels and nerves. Dissection (fig. 131). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the crus penis, wliich are superficial to it, are to iigaiuen"t. * Die Mannlichen unci Weiblicheii WoUust-Organe, von G. L. Kobclt, 1844. t Some of the deeper fibres which immediately surround the bulb, have heen described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated from the superficial layer by thin areolar tissue, and join the corresponding part of the other muscle by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- pressor hemispJuerium hulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist.DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. On the left bc detached in the following way :—On the left side the ejacnlator urinje is to be removed completely fi-om the front of the hgament, and the erector muscle fi'om the crus of the penis. Next, the cms penis is to be detached from the bone; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament, nor to injure, near the pubes, the terminal branches of the pudic arteiy and nerve to the penis. On the light On the right side the dissector should trace out beneath the trans- versalis the offsets of the perinfcal nerve to the deep muscles and the urethra, with the vessels accompanying them. Triangular ligament of urethra. Extent and lonn. Attach- ments. The TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OF THE URETHRA (fig. 131, ^) (perinatal aponeurosis) occupies the anterior part of the pubic arch, and supports the urethral canal. The ligament is triangular in form, with its base below; and it is about one inch and a half in depth. On each side it is fixed to the pubic arch beneath the crus penis. Its apex is connected with the symphysis pubis. Its base is turned towards the rectum, and is partly attached and partly free ;—in the middle line it is connected with the central point of the peri- najum, whilst laterally it is sloped towai-ds the bone, so that it is less deep at the centre than at the sides : connected with the lower * Deep dissection of the perinsenm (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Erector penis, b. Ejaculator urinje, cut. c. Triangular ligament, d. External sphincter. F. Bulbous part of the urethra, g. Levator ani. h. Deep transverse, i. Constrictor urethrte. k. Crus penis, cut. Arteries : a. Pudic, in the triangular ligament. 6. Dorsal of j)enis. c. Cavernous, d. Deep muscular and urethral branch. Nerres: 1. Pudic trunk. 2. Deei> perinajal or muscular branch. 3. Dorsal of the penis.DEEP MUSCLES OF URETHRA. 429 border is a tliin fascia wliicli covers tlie surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. Superficial to it are the muscles parts over in tlie anterior half of the perineal space ; and tlie superficial fascia is miited to it near the lower border. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (anterior Consists of •and posterior) which are united below. The posterior layer is strata. <lerived from the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the fore part of the ligament, about one inch below Apertures the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra, F ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethraj. About midway between for dorsal the preceding opening and the symphysis pubis is the aperture for vessels'aiid the dorsal vein of the penis ; and external to this, near the bone on nerves, each side, the terminal parts of the pudic artery and nerve to the penis {b and 3) perforate the ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- Parts ous part of the urethra, with its muscles, vessels, and glands; and j^j^'^yg^g®'^ the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscles between the layers of the ligament will Dissection, be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the •superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dis- section, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will <;ome into view with the undermentioned position :— Parts between the layers of the ligament. Near the base is a narrow Parts in the transverse muscle, n, which is directed to tlie bulb of the urethra. i[,iall^jJt.^ Higher up, and crossing inwards from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the constrictor uretlu-te muscle, I, which sur- rounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone are the pudic vessels (a) and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb, and the latter being deeper in position; and below the pubes is the sub- pubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student will recognise the. posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the recto-vesical fascia, which separates those parts from tlie cavity of the pelvis. Muscles. The two muscles connected with the membranous part Muscles ot of the urethra, are, deep transverse, and constrictor of the urethral passage. The DEEP TR-VNSVERSE MUSCLE (fig. 131, h) (clcvator urethras, Beep trans- Santorini) is a thin flat band on a level witli the base of the tri- angular ligament. It arises externally from the pubic arch of the Origin, innominate bone, and is directed below the tip of the bulb and the Termina- membranous part of the urethra to the middle line, where it joins the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central j^oint of the perin;i3um. The muscle conceals Cowper s gland, and is frequently placed ^onnec- over the artery of the bulb. The transversa muscle is not always separate from the following.DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. 430 Use. Constrictor of urethral passage. Tnnisverse part arises from pubic arch. and ends in middle line. Like a sphincter. Use on uretlira in mictu- rition. Circular fibres of urethra. from the prostate to bulb. Use. Cowpei-'s glands. Situation, size, and structure. Action. Like the superficial muscle it will fix the central point of the perinfEum. The CONSTRICTOR MUSCLE (fig. 131, ^ (constrictor isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of the urethra, and consists of trans- verse fibres above and below that tube. The muscle arises by aponeurotic fibres fi-om the pubic arch above the preceding, and from the posterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, but this attachment is not evident unless it has been dissected from'behind. The fibres pass inwards, and separate near the'urethra into two layers (fig. 132), of which one (o) passes over, the other (d) under that canal; in the middle Ime they unite (sometimes by tendon; with the like parts of the muscle of the opposite side._ It may be considered a single Fig. 132.* muscle extending across the perina3um fi-om one lateral at- tachment to the other, and en- closing the tube of the urethra,, like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. Action. The muscles of both- sides act as a single sphincter in diminishing the membranous part of the urethra, and eject- ing the contents of the tube. Like the ejaculator, they are relaxed whilst the urine i& passing, but the two contract forcibly in expelling the last of that fluid. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle suiTOund the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about ■j'^th of an inch thick; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate. This layer is a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate- is chief part, surrounding the beginning of the iirethra.f Action. Tliis involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the- urine and the semen. The glands of Covper \\\\\ be found by cutting through the trans- verse muscle. They are situate below the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle line, and close behind the- bulb. Each gland is about the size of a pea, and is made up of lobules; and the lobules are composed of small vesicles, which are lined by flattened epithelium. * Tiie symphysis pubis seen from behind -with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and -with the tube of the urethra surrounded by the con- strictor muscle (Santorini). a. Bladder cut open: the swelUng of the prostata surrounds it in front, h. Constrictor urethrse :—c. Part of the muscle above, and d, part underneath the urethra. t See a Paper on the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Urethra^ in vol. xxxix. 1856, of the Trans, of the Med. Chir. Society.431 rUDIC ARTERY AND NERVE, Connected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Length and which perforates obliquely the wall of the urctlu-a (corpus spongio- o?"he"ducL sum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an inch in front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. In the wall of the duct are unstriated muscular fibres; and the interior is lined by a columnar epithelium. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not known. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and Tiiey vaiy they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The student may complete the examination of the Dissection perinteum by tracmg out the pudic vessels and nerve, and their TCssdsTiul^ remaining branches. From the point of its division beneath the nerve, cms into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed backwards, along the pubic arch of the left side. The pudic nerve Avill be by the side of, but deeper than the artery. Pudic Artery (a). The posterior half of this artery has been Pudic already dissected (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perinasum it ascends between the layers of the triangular ligament, and along the pubic arch nearly to the pubes ; there it perforates the super- pg^jg""^ ficial part of the ligament, and divides into the arteries of the Branches ■ cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. In this course it is placed beneath the constrictor uretlii-re, and is accompanied by venaj comites and the pudic nerve. Its offsets are subjoined:— a. The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable artery of^ size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing triangular almost transversely inwards between the layers of that ligament, I'gament, about half an inch fi-om the base, the artery reaches the back of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of tliis branch from the base of the ligament will be situation, influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perinteal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the ligament, and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. h. Deep muscular branches (d). As the arteiy is about to enter between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one or more branches to the levator ani and sphincter, and line twigs tlu-ough the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. c. The artei-y of the cavernous structure of the xtenis (c) (art. cor- '^^^^^^ poris cavernosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At penis, first this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis. (1. The dorsal artery of the penis (h) is in direction and size the artciyof continuation of the pudic; it runs upwards between the crus and py^it"° the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 440. It is much smaller in the female than the male.432 DISSECTION OF THE PERIMUM. Accessorj' imdic urterj-, source. Pudic veins. Piidic nerve 5s with the artery «nd ends like it on penis. Muscular •oflsets. Perin;pal 'l)ranch. Merve of tlie bulb. .Superficial parts cut in lithotomy, cutting,' <lown to airetlira ju reaching the staff and in run- ning knife along staff. Accessoi-y pudic artenj. In some cases the j^udic arter^^'s not large enough to supply the branches above described to tlie penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will be then contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessor}^ artery is the internal iliac. The ^jwrfic reins, two in number, have the same connections as the arteiy; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The ruDic nerve has been examined in the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perintcum it is much diminished in size, in consequence of the emission of the large perinatal branch, and courses with the ai'tery between the laj'-ers of the triangular ligament ; near the pubes it pierces the ligament (fig. 131, and is continued to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery ; its termination is described at page 441. The deep muscles and the corpus spongiosum are supplied by the fol- lowing branch. Perincnal branch (p. 422). Arising in the ischio-rectal fossa it supplies superficial nerves, and ends near the base of the triangular ligament in deep muscular offsets : some of these (fig. 131, -) pass beneath the transversahs, and piercing the triangular ligament, supply the muscles within it. A long slender branch, iierve of tlie hulb, is distributed like the artery to the spongy structure investing the urethra : its filaments reach some way on the surface before disappearing in the corpus spongiosum urethrii?. Pca-ts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz. cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting that tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incisions the knife is entered in the middle hue of the perinajum, half an inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as mid- way between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and superficial fascia, and the inferior hajmorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa, will be cut in this first stage of the operation ; and the transverse perhuxjal muscle and artery, and, possibly, the superficial perinaaal vessels and ner^'-es, may be divided, if the first incision is begun farther forwards. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the Icnife is introduced into the anterior part of the wound, the lower part of the triangular ligament, the deep transverse urethral muscle, and the fore pait of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the staff, the membranous part of the m-ethra Avill be cut, with the nmscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder it incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards in the direction of a line fromSURFACE MARKING IN FEMALE. 433 the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Partt to he acouhd. In the first incisions in the ischio-rectal fossa, Parts to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across theSiS'"^ intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it; and if the gut is not kept out of the way with the fore finger of the left hand. The pudic pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa can be ^'^^'^^^S' wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the tuber iscliii. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the iirtery of artery of the bulb lies immediately in fi-ont of the knife, and will be wounded . df the incisions are made too far forwards; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should recto-vesicai not be cut to a greater extent than is necessary for the extraction of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perinaium fi'om the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened, ami acces- Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an unusual a^[Ji.y^^^^"^ • accessory pudic arteiy on the side of that body. Directions. When the dissection of the perinajum is completed, Directions, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after salt has been used, and tlic limbs are to be put down for the examination of the iabdomen. Section II. PERINiEUM OF THE FEMALE. The perinfcum in the female differs from that in the male more Pcriiiivuiu "in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it has special parts distinguishing it, viz. the aperture of the vagina, ims special iind the opening of the vulva with the labia. vai^^- Surface-marking. In the middle line, there are the two apertures -^l^'^^^, of the anus and vulva, which are sepai-ated from one another by an apertures of interval of about an inch. The anus is situate rather farther back than in the male. And the vulva with tlie labia majora on the sides is placed in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Within the vulva at the upper part, is the clitoris, and two small vuivr^^*^^"" membranous folds, labia minora, extend downwards from it. Below the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes paatly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the liymen. Dee^) houmlaries. The deep boundaries of the perinrcum are alike Boundaries in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger ^Jjf,^ "^^^^^ than in the male. F FDISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. 4H4 Dissection. Take first iscliio-iL'ctal fossa. Til en ex- amine ante- rior lialf of ])erinieuni. Superficial fascia. Dissection of the ]nuscles. Spliinctcr vagina-. Origin. Insertion. r.sc. Erector clitoridis. Trnnsvtr- salis. To expose triangular ligament. Triangular ligament. To see niusdcs of urethra. Deep transver.se muscle. Dissecii'oii. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and female penn;vum. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Aftenvards the muscles, vessels, and nen^es of the posterior half of the perina\al space arc to be examined. (See description of the male perhuTuin, p. 418 to 423.) Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perinaval' space, as in the male; and the transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of vulva. The attachments of the super- ficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 423 to 426). Sui)erfidalfascia. Tlie description of this fascia in the male will serve for tlie like'part in the female, with these modifications ;—that in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less^ extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora (the representative of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed,, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other muscles are exposed at the same time, viz., the erector clitoridis on the pubic arch, and the transversalis perina^i passing across the perina;um to the central point. The SPHINCTER VAGINAE is an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and con-esponds with the ejaculator urinjc in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perimeum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles; and its libres are directed forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris, and front of the triangular ligament. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles the si)hincter diminishes that part of the vagina which it encircles; and it assists in fixing- the central point of the perinajum. The ERECTOR CLITORIDIS resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (p. 426). The TRANSVERSALIS is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The one description will suflice for those muscles in both sexes (p. 427). Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from the bone,, and the outer fibres of the sphincter vagina^ are to be removed. The triangular ligament transmits the urethra, but is not quite so strongly marked as in the male (p. 428) ; its extent is pai-tly inter- rupted behijid by the large aperture of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 429), the deep muscles, with the pudic vessels and nerve and their branches, will be arrived at. The DEEP TRANSVERSE MUSCLE (dcpressor urethra', Santorini) has the same origin externally as in the male (p. 420) ; and it meets fellow at the middle line, like the muscle answering to it in the435 DEEP UEETHRAL MUSCLES. other sex. Santorini described the muscle as passing- over, instead of below the urethra; hence the name given to it by its discoverer. The CONSTRICTOR MUSCLE of the urctlira resembles that of the Constrictor male in its origin from the pubes, and its disposition around the ^'^l""''^'- urethra (p. 430). Within it is a circular layer of involuntary fibres, as in the other sex. The description of the pudic artery (p. 431) will serve for both I'luiic sexes, except that the branch in the female, which is the repre- ^ sentative of the artery of the bulb in the male, is furnished to the vagina. The terminal branches are much smaller in the female. The pudic nerve has the same peculiarity as the artery with respect Pudic uei-vo to the branch to the vagina, and the smaller size of the terminal part of the nerve on the clitoris. K F 1CHAPTER VIIL DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. Directions for tlie dissection. Position of tlie body. Appear- ances on the front of the abdomen. Projection of thepubes. Abdominal rings, ■outer. inner. Poupnrts ligament. Eaisc the The examination of the abdomen is to proceed as far as the end of Section III. before the body is turned for the dissection of the Back. Position. The body will be sufficiently raised by blocks beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the ujiper limbs and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pehas. If the abdomen is flaccid, let it be inflated hy an aperture through the umbilicus, but if it is firm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marlcing. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is for the most part convex, especially in fat bodies; but on the sides, between the ribs and the crista ilii, the surface is somewhat depressed. Along the middle line is a slight groove over the linea alba, which presents about its centre the hollow of the umbilicus. Inf eriorly the groove ceases a little above the pelvis in the prominence of the pubes ; and. superiorly it subsides below the ensiform cartilage in a hollow named the epigastric fossa. On each side of the middle line is the projection of the rectus muscle, and this is intersected in adult well- formed bodies by two or three transverse lines. Underneath the eminence of the pubes the student will be able to recognise with his finger the symphysis pubis, and to trace out- Avards from it the osseous pubic crest which leads to the pubic spinous process. Rather above and to the outside of the pubes, the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt; and the prominence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be detected. The internal abdominal ring is still to the outer side, though it cannot be recognised on the surface with the finger; but its position maj' be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the in- nominate bone, and a little above Poupart's ligament. If the finger is carried upwards and outwards between the abdomen and the thigh, it will detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or two inguinal glands. Dissection. The requisite incisions for raising the skin from theSUPERFICIAL PARTS HOW SHOWN. 437 sides and front of the belly are the following:—One cut is to extend skin from outwards over the side of the chest from the ensifonn cartilage to about midway between the sternum and the spine. A second in- cision is to be begun in the middle line midway between the um- bilicus and the pubes, and to be carried outwards to the iliac crest, and along the crest till it ends opposite the first cut. Lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and the belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, but is not to be taken away; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves ai"e to be sought in the fat at the side and middle line of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous Position of nerves, five or six in number, which issue in a lino with the corre- J^e^ves"^^^ spondmg nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneatli the fat, and divide into two: one offset is to be traced forwards, and the other backwards, with small cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near on the side: the front, is a large branch fi-om the last dorsal nerve; and usually farther back on tlie crest, and deeper, is a smaller branch of the ilio- hypogastric neive. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous and in front. ner\'^es will be recognised with small arteries; these are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the integuments. The piece of skin covering the lower part of the abdomen or the Take tiie groin is next to be tlu'own downwards, on both sides, by an incision ti'^""roTa! along the middle line to the root of the penis. After its reflection the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and tlie suj^erficial fascia on the left. To make the necessary dissection on the right side, all the fascia Seek vessels superficial to the vessels is to be raised in the same manner as the piece of skin. The vessels which will then appear are the super- ficial pudic internally, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iliac artery externally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of the reflected fascia. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought:—one, the ilio-inguinal, comes through the abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh and scrotum; andnei-ves the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, "JJj'if''* and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the examination of the fatty layer on the left side two strata separate are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be reflected by means jiito^super- of a transverse cut fi-om the fi-ont of the iliac crest, about two ficial inches above Poupart's ligament; and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubes. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a flap of the fascia, like that of the skin, is to be thrown towards the thigh. To define the and deep thinner under stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and detach it with the vessels from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum; and as the student follows it down- wards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that stracture.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN", 438 !<uperficial foiicia is divided into two layers. _ The subcu- taneous layer con- tains fat, except in the penis and scro- tum. Deeper layer is thin and mem- branous. Special cha- racters and disposition, and ends on fascia lata. Attach- ments deter- mine course of effused urine. Fascia in the female. Cutaneous nerves are derived from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of the inter- costal, which divide into posterior and Tlie subcutaneous fat, or the superficial fascia, is a single layer over the greater part of the abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains fat, and varies therefore in appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it is sometimes divisible into strata, whilst at others it is very thin, and somewhat membranous near the thigh. It is continuous with the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen ; and when traced to the limb, it is separated fi-om Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, it is prolonged to the perineum. The deeper layer (aponeurosis of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous tlian the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external obliciue by fibrous bands, especiallj' tOAvards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : here it becomes very thin, and reaches the perinii?um, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 424). Towards the limb, it ends a little below Poupart's ligament in the fascia lata across the front of the thigh ; as it passes over the ligament it is closely joined to that band by fibrous tissue. Urine effiised in the perinteum from rupture of the lu-ethra will be directed through the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to the abdomen (p. 425). From the arrangement of the deeper layer of the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress ovei- the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the fatty layer of the groin is separable into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nkrves. The nerves in tlie teguments are derived fi-om the trunks of the lower intercostal nerves: thus the cutaneous branches, along the side of the belly, are offsets fi-om five or six of those nen^es ; and the cutaneous branches, along the front, are tlie tenninal parts of the same trunks. Tavo other cutaneous offsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-liypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line vAih. the same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they reach the surface they divide, with the exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch :— The posterior brandies are small in size, and are directed back to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle. The anterior branches are continued nearly to the edge of the439 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AXD NERVES. rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above down, supply the anterior integuments on the side of the belly; they furnish offsets to the <ligitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerne is larger than Last dorsal •the rest, and does not divide like the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pierce the sheath of Anterior the rectus : in the integuments they bend outwards towards the ueJves lateral cutaneous nen'es. The number, and the situation of these intercostal, small nerves, are very uncertain. The ilio-hypofjastric nerve is distributed by two pieces: one passes liio-liypo- over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the other ramifies on the lower funibaj."^ pai-t of the abdomen (liypogastric branch) :— plexus: The iUae branch lies close to the crest of the hip bone near the iliac branch, last dorsal nerve, and enters the teguments of the glute<al region. The hypofjaHtric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external hypogastric oblique muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed, as the name expresses, to the lower part of the abdomen. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the external iHo-ingninal abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and piexus° upper and inner parts of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous vessels run with both sets of Vessels from ■nerves on the abdomen :—Avith the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and with the anterior <aitaneous are offsets fi-om tlie intercostal, internal mammary, and •epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same distribution as the both lateral iier^^es they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the fi-ont of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular in number and in posi- an'l anterior tion, like the uerA'-es. After piercing tlie sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the ner\'es towards the other set of branches. Brandies of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend From fi-om the thigh between the layers of tlic subcutaneous fat, and artery^'hree ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of branches: the abdomen. Tlie greater portion of these vessels appeal's in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic external cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the ^'^^^ imder part of the penis. The supefi-ficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament, ■^"j^^.J^^'J.i^.' ■near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high a« the innbihcus. The circumflex iliac brunch lies usually below the level of the circumflex iliac crest, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal saphe- Vems. nous vein of the thigh.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 440 Inguinal ducts enter abilonieu. Dissection of coverings of i)e)iis. Tegnmen- taxy cover- ing of jienis is thill, and without fat forms prepuce and fi'»:HB3aa. Sebaccoias glands. Teguments iu scrotum. Muscular nature fascia. Dissection of vessels and nen es. Suspensory ligament of penis ; attach- ments, contains vessels and iieiTes. Source of ♦■pssels aad aerves. Tlie glands of the groin are three or four in number, and lie over • the hne of Poupart's ligament. They are placed between the strata of the superficial fascia ; and receive lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh, and from the superficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass - downwards to the saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. Dissection. After the examhiation of the superficial fat with its vessels and nerves the student may prepare the cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be divided along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the 2^ems and scrotum. The penis is at- tached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory ligament, and is ■ provided with a tegumentary covering which is continuous with that of the abdomen, but it loses the fat and acquires special characters. Around the end of the penis it fonns the loose sheath of the prepuce in the folloAving way :—When the skhi has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the ^jj-e^^wce ; it is • aftemards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous mem- brane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular lold, frcenum imeputii. Where the skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with that part, is very thin and sensitive, being j^rovided with papilhe, and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glanduke odoriferce.. In the scrotum the superficial fascia becomes thin, and of a reddish colour. The prolongation around the testicle on one side, is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouches; coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and fi-ont of the perina?um, contains involuntarj- muscular fibres, to which the corrugation of the sldn is owing. This contractile structure is- named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By removing all the fatty tissue fi-om the root of the penis and the fi-ont of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nen-es, with the dorsal vem of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards in the teguments. The suspcnsoi^ ligament of the xHins is a band of fibrous tissue,, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the fi-ont of the symphysis pubis near the lower part. Widening below, it is . fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and is pro- longed on it for some distance. In the ligament are contained the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. Dorsal vessels and nerves. The arteries and nen-es on the dorsum of the penis are the terminal parts of the pudic trunks of both;441. EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. sides (p. 431). The vein accompanying the arteries enters tlie pelvis tlirough the triangular perinatal ligament. The dorsal artenj, one on each side, pierces the suspensory liga- Dorsal ment, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many ''^^^^1 branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the integuments and the body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 432). The dorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by luunerous Dorsal vein branches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs backwards j.rostatio by the side of the artery, thi'ough the suspensory ligament, and the ri»Jsus. triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches fi-om the erectile structure and , the teguments of the penis. Each dorsal nerve takes the same course as the artery, and ends Dorsal nerve like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes a°^i'^"^^'°' large branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male; Vessels on they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ that repre- sents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of To expose the abdominal wall (fig. 133) is now to be freed from fascia on obu'iue both sides of the body. muscle. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because Precautious, there it has a thin aponeurosis, which is taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to cany the knife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in fi'ont of a line extended upwards from the anterior part of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure it, more particularly at the upper part, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. On the right side the external abdominal ring, c, may be defined, To (lefinc to show the cord passing through it; and on the left side a thin i\^,g°^""''' fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be preserved. Lastly the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the abdominal w^all. On the side of the abdomen on the side are three large flat muscles, whicli are named from their position ^1^11; iJiusoigg, to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial nniscle is the external oblique; the underlying one, the internal oblicpie; and the deepest, the transversalis. Alons: the middle line ai-e placed other nmscles which have a vcr- whose apo- 1 u * u rosGS tical direction. In front lie the rectus and pyramidalis, and behind iurnse three- is the quadratus lumborum: these are encased by sheaths derived vertical, from the aponeuroses of tlie lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 133, ^) is flcshy on the side, and aponem-otic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by muscle, fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs; the five highest pieces Origin from442 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Insertion into pelvis jind linea alba. disposition above and below. alternating -with similar parts of the serratus magnus, and the lowest three with digitatioiis of the latissiinus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs the fibres arc directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner:—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the iliac crest, at the outer margin: and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obliquely to the aponeurosis on the front of the belly. Aponeurosis The aponeurosis occupies the anterior part of the abdomen, in of the*'bellv*: f^'O^^t of a line from the eighth rib to the fore part of the crista ilii; and it is rather narrower about Fig. 133.* the centre, than either above or below. Along the middle line this expansion ends in the linea alba —the common point of \uiion of the aiDoneuroses of opjiosite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued on the thorax to the pectoralis major and the ribs. Below, its iibres are stronger and more sepa- rate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis :—some of them are fixed to the fi-ont of the pubes; and the rest are collected into a firm band B (Poupart's hgament) between the i^ubic spine and the iliac crest. Connections. The muscle is sub- cutaneous. Its posterior border is umittached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but is overlaid commonly by the edge of the latissimns dorsi. except a small part below. Appearing through the aponeurosis, external to the linea alba, is a white line, the hnea scnnlunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 137); and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the linefc transvers;e. Numerous small apertures in the tendon' transmit cutaiicous vessels and nerves; and near the pubes is the Abdominal large opening of the external abdominal ring, which gives passa^rg to the cord ni the male, and the round ligament in the female. ^ Action. Both muscles taking their fixed point at the pehas' will bend the trunk forwards as in stooping ; but supposing the spine actm^ from fixed they will draw down the ribs. If they act fi-om the thm-ax and thorax. ^^'^^ ^'^^^ the pelvis. * Dissection of the fir..t lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, a. External Connec- tions. Lines on the aponeu rosis: apertures iu it: nn<^ Use of both muscles.443 EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. Should one muscle contract it will incline the trunk or the pelvis One muscle to the same side, according as the upper or the lower attacluuent may be moveable : and it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. Parts of the aponeurosu. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line ; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin ; and the rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba (fig. 137). This wliite band on the fi'ont of the ru the linea abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of oppo- apo",euroses site sides. It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, united: and sei-ves as a ligament between the chest and pelvis. Its bi^eadth is wider above than below ; and it is perforated here and there by small apertiu-es, which allow pellets of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which projects in its middle now beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a holloAv indicated its position. External abdominal rin(/ (fig. 133, ^'). This opening is situate External ^ near the pubes between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It ling, is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the Form and pubes, and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long situation, measurement of the apeilure is about an inch, and the transverse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars, and differ in form and strength, inner side The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of the symphysis ptibis, where it crosses the corresponding piece of the opposite side—that of the right muscle being superficial. The outer margin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but Onter forms a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this "^"^S^ • margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine or tuberosity. A thin membrane (intercolumnar) A fascia pro- covers the opening, and is derived fi-om some fibres on the surface mar|in.^^"'" of the aponeurosis. The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in The cord in the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the transmitted *part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a and hernia coA-ering from the intercolumnar fibres. Through this aperture the through it. inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fibres form a layer over the aponeurosis, and intercoium- , . , , . ,1 1 /-I \ X i 1 nar libres. bmd together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a firm membrane. Inferiorly, where they are strongest, a bundle is connected with the attartnnent outer third of Poupart's ligament, and is continued back to the ^""'^ ^' crista ilii. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and, becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper part of that opening ; and as they are prolonged on the t'^'^'jy r™-^ cord from the margin of the ring, they give rise to the membrane coiumnai^' named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is fascia, entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round hgament hi the female.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 444 To SCO insertion of Poupart'.s ligaiueut. Throw down piece of external oblique. and seek tiiangiilar ligaiueut. Poupart'.s liuauicnt: outer and inner attach- ments : forms Giuibernat's Ugauieut. Its direc- tion, and i)ai-t3 in contaft with it. Triaugnliir ligament. Dissection to expose internal oblique. Clean the cremaster. Dissection. To see the attachments and connections of Poupart's< ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both sides of the body,, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh, as in fig. 138^ For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeu- rosis from the fi'ont of the iliac crest to about three inches fi-om the- hnea alba ; and the tendon is to be detached from the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel. When the aponeurosis cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, near the linea alba,, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the tri?ingular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the thigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged fi'om the surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubes, and to lay bare the fibres (triangular ligament) which ascend therefrom to the linea alba. Poujxd-fs llyaiaent (fig. 134, ^) is the lower border of the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique, which intervenes between the fi'ont of the crista ilii and the pubes. Externally it is round and cord- like, and is attached to the anterior superior iliac spine. Internally it Avidens as it approaches the pubes (fig. 133, and is inserted into the pubic spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone for about three quarters of an inch, forming a triangular-looking piece with its base directed outwards, which is named GimhernaVs ligament. Pouparfs ligament is not straight between its outer and inner attachments, but is curved downwards to the thigh ; and it retains this position as long as the fascia lata remains uncut. Its outer half is oblique, and is firmly united with the subjacent iliac fascia : along the line of union of the two, the other lateral muscles of the abdomuial wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels pas.sing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular ligament. From the insertion of Gimbemat's ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the above name has been given. Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts underneath. The muscle may be detached by canying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the fi-ee border, and then through the insertion into the crista ilii. It may be thrown fonvards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs al)ove, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the upper part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal obhque muscle, with some nerves on its surface below, will be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle on the cord is to be defined (fig. 135): it is about as wide as the little finger, and consists of fleshy loops which issue tlu-ough theINTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 445 'external abdominal ring. Its inner attaclmient is tendinous, and is ■easily taken away. Parts covered by external oblique (fig. 134). Beneath the external, is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the intercostal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals the spermatic cord, and the branches of the lumbar plexus in the -abdominal wall. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. L34, -'^) is flcsliy below and aponeurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding ; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external Fig. 134.* oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Pou- part's ligament; along the -anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone ; and from the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle, c, (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their des- tination :—The upper are fleshy and ascend to be in- serted into the cartilages of the lower tliree ribs, where they join the internal inter- costal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass obliquely to the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis covers the fore part of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest, and blends with its fellow along the middle line. For the most part it incases the rectus ; but midway between the und)ilicus and the pubes it is undivided, and lies in fi'ont of that muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the thorax after the following manner :—The stratum superficial to tlie rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and the stratum beneath the muscle joins the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs, and the ensiform cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and separate, and are inserted into the front of the pubes, and into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of • Gimbernat's ligament. Connections. The internal is covered by the external oblique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's Parts covered by external oblique. Internal obli(iue iniuscle. Origin from pelvis. Insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurosis of the muscle divides to incase rectus: attachments to chest. and tlie pelvis. Parts in contact with oblicpie. * Internal oblique muscle of tlie abdominal wall. a. Internal oblique. B. Lati.ssimus dorei, cut. ' c. Part of the hinder tendon of the transversalia muscle. D. Poupart's ligament, e. External : f. Internal intercostals.44G y Use of both muscles, of one. Creiiiastcr inusclc. Fi5 135.* Attach- iiieiits : external llesliy, intenial; tendinous; forms loops over the coixl. giving rise to cremas- teric fascia. Use. In left gioin replace the parts. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. li-ament and the pubcs where it arches over the cord, and has the- creniaster muscle contiguous to it. The parts covered by the mtemal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles will depress the ribs ; and will assist in. forcing back the viscera of the belly, wliich have been earned down by the descent of the diaphragm. _ One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and contractmg witli the external oblique of the other side (the fibres of the two havnig the same direction) it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CREMASTiCR MUSCLE (fig. 135, ") is a fasciculus of fibres,, which lies along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and is named from suspend- ing the testicle. The muscle has attachments, at the inner and outer sides, similar to- those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's liga- ment below, and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres- are connected. Internally it is small, and is inserted by tendon into the front of the- pubes, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres de- scend on the fi'ont and sides of the cord, forming loops, with the convexity down- wards, which reach to and over the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which in hernia is- named the fascia cremaste- rica. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides- and front of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the abdomen under the influence of the will; but it may be excited to contract involuntarily by cold, fear, &c. Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not to- make any further dissection of the abdominal wall ; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin should be replaced, * View of the lower part of the internal ohiique with the cremaster muscle- and the testicle, a. External oblique, reflected, b. Internal oblique, c. Rectus abcloraims. d. Cremaster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.447 TEANSYERSALIS MUSCLE. Fig. 1-36.' until the examination of those parts in connection with hernia is resumed. On the right side the dissection is to he carried deeper hy the removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last nuiscle may be reflected from the cord by means of a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal oblique, it will be necessary to cut it througli firstly near the ribs ; secondly near the crest of the hip bone and Poupart's ligament; and lastly at the hinder part, so as to coimect the two first incisions. Its depth will be indicated by SI fatty layer between it and the transversalis. Tn raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with gi'cat care the lower fibres from those of the transver- salis, with which they are often conjoined; and dis- sect out, between the two, the intercostal nerves and aile- ries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and ilio-ingui- nal) near the fi-ont of tlie crest of the hip bone : the offsets of the intercostals entering the muscle must be cut. Paris covered hy the ob- lique (fig. 136). The internal oblique conceals the trans- versalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spei-matic cord and the fascia transversalis. The rectus muscle is concealed below by the aponeurosis. The TKANSVERSALis MUSCLE (fig. 136, ^) forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique in having a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the foi-mer muscle it is attached on all sides, except where the spermatic cord lies. At tlie pelvis it ariaes along the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the chest it takes origm from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of * Dissection of the third hatei-al muscle in the wall of the belly, with the vessels and nerves on it. A, Transversalis muscle, with b, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumboi-um). d. Poupai-t's ligament. 1. Last dorsal nerve with its accompanying arter}-. 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery. +t Intercostal nerves and arteries. On rig] it side reHoct cremaster and interual Parts covered by internal oblique. Transversa- lis muscle. Origin from clie.st, loins, and pelvis.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 448 Fibres end in aponeu- rosis. The aponeu rusis iias.ses lieneatli rectus ■(■xcept infe- lioriy. Fibres to [ transversalis fascia. ' Use by itself, with others. At pelvis unites in (•(injoined tendon. Posterior aponeurosis. Connections of transver- salis muscle. Expose rectus and I'yraniidalis. Leave the left side. Rectu.s muscle. Attadi- ments to pubes. Insertion into ribs. the cartilages of the four next above. And between the chest and the pelvis it is connected with the lumbar vertebra) by means of the posterior aponeurosis or the fascia lumbonun. All the fibres are directed to the aponein-osis in front. Its anterior aponeurosis is widest below, as in the most external muscle. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, passing beneath the rectus as low as midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, but in fi-ont of the muscle below that spot. Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the fi-ont of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneatli the oblique muscle : some of the fibres are spent on the transversalis fascia, and are connected with a thickened band of that fascia beneath Poupart's ligament, wliich is called the deep crural arch. Action. The chief use of the muscle will be applied to diminishing the size of the abdominal cavity, and compressing the viscera ; but it will assist the internal oblique in replacing the ■vascera pushed down in inspiration. Conjoined tendon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are united more or less near their attachment to the pubes, and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeti- rosis of the oblique muscle extends about half an inch along the pectineal line; whilst that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the gi-eater part of the conjoined tendon. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- bomm, c, is described in the dissection of the Back, p. 385. Connections. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles before examined ; and beneath it is the thin fascia transversalis. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs digitate with like j^rocesses of the diaphragm. The lower border is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the iimer half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Dissection. To remove the aponeurotic laj-er from the rectus muscle of the right side, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the fascia is reflected, its union with three or more tendinous bands across the rectus will have to be cut through ; and near the pubes a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector should leave the nen^es enteruig the outer border of the rectus. On the left side of the body the rectus should not be laid bare below the umbilicus, for the sake of the hernia to be seen on this side. The REcrrs jiuscle (fig. 137, ^) extends along the fi-ont of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest. It is narrowest inferiorly, and is attached to the pubes by two tendinous processes ; one internal and the smaller, ctrises from the fi-ont of the symphysis where it joins the muscle of the opposite side ; and the external process is attached to the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the rectus is inserted by three large fleshy processes into the ensifonn cartilage, and the cartilages of the last three true ribs.SHEATH OF RECTUS MUSCLE. 449 The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines,—the inscriptiones tendine.-e. Action. It will draw down the thorax and the ribs, or raise the pelvis, according as its fixed point may be above or below. Besides imparting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the thorax, and compress the viscera. Sheath of the rectus, i\ This sheath is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the muscle. One piece passes before and the other Fig. 137.* under the rectus ; and the two unite at the inner border so as to enclose it in a sheath. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the 'rectus is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar man- ner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both at the upper, and lower part oi the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the intervention of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, mid- way between the umbi- licus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to split, and passes alto- gether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses; at the spot where the sheath is Avanting inferiorly the muscle is in contact with the fascia transversalis, and a white semilunar line (the fold of Douglas) may be sometimes seen, when the outer edge is raised, marking the cessation. The Unece transversa} (fig. 137), on the surface of the abdomen, are caused by tendinous intersections of the rectus. They are usually three in number, and have the following position : one is opposite the umbilicus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the * Eectus muscle of the abdomen, dissected on the right side, and in its sheath on the left. Close to the pelvis is the pyramidalis exposed. A. Kectus. B. Internal oblique, c. Poupart's ligament, n. Sheath of the rectus, G G Has cross tendons. Use on trunk, on abdomen. Its sheath, how formed; deficient above and below. Linere transversa} are three or more. Situation.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 450 y Linea semi- hmaris is at edge of rectus. PjTamidalis muscle. Attachment. Use. Nerves in wall of abdomen. Intercostal nerves are between iiblique and tiansver- salis: offsets. Last dorsal nerve. Branches of lumbar plexus. Ilio-hypo- i'astric lies near iliac <:rest; cutaneous branch. third midway between tlie two. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea semilu7iaris (fig. 137). This line con-esponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches fi-om the eighth rib to the pubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The PYRAMiDALis MUSCLE (fig. 137) is triangular in form, and is placed in fi'ont of the rectus near the pehns. The muscle arises by its base from the front of the pubcs, and is inserted into the linea alba about midway between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This small muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tight the linea alba ; and when large it may assist the rectus slightly in compressing the viscera. Nerves of the abdominal wall (fig. 136). Between the internal oblique'and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal nerves; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar jdIcxus. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall. The loioer six intercostal nerves (fig. 13G f f f), enter the wall of the abdomen fi*om the intercostal spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of the abdomen near the middle line. About midway between the spine and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 438) ; and whilst between the abdominal muscles they sujaply muscular branches, and oifsets of communication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is Aasible, owing to the shortness of the last intercostal spaces. The last dorsal nerve Q) is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore not in an intercostal space, but it has connections and a distribution like the preceding. As it extends fonvards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the iHo-hypogastric nerve. Its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 439). Two branches of the lumbar plexus^ y\z., ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal, are contained for a certain distance between the muscles of the wall of the abdomen, as they course forwards to the surface of the body. The ilio-hypogastric nerve f) perforates the back of the trans- versalis muscle near the iliac crest, and gives ofE the iliac branch. The nerve is then directed forwards above the hip bone, and is connected with its companion (ilio-inguinal). Perforating the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the fi-ont of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba, the nerve becomes cutaneous (p. 439). Its iliac branch pierces both obhque muscles close to the crista ilii, to reach the gluteal region.451 FASCIA TRANSYERSALIS. The ilio-lngidnal nerve perforates the transversalis inusclc near iiio-inguiuai the front of the iliac crest. It pierces afterwards the internal tifri^fg^ oblique, and reaches the surface of the thigh through the external abdominal ring (p. 439) : it furnishes offsets to the internal obhque, the cremaster, and the pyramidalis. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the transversalis fascia, it Dissection will be necessaiy to raise, on the right side, the lower part of the sails fescla' tranversalis muscle by two incisions ;—one of these is to be carried thi-ough the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament; the other, across the muscle from the front of the hip bone to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily from the thin fascia beneath. The fascia transversalis (fig. 138, is a thin fibrous layer be- Pasoiatrans- tween the transversalis nuiscle and the peritoneum. In the groin ^•^''^"-^''^ or inguinal region, wliere it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is iiest is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of "he'^l^^oin'^ the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle ; but farther from the pelvis it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare, is the internal abdominal internal ^ J.-U i- IT abdominal ring, which gives passage to the spennatic cord, or the round liga- nng; ment, according to the sex; this opening resembles the finger of a . glove in being visible internally, but mdistinguishable externally I in consequence of a prolongation fi-om the margin. On the inner ' side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is there fixed into the pubes and the pectineal line of the hip bone, beliind the conjoined tendon with wliich it is united. At Poupart's ligament the fascia is joined to the posterior margin is partly of that band along the outer half ; but along the inner half it is '^ouplit^s directed down to the thigh, in front of the blood-vessels, to form ligament, the anterior part of a loose sheath (crural) around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 138). This opening is situate mid-Situation of way between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac ring. spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the fascia is continued around the cord, as before said. Dissection. The tubiform prolongation on the cord may be traced Dissection by cutting the fascia transversalis horizontally above the opening [.rocess^n of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle ^'o^d- of the scalpel the thin membi-ane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia trans- ^JJ^^PJ'j:,^ j,^ versalis and the peritoneum. Its thickness varies much in different the groiii. bodies, but is greater at the lower part of the abdomen than higher up. This structure Avill be more specially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be Tra.ce re- reflected to look for the remains ot a piece ot peritoneum along peritoneum, the cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects Peritoneum G G 2 " lOgrouiDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 452 is prolonged on tbt! conl; piece nwy be imper- vious. or saccn- lated, or open. In female may be partly open. Spermatic cord is oblique in the abdomi- nal wall, and vertical beyond. Connec- tions. Coverings. In female round liga- ment is in l)lace of cord. Dissection. Constitu- ents of the cord: in female. Va.s defe- rens. forwards slightly opposite the abdominal ring. Connected \yitli it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation to- the testis in the fetus) which extends a certain distance along the fi-ont of the cord. It is generally impei-vions, and can be followed only a very short Avay, but it may be sometimes traced as a fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated at intervals; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum accom- panying the testis in its passage in the fetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the fetal tube of peritoneum remains sometimes^ pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; that unobliterated passage is named the canal of NucJc. The SPERMATIC CORD (fig. 138, extends from the internal abdo- minal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through Avhich they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its apeiiure of entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit from the muscles; but escaped fi-om the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in this oblique passage named the inguinal canal, it is placed (externally) beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the fascia transversalis; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, Avith the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from strata in the wall of the abdomen. Thus, from within out come, the subperitoneal fat, the tube of the fascia transversalis, the cremaster muscle continu- ous Avith the internal oblique, the intercolumnar fascia fi-om the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The roinifJ Ihjameiii, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the gi-oin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, except it Avants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord Avill be displayed by cutting through longitudinally, and turning aside the diflierent sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural ner\'-e and epigastric- artery into the cremasteric covering.' Vessels caul nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and vein Avhich convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis; the nerA^es and lymphatics of the testicle: and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. In the female a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round ligament. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is453 VESSELS IX ABDOMINAL WALL. « placed behind the other vessels of the cord; it will be recognised iby its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen Situation through the opening in the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it and course, lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle; and as it begins •its descent to the pehns, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the Artei-y and cord has a separate arteiy and nerve. The artery is derived from coverings of the epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The '• . genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the in- ternal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerAJ^es are supplied to the teguments of ■'^"'i '^^t*- the cord from the superficial pudic artery and the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubes, iMssoction ■ and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring, a fibrous band below '^'^^^ ^^'^' Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear: it passes in- wards to the piibes, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric and of the • • • • / ^ I X o vessels ill and circumflex iliac, and the ending of thp internal mammary tiie wall of artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammaiy a^^iomeu. arteries will be observed on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below, ramifying in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by removing the fascia transversalis fi-om it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deejy crural arch. Below the level of Poupai-t's ligament is a thin Deep crural band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has —^ .received the name deep crural arch from its position and resem- blance to the supei-ficial crural arch, (Poupart's ligament). This ^^^^l^' fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjoined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.^' It is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. On the side of the Vessels in -abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the inter- "^-a^ ' costal nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the epigastric and internal mammary vessels ; and around the crest of the hip-bone bends the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries (fig. 136) issue between the false ribs intercostal irteries - (p. 362), and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis ' and internal oblique muscles : they extend forsvards with the nerv^es, supplying the contiguous muscles, and some end in the teguments. * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, which is joined by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, • and this is the most common an-angement, it is only a thickening of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 4a4 lowest. Internal iiiamniary. Epigastric anastomoses witli inter- nal mam- mary ; connections in wall of abdomen. Branches; pubic joins obturator by an offset; cremas- teric ; muscular; cutaneous. Epigastric veins. Circumflex iliac is in wall of abdomen, and anasto- moses with ilio-lumbar: muscular offsets In fi-ont they anastomose with the internal mammary and epigastric :. behind they comnmnicate with the hnnbar arteries. The lowest artery accompanies the hist intercostal nei-ve below the last rib, and is distributed with the nerve. The internal mammary artery. The abdominal branch of this vessel (p. 253) enters the wall of the abdomen beneatli the carti- lage of the seventh rib. Descending in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric aiiery. The epigastric artery (fig. 138, a) arises fi'om the external iliac about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus and divides above the umbilicus into branches which enter that muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As the arteiy courses to the rectus it passes beneath the cord, and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it soon perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the semilunar border at the posterior aspect. The branches of the artery are numerous, but inconsiderable in size :— a. The ^?m&/c branch is a small transverse artery, which runs behind Poupail's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator artery (fig. 139,/): the size of this anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric bi'anch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery to the abdominal wall, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries (p. 453), and others enter the rectus. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integuments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery ; they join finally mto one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The circuvifiex iliac artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac, opposite the epigastric, and courses aroimd the iliac crest, as tlie name expresses. Having perforated the crural sheath, it passes beneath the transversalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the hip-bone. Here it pierces the transversalis, and is continued backwards between this and the internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac artery. Its offsets are muscular and anastomotic. Branches. Near the fi-ont of the iliac crest a small branch ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastric and inteiv costal arteries.455 INGUINAL HERNIA. As the vessel extends backw<ards it gives lateral offsets, which and anasto- supply the neighbouring muscles, and coniniunicate on the one side with the iho-luinbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- Circumflex lateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Tlie lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved Inguinal on the left side of the body, should be now dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The teguments and the aponeurosis of the external The dissec- obhque having been thrown down hi the previous examination of [eft groin!^ the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 138. To raise the oblique muscle, let one incision be made across the Eeflect fleshy fibres fi-om the iliac crest towards the linea alba ; and after ob^fqug. the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By raising the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis, so that it may be tui-ned upwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended • together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac artery will mark their intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched ^^gg^^*"^^"(.g border ; and trace with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal obhque to show the exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the intei-val apparent below the border of the trans- ^^9^ J^.^ versalis muscle, are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the vessels, inner side of the internal abdominal openhig, but beneath the fascia transversalis. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine through the lower '^^ part of the abdominal wall near Poupart's ligament (the part hernia, answering to the inguinal region), is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the Predis- deficiencies in the muscular strata, by the passage of the spermatic naturally, cord through the abdominal parietes, and by the existence of fossje on the inner sm-face of the wall.456 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN". Course it follows. Two kinds : external or oblique; internal or direct. External or oblique. Anatomy of parts concerned. Inguinal canal. Direction. Length. Openings. Boundaries next sur- face ; next the abdominal cavity. Flooring and roof of the canaL Canal in the female. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected througli the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by the names external and internal, from their position to the epigastric artery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the direction tliey take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external fi-om being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; whilst the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named internal from being inside the arterj', and direct from its straight course. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavit}^ of the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal canal, makes its exit fi-om that passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy of the external hernia. To acquire a knowledge of the anatomy of this hernia it will be necessary that the space in which it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by Avhich it enters and leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal lings), and the coverings it receives in its progress to the surface of the body, should be studied. The inguinal canal (fig. 138) is the interval between the flat muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Its direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to, but above Poupart's ligament ; and its length is about one inch and a half. Superiorly it ceases at the internal abdominal ring ; and inferiorly it ends at the external abdominal ring. Towards the surface of the body the canal is bounded by the teguments, and the two oblique muscles in this way :—The skin with the subjacent fatty layer, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, A, reach the whole length of the passage ; but the internal oblique, B, extends only along its outer third (half an inch). Towards the cavity of the abdomen the wall of the canal is con- structed by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis, and by the deep membranous strata in the wall of the abdomen in this wise :—The conjoined tendon, H, placed in front of the other structures, reaches along the inner two thirds of the space (about an inch); and beneath or behind it come the fascia transversalis, G, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum, in the order mentioned, which are continued all along the passage. Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupail's ligament, and by the fibres of the ligament inserted into the pectineal line ; whilst along the upper part its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles. In the female, the canal has the same length and boundaries though it is usually somewhat smaller. In that sex it lodges the round ligament Internal abdominal ring: The internal ahdominal ring (fig. 138) is an aperture in the fascia transversalis, which is situate midway between the symphysis pubis457 EXTERNAL OR ^OBLIQUE HERNIA. and the iliac crest, and half an inch above Ponpart's ligament. It situation, is oval in form, the extremities of the oval being directed upwards fo"" and downwards, and measures about half an inch; the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite sides. Arching above and on the inner side of the aperture, is the lower "Pperand border of the transversalis muscle, D, which is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half. Below, it is bounded by Poupart's ligament. On the inner side lie the epigastric vessels («). This opening in the fascia transversalis is the inlet to the inguinal canal, and tlu-ough it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into inner boundary: parts trans- mitted tlirough it. Fig. 138.* the wall of the abdomen. The external hernia enters the canal at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation from the margin of the opening. The external aldovnnal ring (fig. 133, ^) is the outlet of the in- f,^iominai guinal canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface ring; of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the situation, external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubes; and from the * Dissection for inguinal hernia (Ilhisti-ations of Dissections). Muscks: A. External oblique tendon, thrown down. B. Internal oblique, the lower part raised, c. Cremaster muscle in its natural position. 0. Transversalis muscle •with a free border, f. Spermatic cord. g. Fascia transversalis. H. Con- joined tendon. Arteries: a. Epigastric vessels, b. Offset of the circumflex iliac to muscles.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 458 Tlie intes- tine, follow- ing the course of tlie cord. has cover- ings of the peritoneum and fat, fascia trans- versalis. cremaster. spenuatic fascia, snjjerlicial fascia and skin. Number; how pro- duced. How to dis- tinguish it. Tlie taxis. Stricture ivliere situate. Cause. To set free external and internal stricture. margin a prolongation is sent on the i)arts passing through it (p. 443). Course ami coverings of the hernia. A piece of intestine leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every stratum in the lateral part of the M-all of the abdomen, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order:—As the intestine is thrust outwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis, f, (mfundibuliform fascia) around the cord. Still increasing in size it is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia, c, applied to it. Tlie intestine is next directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that opening re- ceives the investment of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends towards the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the superficial fascia and tlie skin. In a hernia whieli has passed the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without inwards are the following:—the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascia?, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal and sub- peritoneal, originate as the gut protrudes, but the rest are ready formed around the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The different layers become much tliickened in a hernia that has existed for some time. Diagnosis. If the hernia is small and is confined to the wall of the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the inguinal canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tumour with the large end below, and the narrow neck occupying the inguinal passage. Whilst eiforts are being made to force back a piece of protruded intestine during life, the direction of the canal, and the situation of the internal abdominal ring, should be borne in mind. Seat of stricture. The protruded intestine may be constricted at the internal abdominal ring; in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle ; and at the external abdominal ring. The stricture is placed usually at the inner abdominal ring, and may be produced in two ways ;—either by a constricting fibrous band outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or, by a tliickening^ and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner surface of the neck. Division of stricture. To set free the intestine, an incision is made doAvn to the internal abdominal ring; and, all fibrous bands outside the peritoneum being divided, the mtestine is to be returned into the abdomen by gentle pressure. Supposing the intestine cannot be replaced in the abdomen after the previous steps have been taken, the surgeon proceeds to lay open the peritoneum, and to divide the internal stricture, froiiiINTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 459 -within out, on a director placed beneath it. With the view of avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Other deslgnatiom. This kind of hernia has other names applied Terms ap- to it sometimes by surgeons, according as it has passed certain Inguinal ' points in the wall of the abdomen. If the intestine remains in the i"^""* inguinal canal, the tenu bubmocele is applied to the swelling ; but position if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to the tumour. Varieties of the external hernia. There are two varieties of the Two oblique inguinal heniia (congenital and infantile), which are distin- guished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Congenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the congenital infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it ^ the tube of peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle from the iww con- abdomen in the fetus, remaining unclosed, the intestine descends • into a sac already fonned for its reception. As it takes the course of the inguinal canal, it will possess the coverings coverings before enumerated for the external hernia ; and it passes and course, at the first to the bottom of the sci'otum, instead of being arrested at the top of the testis. ' With care it may be distinguished, whilst it is of moderate size. Diagnosis., by its position in fi'ont of the testicle. For the seat, cause, and division of the strictui'e, refer to what is Stricture, before stated for external hernia. Infantile hernia is much rarer than congenital, and cannot be infantile distinguished from the common external hernia during life. It was lirst recognised in the yoimg child, and received its name from that circumstance ; but, like the congenital, it may be met with in the adult. Its chief differential character is derived from the state of the peritoneum. The peritoneum has the following condition :—the tube of that membrane jjassing with the testicle in the fetus, is closed only at the internal abdominal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of the spermatic cord, and may occupy the inguinal canal. With this state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia witli its coverings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane. In this way there will be two sacs ; an anterior (the tunica vagi- nalis), containing serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. The infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by knowu the knife opening the tunica vaginalis. The operator then proceeds ' to lay bare the neck of the hinder or heniial sac, and to treat the stricture of it as before described (p. 458). The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course thi-ough the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be better understood after the examination of the part of the abdommal wall through which it passes.460 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. It passei? tliroiigh a triangular space: size. roustitu- ■ents of sjiace: muscles. Hernia in tiiis space of two kinds. Coverings of the more •common kind are peritoneum •and siilrja- ■ cent fat, fascia trans- versalis, conjoined tendon, spennatic fascia, superficial fa.scia, and rskin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impos.sible if it is large. Aimtomy of the internal hernia. At the lower part of the abdo- minal wall is a triangular space (fig. 138) which is bounded by the epigastric artery on one side, tlie outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and the inner half of Poupart's ligament below: it measures about two inches from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. The constituents of the abdominal wall in this spot are, the tegu- ments ; the strata of the muscles; and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., fascia transversalis, subperitoneal fat, and peritoneum. The muscles have the undermentioned arrangement:— The aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced by an apei-ture (external abdominal ring) towards the lower and inner angle of the space through which the inguinal hernia is transmitted. The internal oblique and transversalis, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line, it covers the inner two thirds (about an inch) of the space, and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the fascia transversalis appears. Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for itself, and elongate the different structures, because there is not any opening by which it can descend, as in the external hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal Avail, must vary according as the gut projects tlirough the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. The common kind of the in- ternal hernia (inferior) passes through the part of the triangular space which is covered by the conjoined tendon. The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the fascia transversalis; next it elongates the conjoined tendon, or as in a sudden rupture, separates the fibres, and escapes between them. Then the intestine advances into the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external abdominal ring ; and passes through that opening on the inner side of the cord, receiving at the same time the covering of the fascia spermatica. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of the internal hernia are the same as those of the external; and in kind they are the same, with this ex- ception, that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremasteric fascia. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia; and the straightness of the course of the internal, in comparison with the external hernia, should be remembered. Diagnosis. This rupture will be distinguished fi-om external hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubes. After this hernia has acquired a large size, an examination duringUMBILICAL HERXIA. 461. life caniiot detennino whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring; for as an external hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line Avith the external, and in this way the swelHng acquires the appearance of a direct rupture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this fonii of hernia occurs most Stricture, frequently external to the neck of the tumour, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum; and it may occasionally situation, be foimd at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid to free from bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- ^^"^' jury to the peritoneum; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put backwards into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In the operation on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the ii li^vs*^ operator should cut on the front and mid-part of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, whose lateral position cannot be known. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of uaternal hernia (superior) Earcr kind occurs through that part of the area of the triangular space which hemia^^^' is external to the conjoined tendon. Its existence is determined by the unusual position of the obliterated hypogastric arteiy inside the abdominal wall (p. 462). The intestine protrudes through the Avail of the abdomen close to is oblique in. the epigastric artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the ^vuh the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring; so that the term cord. " direct" would not apply strictly to this fonn of internal hernia. Coverincjs. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the in- Coverings guinal canal, it has exactly the same coverings as the external hi^externai hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spennatic and i»eraia. cremasteric fascia?, the fascia transvcrsalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This fonn of internal hernia would be considered Diagnosis external during life from its course and its fonn; and yet it must fu ufc.^^''^'^ be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, whilst in the heniia which it stimulates, they lie on the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external hernia. ;^!^'extemai. Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in division of the living body whether a small heniia is internal or external, the stricture, rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other ^ kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umijiiicai through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal Avall. Course.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 462 Coverings, ■become united over the tumour clianges in. Stricture, where found. Other abdominal henii;e are femoral, obturator, isehiatic. Dissection of cords inside abdomen; one in middle line, another on each side, forming twi tbssie. Horaetimes last cord moved inwards, causing three fossae. Coverings. Tlic coverings of the intestine are few in number:— Tliey are the skin and the superficial fascia; a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the umbilical opening; together with coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the tumour the superficial fascia l)lends with the other contiguous structures, and its fat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the iuA'cstment otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall ; and it may be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be remembered that the narrowed neck is at the upper part and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction may be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife ma}^ be carried u]?wards in cutting through the stricture ; but there is not any vessel liable to injury in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so as to form a hernial tumour. For instance tliere may be femoral hernia below Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyi'oid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; and isehiatic hernia through the isehiatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, Avill be noticed pre- sently ; but the student must refer to some sj^ecial treatise for information respecting the other abdominal heriiije. Dissection. The abdomen may be now opened to see the cords and the depressions on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall. A transverse cut may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, fibrous cords Avill be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cot •ds of the abdominal loall. In the middle line is the prominence of the remains of the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery ; this is directed fi-om the side of the pelvis to the umbiHcus, and lies usually behind or close to the epi- gastric arteiy, near Poupart's ligament. Fossce. With this disposition of the cords, two fossjb are seen near Poupart's ligament, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery ; they correspond with the situation of the internal and ex- ternal abdominal rings, and with the places where the external and internal (common kind) hernitB occur. But occasionally the cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from the epigastric artery, to the line of junction of the outer with the inner two thirds of the triangular space through which the direct hernia comes. In this position of the cord there will be three fossaj on the lower part of the abdominal wall ; ^az. an inner between it and the urachus, a middle one between it and the epigastric vessels, and an external outside the epigastric artery.ANATOMY'OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 463 And there maybe one, two, or three higiiinal herniit?, on each side of Number of the body, according to the depth of the fosScX", and the predisposi- JJotSns. tion to protrusion of the intestine. Femoral Hernia. In tiiis hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen situation of below Poupart's ligament, and descends in a loose membranous hernia.""''^ sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the stnictures will be descinbed here as can be now seen, the rest are noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh. Dissection. The dissection for the femoral hernia is to be made Dissection on the left side of the body. cmJcemea!"" The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from Divide the umbilicus to the pubes. The peritoneum is to be detached fi-om wall, the inner surface of the wall near Poupart's ligament, by means of a transverse cut just above that band ; and is to be raised fi-om the iliac fossa. The layer of the subperitoneal fat is to be separated in the same way, but before this can be done, it will be necessary to cut through the spermatic cord at the abdominal ring: as this layer cletaeli is raised, some lymphatic glands will be laid bare by the side of the "^'^^'^ iliac vessels. Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to take away show the upper opening of the membranous crural sheath contain- ing the femoral vessels, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (fig. 139). In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the fascia transversalis and the iliac fascia are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral Jiemia. The membranes concerned in the Anatomy- femoral hernia are, the peritoneum; the subperitoneal fat; the stnictures. transversalis and iliac fascia? lining the interior of the abdominal , cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they give origin at Poupart's ligament. The peritoneum lines the inner sui-face of the abdominal wall, ^yg*""^*^^ without having any aperture for the escape of the intestine ; and its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subjyeritoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the Subperi- peritoneum, but is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of the abdomen, where the iliac vessels pass under Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels ; and internal to the vein, it covers the space of the crural ring, as well as a lymphatic gland which oc- cupies that space. Where this layer stretches over the crural ring it is named by fonns sep- M. Cloquet septum crurale; and it is described by him as being ^^"^ concave towards the abdomen, and convex towards the thigh. An inguinal gland is generally attached to its under surface. The fascia transversalis has been before noticed (p. 451). At F»scia Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia, outside the situation of the large ihac artery (fig. 139) ; but internal to that spot it is con- tinued downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath.464 Iliac fascia. Sheath on femOTal vessels. Crural ring. size and bouudaries. Fig. 139. Constricting boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels arouud ring. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. The iliac fascia covers the ihacus muscle, and Hes beneatji the iUac vessels. At Poupart's hgainent its disposition is similar to that of the transversalis fascia ; for, external to the iliac vessels it joins the fascia transversahs along the line of the ligament ; but opposite the vessels it is prolonged into the posterior part of the cnirtil slic citli • The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the fascire lining the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and its posterior is derived fi-om the fascia iliaca. The sheath is not entirely filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) exists on the inner side of the vein, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring (fig. 139, ^) is referred to also in the dissection of the thigh, but its boun- daries are better seen in the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner side of the femo- ral vein, which is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Bounding it in- ternally, are Gimbemat's ligament, E, and the con- jomed tendon ; and limit- ing it externally is the femoral vein (b) without the intervention of the sheath. In front is Pou- part's ligament, with the deep arch; and behind is the pubes, covered by the pectineus and the fascia lata. Along the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, lies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Two of the boundaries, anteiior and inner, are finn and sharp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and approximated to its fellow, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the riny (fig. 139). On the outer side is the femoral vein (6) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ring is bounded in the male by vessels in fi-ont and on the outer side. * View of the parts concerned in femoral hernia (Quain's plates). Muscles: A. Iliacus covered by the iliac fascia. B. Rectus, c. Transversalis, covered by the transversalis fascia. d. Crural ring. b. Gimbemat's ligament. Vessels: a. Iliac arteiy. h. Iliac vein. c. Epigastric branch, d. Circum- flex iliac, e. Obturator, with its nerve. /. Small branch joining obturator and epigastric arteries.STRICTUEE OP FEMOEAL HERNIA. 465 But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the state of •epigastric, and Hes along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It ""^^^""^ may have two positions with respect to the crural ring :—either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that ispace free from vessels ; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament; in this last condition the ring will be encircled except at the posterior part. ' Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by Femoral the opening of the crural ring; and it descends internal to the vein in the large cmral sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the Tthigh, where it projects to the surface. Coreriiiga. In its progress the intestine will push before it the from abdo- peritoneum, and the subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it Jl^eiitoueimi Avill displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland which fills the subperi- . toneal fat •crural ring. Having reached the level of the saphenous opening, "the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath, and crural and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the teguments of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may 1)6 referred to for fuller detail. Seat of stricture. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed stricture opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the neo^k'orat marfrin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. And the constric- saphenous •tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper iian-ow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside that jiart, as in inguinal hernia. Dicision of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constrict- ^^^i^g^gj**^ ing fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made down ternal to the neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, the and in- peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be caiTied horizontally inwards, or upwards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of tlie edge of Gimber- aiat's ligament. Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upwards and in- Risk of -wards to loosen the constricting band in the neck of the tumour, vesseiViu there will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made regular •80 long as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same and irregu- view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But [ton of' ^ dn some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence), ti»em. the obturator artery takes its ninisual course in fi-ont of and on the inner side of the neck of the hernia, and will be before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot he recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. il u4GG DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Sectiox III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. Definitioii and wHi- tents. Dissection to (>]ieii alxlonien. Is largest cavity in the body. Is oval. Boundaries above and below. in front and on sides. Behind is si)ine. Depth is altered liy ;iction of dia]>hragni and levator aiii. Width by nniscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta exjielled. Division of .space. Abdomen projier. Pelvic portion. AlHlomcn ]>roper here tlfScribcU. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the spinal column behind, and the visceral arches of the vertebra? with their intervening muscles in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, Avith vessels and nerves. Dissection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remainder of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be cut, along the left side of the linea alba, as far as the xiphoid cartilage. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This space is the largest in the body. It is- ovoidal in form with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much wider superiorly than interiorly. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaj^hragm ; below by the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani, and the structures closing the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are concave towards- the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular:—thus towards the upj^cr and lower limits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz. the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other; but in the centre are stretched the muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous- to it, viz. the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diajihragm, and the contrac- tion and ascent of the levatores ani ; and the cavity is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. The width is lessened by the contraction of the abdominal muscles ; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is efliected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the space. A division has been made of the space into the abdomen proper and the cavity of the pelvis. The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages,, together with the kidneys. The portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of the cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of467 CONNECTIONS OF STOMACH. the dissection of the abdomen, the pelvic portion will receive a Pelvis after, separate notice. Regions. The upper part of the abdominal cavity is divided into Abdominal regions by lines extended between certain points of the parietes. '^'^^"'^ If two circular lines are carried round the body, so that one shall maiked out be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, and the other on a level regwia- •with the most prominent point of the crest of the hip bone, the ca^'^ty will be divided into three circles or zones, upper, middle, and lower. Each of these circles has been fiu-ther subdivided into three by a Three lateral line, on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre sije'^^^^ of Poupart's ligament. The piece marked oft", on each side, from the three circles by the vertical line is named respectively, from above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac ; whilst the central part of each circle is designated fi-om above down, epigas- and three trie, umbilical, and hypogastric. central. In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space Subdivi- is named pubic region, whilst the contiguous portions of the hypo- gastric and iliac parts constitute the inguinal region. Contents and their position. The alimentary- tube, the liver, pan- Parts in creas, spleen, and kidney, occupy the abdomen proper. ca\itj. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided General into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine ; and the two last a\'hnentary are further subdivided, as it will afterwards appear. The several tube: viscera have the following general position :—The small intestine position is much coiled, and occupies the gi-eater part of the cavity ; whilst p^rts^^'"^^ the great intestine arches around it. Both are fixed in position by pieces of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate tlie stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; and of and below it, is the convoluted small gut. Behind the large intes- kidney, tine, on each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube. Superficial vieio of the contents. On first opening the abdomen Parts of the following viscera appear:—On the right side is the liver, which witiiout'''^^'^ is partly concealed by the ribs. On the left side a piece of the jliyj^'^^*^*^" stomach is visible ; but this A'iscus lies for the most part beneath the ribs and the liver. Descending from the stomach is a fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and conceals the small intestine : in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. If the bladder is distended, a small part of it may come into view just above the pelvis, but commonly it is not seen. Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, their Connections situation in the different regions of the abdomen, and their connec- to besoeu. tions with surrounding parts should be examined. CONNECTIONS OF THK VISCERA. The stomach (fig. 140, «) interv^enes between the gullet and the Position of small intestine, and is partly retained in position by pieces of the stomach, serous membrane. It is somewhat of a conical form, with the H H 2468 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. larger end to the left side ; and it occupies the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac region. ^ _ _ Extremities, At the left end it receives tlie oesophagus (b), by which it is firmly fixed to the diaphi agm ; here it lies beneath the ribs, and is in contact with the spleen (m), to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum (splenic omentum) : when this part of the stomach is distended it pushes up the diaphragm, and encroaches on the Fig. 140.* and small, space for the heart and the left lung. The right extremity ends in the small intestine, and reaches towards the gall bladder: it is in contact with the under part of the liver. Surfaces The anterior surface touches, fi'om left to right, the diaphragm, the abdominal wall, and the liver ; and the posterior surface corre- sponds with the pancreas, the pillars of the diaphragm, the aorta and vena cava, and tlie solar plexus. * Connections of the liver, stomach, spleen, and large intestine, the small intestine having been taken away. a. Stomach, and b, cBsophagus, c and d. Right and left lobes of the liver, with c, the suspensory ligament. /. Ca;cum. g. Ascending colon, h. Transverse, i. Descending, and k, sigmoid flexure of the colon. I. Duodenum, w. Splesn.CONNECTIONS OF INTESTINES. m The upper border is connected to the liver by a process of peri- Borders, toneum, the small omentum ; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. The form, and the connections of the stomach with the sur- Connections rounding parts will vary with the size. For when the viscus is us^duten^ empty it is flattened, its surfaces looking forwards and back- ^i*^"- wards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when dis- tended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a rotatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest, and to turn upwards that surface which is directed forwards at other times. The position and connections of the stomach may be altered by Alterations variations in the size of any of the surroimding organs, or by the froin dis°'^ accumulation of fluid in the chest, or in the belly. The stomach ^'^^^ and causes. may be dragged down likewise by the great omentum entering a "^'"^ hernia; or it may be forced down towards the pelvis by the pressure of tight stays. In these diflierent changes in position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached mainly by peritoneum to the parts around. The HimiH intestine (intestimnn tenue) reaches from the stomach Small iutes- to the right iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve fingers' length), jejunum, situation and ileum : of the last two, the former receives its name fi*om its empty condition, and the latter from its numerous coils. The duodenum (fig. 140, I) cannot be satisfactorily seen at present, Duodenum, and it will be examined afterwards (p. 483). The jejunum and ileum (fig. 141) begin on the left side of ^^|{'^"u^^. second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of separation from the duodenum. Two fifths of the intestine belong to the jejunum, and the remaining three fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convolutions in the situation, nmbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends oftentimes, but more frequently in the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutions is the great ^PJ^'^^^" omentum. Beyond the duodenum the intestine is fixed posteriorly to the spine by a process of peritoneum named the mesentery, which contains the vessels and nerves. SuiTOunding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon : but on the left side of the body the colon is concealed by the small intestine. The laiye intestine, or the colon (fig. 140), is sacculated, and is Large intca- more fixed than the jejunum and ileum. It begins in the right iliac distin°^^ region in a rounded part or head (caput caicum coli), and ascends guishcd. to the liver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Crossing then the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches Course the left hypochondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and imibilical regions, or altogether in the latter. Finally, it descends, on the left side, through the and extent, regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa ; then470 DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEN. Divisions. Csecum, or head of folon : situation and connec- tions. Ascending coloii. Parts around. Connections of the trans- ^■e^se colon : is most moveable pieceoflarge intestine. Descending colon: situation, and perito- neum. Sigmoid flexure is in left iliac fossa. becoming straighter it passes through the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It is divided uito six parts, viz. cajcum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. The caecum (fig. 140,/) (caput caecum), or the commencement of the colon, is placed in ithe right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed by the peritoneum being stretched over it. In fi-ont usually arc con- volutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdominal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only fatty and areolar tissues intervening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece— the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the peritoneum surrounds the ctecum, and attaches it by a process to the abdominal wall. The ascendinfi colon (fig. 140, g) reaches fi-om the cjecum to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it is placed in front of the kidney. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the colon immoveably to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two thii'ds of the circumference ; but it may encircle the tube, and form a fold behind, as in the cjecum. Tlie transverse colon (fig. 140, h) jiasses obliquely upwards and to the left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen ; in this course it is deejDer at each end than in the middle, and forms the ai"ch of the colon by being thus bent. Above the arch are placed the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach and the sjileen : and below, is the small intestine. In front lies the great omentum ; and behind is a long process of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdomen, and contains the vessels and nerves. The transverse colon, is more moveable than any other part of the large intestine,—its peritoneal fold allowing it to be raised on the margin of the ribs. Small pieces of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices ej^p/o'icce, are attached along it. The descending colon (fig. 140, /) commences below the spleen, and reaches to the left iliac fossa. At first it is placed deeply iu the left hypochondriac region ; and its whole course is deeper than that of the right colon. In front of it are the convolutions of the small intestine ; and behind it are tlie diaphragm, the outer part of the kidney, and the quadratus lumborum. This part of the intestine is smaller than either the right or the transverse portion, and is less surrounded, connnonly, by the peri- toneum ; but its upper end is attached to the diaphragm by a firm process (pleuro-colic) of that membrane. The sigmoid flexure of the colon (fig. 140, Z:) is lodged in the left iliac fossa, to which it is attached by a process of the peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon, but it often hangs in the cavity of the pelvis. The intestine makes two turns like the letter S, and has obtained its name from that circumstance. Its extent is fi-om the471 LIVER AND SPLEEN CONNECTIONS. crest of the hip bone to the sacro-iliac articulation, where it ends in the rectum. It is concealed by the small intestine, which is directed more to the left than the right side. The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, which is Hcctuui. contained in the pelvis, will be examined in the dissection of that ■cavity. The licer (hg. 140, c, (7) is situate in the right hypochondriac, and Position of ■epigastric regions, and reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac. ^'"^ Pieces of peritoneum (ligaments) retain it in place. The upper surface, convex, is turned to the vault of the diaphragm, Sm-faces, -and is divided into two parts by the suspensory ligament ; the right portion, more prominent than the left, reaches to the level of "the fifth intercostal space. The under surface is in contact with ai"^i uiuicr. the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and with the right kidney and suprarenal body ; attached to this surface is -a fold of the peritoneum (small omentum), containing the hepatic "v'essels. The anterior border is thin, and lies in the adult male usually Borders, within the margin of the ribs, but in women and children it reaches jbelow that line. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The ^^^^^ ^^^^^ postei'ior boi'der is thick, and is connected \o the diaphragm by rior. certain ligaments or pieces of the peritoneum ; it lies on the large vessels (aorta and cava) and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver changes its situation with the ascent and descent of rositionis the diaphragm in respiration ; for in inspiration it descends, and in diaphragiu, •expix-ation it regains its former level. In the upright and sitting Q^imiy""^ postures, too, this viscus descends lower than in the horizontal con- •dition of the body ; so that when the trunk is erect, the anterior -border may be felt underneath the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined it is withdrawn within the margin of the thorax. The connections of the liver with the surrounding parts may be and by dis- •changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the parts.'^" • chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgment, as in tight lacing. The spleen (fig. lAO, vi) lies deeply in the left hypochondrium, situation of between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum ti'^ spleen, •lo the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other. Its position is almost vertical. The outer surface is convex, and touches the diaphragm opposite Surfaces, ■■the ninth, tenth, and elcA-enth ribs. At the inner surface, which is ' and inner. • concave, the vessels oiter (fig. 50G), and to it is attached a jirocess of peritoneum, the gastro-splenic omentum : the part in front of 'the vessels touches the stomach ; and the part behind them is in contact with the tail of the pancreas, the suprarenal capsule, and -the left cms of the diaphragm. Below the spleen is a transverse piece of the peritoneum (plcuro- Below it.j colic fold), the kidney, and the beginning of the descending colon. | When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. The Mdnei/ should be examined on the left side of the body, so Kidney, ihat the duodenum may not be displaced. In order that it may beDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 472 occupies lumbar region. Connec- tions. Right highest. Different parts before and above. Pancreas after. seen, the descending colon and tlie peritoneiun must be separated from the abdominal ^vall, and its casing of fat should be torn, through. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the lumbar region opposite the last dorsal, and the upper two or three lumbar vertebrio. Its position is somewhat oblique, and the upper end is- nearer than the lower to the spinal cohnnn. In front of the kidney are the peritoneum and the coloii; and behind it are the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, with the- diaphragm and the last rib. Above each kidney and resting on it, is the suprarenal capsule. The inner border looks to the spine and receives the vessels. Difference on opposite sides. The right kidney is placed rather lower than the left : it reaches as high as the lower border of the eleventh rib, whilst its fellow is opposite the upper border of the corresponding rib. In front of the right, besides the common con- nections before specified, is ihe duodenum; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the right is the liver, and above the left the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the present. This viscns is described at page 484. THE PERITONEUM. Peritonenni consists of ii parietal an<l visceral layer, and forms folds on vessels. Circle of the membrane opposite umbilicus. This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like other- membranes of the kind it is a closed sac in the male, but in the female its cavity is continuous with the canals of the Fallopian tubes. One part of it lines the wall of the abdomen (parietal layer), and another is reflected over the different viscera (visceral layer), except where the vessels enter. The inner surface is- smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the parts with which it is naturally in contact. The membrane fonns- processes or folds as it passes from viscus to viscus along the vessels ; and the folds attaching the viscera to the abdominal wall consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the- vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced in a horizontal and a vertical direction. Horizontal circle around the ahdomen. The membrane, when fol- lowed outwards from the umbilicus, surrounds partly the large intestine on the left side, and fixes it to the abdominal wall. From the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle line, where it is reflected along the front of the vessels supplying the small intestine, thence around the intestine, and back to the spine along the same vessels. Lastly, it may be pursued outwards to the right kidney, to the colon which it encircles like the left, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The piece of membrane fixing the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon, and that attachhig the small intestine is the mesentery.REFLECTIONS OF PEIUTONEUM. Vertical circle from above dowmvards. From the under aurface of Circle from the liver the peritoneum may be followed along the hepatic vessels, "'^^'^dowii;. one piece before and the other behind them to the upper border of the stomach, the two forming the small omentum. At the stomach the two pieces disunite, one passing before, and the other behind it; but beyond that viscus they are applied to each other to form the funns great omentum or epiploon. After descending in contact to the lower part of the abdomen they bend backwards, separating to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach, and they are then continued to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the abdominal wall, the two companion pieces part from each other,—one passing upwards, the other downwards.* The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and the the a-sccmi- pillars of the diaphragm, and blends with the peritoneum on the ^"''^^' under surface of the liver. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- deseemiing verse meso-colon over the duodenum and the great vessels on {^^^pghtsf'^^'^' the spine (aorta and cava), till it meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesen- tery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesenteric artery the peritoneum descends in tue peh ii to the pelvis, and covers partly the viscera in that cavity. For instance, surrounding the upper part of tlie rectum, it attaches this to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum ; next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder in the male, or between the rectum and the uterus in the female, where it forms a pouch. Thence it passes from the pelvis over the back and sides of thf bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the ingumal region, cm the front where it presents the fossie before alluded to (p. 462) ; and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdomen, and over the dia- phragm and upper surface of the liver, to the under surface of this viscus. Folds of the Pkiutoneum. After tracing the continuity of the ciiief folds serous sac over the viscera, the student is to learn the chief pro- |',cHtoiieuni. cesses or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum fixing the liver will be examined afterwards ; and the processes on the viscera of the pelvis will be seen with the dissection of that cavity. Folds on the stoiiiarh. The processes connected with the stomach on tiic^ are named omenta. They are tlu-ee in number:—one, small omen- o,neuta':. tum, is attached to the upper cun^e ; another, great omentum, to the lower curve ; and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to th(> great end of the viscus. * Sometimes the two pieces ascend over the transvei-se colon, being slightly attached to it and the transverse meso-colon, as high as the pancreas before they separate. In that case the descending layer would form a distinct mesentery for the transverse colon, like that for the small intestine.-174 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. .Small •oiiientum : .sitiiatitiii, ,ittaph- IllCIltS. Cireat •omentuni attacli- iiients. < ,'<>i)sist.s of two layers. .Sac of 1110, oinentuiii : Ijoun claries, 01)0118 into j^eneral cavity l)y fdiiuiien of Wiiislow. How vessels roach vis- a-era. Foramen nf AViiislow. >i)ilonic ■oiiieiitiiin. reritoneuin The xinall or (/astro-hej^atir omentum is stretclied between the under surface of the h'ver and the upper border of the stomach, and contains the vessels and nerves of the Hver. It is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, as before expLained, and presents a free I)order on the right side. Behind it is the space called foramen of Winslow. Its lower edge is fixed to the small curve of the stomach ; whilst its upper border is attached to the transverse fissure, as well as to the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver, blending behind with the left lateral ligament of that viscus. The gastro-coVic or great omentum is the largest fold of the peri- toneum, and consists of two pieces. It is attached above to the spleen and the lower border of the stomach, and descends in front of the large intestine, but lower on the left than the right side of the body. At the lower part of the abdomen the process is bent backwards, and returns to the spine, the pieces of which it is com- posed separating to enclose the transverse colon. The anterior part of the omental fold is separated fi-om the posterior by a space (cavity of the omentum). Between its layers arc contained some fat, vessels, and nen'^es ; ivud the power of detaching the one layer from the other diminishes with the increase of the distance fi-om the stomach, until below they are not to 1)e separated, and the membrane they form is thin and net-like. Cavity of the omentum. AVhcn an opening is made through the great omentum near the stomach, and this viscus is raised, a space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and downwards into the omentum : this is the omental cavity. In front the space is bounded by the small omentum, the stomach, and the anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it, are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, and the ascending laj'er of the transverse meso-colon. This sjiace communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavity, through a hole (foramen of Winslow), ])c]iind the small omentum. If the sac of the omentum were perfect, it could be infl,ated through the foramen of Winslow. Supposing it to be detached and i-emoved, there would not be any membrane in the way of the vessels reaching the different ^nscera ; and it ma.y be readily con- ceived how the peritoneum could be replaced over the viscera, and around the vessels Avitheut being perforated by them. The foramen of Winslow is the space behind the small omentum, through which the omental bag opens into the general cavity of the peritonemn. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind, ai'e the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelii), and below is the duodenum. The splenic omentum reaches from the great end of the stomach to the concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels ])assing between the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Fohh on the large intestine. The large intestine is connected to475 rERITONEAL FOLDS OX INTESTINE. the wall of the abdomen by processes of the peritoneum (mcso- iittauhin^ colic), which are formed of two pieces, like the other folds, though uiXn>l' they are at some distance from each other. Each part of tlie colon lias a separate meso-colon attaching it, thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a descending, and a sigmoid meso-colon. The Cfocum is fixed by a meso-caicum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. The meso-cccciuit attaches the caput ca'cum coli to the right iliac ""^so- fossa. Usually the peritoneum does not siuTound the gut so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane furnishes a suspensory process to this part of the intestine. By the ascending and the defending meso-colon the ascending and ascendin<,', ihe descending part of the colon are kept in place. In these folds, meso colou'; as in that of the caecum, the peritoneum does not commonly surround the intestine, though it may meet behind the gut and form pro- <'esses of some length. The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold (pleuro-colic), jiicm-o-colic fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide part to the diaphragm opposite the eleventh or tenth rib, it passes trans- versely below the spleen, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fofd than either of the transverse others connected with the large intestine, and serves as a partition '"^^""'^'^^""^ between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It encloses the vessels of the colon between its layers. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, and sigmoid ^nd attaclics tlie sigmoid tlexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. • The meso-rectum contains the hamiorrlioidal vessels, and connects meso- the rectum to the front of the sacrum. rettum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of Appendices tlie great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiploictn, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped reritoneal hy the peritonemn after the same manner throughout. For whilst MnaVl'mte's- tlie jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one t''"^- process (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum Peritonemn ■ Oil diioilc- is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach. The second part is num. <iovered only in front. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane ; for it lies at first between the strata of the transverse meso-colon, and then beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mesenterg supports the rest Mesentery: of the small intestine, and is stronger tlian any other piece of the serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached to the form, spine from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right hip bone with the sacrum. The otlier end of the fold attadi- is wide, and is connected with tlie intestine. Between its two layersDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 476 arc the Buperior mesenteric vessels and nerves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. Peritoneal Ligamenis of the llcer. Along the upper part is a suspensory foWs ofthe pj.Q^.pgg ^£ ^jj^ peritoneum, and there is a wide piece along the posterior border. Suspensory The Huspemonj o\ falciform lUjmnent is placed between the upper hganii-ut: ^.^j^^^^ surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. It ift shape, triangular in shape, with its base forwards. The lower border is attach- concave, and is attached to the liver; whilst the upper border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall, on the right of the contains iJnea alba, and to the under part of the diaphragm. In its base or free part is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the mentV'^" round Ugament. how formed. This fold allows the umbilical vein to reach the liver without piercing the peritoneum ; and with a little care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace it on each side into the suspensory ligament. Coronary The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the peri- toneum, which connects the hinder part of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver, but at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly-shaped piece ; to these larger portions of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied, g^ves rise to The left lateral ligament is attached to the liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of ijeritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in front of the oosophagean opening in the diaphragm. light lateral The right lateral ligament lies deeply in the hypochondriac region, ligament. .^^ front of the vena cava inferior : it consists of two pieces of peritoneum not touchitrg each other. ligament MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NEUVE. Examine lirst ve.ssels tu intestine. Mesenteric vessels. Dissection of superior mesenteric, veins. Directions. The Acssels and nerves (mesenteric) which are dis- tributed to the greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric ar- teries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and the lower end of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection, (fig. 141). For the dissection of the superior mesen- teric vessels and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omen- tum are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, corresponding veins, and offsets of the sympathetic nerve on the arteries, will be metUrPER MESENTERIC VESSELS. 477 with ; these last are removed in cleaning the vessels. Mesenteric glands and a few lacteal vessels will come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intes- tine are to be next followed : and after all the branches have been and nerves, cleaned, the trunk of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas. The plexus of surrouuduig nerves should be also <lefined. The superior mesenteric artery (fig. 141, «) supplies branches Superior mesenteric artery. Fig. 141.* ■wholly to the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and to half the large intestine, viz. as far as the end of the transverse colon. Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, the vessel is directed courses to downwards between the layers of the mesentery, forming an arch |" the""' with the convexity to the left side, and terminates in offsets to the mesfnterj-, cfeciun and the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies connections beneath tlie pancreas and the splenic vein ; and as it descends to the mesentery it is placed in fi'ont of the duodenum and the left * Superior mesenteric artery and its branches (Tiederaann). a. Superior mesenteric. I. Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. c. Middle colic, d. Right cohc. €. Ileo-cdlic. /. Intestinal branches to the jejunum and ileum.478 DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEX. renal A'eiii. This vessel is suiTounded by the mesenteric jilexus of nerves, and is accompanied l)y the vein of the same name, nnd Branches. Whilst the vessel is covered by the pancreas it givc^ i)ranches. ^ mi?i\\ branch to that body and the duodenum. Its other branchet*^ are intestinal : those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) are furnished to the jejunum and ileum ; and> those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named" colic arteries. Panereatico- a. The panci'eatico-duodenal branch (inferior) is of small size iluodeual. ^j,^^ ^^^^ _ after giving twigs to the pancreas, it runs to the right along the concavity of the duodenum, and anastomoses with the other duodenal branch (p. 486). Branches t() J. The intestinal branches for the jejunum and ileum (fig. 141,/)- tine: * are about twelve in number, and i>ass from the left side of the muiibpr ajid artcr}' between the layers of the mesentery. xVbout two inches- meiiUu from their origin the branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces, arches, unite with similar offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of the arches other bi'anches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is- repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the (listrii)iifioii last set of arches twigs are sent to the intestine on both asjjects of ou the «ut. ijjg tube, and anastomose roinid it. Arteries of The branchen to the hin/e intestine are three in number, ileo-colic,. large gi;t. j-jgiit colic, and middle colic arteries. Ileo colic c. The ileo-colic artery (o) arises fi-om the right side of the trimk, oiTc^cum'^ and divides at the cjucum into brandies Avhich encircle the head of the colon. A descending offset is distributed to the lower part of the ileum, and to the Cfecum and the vermiform ajapendix ; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and anastomoses with the right colic artery. Right colic d. Tlie right colic artery (d) is commonly an offset of the pre- pUerascend- Ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Near the ing colon. ascending colon it divides into ascending and descending pieces,. which anastomose Avith the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with tlie middle colic on the other. Middle colic c. The middle colic branch (c) springs fi-om the upper part of the pllses'to artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse meso- *™nsveisi(. colon divides into two diverging branches :—the right one anasto- moses wnth the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a left colic branch (fig. 142, r) of the branches inferior mesenteric artery. The intestinal twigs are united in arches form arches, i^^f^j.^ entering the gut, like those to the small intestine. fneSeric "^^^ superior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, b) commences in that part vein, of intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed. Its radicles unite into one trunk, which accompanies the arteiy beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portaj. and At the lower border of the pancreas it receives the rio-ht o-astro- branches. epiploic branch of the stomach, and the pancreatico-duodenal veins- (fig. 144, c).LOWER MESENTERIC VESSELS. The mesenteric lymphatic glands are numerous between the hiyers Mesenteric of the mesentery. An upper group lies by the side of the artery, '^'^^^'^'^ and contains the h^rgest ghinds ; and a lower group, near the in- testine, is lodged in the intervascular spaces. The chyliferous lyniphaties vessels of the small intestine, and the absorbents of the part of the large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric artery, pass through the mesenteric glands in their cotn-se to the thoracic duct. Fig. 142.* Along the side of the ascending and the transverse colon are a M.^so-colu- few other small lymphatic glands meso-colic, which receive some si-ii'l*- absorbents of the large intestine. Dissection (fig. 142). By drawing the small intestine over to the '^f'^^^f^pj!"" right side, the dissector will observe the inferior mesenteric artery mesenterie on the fi-ont of the aorta a little above the Ijifurcation. The peri- toneum should be removed fi-om it, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intestine: a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dissected afterwards. * The lower mesenteric artery, and the aorta, seen hy turning aside tlie upper mesenteric artery and the small intestine (Tiedemann). a. Aorta, h. Inferior mesenteric artery, r. Left colic. d. Sigmoid, and e, Superior hEsmorrhoidal branches. /. Upper mesenteric, rf. Renal. A. Spermatic of the left side.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 480 aiul vein -aortic jilexus. Inferior mesenteric course, .and branches. Left colic l)rancli to tlie tlesccnd- iiiK colon. Sigmoid brancli to sigmoid flexure. Branch to rectum. Inferior juesenteric vein. Veins no valves. Lymjihatic glands. Plexiises of the sympa- thetic to tlie viscera. Dissection -of aortic plexus, and On the artery and its branches the inferior mesenteric plexus of ner\'es ramifies. Tlie mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards, away from the trunk of the artery, to its junction with the splenic, or with the superior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of ner\'-es^ which is to be left miinjured. The inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 142, h) supplies branches to the part of the large intestine beyond the transverse colon ; and communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to maintain the chain of anastomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta, from one to two inches above the bifurca- tion. At first the vessel descends on the aorta, and crosses the left common iliac artery, as it courses to the pelvis to end in branches for the rectum (superior ha^morrhoidal). The following branches are furnished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. a. The left colic artery (c) ascends in front of the left kidney, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch for the supply of the descending colon : by the ascending otfset it anasto- moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. h. Tlie sicjmoid artery (d) is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding colic, and below with the hajmoirhoidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries before they reach tlie intestine. c. The superior hceniorrhoidal artery (^?) enters between the layers of the meso-rectimi, and is distributed to the lower part of the great intestine: it will be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, d) begins in the part of the great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle to open into the splenic vein be- neath the pancreas. Occasionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through those glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nkrve. The following plexuses of the sympathetic on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and in- ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to. Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have made out, already, the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses, by taking the peritoneum from the aorta481 VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. between the mesenteric vessels. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By removing the peritoneum from the front of the sacrum, and iiypogastric following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves from the i''"^"'^- aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will an-ive at the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis, opposite the top of the sacrum. The si(2)erior mesenteric pJexun is a large offset, and is distributed Superior to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric artery, piexus^^'^ The nerves suiTOund closely the artery with a sheath, but near the on artery intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and coramuni- of same cate before entering the gut. Branches. The secondary plexuses are ', S „ , . . 1 secondary the same as the offsets of the artery, viz., mtestinal nerves to the jaexuses. small intestine; and an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery; it is stronger on the sides derived than the front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving acces- ^''^"^ • sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, esi^ecially the left. At the upper part the plexus derives an offset, on eafh side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends inferiorly, on each side, offsets, in branches wliich cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it offsets are furnislied to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic j^l^xnis, formed by roots from both the aortic and Spermatic the renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle; in the i'^*^^^^*^ • cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spei-matic) artery are in female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plerus supplies the part of the intestinal inferior tube to which the artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished ".lex't^'^f ^° from the left part of the aortic plexus; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) tlie branching nerves join of the nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked, vessel^; Brandies. Its secondary plexuses are named from the arteries they secondary accompany, viz., left colic, sigmoid, and superior hcTmorrhoidal: plexuses, they ramify on the vessels, and have a like distribution. The hijpogastric plexus^ or the large prevertebral centre for the Hniogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate i'^^^"^ • in front of the upper pai't of the sacrum. It is developed more on situation, the sides than in the centre; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any intermixed ganglionic masses. Bv its uDPer part it receives the nerves on the aorta, and is joined rereivcs i, « J. £ At 1 !• aortic plexus by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral ganglia. Inferiorly the plexus ends in two parts, right and left, the last and ends in being the largest: each is continued forwards by the side of the Se'ra. internal iliac artery to the pelvic plexus of the same side, and to the ■\nscera. I I482 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. CONNECTIONS OF AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Parte around aorta and cava. Pisseotion of aorta, and vena cava. Aorta lies on middle of sjiine. Parts around. Vena cava; extent; connec- tions ; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it; vein and nerves. Before tlie viscera are removed fiom the body, the connections of tlie abdomhud aorta and vena cava mdcy be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injurijig the gastro-epiploic artery along the great curve ; and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial tnuik (croliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed as far as the posterior border of the liver, where it disappears. The connections of its upper part can be better observed after the dis- section of the vessels of the liver. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the dia- phragjn, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At the beginning the vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but it gradually inclines to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta lies behind all the viscera ; but it is crossed more immediatel)' by the pancreas and duodenum, which it touches without the intervention of peritoneum. Its connections are the following: at first it is covered by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas and the splenic vein ; still lower (beyond the superior mesenteric artery) b}' the left renal vein and the diiodenum ; and thence to its termination b}^ the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lunibar vertebr;e, with the pillars of the dia- phragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. Its relation to other deep parts is mentioned in p. 533. The vena cara inferior commences on the right side of the fifth Inmbar vertebra by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is inclined away from the artery, and ascending on the right of the crus of the diaphragm, is imbedded in the posterior part of the liver for an inch or more. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an apertme in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its connections with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the vena porta-. Oftsets of the solar plexus of nerves descend on it, as on the aorta.DUODENUM AXD PANCREAS. 483) CONNECTIONS OF TIIK DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. To sec satisfactorily tlie duodennm and the pancreas Remove the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in tlic "^'^'■'^t''"" following way :—a double ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through at the i>oints at which it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube is to he taken away by cutting through the vessels, and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen. After it has been -.■separated, it is to be set aside for future study whilst the body is turned. The student should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum to soe the from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove the loose peritoneum '^^"°'^^'i^""> and the fat; whilst cleaning them, he should lay bare the larger vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach tlie pancreas may be traced and pau- from the spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other i(fig. 143). By pulling forwards the duodenjim, the connnon bile duct may be found, posteriorly, between the intestine and tlie head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas should be removed, to •show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (fig. 143, d). The first part of the small intestine, or Extent of the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and crossing "inoileuuui; the spinal column, ends on the left side of tlie second lumbar •vertebra. It makes a curve around the head of the pancreas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical (Muuscand regions of tlie abdomen. From its winding course around tlie '*'tii"'*''on. pancreas it is divided into three parts—superior transverse, vertical, Division, ^ind inferior transverse. The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like the First i>art i.s stomach ; it measures about two inches in length, and is directed from the jiylorus to the neck of tlie gall Idadder, ascending sliglitl}'^ niovwible. between one point and the other. In front it is overlapped by the Jiver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended ; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena port;e. The rertiral part is fixed almost immoveably l)y the peritoncuni Second part and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches in leiigtli, and descends '''''''''' from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Super- ficial to this part is the right bend of the colon ; and beneath it and rests on ■are the kidney and its vessels. On its inner side is the head of kidney, the pancreas, with the connnon bile-duct. The ducts of the liver -and pancreas pour their contents into this portion of the duodeinim. The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, and is The tiLini <;ontinued across the spinal colunni to end in the jejunal portion of };;;|*pJt!'!ui,i the small intestine. As it crosses the spine, it ascends from tlie is move- third to the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and lies between the layers of the transverse meso-colon. It has the following con- nections with parts around : — I I 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 484 ]>arts around it. l""oriii and situation (if tlie (lan- crcas. Its L'onnecf- tions hy the surfaces, borders, and extromities. In fi-ont of it are the superior mesenteric vessels with their plexus of iierv^es. Beneath it lie the vena cava and the aorta, Avitli the pillars of the diaphragm ; and the left renal vein is sometimes- betweeii it and the aorta. Above it is the pancreas. Pancreas (tig. 143,^). The pancreas is situate behind the stomaclv and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an elongated form, it extends across the spine fi-om the spleen to the duodemim, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right luml)ar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer of the- transverse meso-colon. It is in contact posteriorly with the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the chaphragm ; and it conceals, likewise the splenic vein and the commencement of the vena porta*. Projecting above the upper border, near the centre, is the arterial trunk of the coelic axis : to the left of that vessel, along the same- border, is placed the splenic artery; whilst to the right of it lie the hepatic arteiy and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the cccMc axis : to the right of that spot lies the third part of the duodeninn, and to the left, the inferior mesenteric ascending to join the sjilenic- vein. The left end or the tail of the pancreas touches the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney. The right extremity or the head is; received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being jjartly separated b}- the common bile duct and the i)ancreatico-duodenal arteries. This part projects above and below the body of the- gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the loAver projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenunv beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. COKLIAC AXIS AXl) VKNA TORTiE. Arteries of viscera. A short branch of the aorta,—the coeliac axis, furnishes arteries, to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleeen ; it subdivides into three chief branches,—coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins coiTesponding with the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one tnmk—the vena portas. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the plexuses of nerves around each. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronaiy artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the- stomach. Next the hepatic arteiy, Avith the vena porta^ and the liile duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder ; and a considerable branch of it shoxdd be pursued beneath the pylorus to .nnd si.ienic. the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the npper border of the pancreas, is to be cleanccl ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be Veins. How to dis sect cfcliac axis and coron- ary, liepatic,485 COELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. defined ; this is a difficult task witliout the aid of some one to hold iiside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, iirteries ; but the origin of the vena portic is to be nuide out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CELIAC AXIS (fig. 143, c) is the first visceral branch of the Ciiiuc axis <ibdominal aorta, and arises between the pillars of the diaphragm. tiaSnfu It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which projects losing •iibove the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, •and splenic—radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. a. The coronary arterij (d) is the smallest of the three, and Coronary, passes between the layers of the httle omentum to the left end of the stomach. At that sjiot it furnishes some cesopliageal branches, and turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric (o) ) fi'om the hepatic artery. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed :— (EsopluKjeal branches ascend on the gullet through the opening otisets to in the diaphragm, supplj'ing that tube ; and'they anastomose on it pi,agiiL"" with branches of the thoracic aorta. Gastric hranclies are given to both sides of the stomach, and those <"vii'i^ the on the left end comnumicatc with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic arteiy. h. The sjilenlc artery (e) is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in ^^^'^^j^''^ the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to the spleen, along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four supplies tho to ten), which enter that viscus by the sm-face towards the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it; and it <Iistributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. Pancreatic hranclies. Nmnerous small branches are sujjplied to the the pancieas gland; and one of these, art. 2)ancreatica magna, arises near the small twig's, left end, and runs to the right in the substance of the viscus with the duct. Brandies for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near and the the spleen. Some of these, rasa hrecia. turn upwards to the left stomadi €nd of the stomach, beneath the gastro-splenic omentum, and ramify j^^yvhr'^ in the coats of that organ. Another longer branch, art. yastro-epiploica sinistra (/) turns to ami leit the right between the layers of the great omentum along the great •curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro- •epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peri- toneum forming the great omentum. c. The hepatic artery (fj) is intermediate in size between the other Hepatic two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of ner^-es. In its course ''''^' , . ■, 7- J ^ ii • 1 , . 1 ii 11 f.onrses to to the liver the vessel is bent first to the right towards the small the liver, end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superiorDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 48C in which it pyloric and gastro-epiploic). It ascends then between tlie layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and vena porta^ and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the JUKI supplies right and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to \hc liver, but freely to the stomach, the duodenimi, and the pancreas, as* below :— offsets to The mperior jnjloric branch (o) descends to the upper border ol thesto.uac-h, ^j^^ gtonij^^h, and rmming from right to left anastomoses with the Fig. 143.* to the coronary artery; it distributes small arterial twigs on both surfaces; of the stomach. The r'Kjht (jastro-epiiylo'ic branch (/f)t (.^^- gfist. epiploYca dextra)) numieim^^^^^^ descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and turning to. viz.:— the left along the great curwature of the stomach, inosculates witk the left gastro-epiploic of the splenic artery. To the siu'f aces of the stomach some oifsets are given ; and others descend between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following named branches to the stomach, and the pancreas and duodenum ;— Small inferior pyloric branches end in the small extremity of the stomach. The 2^<^ncreafico-dno(hnal branch (/) (superior) arises opposite the duodenum, and runs between the intestine and the pancreas ; it anastomoses below with the pancreatico-duodonal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric (fig. 144, />). Botli the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect inferior pyloric, and paii- <'reatirt>- •liiixleiial * View of tlie coeliac axis, and of the viscera to which its branches are supplied (Tiedemann). a. Liver, n. Gall-bladder. C. Stomach, d. Duo- 6. Upper mesenteric. a- denum. E. Pancreas, y. Spleen. c. Cceliac axis. d. Coronary. Vessels: a. Aorta, c. Splenic. /. Left gastro-epiploic. Hepatic. It. Right gastro-epiploic. i. Superior, and /.-, inferior pancreatico- duodenal. 1. Diaphragmatic arteries, n. Cystic, o. Superior pyloric. t This artery is named commonly gastro-duodenal as far as to the spot where it gives off the branch to the duodenum and pancreas.487 VENA PORT.E AND BRANCHES. of the same viscera is another small offset of the pancreatico- duodenal with a similar position and distribution. The hepatic branches (right and left) sink into the liver at the Branches to transverse fissure, and ramify in its substance:— The right branch is divided when about to enter the transverse one for the fissure, and supplies the following small artery to the gall bladder, amigiii'*' bladder. Fig. 144. The cystic ai-teiy (n) bifurcates on reaching the neck of the gall bladder, and its two twigs ramify on the opposite surfaces. The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the liver at and one for the left end of the transverse fissure : a branch to the Spigelian lobe ^^'^^'"'^ of the liver arises from this piece of the artery. Portal Veins. The veins of the intestinal tube, and of the spleen porfcii veins : * Vena port* and the veins joining it (Henle : Anatomic des Menschen). a. Trunk of the vena portae. h. Upper mesenteric, c. Right gastro-epiploic. d. Inferior mesenteric, e. Left gastro-epiploic. /. Coronary of the stomach. f/. Vasa brevia.DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEN. 488 coronaiy from the stomacli': 8]>leiiic from tlie spleen. stomach, pancreas, arid intes- tine. Vena portie its origin, length, and termi- njition. Accessor and tenninal branches. Vena portte wants valves; resembles an arterj-. Hepatic duct. Common hepatic <luct. Common bile duct; length and course. Termina- tion : joined by pancreatic. and pancreas, pour tlicir blood into the vena port.-v. The two mesenteric veins and their branches liave been referred to (p. 478); and the two following, with the trunk of the portal vein, remain to be noticed. The mperior coronary rein (fig. 144,/) lies alo)ig the upper border of the stomach. It begins in the cesophagus and the left part of the stomach, and joins the vena porta} at the pylorus. The splenic vein (fig. 144) is large in size, and is formed by the union of branches from the spleen. It takes much the same course as, but below the artery, and runs beneath the pancreas to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (6) to form the vena portio. Between its origin and termination it receives branches coitc- sponding with the following arteries:—vasa brevia (//), left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric vein (d) opens into it about its middle. The vena 2>ortai (fig. 144, «) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas, and two inches from the right end. The vessel is about four inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, behind the bile duct and the hepatic arterj^, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary vein (/), and by the cystic vein near the liver. The right branch enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch is distributed to the left part of the liver, and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe. This vein commences by roots in the viscera above mentioned, like any other vein, but it is deficient hi valves; and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an avtery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic vehis on some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Bile Ducts. Two hejHific (Juctn issue at the transverse fissure of the liver (fig. 15G), one from each lobe, and unite to foi-m the following:— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives at its termination the duct of the gall bladder, the union of the two giving origin to the common bile duct. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus) is about three inches long. It descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse portion of the duodenum; then passing between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it operis into this portion of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Whilst in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately.EPIGASTEIC PLEXUS AXD OFFSETS. 489 SYMr.VTHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. SYMrATiiETic Neuve. In the abdomen, as in tlie tliorax, the General dis- synipathetic nerve consists of a ganghated cord on each side of the f°^y^,^]^ vertebral cohnnn, and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to tlie viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses exist in the abdomen. One of these, Two large the epigastric, is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to ^^jlf^'^'^' all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, the hypo- gastric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the and iiypo- " , . . ' r ) gastric. pelvic viscera. The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- ]^^,"g^g,^i.}'|I^' tion is to be made:—After the air has been let out of the stomach piexiis,' and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gastro-epiploic vessels are to be cut through near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will lind tlie large reddish semi- g'.^j'^^*''^^ lunar ganglion ; and mixed up with the nerves of the plexus are gmigiia.' numerous lymphatic glands, and a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the cteliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on tlie branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries : at its upper part the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper tliaii the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be observed in a fissure of the diaphragm, which throw themselves into the cccliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumogastric Follow the nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the upper tiie vagus border in front near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will be ii«i'ves. seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerv'e are to be followed to the plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the cocliac axis, and from tlie left, to tlie hepatic plexus. The EPIGASTRIC or SOLAR PLEXUS is a large network of nerves and Soiar le l)lexus; ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and the pillars of tl diaphragm : it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of api'^arante, opposite sides, and extends downwards to the pancreas, surround- extent: ing the cocliac axis and the superior mescntei-ic artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves ; and it is joined also by an offset of the riglit pneunio-gastric nei-ve. Laro-e branches are furnished to the different viscera along the gives offsets . on blood- vessels, vessels.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN, 41)0 The semilunar f/amjiia, one on eacli side, are the largest in the body, and each is joined at the upper end by tlie great spLinehnic nerve. Each is situate at the outer part of the plexus, close to the suprarenal body, and on the pillar of the diaphragm: the ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. Irregular in shape, the mass is oval, or divided into smaller ganglia : from its outer side nerves are directed to the kidney and the suprarenal capsule. Of .sets of the plerctiH. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses around the vessels; thus there are cocliac, mesenteric, renal, spermatic, diaphragmatic, &c. DiapJmujmatic j^lexus. This plexus comes from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nen^e of the cervical plexus (p. 73) and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion Avhere the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it hlaments are supplied to the vena cava and the suiirarenal body. The ganglion is absent on the left side. (Swan.) The suprarenal nerces are very large and numerous, in comjiarison with the size of the part supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splanchnic nerves communicates with this plexus. The renal plexu>< is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer part of the plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic nerve. The nen^es suiTOund the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 481). The fOiliac 2>le-cii^ is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splaiichnic nerve on each side, and by an offset from the right jmeumo-gastric nerve. Tlie plexus divides like the artery into three parts—coronaiy, splenic, and hepatic. a. The ccn-onanj plexm accompanies the vessel of the same name to the upper border of the stomach, where it ends: it comnuuiicates with the left vagus nerve. b. The splenic p>lexus furnishes offsets to the pancreas, and to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery: and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nen-e. aiuihcpatic: c. The hepatic p)lexns is continued on the vena porta?, the hepatic artery, and the bile duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels: in the small omentum, the plexus is joined by ofl'sets from the left vagus. The following secondaiy plexuses are furnished around the branches of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels :-— A j^yioric plexus is distributed along the upper border of the stomach. Two other i>]Q\uHes—gastro-epiploic (right) and imncreatico-duo- denal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each arteiy. cystic. A cystic plexus ramifies in the coats of the gall bladder with its artery. Seiiiiluiiar ganglia : situation ; form. Several offsets of tli« iikxus. Plexus to the dia- phragm lias a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal nerves. Kenal lik'xus joins si)crniatie. Coeliac plexus divides like the artery, into coro- nary. splenic. the last has secondai-y lilexuses; pyloric. gastro- epiiiloYc, and duodenal:ENDING OF VAGUS NERVE. 491 Tlic remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already-noticed (p. 481); but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the sjilanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the Ending crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- spia\'it'imi(: lunar ganglion. nerve. The ssmall nerve comes through the same opening in the diaphragm small, as the preceding, and joins the coeliac plexus. The smallest nerve, which is often absent, throws itself into the ana renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end in the stomach:— The left nerve divides mto branches, which extend along the Ending of small curvature, and over the front of the stomach; these send ^ ^''^""^ offsets to the hepatic plexus. llic right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and right, stomach near the upper border; it communicates with its fellow, and Avith the cceliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. The viscera are now to be removed from the abdomen. Prepare for in order that the body may be turned for the dissection of the Back body i!^-*'''^ and lower limbs. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, removing are to be taken away together by cutting through the a}soi)hagus ^ ^i^'^'-'*'- near the diai^hragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and incising the vena cava between the posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time tlie left testicle, and tlie right kidney with tlie suprarenal body, should be removed for examination whilst tlie body is turned; the former can be taken out by cutting through the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing the vessels about the middle. Directions. Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- tion of the Back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual dissector, time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dissection of the Back, p. 385. The rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the following Section. Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between Definition, the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 fc;c'i>avate jiiid blow the 3t()ina(.')i. Fonu, direction, size, divisions. Left end and right. ■Cardiac Mu\ pyloric openings ; last has a valve. •Surfaces. Upper bonk'r : lower bolder, •ditierence in •outline. For.r strata in stomach. The serous •coat is thiu and adhe- a«nt. The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, Dissection. To see the fonn, tlie stomach must be blown up mode- rately, and the surface cleaned; but, previousl.y, let the student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodenum close to the pylorus. Form and Divisions. The stomach is somewhat conical in form (fig. 145). Its size varies nuich in different bodies, and is some- times much diminished by a constriction in the centre: when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or cui-ves to be examined. Extremities. The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventriculi) is the largest part of tlie stomach, and projects about three inches to the left of the opening of the oesophagus. The right or j)yloric end, much smaller than the other, is cylindi-ical, and forms the apex of the cone to which the stomach is likened. Ojienings. The left opening (cardiac), which comnumicates with the oesophagus, is at the highest part of the stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The right or pyloric orifice opens into the duodeimm, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus) : at the same spot the stomach is slightly constricted externall}', where a firm circular ring may be felt. Surfaces. The surfaces (anterior and posterior) are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but romided when it is dis- tended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 4G7). Borders. The upper border or small curve is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end ; and the lower border or large curve is convex, except near the riglit end, where it is concave—the concavity of the one border coi-respondijig with the convexit}'- of the other. An arterial arcli, and a fold of peritoneum (omentum), are fixed to each border. Structure. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are vessels, nei"ves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an intei-val exists con-esponiling with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in those spaces are contained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. It consists of three sets of fibres,—longitudinal, circular, and oblique; these lie from without inwards in the order mentioned and are unstriated or involuntary. ' The longituclincdfibres (fig. 145, a) are derived fi-om the oesophagus; they spread over the surfaces, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particulariy at tlic smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of tlie stomach.STRUCTURE OF STOMACH. The circular fibres (fig. 145, />) form tlic middle stratum, and will cin uiar, be best seen by romovinj^ the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach fi-oni tlie left to the right end of the stomach ; but at the pylorus they are most nunierous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) around the opening. The oblique fibres (fig. 145, e) are continuous with the circular or and oblique deep layer of the tosophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a kind of sphincter (^d and e) Fig. 145.* (ITcnle); but those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disapi^earing on them. Fibrous coat. By removing the muscular layer over a small space, Tlie fibrous the fibrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum of areolar T3ut*^(irni'""' tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their dis- tribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, sui)posing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous cocUwiU come into view on cutting open the stomach, Mucous* but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a recent ^"^^' stomach. This coat is a thickish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death fed, in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the colour membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is gi-eater than in childhood or old age. When folds the stomacli is contracted the membrane is thrown into nmnerous wavy ridges or ruf/rc, which become longitudinal along the great curve, towards the pylorus. • Diagram representing the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the stomach. Part of each of the two external coats is removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres, b. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus, d. Oblique fibres on tlie left of the cardiac opening, c. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the right of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach.Thickness; tlisjiositiiiii ;it iiyloni.s. On the SU1-- t';ic(' arc ]iits ■or alvi'oli: their size, shape, auil ajipear- ^uii-e. The texture made \i\< of tubules ; DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fokl, opposite tlie muscuhir ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane ami its submucous layer are removed fi-om the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will l)e more perfectly seen. -j f „ jWn-osrojur structure of the mucous memhrane. With the aid o± a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig. 140), which measure from ^i^th to -^^t\v of an inch across, (lenerally hcxao-onal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more^elongated towards the small end of the stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irre- gular. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubes. By means of a thin section under the microscope the membrane may be obsen^ed to be composed almost altogether of minute Fig. 147.t Ti". 146. vertical tubes, which lie side hy side, and project into the submucous tissue. Pleasuring from -jroth to -juth of an inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of •< losed at the stomach both in the alveoli (fig. 146) and in the interalveolar Hleep cud: gpaccs. They are formed of a homogeneous membrane, and are for tlic most part straight, but towards the pylorus they increase m length, and are somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity ; some are divided into two or more pieces (fig. 147). lined i)y At the cardiac end of the stomach the tubes are lined at the free ■t'liiihcliuni; * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Sprott Boyd.) f Enlai'ged repi-esentation of the tubes of the stomach, a. Gastric tube from the pyloric end lined, throughout, by columnar epithelium (Kiilliker). h. Gastric tube from tlie cardiac end, with a columnar epithelium lining near the mouth, and flattened nucleated gx-anular cells beyond (Thomson).COATS OF SMALL INTESTIXE. 495 end by coluiuiiar epitlielium (fig. 147, h) ; but in the closed end by some secrete flattened and granular nucleated cells, which are named 2^eptic glands, j\^fce'*^ and are supposed to give origin to the gastric fluid. Towards the pylorus the tubes are clothed throughout by colunniar epitlielium some mucus, (fig. 147, «), and secrete mucus. A columnar ejnthellum covers the surface of the mncous mem- Epithelial brane, and enters the small tubules. covering. On the attached surface of the mucous mend)rane is a thin la3^er .Suimmcous of involuntary muscular fibres, separating it from the fibrous coat: JayeJ."''" it is said to send offsets amongst the tubules. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the stomach, after supplying the Arteries, muscular coat, ramify in the submucous tissue ; from this anasto- mosis fine offsets are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous membrane, where they form a network. The veins begin veius, in the mucous membrane, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood into the portal S3'stem. Lymphatics. Two layers of absorbents, superficial and deep, exist lympliaties, in the stomach : the latter begin in a plexus beneath the tubules, nnd form a network in the fibroiis layer. Both sets leave the stomach with the bloodvessels. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sym- and nerves, pathetic (p. 490), and can be followed to the fibrous coat: small ganglia have been obser\-ed on them. SMALL INTESTINE. The three parts into which the small intestine is divided, have Ciiaracters. the following characters :— The duodenum measures as much as the breadth of twelve fingers, Lengtli, viz. about ten inches, and is more fixed than the rest of the intes- tinal tube. It is Avider than either the jejumnn or the ileum, and ^j'^ig')^')'"^. its muscular coat is also thicker. Lito it the common bile and ^ , . , , Ducts pancreatic ducts pour tiieir contents. entering it. The jejunum and the ileunt together measure about twenty feet Length, in length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the termination of the one aiul the Division, commencement of the other, but two fifths of the length are as- sio-ned to the ieiunum, and three fifths to the ileum. Between the Differences ends, however, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper ' part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower part of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structure. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same Structure, number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, mucous, and submucous. Dissection. The different laj^crs are to be examined on pieces. Dissection about three inches long, taken from the duodenum, the upper part of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut oft", they are to be distended witli air ; and the serous covering is to be torn oft" for a short distance, to show the muscularDISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEX. SlTOU.S fOilt like that of the stoiiiui-h, oxcept in the duo- deuum. Mus(nihu- coat is i'onned hy lougitiuliiial and a circu- hir hiyer. Dissect librous coat. Fibrous eoat like that in stomacli. 8eek glands of Brunner : show mu- cous coat. Jhioous coat, thickness, folds, villons surface, and epithe- lium. Submucous muscular layer. Folds ; arrange- ment, length. size and depth; how formed coat, l)ut in doing this, the external longitudinal fibres will be taken away without great care. The serous coat is closely connected witli the subjacent muscular layer. To the jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, except at the attached part where the vessels enter : at this spot the peri- toneum is reflected off to form the mesentery, and a space exists resembling that at tlie borders of the stomach. The peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly ; this peculiarity has been described at p. 475. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circidar. The fibres are pale in colour, and are not striated. The lomjitudinal fibres form a thin covering, which is most marked at the fi'ec border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat: they do not form complete rings around the intestine. Dissection. On the removal of a part of the muscular stratum, from the jejunum or the ileum, the su})mucous fibrous layer will come into view. The fibrous coat has the same jjosition and use as the correspond- ing layer in the stomach. Dissection. In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seek some small compound glands—those of Brunncr, which are imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has l)een taken away. The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed to show the mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the line of attach- ment of the mesenteiy, so as to avoid Peyers glands on the oj^posite side. Mucous coat. The lining membrane is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (valvula) conniventes) ; and the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) like the pile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are mmierous glands ; and covering the whole, is a columnar epithelium. A thin layer of non-striated muscular fibres (mvscularis mucosa;) covers the outer surface of this coat (fig. 152, d), and sends inwards prolongations between the tubules into the villi. The valvula; connicentes (fig. 148) (valves of Kerkring) are permanent ridges of the nmcous membrane, which are arranged circulariy in the intestine, and project into the alimentary mass. Crescentic in form, they extend round the intestine for half or two thirds of its circle, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the larger are about two inches long, with one third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is fonned of a doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses vessels between the layers.VILLI OF SMALL INTESTINES. 497 They begin iu the duodenum, about one or two inches beyond extent on the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle ^|uV"**^^" of the jejunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudi- mentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The (iperture of the common bile and pancreat/c ducts (fig. 148, e) Opening of is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches fi'om the pylorus, and '^^^^' is situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the where inner and posterior part of the duodenum (p. 483). A probe passed into the bile duct will show the oblique course (half an inch) under the mucous coat. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct sometimes • f. double. onnce. Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. With the use of the Parts to be microscope, and with pieces of fresh intestine, the student will be il^itestine.*''" able to make out the nature of the villi, the glandular bodies, and the epithelium. Villi. When a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, from "^^'^J^^j^ which the mucus is washed away, is examined in water, the mucous surface; membrane will be seen to be studded over thickly with small pro- jections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist along the whole their shape, -of the small intestine, and are u-regular in form (fig. 151, -'^) some being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from -^fV'' iro^^^ "^"^'^^ ! ^^^^ *l"^y ^^'^ marked where the valvul;-e conniventes are largest. In the duode- and number: num their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in * The duodenum opened showing tlie valvule conniventes, and the opening of the bile duct. The duct of the pancreas is also represented in greater part of its coui'se. a. Duodenum, b. Pancreas, c. Common bile duct. d. Pan- creatic duct. e. Opening of the common duct in the intestine (Hcnlc). K K498 composition of villus, artery and vein, lacteals. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Kranse). , . , , „ Each villus is an extension of the mucous coat, and is covered by cohmniar epithelium. One or sometimes two arterial twigs form a capillary network beneath the mucous covering (fig. 142, ), and end generally in a single emerging vein. A single lacteal, or two forming a loop with cross branches (fig. 149, occupies the centre, and communicates with a plexus below the villus. Around the Fig. 149 muscular ayer. Several kinds of glands. Simple tubes as in the stoniiieh, but not so close ; their size, and contents. Solitarj- follicles; size and situation. lacteals a thin laj-er of unstriated muscular fibre is arranged longi- tudinally (Briicke). Nerves have not been detected in the A-illus. Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine arc included the ciypts of Lieberkuhii, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands. The crypts of LieherldUin (fig. 152, a) are minute simple tubes^ similar to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; but closed at the opposite end, they project into tlie submucous layer, and are seldom branched. Their length is from y^th to -^Lth of an inch ; they are filled with a translucent fluid containing gi-anules, and are lined by a columnar epithelium. The so-called solitary (jlamh (fig. 151, ^) are ronndish white eminences, about the size of mustard seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the • A. Vessels of the villi in the mouse, injected by Gerlach (Kijlliker). a. ArtetA', and h, vein. b. Lacteals and plexus of vessels in two villi, injected by Teichman. a. Lacteal vessel, single in one villus, double in the other. 6. Plexus of vessels. c. Plexus of lacteals beloM- the villi. (Quaiu's Anatomy.)PATCHES OF PEYER. 499 ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the valvule conniventes ; they are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and are surrounded at their circumference by apertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. They are closed lymph Compo- follicles beneath the mucous coat, which project into the gut; and they arc formed of a network of reticular connective tissue with lymph-corpuscles between the meshes. Fine capillaiy vessels per- meate the mass ; and it is surrounded by a plexus of lymphatic vessels. The fflands of Peyer (fig. 151, (glandute agminata;) exist Patches of chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which measure ^^^^^' from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an inch in width. They are situate on the part of the intestine size: opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is situation; longitudinal in the gut: usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum they are largest and most mimher; numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from r^^^^i^'^" that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become in-egular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The mucous membrane over them is hollowed into pits (fig. 150, &), and is generally destitute of villi on the subjacent follicles (fig. 151, '^), but between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. A patch, when examined by the microscope, appears to be but a Composition collection of lymph folhcles like the « solitaiy glands" (fig. 151), o^^i^^^tch: * A. Patch of Peyer's glands four times enlarged, «. Surface of the mucous membrane covered with vilU. h. Pits over the follicles where the villi are absent, b. Magnified representation of an injection in the rabljit, by Frey, of the vessels sun-ounding and penetrating the follicles iu a patch of Peyer (Kolliker). ^ K K 1DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 600 a collection of follicles. Arteries. Lacteals. Compound glands, Brunner's; compo- sition : apertures of their ducts. The epithe- lium is columnar. which are round or oval in form, and are covered by the mncous membrane. Around each follicle is a ring of apertures of the crypts before described. The follicles have the same composition as the scattered " solitary glands." Fine arterial twigs (fig. 150, ^) ramify on the follicles, and send inwards capillary offsets which form a network in the interior, and Fig. 151.* 52. t converge to the centre. Lacteal vessels form plexuses around and beneath the follicle, but do not penetrate the wall. The Glands of Brunner (fig. 152, h) are small compound bodies, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the mouth, Avhich exist in the duodenum. For a few inches near the pylorus they are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp seed. The glands consist of lobules, with appertaining excretory tubes: and each ends on the surface of the mucous membrane by a duct (c), Avhose aperture is slightly larger than the mouths of the contiguous crypts of Licberkiihn ; they secrete mucus. Epithelium. The epithelial lin- ing of the mucous membrane of the small intestine is of the cohnnnar or cylindrical kind. On the villi it forms a distinct cover- ing of elongated pieces. It sinks into the crypts of Lieberkiihn, and into the ducts of the glands of Brunner, and gives them a lining. * A. A piece of mucous membrane enlarged, with its villi and tubules Part of a patch of Peyer's glands is also represented with the follicles in) each having a ring of tubes at the circumference, b. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm). t Magnified vi^ew of the mucous membrane of the duodenum with the tubules of Lieberkuhn, and a gland of Brunner. a. Tubules b Gland of ?i.'"?rf'\ -^""^ °^ Slaud. d. Submucous layer of muscular'fibres (Kulhker).501 LARGE INTESTINE. Dissection. To demonstrate the areohir tissue between the coats How to see of the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out is to be "asur^^*"^ inflated forcibly ; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the in- testine may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. The branches of arteries ramify in the Arteries of submucous layer, and end in a network of small twigs in the tine^r*^^' mucous membrane, which supplies the folds, the villi, and the glands. Opposite Peyer's patches the intestine is most vascular ; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, before supplying offsets to them. The veins have their usual resemblance to the veins; companion arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial set (lymphatics) in the absorbents, muscular coat; and of a deep plexiform set (lacteals) in both the mucous and submucous layers. The tAvo sets join, and all end in larger trunks in the mesentery. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upper mesenteric Nerves form plexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, form wUhgan- plexuses with interspersed ganglia. One such plexus is contained siia. in the muscular coat between the longitudinal and circular fibres (Auerbach) ; and another is placed in the submucous layer (Meiss- ner) : they join freely by branches through the intestinal coats, and reach from the p^dorus to the extremity of the alimentary tube. Structure of the common bile duct. The bile duct consists of an Two coats external or strong fibrous layer, and of an internal or mucous coat Jhict*^ ' ^ which is lined by columnar epithelium. On the surface of the epithelium inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous ^^'^ glands, glands, which are imbedded in the fibrous coat; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between ^^^^^tof the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division and its attach- ° ment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been described (p. 470). In length this part of the alimentary canal measures about five length: or six feet,—one fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement in the ca>cum, ^^^e. and gradually decreases as far as the rectum, where there is a dilata- tion near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished by the following characters :—It is of greater capacity, being in gut, larger; some parts as large again, and is more fixed in its position : it is602 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. more fixed not coiled; sacculated with bauds, not in the rectum. Append- ages. Take pieces of the lai-gu intestine. Definition of Cfficum : Icngtli and widtli: receives ileum and appendix. Vemiifonn ajipendix: attach- ment ; dimensions. It is hollow. Dry the <'a;cuni, open it to see the valve. Fig. 153.* also free from convolution, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations ; but at the lower part of the large intestine (rectum), the surface is smooth, and the longitudinal bands have disappeared. Attached to the surface at intervals, especially along the transverse colon, are processes of peritoneum containing fat,—the appendices epiploica;. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the large intestine the student should cut off and blow up the cajcum, with jDart of the ileum entering it; he should prepare in a similar way a piece of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 153, a) (caput caecum coh) is the rounded part of the large intestine which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the junc- tion of the ileum with it. It mea- sures about two inches and a half in length, and though gradually nar- roAving inferiorlj-, the cajcum is the Avidest part of the colon,—hence the name caput coli. At its iimer side it is joined by the small hitestine (Z^); and still lower there is a small wonn- like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Ajipendix vermiformis (fig. 153, c). This httle convoluted i^rojection is attached to the lower and hinder part of the ca;cum, of which it was a con- tinuation, at one period, in the em- bryo. From three to six inches iji length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is comiected to the mner part of the caecum by a fold of peritoneum. It is hollow, and has an aperture of communica- tion with the intestine (r7). In struc- ture it resembles the rest of the colon. „ , Dissection. To examine the interior of tlie caecum, and the valve between it and the small intestine the specnnen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made mto it:—One oval piece is to be taken fr-om the ileum near its tenmnation ; another from the side of the Ccocum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. Interior of a COT dried and laid open. a. C-ecum. i. Small intestine c Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, c. Ilio-colic piece of Zy^'e at the junction 0 the small intestine. /. Ilio-c^ecal piece It the valre I Ketinaculum of the valve on each side. ^'STEUCTURE OF THE COLON. 503 Ileo-cacal valce (fig. 153). This valve is situate at the entrance situation of of the ileum into the caecum. It is composed of two pieces, each ^^^^ ^''^^^'^ • with a dilferent inclination, which project into tbe interior of the j^^jP'*^^'^'* CtBcum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of com- munication between the two differently-sized portions of the alimen- tary canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic (e), projects horizontally One iieo- into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the ^"^'^' colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal (/), which is the lai'ger of the other the two, has a vertical direction between the ileum and the c.ecum. ^j^^g^*^^^' At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended joined at together ; and the resulting iDrominence (r/) extends transversely on each side of the intestine, forming the//-a;«a or retinacula of the f"yn;°^"^ valve. The size of the opening depends upon the distension of the Openiug in Intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the ^^"^ margins of the apertm-e are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by circular muscular fibres of The valve a the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane ; as if the ileum ofttiew^aU^ was thrust obliquely through the wall of the' Ctccum, after being of gut. deprived of its peritoneal coat and layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longituchnal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum from the caecum. The opening of the cq^pewHx into the caecum {d) is placed below Appendix that of the ileum. A piece of mucous membrane partly closes the clecum."'^'^ aperture, and acts as a valve. Folds or ridijes are directed transversely in the interior of the gut. Ridges in and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds ^^'^^^' result fi-om the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest how 1 1 formed, enclose vessels. Structure of the Colon. The coats of the large are similar to Four strata those of the small hitestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and of the gut. mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, ^.919^^ - in PI (.litters 0,1011^ throughout, m the same degree. It covers the front or the Ccccum, tlie iutes- and the £ront and sides of the ascending and descending colon ; but in neither does it reach commonly the posterior aspect (p. 475). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has intervals along the borders, wher(j the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and circular fibres, Two layers as in the small mtestme. libres; The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the longitudinal surface, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about a quarter of an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix the ^yj^^^jj fibres form a uniform layer ; but they are continued thence into the bands on the cajcum and colon : on the rectum they are dif- and rectum fused over the surface. When the bands are divided the intestine504 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Fibrous coat as in small gut. Mucous poat is without folds and ^illi. Structure like that of email gut. elongates,—the sacculi, and the ridges in the interior of the gut, disappearing at the same time, and circular. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are most marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. "Ylw fibrous coat resembles that of the small intestine. It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. The mucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intes- tine, is smooth, and of a pale yelloAV colour ; and it is not thrown into special folds, except in the rectum. The surface is free from villi; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large, can be distinguished from that of the small intestine. This differ- ence in the two portions of the alimentary tube is well marked on the ilio-ca^cal valve ; for the surface looking to the small intestine is studded with villi, whilst the lower surface, covered by the lining membrane of the cajcum, is free from those small eminences. Microscopic 02'>pearances. In a piece of fresh intestine the micro- scope will show the mucous membrane to possess small tubes or ciypts, and some larger solitary follicles ; with an epithelial cover- ing on the free surface, and a thin muscular layer (muscularis mucosa:) on the other, whose arrangement is similar to that of the small intestine. The tubules (fig. 154, occupy the whole length of the large gut, and resemble those of the small intestine, but are more nume- rous, and closer together. Their orifices on the surface are circular ('), and are more uniformly diffused than the apertures of the tubules in the small gut. A vertical section of the membrane (^) will show the tubes to extend vertically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be longer than the crj'pts of Lieberkiihn in the jejnmnn and ileum ; they measure from •g^yth to •j\jtli of an inch in length. The so called solitary f/Iamh (fig, 154, ^) are scattered here and there through the large intestine : but they are in greatest number in the c;vcum and vermiform appendix. They are whitish rounded bodies from -^^jth to J^th of an inch in diameter, and are situate in the submucous layer amongst the tubules. They are lymph follicles with a structure like that in the small intestine. Tlic epithelium is of the columnar khid, and enters the tubules. Vessels.^ The distribution of the vessels in the wall of the large intestine is the same as in tlie smaller bowel. Nerves. In the coats of the large intestine the nerves have the plexiform arrangement like that in the small gut. * Enlarged view of " a solitary gland," and of the tubulea of the mucous coat (Doehm). a. Gland of the large intestine, b. Tubules of the mucous membrane. 1. Surface opening. 2. Side view of the tubes. 3. Pits for the closed ends of the tubes iu the submucoiis tissue. Tubes or crypts more numerous and longer than Fig. 154.* those of .small intestine. Solitary glands most in the cajcum ; size and form : epithelium. Vessels, nerves, and505 PANCEEAS AND DUCT. The absorbent vessels form two sets as in the small intestine ; absorbents, after leaving the gut they join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE TANCREAS. Tlie pancreas (fig. 143, e) is a narrow flattened gland, from six Form and to eight inches in length, which has some resemhlance to a dog's • tongue. It is larger at the right than the left end ; and it is divisions, divided into head, tail, and body. The head, or the right extremity, occupies tlie concavity of the situation, duodenum; and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and touches The head the spleen. ^'"^ t^'^: The bod// of the gland is iiarrowest a little to the right of the and the vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and fi-om half an inch to an inch in thickness. The connections of the pancreas with surround- ing parts are described at p. 484. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface. Trace out and let the excretory duct be traced from the head to the tail by cutting away the substance of the gland. The small duct will be recognised by its whiteness. St][IUCTURE. The pancreas is a gland consisting of sej)arate lobules, it is a and is provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct giand°with- capsule ; but it is suiTouuded by areolar tissue, which projects into ^"g^j^j^^^ the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The fluid capsule, secreted by it assists in the digestion of the aliment. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a grayish white colour, and Texture and are united into lai'ger masses by areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each consists ultimately, as in the parotid, of the branchings of the like the ^ excretory duct, which end in closed vesicular extremities, and are f,jg^||''J^ surromided by a plexus of vessels. In the vesicles the epithelium ° is spheroidal. The duct of the pancreas (fig. 148, d) (canal of Wirsung) extends Thoduct of the entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower ' than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where extent; it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many braiiches. It finally ends by opening branches: into the duodenum, either in union with, or separate from tlie common bile duct (p. 497). Of the tributary branches, the largest is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures from y^-th to ^^ch in diameter near size and the duodenum. It is foiTned of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the Epithelium latter is lined by a cylindrical e2)itheliu7n, and is provided with and glands, small glands in the duct and its largest branches. Vessels, lymjphatics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been Vessels and described (p. 485) ; and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. "'^'^'^^ The nerves are furnished by the aolar plexus.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 506 THE 6PLEEN. Consistence and colour. Use. Form and jiosition. Size and weirfit. Surfuces. Borders. Extremi- ties. Sometimes accessory spleens. Two coats and special material. Serons coat nearly •complete. Fibrous coat •sends in- wards pro- cesses, structure. Interior of 4spleen, di.sposition of fibrous tissue to fonn an areolar structure. Tlie spleen is a vascular sj^ongy organ of a bluish or purple colour, sometimes approaching to gray. Its texture is friable, and easily broken under pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed vertically against the great end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thickness. Its weight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than the male. At the outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. The inner surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge, nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into which the vessels phuigc to ramify in the interior. Before and behind the ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the vessels enter is named the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi), vaiying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are fotmd occasionally, near the tissiu'e of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the great omentum. Structure. Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, a serous and a fibrous. It is formed hy a network of fibrous or trabecular tissue, wliich contains in its meshes the splenic pulp, with the Mal- pighian corpuscles. Throughout the mass the bloodvessels and the nerves ramify. No duct exists in connection with this organ. The serous or j^^ritoneal coat incases the spleen, and covers the surface except at the hilum and the posterior border. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. fibrous coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the fissure on the inner surface this investment passes into the interior with the vessels, to which it fumishes^sheaths: and if an attempt is made to detach this coat, namerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its inner surface. Its colour is whitish ; and its structure is made up of areolar and elastic tissues. Dissection. Tlie spongy- or trabecular structure will best appear, by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove the grumous-looking material. The trabecular tissue (tig. 155) foi-ms a network through the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its pro- cesses or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and average from yl^th to ^.^^th of an inch: they consist of fibrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely to- gether, and contain the proper substance of the spleen, and the vessels.STRUCTURE OF SPLEEX. 507 155.* Microscopic appearances. The characters of the spleen substance cannot be ascertained without the aid of the microscope. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass, which is lodged in the areolcc of the trabecular structure. Under the microscope this material is seen to be composed of a fine network of ramif3ing connective tissue corpuscles, with blood-cells in its meshes. The Ilalpighian corpuscles are small rounded whitish bodies, about -g^^th of an inch in diameter, and are connected with the outer coat of the smallest bi-anches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp of the spleen, and are surrounded by it. In structure they are like the lymph follicles of the intestine, consisting of reticular tissue, with lymph corpuscles in its meshes, through which blood-capillaries pass. Bloodvessels. The larger hrancJies of the splenic artery are suiTOunded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabecular; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. In the smallest branches, with which the !RIalpighian corpuscles are united, the outer coat is thickened by lymphoid tissue, and is directly continuous with those bodies in structure. The splenic vein begins in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. From the union of these radicles arise small branches, which unite into trunks larger than the accompanpng arteries, and issue by the fissure of the spleen; in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Nerves ami lynqjhatics. The hjmpluitics are superficial and deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum. In the spleen they begin in the corpuscles of jVIalpighi, and in the outer coat of the smallest arteries ; they are conveyed to the hilum of the spleen on the vessels. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and sur- round the artery and its branches. Siilenic ]iull>; colour, and coiiiposi- tiou. l^r.alpighiaii bodies ; size; sti'iicture. Splenic artery. Ending. Peculiarity in smaller branches. Vciu begins by open spaces. Branches. Lymphatics. Nerves. THE LIVEU. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body. <^0'ice of the Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 15G). Preparatory to examining the liver, the clean vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. Tl lis proceed- un(ier ing will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena porta3 surface; Avith tow or cotton wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its * A drawing of the trabecular structure of the spleen of the ox, at some distance from the hilum.508 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. duct. The several vessels and the ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned, follow left On following outwards the left branch of the vena portal to the vluapirta? longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united anteriorly with the round ligament or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the fine fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus. Colour anil The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence ; and consistence; ^ygjgijg commonly in the adult from three to four pounds (fifty to weight; sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures from ten to twelve measure- inches ; from front to back between six and seven inches ; and in uieuts. thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measure- ment varies with the spot examined. Form and In shape the liver is somewhat square. It has many named divisions. parts, viz. two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities ; and the under surface is further marked by lobes and fossa', and by fissures which contain vessels. The connections and the ligaments of the liver are described at p. 471 and p. 476. Upper Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is convex: extending smooth • from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the under larger. The under surface is rendered irregular by lobes, fissures, irre^lar. ^^^^ fossaj : in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longi- tudinal sulcus divides it into a right and a left lobe. Anterior Borders. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : audu"tci"ed opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the under surface before posterior alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the gall-bladder, thicker, The posterior border is much thicker at the right than at the left notched ^^^^^' ^^^^^ thickened part it touches the right kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral colunm is a hollow in this border ; and the vena cava is partly imbedded in it on the right of the spine. Extremities. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded ; and the left is thin and flattened. Lohes on Lohes. On the luider surface the liver is divided primarilv into surface are two lobes, a right and a left, by tlie antero-posterior or longitudinal live, viz. fissure ; and occupying this surface of the right lobe are three others, viz. the square, the Spigelian, and the caudate lobe :— The left lobe, n, is smaller and thinner than the right, and there is a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. right; Tlie right lobe, A, forms the gi-eater part of the liver, and is , separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the one divided into j. ^ ^ .^ ,. aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached below ; and the following lobes are pro- jections on its imder surface :— square, The square lobe, c (lobulus quadratus), is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posterioriy to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus.LOBES AND FISSURES OF LITER. 609 The Spigelian lobe, d, lies behind the transverse fissure, and Spigelian, forms a roundish projection on the surface. On its left side is the longitudinal fissure ; and on its right, the vena cava inferior. The caudate lobe, e, is a slight, elongated eminence, which is and caudate directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissiu-e, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. Fissures. Extending horizontally half across the right part of Three the liver between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the square lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. Fig. 156.* It is situate nearer the posterior than the anterior border, and con- rortai or tains the vessels, nen-^es, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At t™'^^'^^'"^®' the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure, F, extends from the froiit to the back of longitudl- the liver, between the right and left lobes. In the part anterior ' to the transverse fissure lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a i^iece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis). In the part behind that fissure is contained a small obliterated cord (d), the remains of the vessel named ductus venosus in the fetus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the one for the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the cava be opened, two large and some smaller hepatic veins will be obser\'-ed entering it. Fossce. On the under surface of the right lobe are three depres- Fossx beneath. * Under surface of the liver. A. Right, and b, left lobe. c. Quadrate lobe. D. SpigeHan, and e, caudate lobe. f. Longitudinal fissure, o. Gall- bladder. (7. Vena cava. Z». Venaportre. c. Round ligament, rf. Obliterated ductus venosus. e. Common hepatic duct. /. Cystic duct. g. Common bile duct. h. Hepatic artery.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 510 Vessels in tlie transvei-sc fissure. He]iatic duct. Hepatic arteiy. Vena iiortif. Umbilical vein in the fetus; condition after Itirtli. Lolnilar stracture : incased by two coats. Serous coat. where deficient. Fibrous covering is prolonged to the interior. Lobules of the liver; sions :—one for the gall-bladder to the right of the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior edge ; and a third for the kidney near the posterior border. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz. vena port.-v, hepatic artery and duct, have the folloAving position :—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The lieputie (hut (fig. 15G, e) is formed by two branches from the liver, one from each lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct (g). The hejyatic artery (Ji) is divided into two, one for each lobe, and its branches are surrounded by ner\-es and lymphatics. The vena jyortcc (h) branches, like the artery, into two trunks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longest. Fetal condition of the umbilical rein. Before birth the per^^ous umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens pos- teriorly into the vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied from it to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left piece of the vena porta?. Purified or placental blood circulates through the vessel at that period. Adult state. After birth the part of the umbihcal vein in front of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament (fig. 156, c). The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord {d) remaining in its place. Whilst the lateral branches, which arc in the same line as, and continuous with the left branch of the vena porta", remain open, and subsequently form part of the left division of the vena porta;. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious. Structure of the Liver. The substance of the liver consists of small bodies called lobules or acini; together with vessels which are concerned both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutri- tion of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fihrous corerinrj is very thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) suiTounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 159, I) constitute511 STRUCTURE OF LIVER. the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or by means of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies ai'e about the size of a pin's head, and measure from -jVh to y^th of an inch in diameter. Closely massed together they possess a dark central point; and there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they communicate by vessels. By means of transverse and ver- tical sections of the lobules, their form will appear flattened on the exterior, but many sided in the interior of the Yivev. They are clustered around the smallest divisions of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing fi-om the centre, something like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. To study the minute stnicture of the lobules, a microscope will be necessary ; and the different vessels of the liver should be minutely injected. Constituents of the lobules. Each lobule is composed of minute hepatic cells, which are arranged web-like amongst the ducts and vessels; and it is provided with a capillary network of vessels, Jig- 157.* and with a plexus of the bile duct. Cells of the lobules. The hepatic or biliary cells (fig. 157, d) form the chief part of the lobule; they are irregular in foi-m, being rounded or many sided, and pos- sess a bright nucleus, or even more than one. In size they vary from -j^oo^li to ^i^th of an inch. They are of a yellow- ish colour, and enclose granuhir particles, together with fat and yellow colouring matter. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form roAVS radiating from the centre, with spaces (&) between them for the bloodvessels and ducts. The cells are concerned in the secretion of the bile. Vessels of the lobtile (fig. 158, b). The smallest branches of the vena j^ortce, after uniting in a circle around the lobule, where they are named interlobular (a), enter its substance, and form therein a network of capillaries (c) near the circumference. A small branch of the heimtic vein (d) occupies the centre of the lobule ; its radicles communicate with the portal network, and it issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles of the bile duct (fig. 158, a) begin within the lolnilc in a fine intralobular plexus of ducts (g) between the hepatic size .and appearance; form. Position to veins. A lobnle is a distinct uland. Biliary cell of tha lobule, form; size, and contents; Its vessels, viz. vena portiu, lieiiatic vein. and bile duct: * A magnified representation of the hepatic cells with their arrangement in the lobule, a. Cells, b. Intercellular spaces (Hcnle).512 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. use of the vessels. Vessels in the liver. Capsule of eiissoD. Vena port« occupies portal cauals, cells (Chrzonszczewsky) ; they leave the lobule at the circunif erence, and are joined together outside it in the smallest interlobular branches (/). , x i.i * i From the arrangement of the vessels, it appears that the portal vein conducts the blood fi-om which bile is secreted ; that the bepatic vein carries away the superfluous blood ; and that the secreted bile is received by the plexus of the biliary duct. Vessels of the Liver. Two sets of bloodvessels ramify m the liver:—One enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces (portal canals) where it is enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) run from the anterior to the poste- rior border of the liver without a like sheath. The ramifications of these different vessels are to be followed in the liver. The copmle of GUs- son is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramif}', and in it they are minutely divided before their termination in the lo- bules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the ves- sels will retract some- what into the loose surrounding tissue. The vena i)ort(c rami- fies in the liver like an artery ; and the blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., from trunk to Ijranches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 159, r). The * A. Two lohules of the liver showing the plexus of ducts in the interior, near the circumference (Kiei-nan) ; recent inquiries demonstrate the existence of a plexus throughout the lobule, g. Intralobular plexus. /. Interlobular ducts, e. Small branches of the hepatic ducts. B. Lobules of an injected liver to shoxs- the arrangement of the veins, a. Smallest branches of the vena i^ortse ending in the interlobular veins, h. c. Plexus of portal veins within the lobule, d. Intra-lobular commencement of the hepatic vein joining the plexus of the portal vein.VESSELS AND DUCT OF LIVER. 513 division is repeated again and again until the last branches of the vein {interlobular, fig. 158, h) penetrate between the lobules ; there they unite, and end in the interior as before explained. In the portal canals the offsets of the vetia xmrtcG are joined by- small vaginal and surface reiii-s, which convey blood from branches of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery (fig. 159, c), whilst surrounded by the capsule, furnishes vaginal branches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver, and supply twigs to the coats of the vena porti\3 and biliary ducts, and to the areolar Fig. 159.* tissue : from the vaginal branches a few offsets (capsuku') are given to the coat of the liver. Finally the artery ends in fine interlo- bular branches, fi'om which off- sets enter the lobule, and convey blood into the network between the branches of the vena port;vi and hepatic vein (Chrzonszczew- sky). The hepatic vein (venfe cavaj liepatic(e) begins by a plexus in the interior of each lobule (fig. 158, r7), and its smallest radicle issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein ; these are received into the sublobular branches, which anastomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Finally, uniting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hepatic veins fire directed fi-om before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into "which they open by large orifices. The vena3 cavaj hepaticas may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks : so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in conse- quence of their close connection with the liver structure. Hepatic duct (fig. 158, e). The duct commences in the biliary plexus within the lobules. On leaving the lobules the radicles communicate by the interlobular branches (/) ; and the smaller ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches (fZ), which lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into a right and a left trunk (fig. 15G, e), and leave the liver at the transverse fissure.f and supplies ^•;^yiual ;uid inter- lobular branches; receives vaginal branches. Hei>atic artery nourishes the vessels, and joins vena i)oi-tai: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath begin in the lobules. and end in the vena cava. Bile duct, beginning, branches. * Vessels in a portal canal, and the lobules of the liver (Kiernan). I. Lobules of the liver, p. Branch of the vena portas, with a, a, vaginal branches -which supply interlobular offsets, c. Hepatic artery, d. Hepatic duct. i, i. Openings of the interlobulai- branches of the portal vein. f Aberrant ducts exist between the pieces of the peritoneum in the left lateral ligament of the liver, and in the pons bridging over the vena portae and vena cava ; they anastomose together, and are accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz., vena portiB, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein.514 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. ytructure of niediinu- sized and smallest ducts. Lympha- tic 8. Sfntcture. The moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a fibrous coat, hned by a mucous layer with cylindrical epithe- lium ; and penetrating the wall is a longitudinal roAv of openmgs, on each side, leading into sacs, and into branched tubes which sometimes communicate. In the fine interlobular ducts the coat is fonned by a homogeneous structure, with columnar epithelium (Henle). ^ . • Lympliatics of the liver are superficial and deep. The superficial of the upper surface join the lymphatics in the thorax by piercing Superficial, the diaphragm, and end for the most part in the sternal glands ; those on the under surface enter chiefly the glands by the side of the abdominal aorta, a few uniting with the deep lymphatics, and the coronary of the stomach. The deep lymphatics accompany the vessels through the liver, and communicate with one of the large contributhjg tranks of the thoracic duct. Nerves come from the sympathetic and the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the vessels ; but their mode of ending is not ascertained. deep. Ner^'es, source. THE GALL-BLADDER. Use and situation; form; size; connec- tions. Structure of wall. Serous c(-at. Fihrons and muscular stratum. Mucous layer is areolar 0:1 surface, The gall-bladder (fig. 156) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and to the right of the square lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end { fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver ; whilst the smaller end (neck) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds rather more than an ounce. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdominal wall opposite the tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, where it is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder possesses a peritoneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end. The fihrous coat is strong, and forms the framework of the sac ; intermixed Avith it are some involuntary muscular fibres., the chief being longitudinal, but others circular. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honeycomb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall-bladder this condition Avill be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each extremity. In the bottom of the larger pits are depressions leading to recesses.515 STRUCT CTRE OF GALL-BLADDER. Fig, 160.* The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a cokmmar epithelium. Where the gall-bladder ends in the cj'stic duct (fig. 160) its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges resembling those in the sacculated large in- testine. The cystic duct (&) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the ductus com- mtmis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac from "which it leads, but the muscular fibres are veiy few. The mucous lining is provided with glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 514). On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to form about twelve semi- lunar projections (fig. 160, c), wliich are ar- ranged obliquely around the tube, and increase ( in size towards the gall-bladder. This struc- ture is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried; as in tliis state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Bloodressels and nerves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the A'-ena portal near the liver. The and covered by a columnar epithelium: projections of the wall. Duct of gall- bladder : structure same as sac. and is pro- vided with glands. Mucous coat like a screw. nei'ves are derived the vessels. The from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on the spinal column. Artery and vein. nerve and lymphatics. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The kidney has a characteristic fomti:—flattened on the sides, it Use and is larger at the upper than the lower extremity, and is hollowed out form, at one part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing To distjn- between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin bel-omicft.' turned to the spinal column, with the ureter or the excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour, red colour, with an even surface. Its average length is about four size, inches ; its breadth two ; and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. * Gall bladder and its duct. a. Gall bladder, h. Bile duct sacculated. c. Ridges in the interior. d. Comnaon bile duct, e. Common liepatic516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and weight. Extremi- ties ; sitrfaces; l)ordei-s. Contents of the fissure; their position! Sinus. Open tlie kidney, and clean the vessels. Kenal substance divided into cortical and pyi-aniidal. Pyramids; nxunber, apex, «nds'in papilla: Isase. Its usual weight is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker than the lower, and is surmounted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is flat, and more pointed. The position with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 472). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surface it is generally flattened. The outer border is convex; but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure,—hiJum. In the fissure the vessels are thus placed with respect to one another :—Tlic divisions of the renal vein are in fi-ont, the ureter is behind, and the branches of the artery lie between the two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify ; and areolar tissue and fat surround the Avhole. Opposite the fissure is a hollow in the interior of the kidney, named sinus^ in Avhich the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. Dissection. To see the interior it will be necessary to cut through the kidney from the inner to the outer border ; and to remove the loose tissue fi'om the vessels, and fi-om the divisions of the excretory duct. The hollow or sinus containing the bloodvessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the kidney (fig. IGl) appears on a section to consist of two diiferent materials, \iz.. of an external granular or cortical part; and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. But these unlike-looking parts are con- structed of urine tubes, though with a diflierent arrangement. The pyramidal masses (d) (py- ramids of Malpighi), are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge to the sinus of the kidney. The apex of each mass, which is free fi-om cortical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or painlla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in number, some being situate in a central depression and the others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the di\a- excretoiy tube. Occasionally two of the The base is em- Fig. 161. sions (calyx) of the masses are united in one papillary termination. * Section through the kidnej^ showing the medullary and cortical portions and the beginning of the ureter, a. Ureter, h. Pelvis of the ureter c Calyx of the excretory tube. d. Pyramidal portions ; c. Cortical portion of the kidney (Heme).EXCRETOEY TUBES OF KIDNEY. 517 bedded in the cortical substance, and is resolved into bundles of tubes which are prolonged into the cortical covering. Each pyramidal mass is constructed of uriniferal tubes (tubes of Composi- BelHni) which open below at the apex of the papilla (fig. 162, a); and the cut surface has a grooved appearance indicatory of its construction. If the mass is compressed, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical or investing 2)art (fig. IGl, e) fonns about three- Extent of fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer s°/bstauce; about two lines in thickness, and sends prolongations between the same nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the colour; kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass consistence, gives way beneath the finger. In the injected kidney red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered amongst the cortex, giving it a gi'anular appearance. Structure of the Kidney. The mass of the kidney consists of Kidney minute convoluted tubes, intermixed with bloodvessels, lymphatics, flbro^ls^coat'! nei-ves, and an intcrtubular matrix. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. The fibrous coat is a white layer, which is connected with the Fitoous kidney by fine processes and vessels, but is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the Iddney it sinks into sends in the sinus, and sends processes on the enteiing vessels and excretory " ^" duct. Strovia or matrix. Between the tubules and the vessels of theMati-ixof kidney is a uniting material, which surrounds and isolates them, and is most abundant in the cortical substance. It somewhat re- sembles areolar tissue in its nature, and is fibrous at some spots. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting tubes, and of the bloodvessels, the dissector will require a microscope, and good fine injections of the kidney. Secretory tubules. The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uiiniferi) occupy Urmiferous successively the cortical substance, and the Malpighian pyramids ; but they have a different arrangement in each part as below (fig. 162, a). mentr In the j\Iali)i(jh!an pyramid the ti;bes are straight, and ascend in tlie fi'om the apertures in the apex, bifurcating repeatedly, as far as pj^i'iJJItV'^^ the base, and forming a cone wliich resembles the stem and branches of a tree. At the wide end of the pyramid they are collected into size and bundles which reach nearly to the surface of the kidney, and be- eutimg come convoluted as they enter the cortex, but some unite in arches (Henle). Near the apex they measure •g-oi)^^'^ across, but the last subdivisions are only half that size, or of an inch. Descending between the straight tubes arc the small " looped mixed witii tubes" of Henle (fig. 162, g). These run down fr om the cortical jj^Jde, substance nearly to the apex of the pyramid, where they turn up- wards, forming loops with the convexity down, and ascend to open which are into the straight tubes : their size is about a third of the others. In the cortical substaiice the tubes are more numerous and very in the convoluted (fig. 163) ; they have an average width of -jji^th of an SatioDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 518 arc con- voluted, and end; inch, and ai-e surrounded by a capillary plexus of bloodvessels (fig. 164 A). At the one end (farther) each tube is dilated into the Malpighian corpuscle (/>) ; and at the other it passes into a straight tube or joins an " arch " at the base of the pyramid. The " looped Fig. 162. Fig. les.f mixed with looped tubes : structiu'C. Malpighian bodies, position; .size and composi- tion. The capsule; liow fonned. The blood- vessels. tubes" of Henle (fig. 1G2) have the same arrangement as the larger tubuli uriniferi in the cortical substance. The wall of the convoluted tubes consists of a thin basement membrane, and is lined by a thick, nucleated, and granular epithe- lium. Malpigliian corpuscles (fig. 164, a). These small bodies are con- nected with the free ends of the convoluted tubes, one to each : and are arranged in double rows in the cortical substance between the pjTamids, one row being on each side of an iiiterpyramidal branch of artery, fi"om which they receive twigs ; each measures about YY^th of an inch, and consists of an incasing capsule with an enclosed tuft of bloodvessels (glomerulus). The capsule (i) is the dilated end of the convoluted tube, and is perforated at the extremity by two small bloodvessels. Its wall consists of a thin basement membrane, and is lined by a transparent laminar epithelium. The glomerulus (fig. 164, b) is formed by the intercommunications * Plan cf the arrangement of the luiniferal tubes, a. Tube at its ending in the pjTamid. h. Divisions of the same tube in the pyramid, d. Arches of Henle. c. Twisted tubes joining the " arches." g. Looped tube of Henle, with its convoluted part, /, and Malpighian corpuscle, c, in the cortical sub- stance. f Plan of contorted urine tubes ending in Malpighian corpuscles, which are connected with the small arteries {d). a. Urine tube. b. Malpighian cor- puscles, c. Interpyramidal branch of renal artery (Bowman).BLOODVESSELS OF KIDNEY. 519 of two vessels piercing tlie capsule, and is clothed with epithelium. One of the two, the afferent vessel (d), is an off'set of the renal artery, and divides into convoluted loops of the fineness of capil- laries, which form the exterior of the tuft. The other, the efferent vessel (/), begins in the interior of the tuft by the union of the loops on the outer surface ; and passing out is distributed in a close network of capillaries (</) on the convoluted lu-iue tubes ; and in one with elongated meshes on the straighter tubes near the pyramids. The office of the glomerulus is to secrete the watery part of the urine. Bloodvessels. The artery and vein distributed to the kidney are veiy large in proportion to the size of the organ they nourish. Menal artery. As the artery enters the kidney it divides into four or five branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and reach the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi, where they form arches. From those arches arise small interpyramidal two, aflcrciit, and, efterent, which niiitu. Use of ylonierulus. Bhwd- vessels of kidney. Branches of the artery supply MalpiyliiaTi bodies, Fis. 164.* A B branches, which ascend towards the surface, and furnish the afferent twigs to the Malpighian bodies, whose arrangement has been re- ferred to. Other offsets are supplied to the capsule and matrix of the Iddney ; the former anastomose with the subperitoneal branches of the lumbar arteries. Straight vessels descend amongst the tubes in the pyi-amids of j\Lalpighi, and some form loops like the tubes of Henle. Eenal vein. This vein begins in the capillary plexuses on the convoluted urine tubes ; and its small branches, receiving twigs fi-om the matrix and the fibrous coat, unite into larger veins, which anastomose fi-eely around the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. At this spot they are joined by offsets from capillary plexuses in * Plan of the vessels connected with the urine tubes, a. a. Urine tube. I. End-dilatation. c. Interpyramidal artery. d. Afferent branch. e. Glomerulus. /. Efferent vessel, y. ^Plexus of capillaries around the urme tube. h. Eadicles of the veins. B, e. Glomeruhis. d. Afferent and /, efferent vessel of the glomerulus Bowman and texture of the kidney: straight vessels in pyramids. Veins begin around tubules; anastomose around jiyramids.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 520 and unite into one. Nen'cs. Absorbents. Ureter; office; length. Size varies. Course, and connec- tions. Sometimes double. Ureter dilated near the kidney, has calicos, which embrace pyramids. Two coats in ureter, muscular and mucous Epithelium many layers. The callces also two coats. the pyramids ; and the larger trunks then accompany the arteries to the sinus of the kidney. Finally all are united into one trunk, which opens into the vena cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced to the smaller branches of the artery. The absorhents are superficial and deep :—The deep absorbents are supposed to begin in a plexus between the urine tubes. Both unite at the liilum of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The URETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and temiination the canal measures fi'om sixteen to eighteen inches in length. Its size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named 2>eh'is ; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the naiTOwest part of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course fi-om the one "snscus to the other, the ureter is close beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen as far as the pelvis ; here it changes its direction, and becomes almost horizontal. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the middle of the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac artery, being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it lies below the level of the obliterated h}-po- gastric arteiy. Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance. Part in tJie hidney (fig. 161, i). Near the kidney the ureter is dilated into a pouch called x>elvis ; and it begins by a set of cup- shaped tubes, named calices or infundibula, which vaiy in number from seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped process embraces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives the urine fi-om the apertures in that projection ; sometimes a calyx surrounds two or more masses. The several calices are united together to fonn two or three larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the m-eter. Stnidure. Besides an external fibrous layer, the ureter possesses a muscular and a mucous coat. The muscular covering is composed of an external or longitudinal, and of an internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the ureter. Its epithelium consists of layers of cells of diiferent shapes ; thus, at the fi-ee surface they are squarish, at the attached surface rounded, whilst in the intermediate strata they are cylindrical (Kollikcr). The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the pyramid the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney ; andSUPRAEENAL BODY. 521 at the apex the mucous lining is prolonged into tlic uriniferal tubes through the small openings. Vessels. The arteriex are numerous but small, and are furnished VcsscLs. by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins correspond with the arteries. The lijnijjhatics are received into those of the kidney. Lymphatics. THE SUPRARENAL BODY. This small body, whose use is unknown, has received its name Use from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excretory duct. •l^ct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper extremity and fore Situation, part of the kidney ; and Avithout care it may be removed with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish yellow. It is like a cocked hat in form, with the upper part convex, and the Form and base or lower part hollowed, where it touches the kidney. colour. In the adult it measures about one inch and a half in depth, and Size and rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, ^ ' but the left is commonly larger than the right* Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the Iddney ; and Connec- large vessels and nerves retain it in place. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, with part of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. Structure (fig. 165). A perpendicular section shows the suprarenal Two body to be formed of a firm or external (cortical) j^art, and of an structures ■ internal (niedullary) soft and dark material. With the microscope p^^j, this body may be seen to consist of cells, which are lodged in spaces ^"^^ formed by a stroma of areolar tissue, with vessels and nerves. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule (a), which sends Surrounded processes into the interior, and along the bloodvessels. capsule. The cortical part, yellowish in colour and striated, forms about cortical two tliirds of the thickness of the whole body. Its stroma of areolar v^^'^- tissue (a) fonns a thin surface layer, and is connected internally j^'"{ig!.\'ie'^" with processes or septa, Avliich ai"e so arranged as to build up spaces forms elongated from without inwards, and an-anged vertically around the centre; but near the surface there are smaller oval spaces, some of them crossing the deeper and larger. The spaces or loculi (Z>) are for masses filled by columnar masses of cells, but slight force readily removes these from their containing hollows. The central or medullary portion (c) is rather red in colour, or it Mwiidlary may be dark brown or black from the presence of blood. About J''*'^' , . , , ,. , , ., . , 1, „ ^ Thickness. half as thick as the cortical part, it possesses intornally small round or oval spaces, on a section, which are vein trunks cut across. The areolar tissue of its stroma is veiy fine, and forms a network with Spaces in it.522 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Its tissue forms a net- work for cells. Characters of the cells in cortex, size; in medullary part. Ai-teries. Veins. Nerves. yT^^^^th of an inch Fig. 165.* small but regular meshes ; and the medullary is separated generally fi-om the cortical portion by a layer of areolar tissue. Cells fill the meshes. Cells. The cells filling the loculi of the stroma in the cortex, are micleated with oil globules and fine granules ; and being packed in masses, they take on a polygonal form : they measure about the In the medullary portion the cells resemble those of the cortex, except that they do not contain oil particles ; and they are rather larger and more granular, measur- ing about YoJoy^h of an inch. Bloodvessels. Numerous arteries are fur- nished to the suprarenal body fi'om the diaplu-agmatic and renal vessels, and fi-om the aorta. In the interior the arteries ramify in the cortex along the septa be- tween the cell masses; and, fi-equently anastomosing together, end in a fine capil- lary network, with elongated meshes, around the loculi. In the medullary part the fine arteries are distributed through the stroma. The veins originate in capillary plex- uses ; and the several radicles, uniting in large branches which pass through the centre of the medullary part, are collected finally into one trunk ; this opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the vena cava. Nerves. The nerves are very nimierous and large, and pass in- Avards along the septa of the cortical part: branching, they extend between the cortical and medullary parts in the layer of areolar tissue, and in the medullary substance they fonn a network in the areolar structure, but their ending is unknown. Lymphatics are superficial and deep, and both join those of the kidney ; the arrangement of the deep is undetermined. THE TESTES. sitimted in '^^^'^ testes are the glandular organs for the secretion of the semen, the scrotum. ^^^^^^"^ is suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cord and its coverings (p. 452), but the left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac partly surrounds each organ. To see the Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make a small aperture into it at the * Vertical section of the suprarenal body. a. Surface layer of stroma, h. Cells in the cortex, c. Medullary portion, d. Spaces in the raedullary part (Harley).CHARACTEES OF TESTIS. 523 upper pnrt, and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned ; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis (fig. 1G6, (/) is a serous bag, which is con- tinuous in the fetus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but becomes subsequcntl}^ a distinct sac through the obliteration of the part connecting the two. It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes; for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covei'ing the testicle, and Fig. 166.* projects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an ex- ternal rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface ; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly where the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and forms a pouch between the testis and the arched body (epididymis) on this aspect of the organ. The parietal part of the sac (tvmic. vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the contiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and poiiition of the testis (fig. 166). The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. The anterior margin is convex ; and the pos- terior, which is flattened, is pierced by the spei'ltrafic vessels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer part is the epididymis {h). Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body (c) two or three lines in length, (corpus Mor- gagni,) which is the remains of the upper end of the fetal duct of Miiller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tunica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and lueight. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or two inches ; fi'om before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less than an incli. Its weight * The testis with the tunica vaginalis laid open, a. Testicle. I. Head of the epididymis, c. Corpus Morgagni. d. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. e. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Yas deferens. Tunica vaKiualis partly covers the testicle, and lilies scrotuiii. Its visceral part. and iiarietal. Testicle oval. MarKius. Corpus Suspended obliquely. Dimensions, and weight.524 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. larger than the A dense tunic con- tiiius siuiill secreting tubes. How to see the stnic- ture of the testis. is nearly an ounce, and the left is frequently other. Structure. The substance of the testicle is composed of minute secerning tubes, around which the bloodvessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and supporting the delicate scminiferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named yhh deferens. Dissection. With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. that on Avhich the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed firmly in that position with pins. The fibrous coat is to be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the' entrance of the bloodvessels. Whilst raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring more fidly into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica alhutjinea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This membrane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and \m- yielding structure : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These several offsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (fig. 167, d) (corpus Highmorianum) pro- jects into the gland for a third of an inch with the bloodvessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower part, and is rather larger and deeper above thaii below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle. To its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are contained the bloodvessels behind, and a network of seminal ducts in fi-ont (rete testis). Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea (fig. 1G7, h) which enter the testis, there are two kinds. One set round and cord-like, but of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and sen-es to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms delicate mend)ranous septa, which divide the mass of seminal tubes into lobes, and join the mediastiimm, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, tunica vas- (tmip?'''*(^"' ^- Cooper), which lines the fibrous coat, covering the vascuiosa). different septa in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the bloodvessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the small veins are collected into larger trunks. Form and length of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). The secerning or seminal tubes are very convoluted, and are but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood- Fibroiis coat; characters; use. Sends inwards processes. as the me- diastinum and finer septa a vascular Seminal tubules; aii])earauce and525 SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTIS. vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis for some distance : their length is said by Lauth to be two feet aud a length, quartei". Ending, nize and structure. Within the lobes of the testis some Communi- tubes end in distinct closed extremities ; but the rest communicate, • forming loops or arches. The diameter of the tubules varies from •j-i-^th to y-jyth of an inch. The wall of the tubule is formed of a size; thin translucent membrane, but it has considerable strength. Lining the interior in the child is a iiucleated granular epithelium, with structure; polygonal cells ; but in the adult the tube is filled by cells in diffe- rent stages of development of the spermatic corpuscles. On the exterior is a plexus of bloodvessels. Names from the arranr/ement of the tubes. To different parts of 'Twijes^ the seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Where name, the tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they Fig. 167.* become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Com- municating in the medias- tinum, they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper part of the gland they are convoluted, and are called coni vasculosi, or vasa etferentia. The lobes of the testis (fig. 167, a) are formed by bundles of the seminifez-al tubes, and are situate in the inten'^als between the processes of the tunica albuginea : their num- ber is differently stated :—according to one authority (BeiTCs) they numlier, are 250; but according to another (Krause) 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, shape, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle are the largest. Each is made up o£ one, two or more tortuous seminal tubules ; tubes in ^ and the minute tubes in one lobe are united with tliose in the aiTa'nL'e- neighbouring lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are imited together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are further joined at the same spot into larger canals —the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti (fig. 167, c). Tlie seminal tubes unite together, Tubes next * Vertical and horizontal sections of the testis to sliow the arrangement of the seminal tubes, and septa, a. LoIdcs of the testis, b. Septa between the lobes, c. Tubuli recti, d. Mediastinum testis, c. Rete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. g. Globus major, h. Bod}^, and i, globus minor of the epididy- k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. n. Rete testis, Tlicy form the lobes : mis. cut. 0. Finer septa, p. Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut across.526 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. l>eooine straiijlit (tuliuli recti); aftenvards join to- gether (retc testis). and leave the gland as vasa efferentia. Structure. Excretoi-y UlK^t is Tjent on the testicle forming epididymis: named parts. Is bnt a single tube length and size. Wliere it is .straight it is the vas deferens : this opens into the urcthi-a ; becoming larger (--i^th of an inch) and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta : they are about twenty in number, and piercing the fibrous mediastinum enter into the rete testis. Rete testis (fig. 1G7, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have very thin walls, and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the bloodvessels ; they communicate fi-eely so as to form a net- work. Vasa efferentia (fig. 1G7, /). About twelve or twenty seminal tubes issue from the top of the rete, and leave the upper part of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than tlie tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the common excretory duct. Though straight at first they soon become convoluted, and have been named coni vascuJosi. In the natural state they are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled they measure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at inten-als of about three inches. They have a muscular coat of longitudinal and circular fibres ; and the epithelium of the mucous lining is columnar and ciliated. The EXCRETORY DUCT rcccives the vasa efferentia from the uj^pev part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis: but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens. The epididymis (fig. 1G7, li) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it pi-esents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major, (g) ; and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (/), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the bodg (//). Its head is attached to the testis by the vasa efferentia ; and its lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis. The epididymis is fomied of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, ■ whose coils are united into a solid mass by fibrous tissue. After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it Avill then measure twenty feet in length. The diameter of its canal is about ^^^th of an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor, but it is increased finally in the vas deferens. The vas deferens (fig. 167, IS) begins opposite the lower end of the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. At first this part of the excretory duct is slightly wavy, but after- wards it becomes for the most part a firm round tube: near its ter- mination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends on the inner side of the testicle, and along the bloodvessels of the spermatic cord with which it enters the internal abdominal ring ; it is then directed over the side of the bladder, and through the prostate to open into theDUCT AND VESSELS OF TESTIS. 527 urethra. The leiig-tli of this part of the exci-etory duct is about two length and feet, and the width of its canal about -j-^^th of an inch. Opening sometimes into the vas deferens, at the angle of union Vas aberrans •with the epididymis, is a small narrow ca^cal appendage, the vcis present; ahen-ans of Ilaller (fig. 167, /). It is convoluted, and projects up- situation Avards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like and size, the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled : its capacity i^ gi'eatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. Structure. The excretoiw duct of the testis has a thick muscular Two coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- alict. nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular aiTanged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous memhrcme is marked by longitudinal folds in the and a straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. A columnar epithelium, though not ciliated, covers the inner surface ; but in the epididymis it is ciliaT;ed (Becker). Organ of Giraldes/~' In the spermatic cord of the fetus and child. Organ of close above the epididymis, is a small whitish granular-looking • body (" Corps Innomine," (xiraldes), about half an inch long—the remains of remains of the lower part of the Wolffian body of the embryo. ^^"/^'^'^ With slight magnifying power its component Avhite granules are ^Qj^gt;. resolved into small vesicles, and convoluted tubes of varying shape, tuents, filled with a clear thick fluid ; their wall consists of a thiii membrane, structure, lined by flattened epithelium, with plexuses of bloodvessels ramif}^- ing on the exterior. Bloodvessels arul nerves of the testicle. The branches of the sper- Spermatic matk artery supply offsets to the epididymis, and pierce the back of the testicle to enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea ; and ofi^sets are continued on the fine septa to the seminal tubules, on which the}^ are distributed in capillary plexuses. The sjiermatic vein begins by radicles in the plexuses around the Spermatic seminal tubes, and issues from the gland at the posterior part, being there joined by veins fi-om the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus ; it joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The arrangement of the lymphatics in the testicle is unknown ; Lympiiatica external to that body they ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the and nerves, arteries to the testis : their ending has not been seen. * Sur un Organe place dans le Cordon Spermatique, et dont I'existence n'a pas ete signalee par les Anatomistes. Par F. Girald^s. Proceedings of the Koyal Society for May, 1S58.528 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vessels of Vessels of the vas ileferens. A special arieiij is furnished to tlie the Uuct. excretoiy duct from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spei-matic artery. Veins from the epididymis enter tlie spennatic vein. The nerves are derived from the liypogastric plexus. Section Y. DIAPHEAGM WITH AOETA AND VENA CAVA. Dissect Idoodvesscls and muscles, To see the <liaiiliragm. Define arches. Diaphragm, .situation and fonii. Origin at the circum- ference. Insertion of fibres into a central tondon. Parts in f'ontact with the under surface. find with the upper. Attachment of border. Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the Back, the student should prepare first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be ncces- saiy to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendmous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vcrtebrjc. Whilst cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others in and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, near the spine, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected : —one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and will be made more evident by separating the fascia covering the quadratus from it. The DiAriiRAGM (fig. 1G8, ^) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is flesh}' externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, it is connected by fleshy slips with the posterior part of the xiphoid cartilage, and the inner surface of the six lower ribs; with two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column—one being placed over the quadratus hnnborum, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, it is comiected with the lumbar vertebrtc by a thick nmscular part or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, Avith different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon, but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted. The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the liver and the kidney ; and on the opposite side, the stomach the spleen, and the left kidney : in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each side and the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 369). At the circumference of the midriff the fleshy processes of origin529 DIAPHRAGM AND ITS ACTION. alternate with like parts of the transversalis muscle ; but a slight intervals in interval separates the slips to the xiphoid cartilage and seventh rib, and a second space exists sometimes between the fibres fi-om the last rib and the arch over the quadratus hnnborum muscle. In it Apertures. are certain apertures for the transmission of parts from the thorax to the abdomen. The muscle is convex towards the chest, and concave to the Arch, abdomen. Its arch reaches higher on the right than the left side (p. 327), and is constantly varying during life in respiration. In forced expiration the muscle ascends, and reaches as high as the Height in upper border of the right fourth rib at the sternum, and the upper expiration edge of the fifth rib on the left side, close to the sternum. In forced inspiration it descends, and its slope would be represented and inspi- by a line drawn from the middle of the ensiform cartilage to the eleventh rib. Action. As the muscle moves up and down during respiration, it is Use in depressed by the contraction of the fleshy fibres which are attached ^'^spiration. to the ribs and spine, and is raised during their relaxation. When the diaphragm descends it changes its shape. The central Form in tendon, which moves but slightly, remains the highest part of the i"«i"''^t'0" arch, whilst the sides which contract freely are sloped from the tendon to the wall of the thorax. During the ascent the midriflE retains nearly the same form as in a state of rest, for the tendon is and in expinitioii, * Under surface of the diaphragm, a. Diaphragm, b. Psoas magnus. c. Quadratus lumborum. a. Left piece of the tendon of the diaphragm ; b. middle ; and c, right piece, d. Left, and c, right crus. /. Inner, and outer arched hgament. h. Opening for vena cava; /, for a3sopliagus, k, for aorta, j, for sympathetic nerves. M M530 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Effect oil thorax and alxlomeii, on viscera, and on aiiertmvs. State in muscular efforts. Action in- voluntary. Special jiarts to be examined. Central tendon, lil<c a trefoil leaf. Two pillars. with certain reseni- Mances: arranjro- nient of fibres in each. as tliey a-scend to tendon: differences in the pillars. the lowest part of the arch, and the bulges on the sides reach rather higher. With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of the abdomen and thorax will be altered. In inspiration the thorax is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the upper part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and spleen,"are partly moved from beneath the ribs. In expiration the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored to its- fonner size ; and the displaced viscera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed ; but the other openings for the vena cava and aorta do not experience change. Preparatory to the making of a great muscular effort, the midriff' contracts, and descends for the purpose of permitting a fidl quantity of air to enter the thorax. Till the effort is over the diaphragm remains in a depressed position. Its action is commonly involun- tary, but the movement can be controlled by the will at any stage. Parts of the dicqjhrar/m. The following named parts, which have been noticed shortly in describing the muscle, are now to be re- ferred to more fully, viz., the centi-al tendon, the pillars, the arches, and the apertures. The central tendon (cordiform tendon) occupies the middle of the diaphragm (fig. 168), and is surrounded by muscidar fibres ; the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different directions. In form it resembles a trefoil leaf ; of its three segments the right (c) is the largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The ^>i7/rtr.s (crura) are two large muscular and tendinous pro- cesses (d and <?), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, where they are attached to the upper lumbar vertebrse, but large and fleshy above ; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverg- ing from each other : the greater number join the central tendon without intermixing, but the inner fibres of the two crura cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line decussating with the fibres of the opposite crus between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus. The fibres of the other crus (^7> may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oeso- phagean opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than that from the left, and is- commonly anterior to it. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right (e) is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebra;, and their intervertebral substance, reaching to the disc between the third and fourth verte- brae. The left pillar {d) (sometimes absent) is situate more on the side of the sjiine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not531 SPECIAL PARTS OF DIAPHRAGM. reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an inter- vertebral substance. The arches (Hganienta arcuata) are two fibrous bands on each Two arches, side over the quadratus huuborum and psoas muscles, which give origin to fleshy fibres. The arch over the psoas (hg. arcuat. internum/) is the strongest, internal and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the first or the second lumbar vertebra. The arch over the (juadratus hunborum (lig. arcuat. externum y) anciexteruai. is only a thickened part of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends firom the same transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. Apertures. There arc three large openings for the aorta, the vena Apertures cava, and the esophagus ; with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta (IS) is rather behind, than in the dia- For the phragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the contents spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. The opening for the oesophagus and the pneHmo-gastric nerves (/) is rather above and to the left of the aortic aperture ; it is placed in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres For of the pillars as above explained. auid Mrves. The opening for the vena cava (A) (foramen quadratum) is situ- For the ate in the right division of the central tendon ; and its margins are ^^'^'^ attached to the vein by tendinous fibres, excejit at the inner part. There is a jissure (j) in each pillar for the three splanchnic Fissures in nerves ; and through that in the left cms passes also the small n?^^^^^^- azygos vein. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt, the ribs that Take away support it on each side may be cut through, and the pieces of the oTthe^ ^ ribs with the fore part of the diaphragm may be taken away, to diaphragm, make easier the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior part of the diaphragm with its pillars and arches should be left; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The larsre vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena Clean aortn, , f'tiVti and cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, the remains of the branches, sympathetic, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and suprarenal body, and to the testicle. In like manner the large iliac branches of the also iliac aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery to the limb ; and on the iliac trvink .near the thigh, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought. The muscles are to be laid bare on the right side, but on the left Dissect side the fascia covering them is to be shown ; and the fat is to be "'"^'^ '^^' cleared aAvay from about the kidney. The psoas muscle, the most internal of all, lies on the side of the Psoas and M M 2532 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. spine, with the small psoas superficial to it occasionally. On its surface, and in the fat external to it, the following branches of the lumbar plexus will be found :—The genito-crural nerve hes on the nerves of lumbar plexus : Fig. 1C9. front. Four other nerves issue at the outer border—the ilio-hj^o- gastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior cniral at the lower part. Along * Deep view of tlie muscles, vessels, and nerves of the abdominal cavity (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles and viscera: A. Diaphragm with b, internal, and c, extei-nal arched ligament. i>. End of the cesophagus, cut. E. Small psoas. f. Large psoas, g. Quadratus lumborum. h. Iliacus. I. Kidney. J. Rectum, k. Bladder. Vessels: a. Diaphragmatic artery. 6. Aorta, c. Renal, d. Spermatic, c. Upper mesenteric, cut. /. Lower mesenteric, ff. Common iliac, and h, external iliac artery, k. Epigastric ai-tery, cut; by its side is the vas deferens, bending into the pelvis. I. Cir- cumflex iliac, m. Vena cava. n. Renal vein. o. Right spermatic vein, p,533 ABDOMINAL AORTA AND BRANCHES. the inner border of the psoas tlie gangliated cord of tlie sympathetic is to be sought, along with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle the obturator nerve may be recognised. External to the psoas is the quadratus quadratus hunborum, and crossing it near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle and iliacus. which unites, below with the large psoas. The ABDOMINAL AORTA (fig. 169, b) extends from the last dorsal Extent of vertebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm, and its tennination is placed on the left side of the umbiUciis, and netu-ly on a level with the highest part of the crest of the hip-bone. The chief connections of the vessel with surrounding parts have Connec- been before refen-ed to (p. 482), but some deep vessels in relation with it come now into view. As the aorta lies on the spine it rests on the left lumbar veins, which end in the inferior cava. And with deep between it and the right crus of the diaphragm lie the vena azygos ^ major, and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the kimbar lymphatic glands, from which large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoracic duct. The h'cmckes of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following Place of order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which ^nuiches; ^ leave the sides of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single ti*unk of the cceliac axis arises fi-om the front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the tnmk of the superior mesen- teric artery begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small capsular branch ; and below the renal is the speraiatic artery. From the front of the arterial trunk, one to two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery ; and from the angle of division the small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four small lumbar branches on each side come from the posterior part of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the lumbar vertebrte. The branches may be classified into two sets—one to the viscera their classi- of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall *ication. (parietal). The visceral brcmcJm are cocliac axis, superior and inferior mesen- Some^ teric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. This set has been examined, brauciiefs. except the renal, capsular, and spermatic. The renal arteries (fig. 1G9, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right Remii angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which enter the renal sub- stance between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath is beneath common iliac vein, and r, external iliac (this letter is put on the left arteiy instead of the vein just below it), s. Ureter. Nerves : 1. Phrenic. 2. IHo- hjpogastric, 3. Ilio-inguinal. 4, External cutaneous of the thigh. 5 and 6. Genito-crural. 7. Anterior crural.534 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. gives off- iiets: difference between left tincl riglit. Capsular artery. Spennatic artery is remarkable. Course to tlie testicle oondition in the fetus. In the female. Branches to wall of abdomen. Inferior phrenic; course of left and J ight: distribu- tion. Small offsets Other arteries to diaphragm. its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body (inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle caxisular artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body : this offset anasto- moses with the other branches of the suprarenal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the fetus. The sjyermat/c artery of the testicle (fig. 169, d) is remarkable for its small size in proportion to its length ; for leaving the cavity of the abdomen; and for having the part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord (p. 452). In its course beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter; and on the right side it passes over the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the spermatic plexus of nerves. In the fetus before the testicle leaves the abdomen the spermatic artcrj^ is very short, but the vessel elongates as the part supplied is removed fi-om its former site. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian) descends into the pelvis to end in the ovary and the uterus. The x>(trietal hranches of the aorta are the diaphragmatic, lumbar, and middle sacral. The diajjJirayinatic arteries (inferior phrenic) (fig. 1G9, «) are directed outwards along the under surface of the diaphragm near the posterior part, the left arterj- passing behind the cesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (internal) passes onwards towards the fore part of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with the branch (superior phrenic) to the diaphragm from the internal mammarj' (p. 253). The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with the musculo-phrenic and intercostal arteries. ^ Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external division of this artery are named superior capsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. On the under surface of the diaphragm are two branches of the internal mammary artery ; one (superior phrenic, p. 253) accompanies the phrenic nerve, and ramifies over the middle of the muscle ; the other (musculo-phrenic, p. 253) appears opposite the ninth rib,' and passing along the edge of the thorax, gives offsets to the lower intercostal spaces. Tlie other parietal branches, viz., lumbar and middle sacral, are not learnt in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus, and the latter in the pelvis.ILIAC ARTERIES AND VEINS. The COMMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. IG'J, (j) is directed outwards from Common tlie bifurcation of tlie aorta, and divides into two large trunks '^^'^"^' opposite the fibro-cartilage between the base of the sacrum and the temiiatlo'n. h\st himbar veiiebra :—one of these (external iliac) supplies the lower limb, and the other (internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed Conuec- obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to tlie ilio- Branches, lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some diffei-ences. The right artery is rather the longest, in consequence of the Difference position of the aorta on the left side of the spine. To its outer side ^g*^*^'''^ at first is the vena cava, and near its termination is the psoas muscle. The companion vein (^) is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the colon and left and the inferior mesenteric vessels ; and its companion vein is ^"^^^^" situate below it. The length of the common iliac ranges Ii'om less than half an Length, inch (in one case) to four inches and a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 169, li) is the first part of the External vessel leading to the lower hmb, and is contained in the cavity of J,j\vei!'ii^''i3*f the abdomen. Its extent is fi-om the bifurcation of the common extent and iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes direction. femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. The vessel hes above the brim of the pelvis in its course to Poupart's Connections ligament, and is covered closely throughout hy the peritoneum and aVouud'^'^*'* the subperitoneal fat. To its outer side is the psoas, except at its tennination mider Poupart's ligament, where the muscle lies beneath it. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and inner side of the artery. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near with otlier Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends down along its inner side, wliilst the spermatic vessels, and part of the genito-crural nerve lie and ncr\ e, on it for a short distance. The position of the external iliac vein (r) is not the same on both -iiiJ veins, sides. The left vein is altogether internal to the artery ; wliilst the right, though internal in position on the pubes, afterwards lies be- neath the arterial trunk. The circumflex ihac vein crosses it nearly <in inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two branches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise about Two a quarter of an inch from the end of the artery, and are distributed branches, to the wall of the abdomen (p. 454).536 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. Unnamed ott'sets. Orij^in of branches varies. Occasional brandies from it. Veins of the abdomen except vena porta;. Anatomy of external iliac: position to arteiy. Branches. Common iliac veins form cava : difference in length and connec- tions. Veins to it. Lovver cava is by side of the aorta: extent and connections. Branches from abdo- men. except those of digestive ai»paratus. Some small uimamed tw igs are given to the psoas muscle and the- lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in usval h-ancfies. The epigastric and circumflex branches- may wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the arter}'. In unusual branches. Though the trunk of the vessel is commonly fre& from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between the middle and the end by the obturator artery, or by the internal circumflex artery of the thigh. Iliac Veins akd Vena Cava (fig. 169). The larger veins of the abdomen con-espond so closely with the arteries, botli in number,, extent, and connections, as to render unnecessary much detail iu their description. As the veins increase in size from the circumfer- ence towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac (r) is a continuation of the femoral vein beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the aileiy of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac), to fonii the common iliac vein. On the pubes it is inside its companion artery, and lies between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; the left vein remains internal to, but the right slips beneath its artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliao (p. 455). The common iliac vein (fig. 169, jp) ascends by the side of its accom- panying artery, the right almost vertically, and the left obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the upper part), where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and lies at first behind, but after- wards outside the artery of the same name, below the artery of its own side, and crosses common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral branch ; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. The VENA CAVA INFERIOR (fig. 169, ??i) Collects and conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, below the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphi-agni. Its connections with the surrounding parts have been already noticed (p. 482), but the description may be referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Branches. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and dia- phragmatic), from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive apparatus, viz., the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena portas (p. 488) ; and the blood contained in those veins reaches the cava by the vena cavas hepatic.-e, after it has circulated through the liver. The left is altogether beneath the rightPSOAS AND ILIACUS MUSCLES. 537 The spermatic vein (fig. 169, o) enters the ubdomen by the internal Spermatic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 527). At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic arter}- ; but these soon join hi to one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at right cuds diffe- angles, and a small valve exists sometmies over the aperture ; on jefuimi" the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal veui. As I'ia'it .sides: the vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches i>iaiicUes. from the wall of the abdomen, and from the fat about the kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as in the Vein in tiic male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but occasionally there is one at its union with the renal. The renal or emuh/ent vein (fig. 169, n) is of large size, and joins Renal vein; the vena cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial''^^ to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, and joins the cava higher up usually difference on than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin ° of the superior mesenteric artery : it receives s^arate branches from the left spemiatic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared Suprarenal with the body from which it comes. The right opens into the cava, rentiy mi and the left into the renal vein. each side. The hepatic veins enter the vena cava where it is in contact with Hepatic the liver. These veins are described in the dissection of the liver (p. 509). The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the Lumbar arteries of the same name : they will be dissected after. The diaphracjviatic veins (inferior), two with each aiieiy, spring Phrenic fi-om the under surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OB' THE ABDOMEN'. Tlie deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumborum. The PSOAS MAGNUS (fig. 169, reaches from the lumbar vertebrae Psoas to the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly in the situation', thigh. The muscle arises from the fi'ont of the transverse processes of Origin: the lumbar vertebrse ; from the bodies and intervertebral discs of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebra3 by five fleshy pieces— each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebra?, and with tendinous bands over the bloodvessels opposite the middle of the vertebra?. The fibres give rise to a roundisli bell}-, wliich gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends inferiorly in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneatho3S insertion. Connections in front. bchiniL Of onter Tjonler, of inner border, along pelvis. Use to bend the hip- joint with iliacus, or to bend tiiink on tlie limb. rsoa.s 1 larvns; origin. Insertion; •often absent 'Use on r<l>ill(; .;ind jielvis. Iliacus has the form of the iliac fossa : ■"Origin ; insertion. Parts cover ing it on <)-|>posite •iides. Beneath it. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Poiipart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following connections : In front are the internal arch of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery. Posteriorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with part of the quadratus lumborum, and with the innominate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue fi'om beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebra?, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis:—along the attached part of this border lies the sympathetic nen'e, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac artery and vein. Action. If the femur is free to move it is raised towards the belly; and as the flexion proceeds, the limb is rotated out by the attach- ment of the muscle to the trochanter minor. The psoas is always combined with the iliacus in flexion of the hip-joint. When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles will draw down the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping to the ground. One muscle mider the same circumstances can incline the spine laterally. The PSOAS PARVUS (fig. 1G9, ^) is a small muscle with a long and flat tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra?, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio- . pectineal eminence and the brim of the pehns, joining the fascia over the iliacus muscle. Action. If the spine is innnoveable the two muscles will make tense the pelvic fascia. The pelvis being fixed they may assist in bending the lumbar part of the spinal cohnnn. The ILIACUS MUSCLE (fig. 1G9, ") occupies the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of tlie hip-bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas. It is triangular in fomi, and has a fleshy origin fxom the ihac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, from the base of the sacrum, and from the capsule of the hip-joint in front. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur, but some reach separately the femur near the small trochanter. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia; but over the right iliacus is placed the caecum, and over the left, the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip-joint ; and between it and the grooved anterior margin of the bone, above the jomt, is a bursa. The inner margin is in contact with the psoas and the anterior crural nerve. The con- nections of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dissection of the thigh.QUADRATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. 639 Action. The iliacus flexes the hip-joint with tlie psoas when the Use to bend femur is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the limb is '"^ fixed. In consequence of its union with the psoas, the two are '"'^^ described as the flexor of the hip-joint by Theile. The QUADRATUS LUMBORUM (fig. 169, is a short thick muscle Quadratus between the crest of the hip-bone and the last rib. About two inches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral ligament, and from the iliac crest of the hip-bone behind, and an inch outside that band. The fibres ascend to be inserted by distinct flesh}' and Insertion, tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper, or all the lumbar vertebrte ; and into the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia lum- it .is con- borum. Crossing the sm*face are branches of the lumbar plexus, sheath, together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spin;e niuscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle antago- Use of both nising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterall}^ the lumbar part of the spine to of cue. the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus Fascia of the is a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis •l^^'^^'^t"''- of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum, p. 385) ; it passes in fi-ont of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. Tliis fascia forms the thickened band called ligamentum arcnatum externum, to which the diaphragm is connected. Fascia of the iliacus ami psoas. A fascia covers the two flexor iliac fascia muscles of the hip-joint, and extends in ditferent directions as far as their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane is thickest ; and a strong accession is received fi'om the tendon of small psoas, the small psoas. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the Attach- part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been jJXw • before explained (p. 464). Opposite the pelvis the membrane is inserted into the brim of internally that cavity for a short distance, and into the hip bone along the *° P^^^'** edge of the psoas. Opposite the spinal column it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebraj and the liga- and the mentum arcuatum internum, but is blended on tlie other with the ^"^^ fascia on the quadratus. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and reflected towards the brim of the pchas. Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands Trace the lying along the vertebra?, and to trace upwards some lymphatic 'y'"Ph<it'cs, vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides; a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. TheDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 540 and the receiitacu- luiu, aud splanchnic nerves. Lumbar lymphatics end in one duct: lymphatics enter iilands. Be^nning of the tlio- racic duct. at first lumbar vertebra. Large azy- gos vein; entrance into thorax. Small azj'- gos vein. beginning of the duet (eliyli receptaculum), and of the vena azygos, may be well seen ; and the two may be followed upwards into the thoriix. On the left side the student may trace the splanehnic nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the diaphragm ; and may show the trunk of the symi)athetic nerve entering the abdomen beneatli the areh over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic (jlands. A chain of glands is placed along the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebral ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, until at the upper part of the lumbar vertebne three or four trunks unite in the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of the viscera and wall of the cabdomeii are received. Eecejjtacuhtm chijli (Pecquet). The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen by the union of three or four large lymphatic vessels. Its commencement is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax b}- passing through tlie diaphragm with the aorta. Beyinniwj of the asi/yos veins. The right vein (vena azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is united with a lumbar vein. It enters the thorax with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The left or small azygos veui begins on the left side of the spine, joining one of the lumbar veins, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 3G3. Section VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NEKYES. The spinal nerves of the loins are imited in a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous parts of the trunk. Dlss«!tion Dissection. The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be learnt bar plexus' ^n the left side, although the woodcut shows them on the right on left side, side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should cut through the external iliac vessels, and afterwards scrape away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve, ^tii^sympa- The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the psoas, and offsets of it join the spinal nen^es; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries.LUMBAR PLEXUS AXD BRAXCIIES. 541 Fig. 170.* On the right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of emergence of the different nen^c branches from it may- be noticed. Lumbar Spinal Nerves. The anterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves enter the lumbar plexus, with the exception of the last. Five in number, they increase in size from the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the intervertebral foramina. Before entering the plexus they supply branches to the psoas and quadratus luinborum muscles. The fifth nerve (fig. 175) receives a communi- cating branch from the fourth, and is to be fol- lowed into the pelvis to its junction with the sa- cral plexus. After the two are united, the name lumho-sacral is applied to the common trunk ; and from this, before it enters the sacral plexus, arises the superior gluteal nerve ('). The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 170) is formed by the interconmiunication of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas near the posterior surface, it consists of communi- cating loops between the several nerves, and in- creases in size from above downwards, like tlie individual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large lumbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the Fdur lumbar nerves enter plexus. ;vnd supply iiuiscles: fiftli to the sacral plexus. Plexus how formed: situ.ation; connections with nerves Six branches, viz. : * Dissection of the lumbar plexus and its branches. (Illustrations of Dis- .sections.) a. External iliac artery, cut across, h. Thoracic duct. c. Azygos vein. Nerves : The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the five lumbar nerves. d. Splanchnic nerves, e. Last dorsal. /. Ilio-hypogastric. g. Ilio-inguinal. h. Genito-crurak i. External cutaneous, h. Anterior crural. _ Accessory to obturator, n. Obturator, o. Gangliated cord of the sympathetic.542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Two cn- tuneous branches. Ilio-hj'po- gastric: course in abdomen. Ilio-ingninal arises with preceding. and accom- panies it. Gcnito- cniKd pierces psoas, and divides into genital and cniral brand!. Coui-se of external cutaneous to the thigli. Origin of anterior crural: position in tlie abdomen; its branches to iliacns. spermatic cord, the fore part of the tliigh, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (iHo-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) end as cutaneons nerves of the buttock, lower part of the abdomen, and the scrotum. a. The ilio-hypogastric branch (fig. 170, /) is derived from the first nerv'e, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper part. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by pene- trating the transversalis abdominis. Its termination in the integu- ments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 450). &. The iUo-iiujuinal branch ({/) anses with the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the crest of the hip bone, where it pierces the transversalis abdo- minis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution over the scrotum and the groin, are before noticed (p. 451). c. The genito-crural nerve (A) is distributed to the cremaster nmscle and the limb. It arises fi-om the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop between the first two ; it pierces the fibres of the psoas, and descending on the surface of the muscle divides into the two following pieces. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate separately the muscle. The cremasteric bi'aiich descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes offsets around it : it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh. d. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh (i) arises from the second nerve of the plexus, or from the loop between it and the third, and appears about the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous processes, and leaves the abdomen be- neath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the liml). e. The anterior crural nerve (h) is the largest offset of the plexus, and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee joint, and to the teguments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the third and fourth nerves, and receiving a fasciculus also from the second, this large trunk appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Pou- part's ligament ; but before the final branching in the thigh, the nerve furnishes the following twigs :— Some small branches are furnished to the iliacus from the upper part of the ners'e.LUMBAR ARTERIES AND VEINS. 543 A branch to the femoral artery, whose place of origin varies much, to femoral is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. -MtL-vy. f. The obturator nerve (n) appertauis to the adductor muscles of Obturator the thigh. Derived fi-om the third and fourth nerves in the plexus, Jibdomen • it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner or pelvic border ; escaped from beneath the muscle the nerve crosses the pelvic cavity below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the iu the thigh through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. ' Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— The accessory obturator verve (/) arises from the trunk of the its accessory obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its ^'"'"'^ course is along the inner border of the psoas beneath the investing inj, joint. fascia, and over the hip bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. Gangliated cord of the SYMrATHEXic, The lumbar part of the Sympa- gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen is placed on the *n the ^^^''^ side of the spinal column (tig. 170) ; it lies along the inner border abdomen of the psoas muscle, nearer the front of the vertebrte than in the ■1',''"*' ^" , T- 1, 11 1 • T , • T 1 1 tJiorax; thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava. The cord possesses four or five oblong ganglia opposite the has four or bodies of the vertebne, which supply coimecting and visceral ^^'^ a^^s^^^ ' branches. Connectinq branches. From each ganglion two small branches are hranches to ' tilt* sT)innl directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, nerves, with the lumbar artery ; these imite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long ■ in the lumbar region in consequence of the gangliated cord being raised by the psoas muscle to the fore part of the vertebras. Branches of distribution. Most of the internal branches throw ^l^^]^^^ themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebr?e and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 170, e). The anterior primary branch of the Last dorsal last dorsal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumbonmi, and beneath the fascia cover- ing that muscle, as far as the aponeurosis of the transversalis ab- course in dominis (fascia lumborum) ; here it enters the wall of the abdomen, abdomen'^ and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 450). The lowest intercostal artery accompanies it. Near the spine it funiishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle ; branch to and it may communicate by means of tliis with the first lumbar nerve. The LUMBAR ARTERIES of the aorta (p. 533), are furnished to the Lumbar Back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble Ixil'^inmxm. the aortic intercostals in their course and distributioii. Commonly four in number on each side, they arise opposite the centre of the lumbar vertebrfc, and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk ; they then pass backwards beneath the course;DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 544 ;in(l tcniii- nation in a T)raiii-]i ti) tlie back, and a hram h to tlie wall of the aMo- lueu. The veins resemble the arteries, and oin'n into tlm <'ava; left longest. aronnd tlie transverse lirocesses. pillar of the diaphragm and the psoas, to reach the inten^al between the transverse i^rocesscs, where each ends in an abdominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side lie beneath the vena cava. The dorsal branch continues to the Back between the transverse processes, and supplies an offset to the spinal canal (pp. 398, 415). The ahflominal hranches are directed outwards beneath tlie quad- ratus lumborum, and enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, Avhere they anastomose with the lower intercostal above, and with the circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries below : these branches supply the psoas and quadratus muscles ; and the last furnishes an offset to the teguments with the iho-hyijogastric nerve. The LUMBAR VEINS are the same in number, and have the same course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the transverse process, each trunk is directed forwards to the vena cava. They open into the posterior part of the cava, either singly, or conjointly with those of the opposite side. On the left side the veins are longer than on the right, and pass beneath the aorta. Around tlie transverse processes, and beneath the psoas muscle, the lumbar veins communicate fi-eely with one another, with the ilio-lmnbar, and sometimes with the common iliac, so as to form a jilexus of veins. Issuing from the upper part of the plexus is a small branch, the ascenclimj lumbar rein, which joins the azygos vein of the coiTespondhig side of the body.CAVITY OF THE PELVIS The cavity of the pelvis is a part of the general abdominal space Definition of (p. 466), and is situate below the brim or inlet of the true pelvis, tion. Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm bony ring of Bouudaries. the pelvic bones: it is bounded behind by the sacrum and the coccyx, Behind and with the pyriformis muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; aiul laterally and in fi-ont, by the innominate bones covered by the obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perinajum, the cavity is limited by the Below, fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : only in this last direction, where the Loimding structures are moveable, can alterations be made in the size of the space. Contents. In the pelvis arc contained the urinary bladder, the Contents, lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, accordhig to the sex. All the viscera possess vessels, nerves, and Ijnnphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. On the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which extends Ontiine of -from the brim to the outlet, and covers the obturator muscle. {j;^ Svls."'" Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the internal iliac steps to de- vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- 'jjie^thc pei- tion of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through in the pei- on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a large quantity of fat. By this proceed- ing the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as tlie situation of a piece of fascia (recto-vesical) which is attached to the viscera. To display the lower half, the student must raise the outlet of the pelvis ; and, should the perina}um be undissected, the fat nmst be and the pe- taken from the ischio-rectal hollow. The lower part of the fascia ""I'^i"". N NDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 546 :ind outsitle pelvis. Fascia of the Willi of tlie pelvis. Its attach- ment above; and below: ooimectioiis. Rccto-vcsi- cal layer after. To remove liip lione, (letacli fascia; saw the bone. and divide soft parts : then blow up bladder and distend other parts. will now appear on the outer side of that fossa, as it covers the obturator muscle. n i • An additional step for showing the arrangement of the fascia may he taken, hy removing the external obturator muscle and tho obturator membrane, and then scraping away through the thyroid hole the obturator internus muscle, so as to look at the fascia through that aperture. . The PELVIC FASCIA is a thin membrane in close contact witli the obturator muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the attachment of the fleshy fibres, so that it might be called the special fascia (obturator) of that muscle. Superiorly it is fixed into the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the lateral aspect of the cavity. In fi'ont of that spot it does not extend so high as the brim, hut is inserted into the bone around the attachment of the muscle, except opposite the hole for the obturator vessels and nerve, where it is united with the obturator membrane. Inferiorly the fascia is attached to the hip bone along the side of the pubic arch, and to the margin of the great sacro- sciatic ligament where .the obturator internus issues fi'om the pelvis. The outer surface of the fascia is in contact with the obturator muscle. The inner surface con-esponds above with the cavity of the pelvis, and below, with the ischio-rectal fossa. With this surface the thin membrane (recto-vesical) supporting the viscera of the pelvis is united; the place of union being indicated, on looking into the pelvis, by a whitish line near to, and on a level with the ischial spine. At the posterior border of the obturator muscle the fascia is joined by a thin membrane (fascia of the pyriformis) which covers' the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus, but is beneath the iliac vessels by branches of wliich it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may be now seen in part ; but it will be better displayed after the hip bone has been taken away. Dissection. To obtain a side view of the pelvis it will be necessaiy to detach the left innominate bone. Tlie pelvic fascia is first to be separated from the bone and the obturator muscle. The innominate bone is next to be sawn through, in front, rather external to the symphysis, and, behind, at the articulation with the sacrum. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spine with the recto-vesical fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone-forceps ; and the rest of the bone may be then removed by cutting through the pyriformis muscle, the vessels and nerves passing through the sacro-sciatic notch, and any other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath the pelvis. The bladder is to be moderately distended with air through the ureter, and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into- the rectum, also into the vagina if it is a female pelvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and tlie rectum. After the viscera are thus made pro- minent, the ischial spine and the recto-vesical fascia should be raised547 PARTS IN OUTLET OF PELVIS with hooks whilst the levator aiii and coccygeus muscles below it arc cleaned. Parts closinr/ the pelvis heloio. In addition to the recto-vesical Outlet of fascia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each side, JjioJedby between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriformis passing through pyriformis, the great sacro-sciatic notch, Avith the gluteal vessels and nei-ve !^ens°and above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle, c, on the small sacro- sacro-sciatic sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx : one ° Fig. 17L* border of tlie muscle reaches towards the pyriformis, the other to the levator ani ; and between its hinder border and the pyiiformis lie the sacral plexus of nerves ('), and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The gi"eater part of the rest of the pelvic outlet is closed by the levator ani, D, which extends foi-wards fi-om the coccygeus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow inferiorly, but the muscles of opposite sides are separated in front by the urethra, with the vagina in the female ; and the interval between them is closed by the triangular ligament of the perinfeum, H. The COCCYGEUS MUSCLE (fig. 171, is flat and triangular, and assists to close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises from the upper part of the iscliial spine, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. Widening as it passes inwards the muscle is inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lower piece of the sacram. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left side ; the opposite surface rests on the small * Side view of the muscles in the outlet of the pelvis (Ilhistrations of Dis- sections). MuM-lcs: A. Gluteus maximus, cut. b. Psoas and Iliacus, cut. c. Coccygeus. i>. Levator ani. e. External anal s^jhincter. f. Ejaculator urinte. 0. Ischial spine, cut off. n. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a. External iliac artery, cut ; h, its accompanying vein. c. Obliterated hypo- gastric cord. d. Upper vesical, and c, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. Nerves : 1. Sacral plexus. 2. Inferior htemorrhoidal. 3. Pudic. N N 2 with vessels, and nerves ; by levator ani, and by ligament Ix'low the pubes. Coccygeus; ori^'iu Q o-cuAt I p. and inser- tion. Connections of surfacesDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 648 and borders. Use on the coccyx. Leviitor ani; situation. Origin partly from htme, and partly from membrane. Insertion along middle line of the perineum. Borders and surfaces. Two mus- cles form a fleshy dia- rhragm. Use on the urethra, in micturi- ition, ■ and passage •of semen; 'on coccyx. Dissection for the rec- to-vesical fascia. sacro-sciatic ligament. The upper or hinder border is contiguous to the pyriforiuis muscle, vessels and nerves intervening ; and the anterior or lower border is parallel with the levator ani nniscle. Action.—Uniting in its action with the hinder fibres of the leva- tor ani, the muscle will draw slightly forwards the coccyx. The LEVATOR AXi (fig. 171, ^) is a thin flat muscle, which is attached above to the side of the pelvis, and descends below into the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an oblique line above the obturator internus ; lower down from the fascia on that muscle, and from the back of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it is fixed to the lower and inner surface of the ischial spine. And be- tween those osseous attachments the muscle takes origin from the under part of the recto-vesical fascia, but not m a straight line. All the fibres are directed downwards to be imerted after the follow- ing manner :—The anterior, the longest, descend'by the side of the prostate and join, in front of the rectum, with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the jjcrinajum ; the middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx (p. 421). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the triangu- lar perineal ligament; * and there is an interval between the two muscles, which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The posterior border is parallel to the coccy- geus muscle. The upper surface is contiguous to the recto-vesical fascia ; and the under surface looks to the perinaium (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest: this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. Action. By the union of the muscles of opposite sides below the urethra this tube can be raised, and compressed during their con- traction. Whilst the urine is flowing the fibres arc passive, but towards the end of micturition they contract suddenly, and help the other muscles in clearing the passage. As the levatores descend by the side of the vesiculre seminales, and the prostate, they will compress and evacuate the contents of those viscera. The hindmost fibres, which are fixed to the coccyx, will assist the coccygeus in moving forwards that bone. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by detaching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani and the coccygeus at their origin and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends on the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards sheaths around the prostate and the gut. To demon- * The anterior pai-t of the muscle which descends by the side of the prostate and unites with its fellow below the membranous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, is named sometimes levator seu compressor prostatce.EECTO-VESICAL FASCIA. 549 strate those sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the fascia ; and the tubes are to be isolated from the viscera. The recto-vesical fascia supports and partly invests the viscera of Recto-vesi- the pelvis. Covering the pelvic surface of the levator ani it is fixed ^'^^ above, like that muscle, to the Avail of the pelvis in front and behind, and between those attachments it joins the pelvic fascia. Below it meets the fascia of the opposite side, in the centre of the pelvis, and forms a partition across the cavity, like that of the leva- forms tiie tores ani, which is perforated by the bladder and the rectum. The the peivj^ partition is supported anteriorly by being fixed to the pubes, and posteriorly, where it blends with the fascia on the coccygeus, by being inserted into the coccyx: it is concave above and convex septum, below^, and divides the cavitj^ of the pelvis from the perinfeal space. This septal piece is attached to the viscera which pierce it, forming and use; ligaments for them ; and from the under surface tubes are prolonged proionga- on the rectum and the prostate. The sheath on the rectum incloses the lower three inches of the sheath on intestine, and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus ; be- ^^^^ tectum, tween it and the intestine are interposed the branches of the upper hsemorrhoidal vessels, with a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheath is thinner than on the rectum, and is and on continued forwards to the apex of that body, where it blends with I'lo^t^t^. the triangular ligament of the urethra : it is separated from the capsule of the prostate by a plexus of veins, and by some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement as in the Fascia in male; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube female, from it, like the prostate. The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side, anterior Ligaments of and lateral, and are parts of the recto-vesical fascia. fascia. The anterior reaches from the posterior part of the pubes to the form the upper surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder; it is a ngameuts, narrow white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Between the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia dips down to reach the triangular ligament of the perinjeum, and closes the pelvis between the levatores ani. The lateral ligament is a piece of the same fascia, which is fixed and lateral to the upper border of the prostate gland, to the side of the bladder l^jaddcr. close above the vesicula seminalis, and to the back of the bladder between the vesicular; from this part of the fascia an ofliset is continued downwards over the A'esicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheath for those bodies. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), which Faise^iiga- are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and will be described uadder. in the following Section. Ligament of the rectum. On each side of the rectum is a strong Ligament of wide piece of the recto-vesical fascia, which is connected externally i"e<^t»™- to the ischial part of the hip bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder.550 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section II. Contents of the pelvis. Outline of tlieir posi- tion. Take away fascia, and clean ves- sels. The several viscera are to 1)6 cleaned. Clean pros- tate and vosicula. The perito- neum covers partly the rectum ; and partly the bladder, leaving front and lower part uncovered. Pouch be- tween the rectum and bladder: CONNECTIOXS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. If the student dissects a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 55G. ContenU and iwsition (fig. 172). The viscera in the cavity of the male pelvis are, the lower end of the large intestine (rectum); the bladder with its excretory tube—the urethra; together with some generative organs. These have the following relative situation :— The rectum (/.) is behind all, and takes a curved course, with the convexity backwai-ds, along the front of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder (a) is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland (h); and the urethra {d) cun^es forwards from it above the intestine. Beneath the bladder between it and the rectum—are the Kttle seminal sacs (</) with the vasa deferentia/. Some of these organs are partly surrounded by the peritoneum. Dissection. All the recto-vesical fascia, except the anterior true ligament of the bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum. The obliterated (hypogastric) cord from the internal iliac artery should be followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis; and the branches of the same artery to the bladder should be cleaned. When the fat has been cleared fi-om the rectum without injuring its arteries, the pouch of the peritoneum, in w4ii«h tow has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter (/i) passing to the bladder across its side. The part of the bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned, and the vas deferens (/), which Hes on the lateral aspect of the viscus, is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away -with care the remains of the sheath of the vesicula seminalis, defining at the same time the vas deferens inside the latter. The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera in the pelvis so completely as in the upper part of the abdomen. After partly surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—vieso-rectiini, the membrane clothes the back of the bladder, projecting for some way between this viscus and the rectum, where it forms the recto-vesical pouch: on each side the serous membrane is arrested by the obliterated hypogastric arterj^, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. It covers the posterior surface, and each lateral region of the bladder as far forwards as the obliterated hypogastric ; but at that cord it is reflected to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the bladder is therefore uncovered hy peritoneum ; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes, so as to allow of its being punctured in fi-ont Avithout injury to the serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch is wide beliind, where it corresponds with the interval between the iliac ai-teries, and is narrow in frontHEFLECTIONS OF TERITONEUM. 551 between the rectum and the bladder. Anteriorly it extends shghtly into the interval between the vesiculfe seininales, and ends usually extent and about one inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx. The distance thi of the pouch fi-om the anus is commonly about four niches ; but •"^"'^s vary. it will vary mth the state of the bladder, for if this viscus is distended the peritoneum will be raised, and removed further from the end of the intestine. False ligaments of the bladder. Where the peritoneum is reflected False liga- fi'om the bladder to the pelvic wall, it gives rise to a wide piece of the bladder, membrane, which constitutes the false ligaments of that viscus, ^^'i^,— Fig. 172.* though without any subdi\asion of it into pieces. These are said to be five in number:—two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior ligament (one on each side) reaches fi-om the l)ack two poste- of the pelvis to the bladder, and contains the obliterated hypogastric artery, the ureter, and smaller vessels, and nerves. Between these is the hollow of the recto-vesical pouch. The lateral ligament, also one on each side, the widest, is reflected two lateral, fi-om the side of the bladder to the iliac-fossa and the wall of the pelvis. Along its line of attachment to the bladder is the obliterated liypogastric artery. The superior ligament is prolonged fi-om the top of the bladder '^JJI^^oiie. * Side view of the dissected male pelvis, a. Urinary bladder. I. Prostate. c. ]\Iembranous part of the urethra, d. Spongy part of the urethra, c. Crus penis, detached. /. Vas deferens, g. Vesicula seminalis. h. Ureter, i. Kecto-vesical fascia. I. Rectum. I. Levator ani, cut.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 552 Kxtcnt of the rectum. length, and divi- sions. Fii-st iiiece most covered l)y perito- neum. Middle piece covered in front. Last piece is iiucovered. connections with ]iarts around: sometimes dilated. Bladder is in i)elvis when empty, to the abdominal wall, along the remains of the obliterated hypo- gastric vessels. The RECTUM, or the lower part of the great intestine (fig. 172, h} extends from the articulation between the sacrum and the left hip bone to tlie anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum, the recto- vesical fascia, and the levatorcs ani. The intestine is about eight inches long, and has a winding course, for it follows the curve of the sacrum and coccyx: it is diAaded into three parts—upper, middle,, and lower. The uj)2)er part, longer than the others, extends obliquely fromt the sacro-iliac articulation to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. Surrounded almost entirely by the peritoneum, it lies- against the sacrum, and on the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus, of the left side. In contact with it, are the branches of the left internal iliac arteiy, and the left in-eter. In some bodies this part of the intestine is much curved to the right side.* The middle piece lies beneath the bladder, and reaches to the tip of the coccyx: it is about three inches in length, and is covered by peritoneum on the front and sides above, but only in front beloAv. Besting on it is the triangular part of the bladder, with the back of the prostate and tlie vesicuLe seminales and vasa deferentia ; and beneath it are the sacram and coccyx. On each side is the coccygeu» nmscle. The lower 2}o,rt is about an inch and a half long, and is cui-ved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at first it is dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the lower part of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles^ AboA'e the extremity of the rectum (in this position of the body) are the fore part of the prostate, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrse; but as the gut recedes from the urethra there is an angular interval left between them. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling ; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes the end of the intestine within the anus is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men ; and in that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The URINARY BLADDER (vesica urinaria) is situate in the fore part of the pelvis (fig. 172, a), and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the kidneys. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when * It is not uncommon to see the rectum on the right side of the sacrum. In the dissecting-room of University College in one Winter (1854—1855) I saw three examples of the rectum in that situation. In two bodies the lower end of the left colon crossed the spine at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line, to the end of the coccyx. In the third the large intestine crossed the spine twice once at top of the sacrum, and again about the middle of that bone. 'CONNECTIONS OF BLADDER. 553 distended it becomes of a conical shape, with the Lirger part towards and projects the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal Avall. In distension during Siu life it is slightly curved over the anterior part of the pelvis, as it projects above the bone ; and if a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch anteriorly the abdominal wall somewhere (according to the distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes, and posteriorly the end of the sacrum or the coccyx. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early Position in life as in the adult. For in the child this viscus rises above the idtii ase."*^* brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is con- tained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects inferiorly. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (pp. 549 and 551). The connections of the bladder moderately full are the follow- ing :— The summit or apex is rounded, and from its anterior part three Apex has ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus; the central one '^^^'^'"^'^' • of these is the remains of the urachus ; and the two lateral are formed by the obliterated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is distended the apex is above, but othenvise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The base (fumlus') is large, and rests on the middle piece of the Base *^ rectum: in the state of emptiness of the bladder the base is scarcely prominent, but in distension of the viscus, it extends lower, and alters in becomes widened. Connected Avith the fundus are the vesiculte ''''^J''^.' seminales and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular TOutaet \\itl» space, from which the peritoneum is partly absent. Surfaces of the body. The front of the body is in contact with Surfaces; the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, and with the abdominal ' wall if it is distended, and is altogether free from peritoneum ; whilst the posterior surface is entirely covered by the serous mem- and pos- brane, and is touched often by the small intestine. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the Lateral obliterated hypogastric vessel ; and running down behind this is the vas deferens, which passes internal to the ureter. Near the under part the ureter enters the bladder. All the side of the bladder behind the liypogastiic vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The nech (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder that Netk. joins the urethra: in the state of contraction it is the lowest part of the viscus, but in distension it is above the level of the fmidus. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. The ureter (fig. 172, /*) crosses the common or the external iliac Ureter iu artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypo- i'*'^^^^' gastric vessel ; it enters the bladder near the lower part, and some- enters what on the side, at the distance of one inch and a half or two ^'' ^ inches from the prostate gland. The prostate gland (fig. 172, V) surrounds the neck of the Position ofDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. bladder. It is placed about an inch below the level of the sym- physis pubis, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape is conical witli the base turned backwards, and its size equals nearly that of a large chestnut. In the present position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards towards the end of the sacrum ; but in the erect state of the body, upwards and backwards fi-om the trian- gular ligament. The upper surface is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. On this surface are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is contiguous to the rectum ; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The apex touches the posterior layer of the triangular ligament; and the base surrounds the neck of the bladder, and the vesiculse seminales with the vasa deferentia. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- vesical fascia (p. 549), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) surrounds it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis ; and the ejaculatory ducts pierce it obliquely to open into the urethra (fig. 178,/). The size of the prostate alters much, and in old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. The vesicul;e seminales (fig. 172, (j) are two small sacculated bodies, each about two inches long, between the under part of the bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, whilst the smaller is surromided by the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesicular ajDproach one another, only the vasa deferentia intervening ; but farther backwards they diverge, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum the triangular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesicuLij are con- tained in a membranous sheath, whicli is derived from the recto- vesical fascia, and is lined by involuntary muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 172,/) in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring ; and crossing the obliterated hypogastric arteiy, is directed inwards along the side and under part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, whei'e it forms the common ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much en- larged, and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretoiy passage for the urine and semen (fig. 172), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In length it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two ounces according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards through the triangular ligament of the peri- naium to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with theCONNECTIONS OF URETHRA. 555 concavity to the pubes. Thence to its termination the urethra is npphecl to the penis; and whilst this body remains pendent the canal forms a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy, its division. The prostatic part (h) is contained in the prostate gland, and Prostatic. I'eceives its name from that chcumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture it is incUned down- wards to the triangular perinteal ligament. Its comicctions are the same as those of the gland (p. 553). The membranous ixirt (c), about three quarters of an inch long, Membra- intei-venes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the ^^^^^^' perinasal triangular ligament. It slants downwards in the erect posture to the fore part of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under part measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (/i). Surrounding it are the muscular connec- fibres of the constrictor urethraj; and close below it are Cowper's glands with the rectum. The spongy xmrt {d) is so named from its being surrounded by a Spongy, cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered for two inches by the ejaculator urinaj muscle (fig. 130). The curve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the inner extremity. Fixed curs'e which lies below the pubes. It extends from the bladder to {^j^ ^'^^^^ra. inch and a half in front of the triangular ligament, and consists of the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards, is greatest at the where fore part of the triangular ligament in the erect posture: and from s*"^^*^*^*- this point it curves up and back to the bladder, and up anteriorly to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres: Voluntary thus, behind the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of iti,itary° the prostate; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor "^^^^j^^^jj^ urethra?, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle; and before the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urintc. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perinajal liga- Size, ment («), and lies between the layers; and is largest in the middle of the prostatic part. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be re- Dissection, moved, to see the component parts of that body; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen: the teguments should be replaced after the part has been learnt. The PENIS is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and hangs Constituents in front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous tion of the bodies (fig. 172, e) »amcd corpora cavernosa, which are filled with penis:55G DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. fonn aiul attiichnicnt. Corpus spongiosum siuTountls urethra, and swells into the bulb. which is lobed; and the conical glans penis. a plexus of vessels, and make up the principal part. Below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) which surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. The tegu- nientary investment, which covers the Avhole, is noticed at p. 440. The body of the penis is grooved above and below along the middle line, and is covered anteriorly by the glans penis; along its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa to the bone, the body of the penis is con- nected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. The corpus sponrjiosum urethra; encloses the urethral canal in front of the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of the penis, where it swells into the conical glans penis. The bulb (fig. 172, d) is directed backwards, slightly, below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by fil)rous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The ejaculator urinaj muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a central depression, with a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes. The glans penis (fig. 179, Z) is somewhat conical in form, and covers the truncated end of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly jn'ominent border —the corona (jlandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In tlie apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates; and below that aperture is an excava- tion, which contains the piece of the teguments named frccnuvi preputii. Section III. Contents of the female pelvis, and their situation. Use descrip- tion of male pelvis. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the lower end of the intestinal tube, and the bladder and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like cur^'e. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in fi-ont of all are the bladder and the urethral canal. Thus there are three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz. the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum ; and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface. Directions. The description in Section I. (p. 545) must be used for instructions respecting the removal of the innominate bone, and the distension of tlie viscera ; also for the muscles of the pelvic outlet and the anatomy of the fascia?. After the student has learnt the muscles and the fascia, p. 54G, which are nearly alike in bothLIGAMENTS OF UTERUS. 557 sexes, lie may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much Then clean fat, the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of of the'feiiuile the uterus, raise it up with a piece of string passed through the upper l^l^'is- part. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved ; and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the I'ectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the internal iliac artery is to be followed Dissect ves- on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side ^' of the uterus to the bladder. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, isolate and the rectum are to be cleaned and partly separated from one another at the anterior part of the pelvis ; but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The peritomum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the Reflections male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming toneum?^'" behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued to the pos- terior part of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and the gi-eater part of the anterior surface of the uterus, ^ and can be traced to the bladder without again touching the vagina: on each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), ■which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen. As the peritoneum is followed upwards it may be observed to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and the lateral part behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the following ligaments for the uterus and bladder. The hroad ligament of the uterus (fig. 173) passes from the side Broadliga- of the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ, uterus"^ By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior ^md a posterior portion: in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, which is and vaffina : in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the snij-dividwi f ' . Ill- into three rsmall intestine when it reaches the pelvis. parts. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, ■corresponding with the bodies contained between its two layers. Thus there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovary and its liga- ment, L; an anterior, near the upper part, which is appropriated to the round ligament, N ; and a middle piece, the highest of all, sur- rounds the Fallopian tube, M. Anterior and 2>osterior Ihjaments of the uterus. As the peritoneum Anterior is reflected fi-om the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to r/oroT**^" the bladder, it forms two anterior and two postei-ior folds or liga- uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uteriiie pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-uterine. The recto-uterine pouch corresponds Avitli the recto-vesical in the Rocto- male. On each side it is bounded by the obliterated hypogastric ^^^^^^^ artery : and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the .back of the vagina. The/a/se ligaments of the bladder are tlie same as in the male, Fiveliga- •and are five in number, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a superior: b^'^^erf "'^DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 558 they are all blended in one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and fi-ont of the pelvis. In the female the posterior ligament, containing the vessels of the bladder, is less marked than in tlie male. Connections The RECTUM (fig. 173, ^) IS not so curved in the female as in the Sm^vi^'' generally larger. Descending along the middle of the Fig. 173.* sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three pai-ts:— of upper. The first part ends over the third piece of the sacrum, and is en- veloped by the peritoneum, except posteriorly : its connections are similar to those of the rectum in the male, p. 552. middle. The middle xmrt reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has the vagina above and in contact with it. The peritoneum extends on the front for a short distance. and lower The loioer imrt curves to the anus away from the vagina so as to leave between the two a space, which corresponds, on the surface of the body, with the part of the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani ai'e on the sides, and unjte below it, and the sphincter muscles surround the extremity. Utenis; The UTERUS (fig. 173, ^) is somewhat conical in shape, and flattened * Side view of the female pelvis. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles and Viscera : a. Pyi-iformis muscle, cut. b. Large psoas, cut. c. Gluteus maximus, cut. d. Coccygeus, and E, Levator ani, thrown down. F. Sphincter vaginte. o. Urethra, ii. Urinary bladder, i. Vagina, k. Rectum, l. Ovary and its ligament, m. Fallopian tube. N. Round ligament, o. Uterus, .ii-ierif.?.- a. External iliac. 6. Internal iliac, c. Middle sacral, rf. Uterine. €. Vaginal. /. Upper hfemorrhoidal. g. Gluteal, cut. h. Obliterated hypo- gastric, i. Inferior vesical.559 CONNECTIONS OF UTERUS. from before backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of form ami the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; and it is retained situation: in place by theligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards, and the lower end communicates with the vagina. This viscus is directed forwards, so that its position is obli([ue in position to the cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through its centre would corres- pelvis"'^ pond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvic cavity. Axis. The anterior flattened surface is covered by peritoneum, except in Surfaces, the lower fourth where it is in contact with the bladder. The X>osterior surface, rounded, is invested altogether by the serous membrane. The upper end (fundus) is the largest part of the organ, and is in Extremities, contact with the small intestine. The loioer end, or the neck (cer\^ix) is received into the vagina. To each side are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian on tiie side tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. The Fallajyian tube, M, four inches long, is contained in the upper Fallopian or free border of the ligament. One end is connected to the upper angle of the uterus, whilst the other is loose in the cavity of the pehnis. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated like a tiiimpet, and fiinged, forming the coipus fimhriatum. The round or suspensory ligament, N, is a fibrous cord about five round inches long, which is directed outwards through the internal abdomi- ° nal ring and the inguinal canal to end in the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated liypogastric, and the external iliac artery ; and it is sun-ounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. The ovary, l, is placed nearly horizontally, and bulges at the and the posterior aspect of the broad ligament; it is connected to the uterus '"^^ at the inner end by a special fibrous band, one inch and a half in length, the ligament of the ovaiy. Its fonn is oval, and its margins its ligament., are turned forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable. The VAGINA (fig. 173, ^) is the tube by Avhich the uterus commu- Vagina: nicates with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical fyj,^\* ''"'^^ in shape, though flattened from above down ; and its length is about five inches. As it follows the bend of the rectum it is slightly length; cun-'ed ; and its axis con-esponds at first with the centre of the out- axis, let, but higlier up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. Above the vagina are the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; connec- and beneath or below it is the rectum. To each side is attached the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath along the lower half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior or upper wall; and the lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by the sphincter vagina) muscle. A large plexus of veins surrounds the vagina. In child- ren, and in the virgin, the external aperture is partly closed by the hymen. The BLADDER (fig. 173, ^) is placed at the anterior part of the Bladder pelvis, above the vagina and in contact Avith the back of the pubes.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 560 resembles that of the male. Differenees in tlie two sexes. Course of ureter. Urethra: length aiul fonu: connections with parts anouniL Its position and connections so closely resemble those of the bladder in tlie male body, as to render ininecessary any further description of them (p. 552). The chief differences in the bladder of the two sexes are the following. In the female tlie bladder is larger than in the male, and its transverse exceeds its vertical measurement. The base is of less extent, and is in contact with the vagina and the lower part of the uterus ; and it does not reach below the orifice of the urethra. On the side of the viscus there is not any vas deferens ; and the pros- tate does not project around the neck. The ureter has a longer course in the female than the male pelvis before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of" the uterus ere it arrives at its destination. The urethra (fig. 173, ^) is a small narrow tube about one inch and a half long, which curves slightly below the symph3-sis pubis, the concavity being upwards. Its situation is above the vagina, and its external opening is placed within the vulva. In its course to the surface it is embedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the perinivium. It is sun-ounded by the muscular fibres of the constrictor and orbi- cularis urethraj (p. 430) ; and corresponds with the two hinder parts (prostatic and membranous) of the male urethra. A plexus of veins suiTounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IV. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TELVIS. Vessels and In the pelvis are contained the mternal ihac vessels, and their thrpelvfs. l^'f^^iches to the viscera ; the sacral plexus and its nerves ; and the sympathetic nerve. This Section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and female pelvis. Directions. The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. But the air should be previously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. To dissect Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the ofthVpehis, trunks of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera ; and the obUterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the Tunbilicus. nen-es, With the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of ner\'-es but these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and rectum, branches of the sacral spinal nerves will veins. come into view. The veins may be removed in a general dissection to make clean the arteries.INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 561 "When the vessels are prepared the bladder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC AKTERY (fig. 174, g) is One of the trunks }-^}iQrna.\ resulting from the division of the common iliac ai'tery, and furnishes ' ^ ^' branches to. the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the generative and genital organs, and to the limb. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk of large capacity, which 1'^,^,^"*^ measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards " as far as the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery terminates generally in termination; two large pieces, from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends for- Avards to the bladder. In entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of the lumbo-sacral connection, nerve. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, whicli is pos- position of terior to it, and somewhat to the outer part on the right side. The hranches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the Brandies, following manner:—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbai*, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And from the anterior portion come the vesical (upper and lower), ha;mor- rhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic: in the female there are in addition the uterine and vaginal branches. Artery in the fcetus. In the foetus the hypogastric artery takes the Hypogastric place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. fffiuJI, At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to the the bladder, apex. Beyond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally at the umbilicus the vessels of opposite sides come in con- and beyond: tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the arteiy, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased the hypo- Tmnsfomia- gastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of the current that of*tiio of blood through it, and finally becomes obliterated, more or less ''^^l^^t. completely, as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the upper part of the bladder, and gives origin to the vesical arteries. Peculiarities. The length of the internal iliac artery yaries from half an Trunk variea inch to three inches, its extreme measurements; but in two thirds of a certain lengtli. number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. Size. When the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, and is Size, placed at the back of the thigh, the parent vessel is larger than the external iliac. 0 o562 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Branches A. Tlie three branches arisuig from the posterior portion of the Hor pu-r^' internal ihac may be first examined. iiio-iunibar The ilio-lumhar hranch (fig. 174, 7i) passes outwards beneath the lias an psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lumbo- sacral nerve, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch in the iliac fossa :— ascending The ascending or lumbar branch which is beneath the psoas, ^"'^ supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses Fig. 174.* with the last lumbar artery: it sends a small sjiinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra, a transverse The transverse or iliac offset divides into branches that ramify in the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and cir- cumflex iliac arteries; and some deep twigs communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the innominate bone. Lateral The lateral sacral arteries (fig. 174, t) are two in number, superior !a.rt^ies ^^d inferior, but the upper is the larger; they correspond in. situa- * Dissection of the internal iliac artery (Tiedemann). a. Bladder, o. Vas deferens, h. Yesicula seminalis. b. Lower end of tlie rectum, c. Levator ani. D. Psoas magnus. e. Psoas parvus, f. Iliacus. Arteries: a. Aorta splitting into the common iliacs. b. Middle sacral branch, c. Common iliac. (/. External, and </, internal iliac trunk continued by an impervious part along the bladder. e. Epigastric, and /, circumflex iliac, h. Ilio lumbar. ?. Lateral sacral. I. Middle hsemorrhoidal. 1c. Obturator, m. Gluteal, n. Sciatic. 0. Pudic. Kcrves: 1, 2, 3, 4. Four highest sacral nerves. 5. Obturator.BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 563 tion with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by sujiiiiy the side of the apertm-es in the sacrum. These arteries supply the ^\lanch pyi-iformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with each other, as well as with the middle sacral. A small sj)inal branch enters each aperture in the sacrum. The gluteal artery (fig. 174, m) is a short thick trunk, which Gluteal appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of the • internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the •dorsum of the hip bone ; and it is transmitted fi'om the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein, and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis the artery gives small branches small to the contiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone. B. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac arter}"- Branehcs are the followingJrt"*""'"'' The vesical arteries, superior and inferior, are distributed to the vesical iipper and lower parts of the bladder. arteries; The upper, three or four in number, arise at intervals firom the upper, partly obliterated hypogastric trunk; the lowest of these is some- times called middle vesical branch. Offsets are furnished from middle, those branches to all the body and upper part of the bladder. The lower artery arises from the internal iliac in common with a 'ind lower, branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculfe seminales, and the prostate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The branch to the rectum (middle hfemorrhoidal) is commonly with an supplied by the inferior vesical. It is spent on the anterior and rectum, lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the hjemorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig. 174, k). The branch is directed forwards Obturator below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the upper part of courses the thyroid foramen: passing through that opening it ends in two ^^^J^?^ branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid fora- men, and lie beneath the muscle in that situation. In the pelvis Offsets in the artery has its companion nerve above, and vein below it; and ^'^ it gives origin to the following small branches. Iliac branch: this small offset enters the iliac fossa to supply the iliac branch, bone and the iliacus muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. The pubic branch (fig. 139,/) ascends on the posterior aspect of puWo the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the ' " opposite side, and with an offset fi-om the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator may take origin from the external iliac artery. The sciatic artery (fig. 174, ?i) is the next largest branch to the ^ciatie gluteal, and is continued over tlie pyaiformis muscle and the sacral plexus to the lower part of the sacro-sciatic notch, where it issues in the pelvis, between the pyi-iformis and the coccygeus. External to the pelvis it divides into branches beneath tlie gluteus maximus, and is distri- outside o 0 2 it564 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Pudic arteiy in tlie pel- vis : some small offsets. Au acces- sory iiudit: branch. Branches in the female. Uterine aiteiy snp])lies uterus : offsets to vagina, joins ovarian. Vaginal arteiy. Branches of the aorta. Ovarian arterj': offsets. Superior hu'inorrhoi- dal ends in loops. bated to the buttock : in the pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygous umscles. The x>udic artery (fig. 174, o) supplies the perin»um and the geni- tal organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as the sciatic, fi-oiu wliich it often springs. It accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone, and enters the perina3al space (p. 422). The artery gives some unimportant offsets in the pelvis, and fi-equently the middle hicmorrhoidal branch arises from it. Accessory x>'udic (Quain). The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, and fails to supply some of its ordinary perinatal branches, especially the terminal for the penis. In those cases the deficient branches are derived from an accessoiy arteiy, which takes origin from the internal iliac (mostly fi'om the trunk of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular perinjcal ligament. It furnishes branches to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. c. The branches of the internal iliac artery which are peculiar to- the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. The uterine artei-y (fig. 173, f7) passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, and ramifying in it, are remark- able for their tortuous condition. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supplied to the vagina and the bladder; and opposite the ovary a branch bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. The vaginal artery (fig. 173, seldom arises separately from the internal iliac. Combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends along the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Other arteries in the pelvis. The remaining arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior haimon-hoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery (p. 534), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. The superior haimorrhoidal artery, the continuation behind the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p. 480), divides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends finally in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate oppo- site the inner spliincter in anastomotic loops beneath the nmcous membrane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior lu^morrhoi- dal arteries.VEINS OF THE TELVIS. 565 The middle sacral artery of the aorta (p. 533), (fig. 174, h) de- Middle scends along the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, Xdl'i.as and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, oppo- lateral site each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral offsets, ai-teries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perio- steum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle hfemorrhoidal artery. The INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN receives the blood from the wall of the internal pelvis, and the pelvic ^dscera, by branches corresponding for the p',sition'to most part with those of the arteries. The vein is a short thick its artery: trunk, wliich is situate at first on the inner side of the internal iliac artery ; but as it ascends to join the external iliac, it passes behind, and to the outer aspect of its companion artery on the right side. Branches. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the internal its branches iliac vein, have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the follow- pecuUar are ing visceral branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and liaimorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots corresponding with the branches of P^'^ic vein, the pudic artery in the perinaaum, but not those corresponding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis receives veins from the corpora dorsal vein cavernosa and coi-pus spongiosum of the penis, and piercing the j/ triangular ligament of the urethra, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the prostate. The superior Jmmorrhoidal vein commences in a large plexus Jj^^^*^^" (hsemorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (p. 583). The vesical veins begin in a plexus about the lower part of the vesical, bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hajmorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the ^^iterine, and. side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates aboA'^e with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube with a large vascular vaginal 1 veins, plexus. Parietal veins of the pelvis. Three veins of the wall of the pelvis. Parietal viz., ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the common iliac vein. Dissection Cfiff- 175). To dissect the ner\'-es of the pelvis, on the Dissection v. o / A 7 of the nerves right side, it will be necessary to detach the triangular ligament ofthepeivis. with the urethra fi-om the arch of the pubes ; and to cut through, on the right side, the recto-vesical fascia and the levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn somewhat from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be ^^y;^*/"""" found as they issue fi-om the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches fromDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 566 last and coccygeal. sympa- thetic. Sacral nei-ves are live; tliose that are peculiar are fourth, which gives visceral. and mus- cular ofl'sets. Fifth is be- low aper- tures in sacrum: ends on coccyx. Coccygeal neiTe. Sacral plexus: situation, and form. the fourth to the viscera. The last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the coccy- geus muscle, close to the coccyx ; these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will succeed best by tracing the connecting- filaments which pass from one to another, beginnmg above with the offset fi-om the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the sympathetic (pelvic plexus,) which sends branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissections ; but if any of it remains the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral SpiiXAL Nerves (fig. 175). The anterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease suddenly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the apertures in the fi'ont of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted) they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve, and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, will be noticed before the plexus is described. The fourth nerve (4 S) divides into two parts :—one communi- cates with the sacral plexus ; the other joins the fiith nerve and distributes the following branches to the viscera and the surrounding muscles :— The visceral hranches (3) suppl}' the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerv^e to foiTn the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come fi'om the tliird sacral nerve. The muscular bronches are three in number. One (2) rather long branch enters the levator ani on the visceral aspect; another (4) supplies the coccj'^geus ; and the third (5) reaches the perinteum by piercing the levator ani muscle (p. 423). The JiftJi nerve (5 ^S') comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch fi-om the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nei"ve, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maximus, to end on the posterior siu-face of the coccyx. The coccygeal iwve (1 c.) after issuing by the lower aperture of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral ners^e as above stated. Sacral Plexus (fig. 175). This plexus is formed by the lumbo- sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyrifonnis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery ; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic notch, to unite in a flat band. From that spot the plexus becomes gradually smaller towards the outer end ; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyrifonnis, terminates in branches for the limb at the lower border of that muscle.NERVES OF THE TELVIS. 567 Branches. Most of the brandies arise outside the pelvis, and are distributed to the back of the lower limb ; for, only two internal pelvic muscles (pyriformis and obturator internus) receive nerves from it. The nerve of the obturator internus springs from the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral with the first sacral nerve ; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winding over the ischial spine of the hip bone and through the small sacro-sciatic notch, enters the muscle on the perineal surface. The nerves of the pyri- formis are commonly two in number, and arise fi-om separate parts of the plexus : they enter tlie muscle at its visceral aspect. The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, supplies the parts in the perinfeum, and the genital organs. The nerve arises in the lower part of the plexus, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic liga- ment, to accompany its artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch. The remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and great sciatic nerves, and muscular offsets to the gluteus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris, arc described with the lower limb. (Dissection of the Buttock.) Dissection. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic that lies in front of the sacrum may be examined now : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches, will come into view on the removal of the areolar tissue. Sympathetic Nekve. In the pelvis the sympathetic ners'e consists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The Gangliated Cord (fig. 175) lies on the front of the sacrum and internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Infcriorly it Branches to inusclos inside tlio j)elvis: one to ob- turator. two to pyri- formis. Pudic nerve now seen at its origin. Branches to the lower limb after. Trace out the sympa- thetic. Sympathetic in the pelvis. The gan- sliated cord * Dissection of the 'sacral nerves and x^lexus (altered from Henle). «. Urinary bladder, h. Rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Coccygeus. Nerves: 4 I and 5 I, the last two lumbar nerves, which form by their union the lumbo- sacral cord. 1 <S' to 5 *S', the five sacral nerves, forming the sacral plexus. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal nerve. 2. Branch of levator ani. 3. Branch to the bladder. 4. Branch of sphincter ani. 5. Branch of coccygeus. 6. Common branch of 4 S, 5 S, and 1 c, for the back of the coccyx.668 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. joins that of (ijiliosite side below in a ganglion : offsets of tlie ganglia to the sjiinal nerves: to tlie hypo- gastric jilexus and the viscera. Plexuses of tlie sympa- thetic : situation : how ormcd. Offsets to tlie viscera of the male, viz.— to the rectum; to the bladder; to the pro- state gland and the penis. Offsets in the female ; to the ovaiy; to the vagina; and to the uterus : converges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which is situate a single median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varjnng from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outM-ards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray and white, and are very short: the gray cord unites the ganglion with the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the ganglion to the visceral plexus (Beck). The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches, and from the ganglion in front of the coccyx, offsets descend over that bone. The PELVIC PLEXUSES (lateral inferior hj^ogastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral pro- longations of the hj^iogastric plexus (p. 481). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is united with oft'sets of the third and fourth sacral nerves. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus of[:sets are furnished along the branches of the internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital organs; these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset from the back of the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior haamorrhoidal artery. The vesical x)lexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and loAver ]iart of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the lower pai-t of the pelvic plexus, and is distributed to the substance of the prostate. At the front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the follo\ving additional plexuses for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— Ovarian pilexus. The chief nerves to the oxtvcy are derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery of that body ; but the uterine nerves supply some filaments to it. Vaginal jjlexus. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without direct admixture with the spinal nerves : they ascend along the side of the669 STRUCTURE OF PROSTATE, uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender lilanients without ganglia or communications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches "o ganglia, from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- except on form and ganglionic. vessels., The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form one chain in fi-ont of C'"^>'i of pel- the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac arter}': their efferent g^''^^'^^' ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lym- lymiihatics phatics of the penis, those of the genital org"ans in the female, and tiiciu'"" the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the parts at its base, viz., the vesiculai seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for exami- nation. Dissection. To study the form and structure of the viscera, it Take out tlie will be necessary to remove them from the pelvis. Fortius purpose the student should carry the scalpel ai-ound the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundaiy, so as to detach the crus of the penis fi-om Separate the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When ''°'^*'^'^» the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean the is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesicula; seminales are to be then cleaned; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the and penis, urethra it is to be taken away. . THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate gland (fig. 17G). This is a firm muscular body, with Pmstate glands in it secreting a special fluid, which surrounds the neck of f^l.„"an(i the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections with situation, parts around have been enumerated (p. 553). The prostate is conical in form like a chestnut, with the base or Form, larger end directed backwards. Its dimensions in different direc- dimensions, tions are the following :—Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards laterally, fi-om the apex to the base, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but ui this and weight, respect it varies greatly.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. S70 Surfaces; base, and apex. Three lobes; two lateral and a cen- tral Gland con- tains three tubes. Structure. Fibrous case distinct from pelvic lascia. Mnscnlar and fibrous tissue; how arrangetl. Glands only few. ending of ducts; on vesicles are vessels ; open into urethra. The upper surface of tlic prostate is narrow and rounded. The under surface, which is larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, or the base, is thick, and in its centre is a notch which receives the common seminal ducts. The fore part or apex is pierced by the urethra. Tliree lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no lissure in the firm mass. The lateral parts or lobes (fig. 176, c) are similar on both sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe {d) will be brought into view by detaching the vesicuhi? seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder; it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in the substance of the prostate (fig. 178). The former is transmitted through the gland fi'om base to aj^ex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure. On a section the gland appears reddish gray in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of unstriated muscular and fibrous tissues, with inter- spersed glandular stioicture; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous corering. This forms a thin investment for the gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite distinct fi'om the denser sheath derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated from that sheath by a plexus of veins. Muscular tissue. The firm part of the gland consists of involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. The muscular fibres are arranged circularly around the tube of the urethra: they are continuous behind with the annular fibres of the bladder, and in front with a thin layer of circular fibres around the membranous part of the urethra. At the lower and outer parts the texture is looser and more spongy, especially where the glands are situate, and the larger vessels enter (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). This arrangement will be better seen when the urethra has been opened. Glcnuhdur structure. Small branched glands project from the tube of the urethra amongst the muscular fibres ; they form but a small part of the prostate, and are most numerous in the middle lobe. The final radicles of the ducts are surrounded by small sessile vesi- cles : on the exterior of the vesicles and ducts the bloodvessels ramify. Lining the interior of the tubes is an epithelium of the columnar kind. The ducts of the glands vary in number from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the urethra (p. 577).571 ANATOMY OF VESICULA SEMINALIS. Bloodvessels. The arteries are rather small, and are furnished by Arteries, the inferior vesical and middle lucmorrhoidal (p. 503). The veins form a plexus around the gland, which communicates in fi-ont with Veins form the dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with the venous plexus at the base of the bladder. In old men this vascular intercommuni- cation gives rise to considerable haemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. The nerves are supplied by the hyjjogastric plexus. The lympluttics Nerves, of this body and of tlie vesicula3 seminales are received into the Lyi"i>iiiitius. glands placed along the internal iliac artery. Vesicul^ Seminales (fig. 176, e). These vesicles are two mem- Seminal branous sacs, which secrete a fluid to mix with the semen. They ■ Fig. 176.* are placed on the under part of the bladder behind the prostate, detinition, and diverge from one another so as to limit laterally a triangular situation, space in that situation : their form and connectiojis have been already described (p. 554), Though sacculated and bulged behind, saocuiated. the vesicula becomes straight and nan-owed in front (duct d) • and at the base of the prostate it blends with the vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct (g). The vesicula seminalis consists, like the epididymis, of a tube Formed of ;i bent into a zigzag form, so as to produce lateral sacs or pouches, ^'^^^'^^ ^^^^ • * View of the under part of the bladder with the vesiculie seminales and vasa deferentia (slightly altered from HalJer). a. Bladder. 6 and c, right and left lateral lobes of the prostate, d. Middle lobe. e. Vesicula seminalis, the right one unravelled. /. Vas deferens, g. Common seminal duct, formed by the union of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula. li. Ureter.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 572 lengtli anil size. Vesicle lias a special coat; a covering of iiiusciilar iibres; :anil a mu- cous coat. End of vas ■deferens : .glands and ■epithelium. Seminal <lucts, how fonned : «xtent, course, length, .and termi- nation. .Structure : glands and epithelium. whose bends are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cell struc- ture will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a quill, measures from four to six inches, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity : connected Avith the tube at inters'-als, are lateral ccecal api^endages Cfig. 176). Sfi-ucture. The wall of the seminal vesicle has the same number of layers as the vas deferens (p. 527) ; but the muscular coat is thinner. Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, the vesiculaj and vasa deferentia are covered by a layer of transverse and longitudi- nal plain muscular fibres. The transverse are the more superficial (the base of the bladder being upwards), are strongest near the prostate, and act most on the vasa deferentia. The longitudinal fibres, placed chiefly on the sides of the vesiculje, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra. (Med. Chir. Trans. 1850.) The mucous membrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of the tube, and presents an areolar or honeycomb appearance ; it is provided with tubular glands, as in the vas deferens, and is covered by a flattened epithelium. End of vas deferens (fig. 17G). Opposite the vesioula the vas deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather sacculated like the contiguous vesicle : but before it joins the tube of that body to form the common seminal duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. In the mucous lining are numerous tubular glands like those of the intestine (Henle) ; and the epithelium is columnar as in the rest of the tube. Common seminal ducts (fig. 178,/). These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the narrowed part or duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens of the same side. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through an aperture in the circular prostatic fibres, and along the sides of a hollow (vesicula prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and their course is convergent to their termination close to each other in the floor of the m-ethra (p. 57G). Structure. The Avail of the common duct is thinner than that of the vesicula seminalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- rounded by longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres, which blend in the urethra with the submucous stratum. It possesses the same glands and epithelium as the dilated part of the vas deferens ; but at the end of the tube the mucous membrane wants glands and is smooth (Henle). THE BLADDER. ?f the bocP ''^^^^ bladder has been separated from the surrounding parts, o le otj. ^j^^ extent of its difiEerent regions can be more con- veniently studied. Form. Whilst the bladder is in the body, it is conical in shape, and ratherSTRTJCTURE OF URINAEY BLADDER. 578 flattened from before backwards; but out of the body it is more circular than when in its natural position, and it loses that arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across (Huschke). Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and sex, and by the habits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without in- convenience during life, though it can contain mucli more when distended. As a general rule Dimensions. Fig. 177.^ it is larger in the female than in the male. Structure. A nuiscular and a mucous coat, with an inter- vening .fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering of peritoneum has been described (p. 550). The muscular coat is formed of thin layers of imstriated muscular fibres, viz. an exter- nal or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 177, form a continuous covering, with the usual plexi- forra disposition of the mus- cular bundles, and extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the urachus, and the subperito- neal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; whilst the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, with the exception of a fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back of the pubes through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than Coats of tlie bladder. PeritoueaL Muscular has three strata. External or longitudinal attach- ments : * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and urethra. 1. E.xternal or loDgitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Ciixular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 5. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous witli the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver- nosum. 10. Ureter.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 574 fomis <letrusor urinie; Intenial <ontinuoui5 vith pi'O- state. Sub-niucous layer: -extent, libres, addition to it. Strata ai* .joined. Fibrous -coat. 0])en tlie bladder. Mucous coat has folds •except on one spot. ■Glands. Epithelium. Interior of the bladder. Ojiening of urethra, ■with the uvula. on the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer laj^er of fibres is called detruscyr urince. from its action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 177,') are thin and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, the sphincter vesica;, and are continuous before with the fibres of the prostate. When the fibres are hypertrophied, they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in some bodies tlie mucous coat may be forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The submucous stratum (fig. 177, •'') forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower third of the viscus the fibres are longitudinal, and are continued around the urethra, but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The pro- jection of the uvula vesicas is due to this submucous stratum. The muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated from another without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). Fibrous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enumerated as one of the coats of the bladder ; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hollow viscera, in which the vessels and nerves ramifj\ Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision down the front; and the cut is to be continued along the upper part of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous posteriorly with the lining of the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer ; and it is thrown into numerous folds in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular surface behind the urethral opening. The membrane is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. Its surface is studded with mucous follicles and branched glands, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. In the epithelium covering the surface are three kinds of cells :—the superficial are roundish and flattened ; the middle are pyriform ; and the deeper are conical and cylindrical. Objects inside the bladder. Within the bladder are the following named parts, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the triangular surface (fig. 179). Orifices. At the anterior part of the bladder is the orifice of the urethra, siuTounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small prominence below, uvula vesica;, occasioned by a thickening of the submucous muscular and fibrous layer. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate ; and fi-om its anterior part a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra.575 INTERIOR OF URETHRAL CANAL. About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, and Openings of rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings urcteis. of the ureters (fig. 179). These excretory tubes for the urine per- forate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of one third of an inch, so that tlie reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence formed by sub- jacent muscular fibres. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra Trigone of is a smooth triangidar surface, which is named trigone (trigonum vesicae). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out hy a line on each side from the iww urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, behind, between the • openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds with the trian- part oorre- gular space externally at the base of the bladder, between the pro- exteniaify state in front and the vesiculaj and vasa deferentia on the sides. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters To expose will come into view on the removal of the mucous membrane from m-eters! the lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureters. As soon as the ureter i^ierces Muscular the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are ureters^ thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; Avhilst the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer. Bloodvessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries^ and Arteries; the termination of the veins have been detailed (p. 563). The ^oins; vessels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nen-es of supplied fx-om the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 568), are derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the Lymplmtics. glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 179). The tube of the urethra extends from the Urethra: neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average ie^„gth; length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life (Thompson). It is supported by the prostate, the triangular no^special ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is ^°*5.,i^,^ divided, as before said (p. 555), into a prostatic, a membranous, and into parts, a spongy part.. Dissection. To open the urethra, let the incision through the upper ^^^^ part of the prostate be continued onwards to the extremity along ui'ethra.''' the line of union of the urethral canal with the body of the penis. The prostatic part (fig. 179) is nearer the upper than the lower prostatic surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and a V^^'^ ■576 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. dimensions and diameter. On the floor is a crest: in the crest is a pouch. Vesical a projei'ts into the prostiite quarter in length, and is altogether the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesica3 with its slight ridge. In front of this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (d), about tlii-ee quarters of an inch in length, and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous pail of the canal, and is named c7-est of the urethra (veru montanum, caput gallinaginis) : it is fonned like the uvula by a bundle of the sub- mucous muscular and fibrous tissue. In that crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow (c) named vesicula 2^1'ostatica or sinus pocularis. The vesicula 2^rosfa(ica or utricle (fig. 178, fj) is directed back- wards and downwards in the prostate, for a quarter of an iacls,. Fig. 17S. passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity ami by it ,s about as large again. Along the wall, on each side, is placed ejaciUatory the common seminal duct (/), which terminates on or within the ducts. margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct beliind the prostate, they will render evident the apertures. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the ducts of Miiller in the fetus and represents the uterus in the female. ' ' • Section through the bladder, prostate, and urethra, to show the vesicula prostatica and the common seminal duct. a. Bladder, b Prostate and 7 prostatic part of the urethra, d. Vesicula semiualis c Xrddl^s f Common ejaculatory duct. rj. Vesicula prostatica. "eierens. /.IXTERIOR OF URETHRA. 577 On each side of the central crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic sinuses ■■' iu floor. the prostatic sinus (hg. 179, / ). Into tliis hollow the greater number "^^^ Fis. 179.* of the ducts in the prostate open ; but the apertures of some arc seen at the posterior part of the central eminence. * View of the lower part of the bladder and of the urethra laid open. a. Triangular surface of the bladder, b. Oj^enings of the ureters, c. Prostate, cut. d. Caput gallinaginis. c. Sinus pociUaris. /. Prostatic sinus, with p P578 DISSECTIOX OF THE PELVIS. Meiiiliran- ous part: dimensions. around. Spongy part: dimensions, two dilata- tions : one in 'bulb, one in glans; Iat5una3, one larger tlian the rest. Ducts of glands of Cowper. Mucous nieiubrane; extent; colour; folds; glands; epithelium. Submucous tissue; The membranous part of the uretlira (fig. 179, g) is tliree quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between tlie apex of the pro- state ghind and the hull) (A ) of the corpus spongiosum urethras In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the narrowest portion of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated cir- cular fibres (p. 430), and outside all by the constrictor urethrtB muscle. The sjwngy part (fig. 179, i) reaches to the end of the penis. It is about six inches in length. And its strength depends upon a surrounding material named corpus spongiosum uretln-ju. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by whicli it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears as a transverse slit, l»ut in the glans, as a vertical intersval. Two dilatations exist in the iloor of tlie spongy portion:—One is close to the triangular ligament, being contained in the bulb or l)ulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, which has been called fossa navicularis (n) from its shape. There are many small pouches or lacunar (o) in the canal, as far back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than the rest, lacuna magna, is placed, generally, on the upper boundary or roof of the urethra, opposite the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Cowpcrs glands (fig. 179, h) are two in number, and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the fi'ont of the bulb, but they are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tcgumentary covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and membranous parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the penis. Its surface is studded throughout with follicles, and with the apertures of branched glands, which are lodged in the submucous tissue, and whose ducts are inclined obliquely forwards; and it is provided with papilL-e towards the external orifice. Its epithelial covering is of the columnar kind, but near the nieatus it becomes laminar. Submucous tissue. Beneath the mucous lining of the urethra is a openings of the glands of the prostate, g. Membranous part of the urethra. h. Cowper"s glands, a duct fi-om each opening into the urethra, i. Spongy part of the urethra. I: Bulb of the urethra. I. Glans penis, and n, fossa navicularis. o. Openings of lacunte and glands, r. Corpus cavernosum of the penis.579 CORPORA CAVERNOSA PEXIS. stratum of longitudinal unstriated musculai- fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- mucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratum differs along the canal:—It is most developed in the pro- state, where it forms the projection of the crest; in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms the greater portion of the submucous layer. In the prostatic and membranous divisions of the urethra there is, in addition, a thin enveloping laj'-er of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued backwards fi-om the corpus spongiosum urethrEC to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the Penis. The form and the connections of the penis having been described in page 555, the tissues of which it is composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one side of the penis, it will show this body to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) incased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 179, ?•). These bodies form the bulk of the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- taining erectile structure. Each is fixed behind by a pointed process, crus penis, to the upper part of the pubic arch for about an inch; and blends Avith its fellow in the body of the penis, after a distance of an inch and a half. There is a slight swelling on the crus, called the bulb of the corpus cavcrnosum (Kobelt). Each corpus cavemosum is composed of a fibrous case with a cavernous or trabecular structure inside, with vessels in the intervals Fig. 180.* nature; ari-ange- meut in uietln'ii. Erectile tissue throu^rliout- Peuis formed of two vascular erectile bodies. Coi-pora cavernosa, attached belli ud separately, blend to- gether ia front; bulb. Tlie struc- tures of which it consists. of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fibrous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 180), A * View of the fibres of the case of the corpus cavemosum. h. The external or longitudinal Layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. The pectiniforra septum.DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 530 fibres form stnit.u One septal Fig. 181. fi-om half a line to a line in thickness. Along the middle of the that sends in penis a septal process is sent inwards from it; and numerous other processes: g^^^j. tlireads,—the trabecular of the spongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 180, 5) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 180, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition; and' the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are in- separably united by communicating bundles. The sejJtal process (fig. 181) is placed vertically along the body of the penis, and is tliicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two parts; but as it reaches fonvards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertnres, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum pecfiniforme is derived. Through the intervals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa communicate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular sti'ucture is a net- work of fine threads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference ; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained ca^dty, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabecula3 contain elastic fibres, and unstriated muscular fibres (Miiller). The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Bloodvessels. The bloodvessels of the penis are large in size, and sei-ve to nourish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. Source of The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the pudic: the arteries; chief branch (art. corp. caveniosi) enters at the crus, and runs- forwards throTigli the middle of the cavernous structure, distributing offsets; and the rest pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. termination In the interior they divide into branches, Avhich ramify in the vei'ii'rai.'d trabecula) (fig. 182, a), becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute branches, which open into the veins in the intertrabecular ■which is im- perfect ; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. In the cords some mus- cular fibres. Vessels. * PectinifoiTn septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a coiub, -whicli are formed by the circular fibres.581 CORPUS SPONGIOSUM URETHRiE. spaces without the intervention of capillaries. Some of the finest twigs end in tufts of short, slightly curled and dilated vessels—the helicine arteries of Miiller (fig. 182, e), which project into the inter- heiicine trabecular spaces, and are imbedded in the thin coat of the veins (/) • with the extremities of these twisted vascular bodies fine fibrous processes are connected. The helicine arteries exist in greatest number at the posterior part of each corpus cavernosum. The veins fill the interstices of the areolar structure, and anas- Veins are tomose freely together to form venous plexuses ; and into them S^piex-* the terminal branches of the arteries pour their contents. By means uses: Fig. 182.* of the apertures in the septum the veins of opposite sides commu- nicate freely. The erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of the plexuses. The chief veins of the corpus cavernosum escape at the crus penis ending of with the artery, and join the pudic vein ; but others issue along the upper and under aspects, to end in the dorsal vein and the prostatic plexus. Corpus spongiosum urethrce (fig. 177). This constituent part of the Spongy penis surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at the p"nis; the bulb only a thin stratum is above the canal, whilst at the glans penis (fig. 179,1) it is placed chiefly above the urethral tube. Pos- teriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb around the urethra. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that its structure of the corpus cavernosum : thus it consists of a fibrous tunic en- nous^'^^^'^' closing a trabecular structure and bloodvessels. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora The fibrous cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A septal piece (fig. ' * Magnified view of the trabecular stnicture and arteries of the penis, a. Branch of an artery and its ramifications in the bands of the spongy structure of the penis, h. c. Trabecular structure, e. A tuft of the twisted or helicine arteries. The dark shadowing, /, represents a vein incasing the bundle of vessels (Miiller).DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 582 imjieifec't septum. trabeculu;. Blood- vessels : lielieine arteries. source of arteries : tennination of the veins. Nerves. Ljmphaties. 177, ") projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube of the urethra ; this is best marked for a short distance in front of the bulb, and assists in dividing that part into two lobes. The trabecular hands are much finer, and more uniform in size than in the corpora cavernosa. Bloodvessels. The arrangement of the bloodvessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar in the bulb to that in the corpora cavernosa ; but in the rest of the spongy substance the arteries are said to end in capillaries in the usual way. Thehelicine tenninations of the arteries are absent from the glans penis, where the veins foiTa a very close and regular plexus. The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side :—one, artery of the bulb, enters the bulb behind ; and several in front, offsets of the dorsal artery, penetrate into the glans. Kobelt des- cribes another branch to the bulb at the upper aspect. Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the large dorsal vein of the penis, some communicating with veins of the cavernous body : others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the penis are large and are supplied by both the spinal and symiDathetic nerves: on the glans penis they are furnished with Pacinian bodies. The superficial lymphatics of the integuments, and those beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra, join the inguinal glands ; the deep ac- company the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the lymphatic glands in the pelvis. THE RECTUM. To prepare the gut. Rectum is smooth. Length ; dimensions. Same coats as in the rest of the intestine. Peritoneum. Muscular coat Dissection. The rectum is to be washed out, and then distended with tow ; and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed fi-om it. The lower end of the large intestine, which is contained in the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on the surface, the longitudinal bands of the colon being absent from it. It is about eight inches in length ; and its average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform as far as the lower extremity, where it is dilated, particularly in old people ; but at the aperture of termination in the anus the gut is smaller than elsewhere. Structure. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a mucous, and a submucous stratum ; and the muscular and mucous layers have certain characters which distinguish this part of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its arrange- ment is referred to in the description of the connections of the pelvic viscera (p. 552). The muscular coat consists of two planes of pale or unstriated fibres, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular.STRUCTURE OF RECTUM. 583 The longitiuJincd, continuous with those in the hands on the colon, lias longi- are liere diffused to form a stratum around the gut. The circular describe arches around the intestine, and hecome thicker and stronger oSes!"'^^''^ towards the anus, wliere they are collected in the hand of the internal sphincter muscle. The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and re- Mucous sembles in this respect the hning of the oesophagus; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. tascular*^ When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into foi^^s . numerous accidental folds ; but some near the anus are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are other three permanent folds (Houston) which some are are half an inch or less in depth, and contain circular fibres of the i^'^"*''"'"'^^^^- gut. The most constant of these is about tlu-ee inches from the anus, on the fi-ont of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder ; another is placed on the right side of the intestine, towards the top; and the tbird is on the left side, midway between the other two. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the Structure, colon, but towards the anus the secretoiy apparatus gradually dis- appears. Bloodvessels. The arteries are supplied from three different sources, Arteries, viz., superior htemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hsemor- rhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior h;emoiThoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut, and arrangement only the upper lijemorrhoidal, which is the largest, requires further Liimorrlioi- notice. The final branches of this artery (p. 564), about six in number, pierce the muscular layer three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sjihincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins are deficient in valves, and communicate freely, like the ^1"^^^® arteries, in a plexus between the muscular and mucous coats, around valves, the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and through it reach the vena porta3 ; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle hajmor- rhoidal branch. Nerves and hjmiihatics. The nerves of the intestine are obtained Nerves, from the sympathetic ; and those of the sphincter come from the spinal cord. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on Lymphatics, the sacrum. Section YI. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE VISCERA. In the pelvis are contained the viscera, alike in both sexes, viz., ^jj^'^^^^^'^^ the bladder, urethra, and rectum ; and those special to the female, ^® or the organs of generation.DISSECTIOX OF THE PELVIS. To remove Dissection. The contents of the pelvis are to be removed, together the viscera, ^^j^j^ ^j^g genital organs. For this pnqDose the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid injuring the end of the rectum; and he should also detach the crus of the clitoris from the bone, and prepare After the parts are taken from the body, the rectum is to be separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended ; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed fi-om the viscera. GENITAL ORGANS. External organs. Mons Veneris, and labia niajora. FoTirchette and fossa navicularis. Clitoris ; dissection to see it. It is like the penis; has a glans and pre- puce. Composi- tion, corpora cavernosa, The genital organs consist of the following parts :—the mons Veneris and external labia, the clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen. Sometimes the term vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pudencli. In front of the pubes the integu- ment is covered with hair, and is raised into a slight eminence,— mons Veneris, by a layer of suljjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence are two folds of integument, the lahia piidendi (labia majora), which correspond with the scrotum in the male. Above and below, the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures; and between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inferiorly ; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with mucous membrane. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named fourchette, or froinuhim ; and between this fold and the lower commissure is an inters'-al—the fossa navicularis. Clitoris and nymphoB. Beneath the upper commissure of the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the nympha; or smaller labia descending from it. Dissection. To see the clitoris, the integuments forming the upper commissure must be removed ; and, after the body of the organ has been laid bare, the crura, one on each side, are to be followed outwards. The clitoris (fig. 183, 5) is a small erectile body, and is the repre- sentative of the penis. It has the same composition as the penis, except that the urethra is not continued below it. Its anterior extremity is terminated by a rounded part or glans (c), and is covered by a fold of the skin corresponding with the prepuce of the male. In its structure this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars :—it consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura (one on each side (a) ) to the pubic arch, and are blended in the body. Along the middle is an imperfect pectiniform septumFEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. 585 Further, it possesses a portion of corpus spongiosum, but tliis conras structure is limited to the ghans clitoridis (c). spongiosum. Structure. The outer fibrous casing and the septum are alike in a"d erectile tissue. Fig. 183.* both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that in the male organ (p. 580). The bloodvessels of the corpus cavemosum are like those of the penis; and the glans receives the ending of the dorsal artery (p. 441). The nymphce (fig. 184, *•) (labia minora) are two folds of mucous membrane, which descend from the end of the clitoris, one on each side of the orifice of the vagina; they are continuous above with the preputial covering of the glans, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner surface is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and vagina, and the outer, with the exter- nal labium. Bloodvessels are contained in each fold. Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. Within the nymplia;, between the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. In the middle line of the vestibular space is the round orifice of the urethra, wdiicli is placed in a median eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Orifice of the vagina (fig. 184), and the hymen. The aperture of the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in size. In the child, and in the virgin, it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, named the hymen. After the destruction of that membrane small irregularly-shaped projec- tions, carunculce myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina. * Eepresentation of the clitoris, a. Crus, and b, body of the corpus caveiTiosum. c. Glans clitoridis. The lower figure shows the structure on a vertical section ; the same letters refer to like parts. Labia mi- nora de- scend from jirepuce. Vestibule. Opening of tlie uretlira. Aperture of the vagina. HjTnen and carunculaa.586 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Mxicous Mucous mcmhrane. The mucous covering- of the external genitals geuHaisT is furnished throuohout with papilla^ but these are largest on the its pai)ilhv. labia minora and the clitoris. Its epithelium is laminar. ami'''i!uuis' Sebaceous glands open on the contiguous surfaces of the labia majora and minora, and beneath the prepuce ; and mucous glands and follicles exist on the vestibule and the inner surface of the nymplue. GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative organs arc the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the pentoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. Separate vagina and uterus : dean vagina. THE VAGINA. Vagina : extent and curved course. Fonn and size. Interior lias colunms and raga". Tliickness. An erectile stnu tnre in the wall. Erectile tissue forms semi- bulbs ; The tube of the vagina is connected with the uterus at one end, and with the vulva at the other (fig. 173, ^). It has a cui-ved course between the two points mentioned ; and the anterior and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the former measures about four inches, and the latter five or six. In the body the vagina is flattened from above downwards, so that the opposite surfaces may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is joined to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots :—thus the external orifice which is surrounded by the con- strictor A'agina) muscle is the narrowest 23art ; the middle j^ortion is the largest; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions be- tween the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, instead of the extremity of the passage, may be remarked ; and the tube may be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rngai pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly around the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy erectile tissue, covered externally by a layer of unstriated muscle, and lined by mucous membrane. At its lower end the tube is suiTounded by a band of the fibres of the sphincter vaginre muscle (p. 434). The erectile tissue is more abundant at the ends than the middle of the vagina, and is gi-eatest in quantity below where it gives in- creased thickness to the wall. Two masses, one on each side ofSTRUCTrRE OF VAGINA. 58r the opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor {bulbi vestibuU, Kobelt, fig. 184, a). These are elongated bundles of plexifonn veins, enclosed in fibrous membrane ; they connec- are about an inch in length from above down, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where the}- are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vagin£e (a). At the upper end each is pointed, and communicates with the vessels of the clitoris : and at the lower rounded extremity it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies would answer to the divided bulb of the corpus tiicy corre- spongiosum urethras in the male, each lateral half being thrust aside the buih'of the male. Fig. 184.* in the female towards the crus clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina. The mucous membrane is contuiued tlirougli the lower aperture to Murons join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, of ti'e' "" at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. }.Iany muciparous vagina, glands and follicles open on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. Conical and filiform j^apilla) exist on the membrane ; and a laminar epithelium gives a covering to it. The muscular layer is outside the erectile structure and consists Muscular of longitudinal fibres. Some reach all along the vagina ; others, and ' these are the strongest, only as far upwards as the rccto-vesical fascia, to which they are attached on each side. AIjovc they end in the superficial layer of the uterus, and in the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and below in the subdenuic tissue. Bloodvessels and nerves. The arteries arc derived from tlic vaginal. Arteries, uterine, and vesical branches of the internal iliac. The veins form Veins are a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and ^^^^^ open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves^ Nerves, see page 5G8. * VenoiLS plexuses of the genital organs and opening of the vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginte muscle, b. Clitoris, c. ]Sr.vm2)h!B. a. Semi-bnlbs or bulbi vestibuli. b. Tenons plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris (pars intermedia, Kobelt). c. Dorsal vein of the chtoris.588 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Lymphatics. The lymphatics accompany the bloodvessels to the glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. Two glands Glands of Bartholin. On the outer part of the vagina, near the cowje?'"' *° lower end, are two small yellowish glandular bodies, one on each side, which represent Cowper's glands in the male. Each is about as large as a small bean ; and its duct is directed forwards to open on the inner aspect of the nympha of the same side. The duct resembles that of Cowper's gland in its structure (p. 430). Uterus. Fom; ■dimensions. Upper end. The lower end is small; has an opening. Neck. Body: sides and ■attached jjarts. Open the uterus. It."? thick- ness. , THE UTERUS. The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its office is to receive the ovum, and to retain for a fixed period the developing fetus. This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 185), and possesses inferiorly a rounded narrow part or neck. Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume exceed always the measure- ments here given. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum: the term fundus is applied to the part of the oi'gan above the attachment of the Fallopian tube (e). The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication between the uterus and the vagina, named os uteri (os tincai) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted, and this diminished portion is called the neck (b) of the uterus (^cervix uteri^ ; it is surrounded by the vagina, and is covered by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. The neck is about half an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity. The hody (a) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- riorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except at the lower part in fi-ont (about half an inch), where it is connected to the bladder. To each side, which is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of the peri- toneum are attached (fig. 173) :—viz., the Fallopian tube at the top (m) ; the round ligament (n), rather below and before it ; and the ovary (l), and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to be made along the anterior wall fi-om the fundus to the os uteri; and then some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity. The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the middle of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the angles of the fundus (fig. 185), the wall becoming thinner towards the attach- ment of the Fallopian tubes.ANATOMY OF UTERUS. 58» Interior of the u terus (fig. 185). Within the uterus is a smcall space, which is divided artificially into two—that of the body, and that of the neck. The space occupying the body of the viscus (c) is triangular in form, and is larger than the other. Its base is at the fundus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are j^rolonged to- wards the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed downwards, and joins the cavity in the cervix by a narrowed circular part, isthmus, which may be narrower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck (d) terminates inferiorly at the os uteri, and is continuous above with the space within the body. It is larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped. In the interior is a trian- gular space in the body, wliicli is nan-owed below; and a spindle- shaped space in tlie neck. Fig. 185.* and is somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (rugat) are directed obliquely from these on each side: in the neck this appearance has been named arbor vitce utei 'inus. In the intervals ^jjg arbor '^^ between the rugaa are mucous follicles, which sometimes become vitaa. distended with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs. Structure. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers utenis is a of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with areolar and elastic ^gau^^^^ tissues, and large bloodvessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The vmscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of There arc gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus, viz., ex- ^^^'^^' temal, internal, and middle :— The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse; external, but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con- verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the sub- * Interior of the uterus, -svith a posterior view of the hroad ligament and the uterine appendages, a. Body, and h, neck of the uterus, c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. c. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. g. The fimbria attached to the ovary, h. Ovary, and i, ligament of the ovary. Jc. Parovarium.590 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. intenial, iincl middle. Mucou.s liniiii; is covered witli glands. Follicles in the neck. Epithelium. Vessels are large. Arteries; veins; iierves. Lymphatics, two sets; their ending. Round liga- ment ends in groin : .-ittaehment to uterus; liow formed. peritoneal fibrous tissue ; and others are continued into tlie Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they are arranged in ca transverse direction. The middle or intei-vening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of tlie uterus is continued into the vagina at one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body of the uterus it is of a reddish-white colour, and is thin, smooth, and adherent, but without papillae. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands, which may be either straight and simple, or twisted and branched; they are lined by ciliated epithelium, and their minute apertures are scattered over the surface. In the cervix uteri, between the rng-x, mucons follicles and glands are collected, and near the outer opening are papillas. The epithelial covering of the mucous membrane consists of a single layer of cells, which are columnar and ciUated throughout the cavity of the uterus. The bloodvessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished fi'om the uterine and ovarian branches (p. 564). The veins correspond with the arteries: they are large in size, and form plexuses in the uterus. The nerves are deriA^ed from the sympathetic (p. 568), and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus: in the cervix they are traced to the papillae. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accompanies the ovarian artery to the glands on the aorta: the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Fallopian tube. Round ligament of the uterus (fig. 173, n). This firm cord sup- ports the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and partly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, and is attached to the upper part of the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum accompanies it in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary: OvARY (fig. 185). The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with position, the testes of the male. They are contained in the broad ligaments of the uterus, one in each.591 STRUCTURE OF OVARY. Its weight varies from one to two Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flattened from above down. It is of a whitish colour, with cither a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and a third of an inch in thickness drachms. The ovarj- is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is connected with that membrane by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter the stroma. Its outer end (y) is rounded and is con- nected with one of the fimbria; at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The inner extremity is narrowed, and is attached to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord (i),—the ligament of the ovary, below the level of the Fallopian tube and round ligament. Structure. The ovary consists of a sti'oma of areolar tissue con- taining small sacs named G-raafian, and the whole is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The jicritoneum surrounds it except at the attached form and colour. dimensions and weight. Connec- tions. Glandular iu structure. Fig. 186.' The fibrous coat is adherent to the contained stroma. Along the attached margin of the ovary is a slit, by which the vessels and nerves enter. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum), or some cicatrices, may be seen in this covering. Stro7na (fig. 186). The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascular, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate fi-om the hilum towards the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains very many small cells, about Yl-yth of an inch in size ;—the nascent Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 186) are round and trans- parent cells, scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the cortical layer. During the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to thirty, or more, may be counted at the same time ; these vary in size from a pin's head to a pea. The largest are situate at the circumfer- ence of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through tlie fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat with a fluid inside. The coat of the vesicle named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine areolar tissue, and is united to the stroma of the OYOXj by bloodvessels, which ramify in the wall. Lining it is a layer of nucleated granular cells—the memhrana granulosa, which is thickened at one spot, and surrounds the ovum as the discus prol/gerus (Von Baer), fixing it to the wall. The fluid in the interior is transparent and albumi- • Ovary during the child-bearing period laid open. a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growtli. i. PUcated body remaining after the escape of the ovum (Farre). A filirous coat sur- rounds stroma. Stroma, fibrous and granular, with cells. Graafian vesicles. size and number. coat; contents.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 592 Shedding of un ovum ; and corpus luteum. Artery ; veins; nerves. Appendage to ovary : situation, form. structure. Fallopian tubes. Length, and fonn : it is dilated externally, and timbri- ated: size of the tube is least at the ends.. A muscular structure : fibres pro- longed from uterus. Mucous coat nous; it contains the minute ovum, together with molecular granules. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix (V). Bloodvessels and nerves. The ovarian arte^^i/ pierces the ovary at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian vesicles they are distributed. The veins begin in the vesicles and the texture of the ovary, and after escaping from its substance, form a plexus (pam- piniform) within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Ai^perukuie to the ovary (fig. 185, Ic) (Parovarium, Organ of Rosen- miiller). On holding up the broad ligament of the uterus to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. This is the remnant of the upper part of the Wolffian body of the fetus ; it is about one inch broad, with its base to the Fallopian tube, and apex to the attached part of the ovary. The small tubes are from twelve to twenty in number; at the wider end they are joined more or less perfectly by a tube crossing the rest, which is prolonged sometimes a short way into the broad ligament. Each tube is a closed fibrous capsule with a clear fluid within, and with a ^lining of epithelium. Fallopian Tubes (fig. 185, e). Two in number, one on each side, they convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their office with the vasa deferentia in the male. Each is about four inches in length : cord-like at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity (/), like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fi-inged, and the pieces are called fimhrice. When the fimbriated end is floated out in water, one of the processes (gr) may be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovar3^ In the centre of the fimbriaj is a groove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space, and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at different spots:—the narrowest part is at the orifice into the iiterus (ostium uterinum), where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle ; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture (ostium abdominale). Structure. This excretory tube has the same structure as the uterus with which it is connected, viz., a muscular layer covered externally by peritoneum, and fined by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer ; both these are continuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus. The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, particularlyBLADDER AND URETHKA IN FEMALE. 593 at the outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous lining of the utenis, but at the outer end it joins is continu- tlie peritoneum. A cohnnnar and ciUated epithelium covers the ritoiieum?'^' surface, as in the uterus, and is said by Henle to be detected on the outer surface of the fimbria\ The hloodcessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vessels, the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the fonn and size of the female Anatomy of bladder have been detailed in the description of the connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 5G0). For a notice of its struc- ture, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 573). Dissection. To prepai'c the bladder, distend it with air, and remove rrepaiatiou the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue fi'om the muscular fibres. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been opeu it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the upper part. Urethra. The length and the connections of the excretory tube Length of rnf\ Urethra. are given m page 560. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter Size; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder: near the external apertme is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant it can he structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the |iii^^?gii corresponding passage in the male. Structure. Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like ■coat, wliicli is enveloped by a plexus of bloodvessels, and by mus- ^laie"^ cular fibre. The muscular layer extends the whole length of the urethra. Its Muscular fibres are circular, corresponding with the prostatic enlargement in euiar°fibi-es. the other sex, and continuous behind with the middle layer of the "bladder. In the perinajal ligament this stratum is covered by the constrictor urethra? as in the male (p. 435). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds; and one of these, in the floor of the | j. canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (p. 570). fl„<,r; Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards follicles and the inner end are tubular nmcous glands, whose apertures are fe'^""^^'*' arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A laminar ■epithelium is spread over the surface, and beneath it are deeper epithelium. <,-onical cells as in the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues Submucous lies close beneath the nuicous membrane, as in tlie male. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- rrcparation tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and ^"^^^t^"- the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectum. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes; Rectum like and the student may use the description in the Section on the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 572). Q QDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 594 Section YII. Two muscles. Define the muscles and the levator ani. Pjaifonnis. Origin in the i)elvis. Insertion. Its connec- tions with parts around. Use as an external rotator of hip joint. Obturator muscle is 'bent over pelvis. Origin in the i)elvis. arching of its tendons over the hip bone. inserti ion. INTERNAL MUSCLES OF THE PELVIS. Two muscles, the pyriformis and obturator internus, have their origin witliin the cavity of the pelvis. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areolar tissue which may remain on the muscles; and define their exit fi-om the pelvis,—the pyriformis passing through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and the obturator through the small notch of the same name. On the right side the dissector may look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic notch to the gxeat trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, tliird, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between the anterior ajjer- tures, and from the lateral part of the bone external to those holes ; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip-bone forming the upj^er part of the large sacro-sciatic notch, and fi-om the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter. (Dis- section of the Buttock.) The anterior surface is in contact with the rectum on the left side, with the sacral plexus, and with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels. The opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the supe- rior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sacral plexus, and the sciatic and pudic vessels intervenmg. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use will be given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the Buttock. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its Origin in the pelvis, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, like the preceding ; but the part outside is almost parallel in direction with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the obtura- tor membrane, except a small part behind ; fi-om the pelvic fascia covering its surface; slightly from the bone anterior to the thyroid hole, but from all the smooth inchned surface of the pelvis behind and above that aperture, though opposite the small sacro-sciatic foramen a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and somewhat downwards, and end in three or four tendinous pieces, which turn over the sharp edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis the tendons blend into one, which is inserted into the gi-eat trochanter.Q Q 2 LIGAMENTS OF PELVIC BONES. 505 The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the Part of pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface with the "ivi? pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels cavity, and nen'e. Action. The muscle draws the trochanter towards the back of the Use as hip-bone over which it bends, and rotates out the hip-joint. For roSto? further notice of its use, see the dissection of the Buttock. CoccYGEUS Muscle. The position and the connections of this Coccygeus muscle may be studied with advantage in the interior of the pelvis. The muscle is described at p. 547. LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of the pel- Outline of vis :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccyx are united with laticm!'^" one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two innomi- nate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorly. Union of Pieces of Sacrum and Coccyx. Whilst the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain separate they are articulated as in Ligaments the other vertebrte by an anterior and posterior common ligament, ggp'a\?ate with a disc of intervertebral substance for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 372). After the sacral vertebrae have coalesced, only rudiments of the and joined, ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised; but when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, those ligaments disappear in the adult male. Sacro-vertedral Articulation. The base of the sacram is articu- Sacrum lated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to those ^"rtebra^ uniting one vertebra to another (p. 373) ; and by one special liga- ment—the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different liga- Dissection, ments into view, the dissector may consult the directions already given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebraa (p. 372). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an Byliga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous |"®^fe(!y,. substance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava ; tebrtw. and between the spines the supra and interspinous bands are situate. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with syno- vial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a rather strong bundle of fibres, and iiy which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse i/amrLicro- process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral part of the base vertebral, of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the articulation between the sacrum and the inno- minate bone. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are united Union of at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior and posterior '^■;'™ '■''"^596 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Dissection. An anterior and a posterior ligament. with a fibro- cartilage. Union of the cornua. Motion. Union be- tween tlie .sacrniii and hip bone. To dissect tlie liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligaments; one more distinct, the (juluj^ue. Articular cartilage. Motion is very slight, PS sernrity required; common ligament. And there is a separate articulation for the cornua of the bones. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. When the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that pass between the bones in fi-ont of the fibro-cartilage. The xwsterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the last piece of the sacrum, but naiTOWs as it descends to be inserted into the coccjrx. The/^'j-o-mrfeVa^/e resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebra;, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Articulation of the cornua. The cornua of the first piece of the coccyx are united with the coniua of the last sacral vertebra by ligamentous bands, and not by joints as in the artictilar processes of the other vcrtebne. Movement. Whilst the coccyx remains separate from the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take ])lace between them. Sacro-iliac Articitlation. The irregular surfaces by which the sacruui and the innommate bone articulate, are united by cartilage (synchondrosis), and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Interiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacnnn is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains. The anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic liga- ment will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a fcAV thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The jposterior ligaments (sacro-ihac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bimdles: these ligaments pass from the rough inner surface, at the posterior end of the in- nominate bone, to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from the others, and more superficial, is named the ollique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior upper iliac spinous process, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articukir cartilage. Between the iiTegular surfaces of the bones is a thin uneven layer of cartilage (fig. 187, a). It fits into the inequalities of the osseous surfaces, unithig them very firmly to- gether. On separating the bones after the other ligaments ai-e examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife. Movement. There is scarcely any appreciable motion in the sacro- iliac articulation, even when the hip-bone is seized by the hand, and forcibly pulled in different directions. The articulation seems designed for security and little movement, inasmuch as the surfaces are not in contact, are very irregular, and have a firm and in-SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. 597 extensible piece of cartilage interposed between tlieni. In some instances, and especially during pregnancy, there is a greater sometimes degree of motion perceptible. Two sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the lateral part of the Sacro-seiatic sacrum and coccyx to the hinder border of the os innominatum, two l'' Fig. 1S7.* Fig. 188.t across the space between the bones at the back of the pelvis: they are named large and small. The large hgament (fig. 188, o) reaches from the back of the Large, hip bone, and the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial tube- rosity. As this may have been cut in the examination of the gluteal region, no further notice is given here ; but if it remains entire, see Dissection of the Buttock for its description. The small ligament (fig. 188, li) is attached internally by a wide Small; piece to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the ongin of the preceding band. The fibres are directed attachments outwards, and are inserted by a narrowed part into the ischial spine of the hip bone. Its pelvic surface is covered by the coccygeus and connec- muscle ; and by the opposite surface it is in contact with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Alwve it is the large sacro-sciatic foramen ; and below it is the small foramen of the same name, which is bounded by the two ligaments. By their position these ligaments convert into two foramina Apertures (sacro-sciatic), the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones: tiienu^^ the openings, and the parts they give passage to, are described with the Buttock. * This figure shows the irregular piece of cartilage (a) in the sacro-iliac corticulation. , . . 7 o n f Sacro-sciatic ligaments, a. Large or postenor ligament, b. Small or anterior ligament.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 598 Special liga- ments of hip bones. Ilio-lunibar Ligaments of the Innomlxate Bones (fig. 189). The innominate bones are imited in fi-ont, at the pubic symphysis, by an interposed piece of cartilage and special ligaments ; and behind, each is con- nected with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra by a separate band (ilio-lumbar). In the centre of the bone is a mem- branous structure closing the tliyroid aperture. The ilio-lumhar or ilio-vertehral ligament is triangular in form, and is divided into fasciculi. Internally it is attached to the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra ; externally the Fig. 189. fixes the bone be- hind. Obturator jiienibrane closes an ajierture iu front. fibres spread out, and are inserted into the iliac-crest for about an inch, opposite the posterior part of the ihac fossa. To the upper border of the ligament the fascia lumborum is attached: its posterior surface is covered by the quadratus lumborum, and its anterior by the iliacus muscle. The thin obturator memhrane (fig. 189, closes almost entirely the thyroid foramen, and is composed of fibres crossing in different directions. It is attached to the bony margin of the foramen, except above where the obturator vessels pass through ; and towards the lower part of the aperture it is connected to the pelvic aspect of the hip-bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the * Ligaments of the symphysis pubis, thjToid hole, and acetabulum, a. Anterior liga,ment of the symphysis ; d, inferior, and c, cartilage of the symphysis, with a slit in the middle, h. Obturator membrane, c. Surface of the acetabulum covered with cartilage. /. Fatty substance in the aceta- bulum, g. Cotyloid ligament, which is cut where it forms part of the trans- verse band over the notch, h. Deep part of the ligament over the cotyloid notch.SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. 699 obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator vessels and nerve perforate it. Pubic Akticulation (fig. 189, a) (symphysis pubis). The oval Union at pubic surfaces of the hip bones are united by cartilage, and by ^^'^ lib res in fi"ont of, and above the bones: they ai"e also connected by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior jpuhic ligament (fig. 189, a) is very strong and is Anterior formed of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, and cross one another, joining with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen; but the deeper fibres are transverse between the surfaces of the bones. Some of the deepest fibres contain cartilage cells. There is not any strong posterior band ; but beneath the perios- Few fibres teum are a few scattered fibres in contact with the articular carti- lage. The supefi'ior ligamentous fibres fill the intei*val between the bones Ui'per band, above the cartilage. The siLhpuhic ligament (fig. 189, d) (ligam. arcuatum) is a strong Snbpubic triangularly-shaped band below the symphysis, and occupies the °' upper part of the pubic arch. The apex of the ligament touches the articular cartilage, and the base, contained within the triangular perinatal ligament, is turned towards the membranous part of the uretln-a. Dissection. The cartilage will be best seen by a transverse section Cartilage, ilOW S66X1. of the pubes, wliich will show the disposition of the anterior liga- ment of the articulation, and the thickness of the cartilage, with its toothed mode of insertion into the bone ; but when an opportunity offers, a vertical section may be made. Cartilage (fig. 189, c). The cartilage is firmly fixed to the ridged Disposition bony surfaces of the symphj-sis : it is wider above than below, and physis.^^"^' is generally as thick again before as behind. Variations in its size depend on the shape of the bones. Towards the posterior part of the cartilage there is a narrow Hollow fissure with uneven walls ; and a fibrous structure with large inter- ' spersed compound cells is to be recognised in the wall. It extends variations usually the whole depth of the cartilage and through a half or a third of the thickness: it is said to increase in pregnancy. In some bodies it reaches through the cartilage so as to divide tliis into two collateral pieces. Movement. As the bones are not in contact in the pubic sym- physis, but are united by an intennediate cartilage, the motion is usually very slight. The kind of movement of the hip bone is inward and outward, so as to increase or diminish the pelvic and out; cavity. When the pubic cartilage is divided into two by a larger central space than usual, greater freedom of motion is present in the sym- ^^^^^j .^^' physis ; and in pregnancy the looseness of the innominate bone is pregnancy. i,-ometimes so great as to interfere seriously with locomotion.ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. GOO TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEX. o 1. Phrenic. 3. suiierior mesenteric ■ 4. middle cap- sular 5. renal (i. spermatic 7. inferior mesenteric • S. lumbar S). middle sa- cral 10. Common iliac 2. Coeliac axis *. ( Coronary hepatic ( CEaopliageal ■ l gastric. (Superior i)yloric gastro-ejiiploic . left hepatic branch right liepatic brancli . splenic Pancreatic intestinal ileo-colic liglit colic k middle colic pancreatic vasa lirevia sjdenic left gastro- epiploic ( Left colic i sigmoid ■ ( superior hsemon-hoidal ■External iliac ( Epigastric . 1 circumflex iliac Parietal branches internal iliac .< visceral branches f Inferior pyloric i: pancreatico-duodenal. I . ( Cj'stic. Pubic brancli ■J anastomotic ( cremasteric. Ilio-lumbar lateral sacral gluteal . sciatic pudic . obturator 'Middle ha^mor- rhoidal vesical uterine, .vaginal. The branches marked with an asterisk are single. I (Superficial {deep. /' Coccygeal 1 comes nen'i ischia- dici muscular. ( Visceral inferior h;cnior- rhoidal superHcial peri- n;cal transverse peri- Uival artery of the l>ull> to corpus caver- nosum dorsal artery. .Articular.VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. GOl TABLE OF THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. Visceral branches ' Internal iliac . ( 1. Common iliac Hemorrhoidal plexus vesico-prostatic plexus . uterine vaginal. / 01>turatpr /Vesical < tlorsal of ihe penis (deep veins of the penis. parietal / branches » pudic. sciatic sluteal. ^ Veins of corpus caverno- suui of the b'llb transverse perinatal superficial periuifal inferior luenaorrhoidal (coccygeal i comes nervi ischiadic! ( muscular. C Epigastric external iliac . < circumtlex ( iliac ilio-lumbar lateral sacral middle sacral into the left. ■< Mi > (4 O u Ci. Vcrtcbro-lumbar right spermatic renal. . . j JJ}^ right capsular diaphragmatic 7. hepatic veins which bring blood from the vena portie. Cht {capsular spi ennatic Vena POBT.E Splenic Splenic branches vasa brevia I pancreatic left gastro- epiploic inferior me- , senteric 'Left colic sigmoid superior hiuinf)!-- rhoidal. superior mesenteric. /Intestinal ileo-colic right colic middle colic right gastro- epiploic! pancreati(! pancreatico- duodenal. coronary cysticSriNAL NERVES OF THE ABDOMEX. G02 TABLE OP THE SPINAL NEEVES IN THE ABDOMEN. Lumbar SPINAL NERVES divide into ' Posterior branches /Iiitenial . . Muscular (txtenial . f Muscular utaneous. Anterior LraiK-hes: of these the lorn" first end in the lumbar PLEXUS,' whidi' supiiliesj. f Cutaneous of the Ilio-hypogastric. •< ilium (hyiiogastric branch. ilio-inL'uiual < To integuments of ' I the gi-oin. external cuta- (To integuments of neons genito-cniral anterior crural ( the thigli. (Genital branch ( urural branch. 'Branches inside the Ijelvis . 'To the iliacus muscle. To the femoral ai-terj'. Brau(-hes outside the (are noticed in the i)elvis . . . I thigh. , obturator Accessory, ( Other offsets are de- . i scribed in tlie ( thigh. The lumbO'sacral gives off the superior gluteal nerve. /rosterior branches Muscular and unite together aiul-l cutani-ous give off . . . ( filaments. Sacral SPINAL NERVES divide into The anterior branches of the four superior unite with the lumbo-sacral in the sacral PLEXUS,t , and furni.sh , /"Visceral Branches inside ' to levator ani the jielvis "j to obturator intcnius Kto the pyriforniis pudic inferior hrenior- rhoidal (sonict ivies). branches outside / to the gluteus niaxi- ' '^luferior hsemor- rhoidal sujierficial perinreal (an terior and pos- terior) nniseular to the bulb dorsal of the penis. the pelvis nins to the Rtiperior ge- mellus to the inferior ge- mellus and the ((uadratus articular small srjatic (.great sciatic \ these arc described in the Thigh. t The other sacral nerves aie described at p. 5GC.G03 XERYES OF THE ABDOMEX. TABLE OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE OF THE ABDOMEN". /Diaphragmatic cojliac Solar Plexus* or pre- vertebral centre of the / abdoincii, furnishes tlie\ following plexuses: superior mesenteric suprarenal renal . aortic . spermatic inferior mesenteric r Coronary plexus hepatic /■Pyloric ' right gastro-epiploiV; ■"|^l>ancreatico-duodenaJ ^cystic, Isplenic Offsets to small and large intestine. (Left gastrn-epiploic t pancreatic. Spermatic plexus, filaments to the. Hj-jiogastric. ( Offsets to the large intestine ■ ( Superior liiciiiorrhoidal. ( Great splanchnic nerves. * This receives . -J part of small splanchnic. ( ott'set of pueuiuo-gastric. Hypogastric Plexus + ends in the pelvic jilexus on each side,- which gives the fol lowing plexuses . /•inferior hremon-hoidal vesical uterine V vaginal. r Prostatic J cavernous ■ 1 deferential Vto vesiculai seminales. Gantiliated cord of the .synijiathetic in the al)-- domen supplies . External branches internal To the lumbar and sacral spinal nerves. To aortic plexus to hypogastric jilexus to join roimd middle .sacral artery between the cords on the coccyx, in the ganglion impar. t Tills is joined above by (The aortic plexus ' \ lilameuts from tlie lumbar ganglia. PNEUMO-GASTEIC NERVE IN THE ABDOMEN. ■ Right Pnemno-gastric 1 left f Coronaiy branches to the back of the stomach ' (lilaments to join the cceliac and splenic plexuses. f Coronary brandies to the front of tlie stomach, ' ( and to the hejiatic plexus.CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. ♦ Section I. Directions. Position of the body. Olrjects on the surface. Promi- nences limiting the thigh above. Hollow of Scarpa's space. Groove over femoral aitery. Position of great tro- chanter. Head of the femiir. THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. All the parts described in Section I. are to be examined before tlie time for turning the body arrives. Position. During the dissection of the front of the thigh the body lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be supported in a half-bent position by a stool beneath the foot, and should be rotated outwards to make evident a hollow at the upper part of the thigh. Surface marhing. Before any of the integument is removed from the limb, the student is to observe the chief eminences and hollows on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in front, by the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching from the crest of the hip bone to the pubes. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip bone, which subsides beliind in the sacrum and coccyx. On the inner side is the projection of the pubes, from which a line of bone (pubic arch) may be traced backAvards along the inner and upper parts of the limb to the ischial tuberosity. On the antenor aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- ment, is a slight hollow, corresponding with the triangular space of Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral artery beneath. Tlie position of the arterial trunk may be ascertained by a line from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the hip bone, to the inner condyle of the femur. At the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below and behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, the well-marked projec- tion of the gi'eat trochanter of the femur will be recognised. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, or the fingers beliind the great trochanter.605 AXATOMY OF SUPERFICIAL TARTS. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into the Bony emu forraation of the joint may be traced with ease. In front of the j!®'^^'^ joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella may be p^teiia perceived ; this bone is firmly fixed whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great fi-eedom when the joint is extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side condyles of of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femin*, but fifnu". that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, tliey will be conducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a Tuberosities slight hollow between the bones. Behind the joint is a slight depression over the situation of the The ham ham or po^iliteal space ; and on its sides are firm boundaries, which i^'^'""^- are formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the fiexor muscles of the leg. Dissection. With the position of the limb the same as before Dissection, directed, the student begins the dissection Avith the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be i-eflected only from the hollow on Take up the front of the thigh close below Poupart's ligament. To raise tup of\he° the skin from this part, an incision about four inches in length, and tliigh. only skin deep, is to be made fi-om the pubes along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect ; ap'^ at the upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the hip bone. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superficial fascia, forms a Superficial sreneral hivestmcnt for the limb, and is constructed of a network ^'^^^la, of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. Uow As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring regions, consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or labium, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in different bodies, according to the quantity Thickness of fat in it; and at the upper part of the thigh it is divisible into ' two strata (superficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and ifito twd'^"*^ aiiguinal glands. The superficial of the two layers is apparent after ^.^^^^jj^^ the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To reflect the superficial stratum of the fascia, in- To raise tiie cisions similar to those in the skin are to be employed, though the stratum.'^' transverse one is not to reach so low on the thigh by a cotiple of inches ; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun at the lower part, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. This layer of the fat may be thrown upwards readily, by a few touches of the knife along the middle line of the limb ; but where vessels and glands are not found, viz.,DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. GOG Sul)cxitane- ous layer Tinuniteil with Pou- jwi-t. Dissection ; to see tlie suiierflcial vessels. lympliaties, and nerves. Tlic arteries from the femoral. One exter- nal ]nuUc artery; another be- neath the fascia. Supei-fleial ei>igastric. Superficial rirenmttex iliac. Veins join the saphe- nous. Ingxiinal glands; two sets. along the outer and inner borders of the thigh, the separation of the superficial fascia into two layers cannot be easily made. The suhcutaneous layer of the fat decreases in thickness near Poupart's ligament, becoming more fibrous at the same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and membranous surface. It con- ceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart's ligament. Dissection (fig. 191). The inguinal glands and the superficial vessels are to be next laid bare by the removal of the surrounding fat; but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, verj- thin layer of the superficial fascia, -which is beneath them, and is visible chiefly on the inner side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be dissected out :—One set (artery and vein) is directed inwards to the pubes, and is named external pudic ; another, superficial epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament ; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the limb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some of the small lymphatic vessels may be traced fi-om one inguinal gland to another. A small ners'e, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the inner side of the saphenous vein, close to the pubes ; and the branch of the genito-crural nerve, or an offset of it, may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. The small cutaneous arteries at the top of the thigh arc the first branches of the femoral trunk ; they pierce the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin. The external pudic artery (&) (superior) crosses the spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of the penis and scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets of the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (inferior, p. 619) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The superficial epigastric artery (c) passes over Poupart's ligament to the lower part of the abdomen (p. 439), and communicates with branches of the deep epigastric arterj'. The siqierficial circiimjiex iliac artery (d) is the smallest of the three branches: appearing as two or more pieces on the outer border of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integuments : it supplies an offset with the external cutaneous nen^e. A rein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- panion vessel; and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein with the exception of that with the inferior pudic artery : but the description of these veins will be given in a subsequent page. The superficial inf/uiual glands (e) are arranged in two lines. One set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament; and the other is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and the607 SEEK CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. lymphatic vessels fi-om the surface of the lower limb enter them, which ip- The upper or abdominal group is joined by the lymphatics of the i.'eiuy,'"'*' penis, by those of the lower part of the abdomen, and by those of phatks. the buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfrequently the longitudinal set by the side of the vein are blended together. Dissection. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is to be Raise the detached fi-om the subjacent fascia lata. Internal to the saphenoxis tum of the vein a thin membrane can be raised by transverse cuts above and s'i)>ei-ficiai below, and by a longitudinal one on the inner side of the thigh ; but external to that vessel there exists scarcely a continuous layer. The handle of the scalpel may be employed in the separation ; and the dissector is to avoid injuring the nerves and vessels. In re- flecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will become apparent. The deej)er layer of the superficial fascia is a veiy thin membrani- Deep jiart of form stratum, which is most evident near Poupart's ligament, and nciaifoscil on the inner side of the saphenous vein. About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata; and as it stretches across the aperture it is attached to the circum- ference,—internally by loose areolar tissue, but externally by firm covers fibrous bauds ; it is also connected with the loose ci'ural sheath of opg|jjQ°"'^ the subjacent vessels in the aperture. The part of the stratum over the saphenous opening is perforated where it is by many small apertures for the transmission of the lymphatics ; cdbrifonu and it has been named cribriform fascia from its sieve-like appear- f^'scia. ance. In a hernial protrusion through that opening the cribrifonn portion is projected forwards by the tumour, and forms one of the coverings. Dissection. Now the student has obseiwed the disposition of tlie Dissection superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he may proceed to ex- °f ^j{g amine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of tlie thigh, a cut is to be Take away carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee joint, to rather below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but tliis is to reach farthest on the inner side. The skin may be reflected in flaps inwards and outwards ; and as it is raised from the front of the knee a superficial bursa between it and the patella will be opened. Tlie saphenous vein is first to be traced out in the fat as far as and follow the skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it the student ve|','i'''"°^^'* should be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 190) are to Seekcutane- be sought in the fat, with small cutaneous arteries, in the following f/ont'of positions:—On the outer margin, below the upper third, is placed tiiigh, the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin are the ramifications of the internal cutaneous608 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ami on side of the knee. Superflcial veins. Internal sajihenous vein in tliiHh liierces fascia lata to join the femoral. Veins join- ing it may fomi three tninks ;it the toj) of tlic thigh. Cutnneons ajteries. Cutaneous nerves. Ilio-irguinal is near scro-' tum. "Genito-cm- ml reaches the middle <ji thigli: nerve,—one small offset apiicaring near the npper part of the tliigh; one or more about half way down; and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower tliird. On the inner side of the knee tlu-ee other cutaneous nerves are to be looked for:—One, a branch of the great saphenous, is directed outwards over the middle of the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower part of the surface now dissected. And the third is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the antei-ior and inner as- pects of the thigh are collected into one; and tliis trunk is named saphenous from its manifest appearance on the surface. The internal saj^Jienous vein (fig. 191, a) is the cutaneous vessel of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the foot to the upper part of the thigh. In the part of its course now dis- sected, the vessel lies inferiorly somewhat behind the knee joint; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it jiierces the fascia lata hy a special opening named saphenous, and enters the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz., external pudic (b), superficial epigas- tric (c), and circumflex iliac (d), terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of the thigh are most frequently united into one branch, which enters the saphenous trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way. When this arrangement exists three large veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein receives a deep branch fi-om the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the integu- ments along with the nerves; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. G24) accompanies the saphenous nerxe and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus, and are distributed in gi-eater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguimL This ner\-e (p. 542) is small in size, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 190, "); it supplies the scrotum, and ends in the contiguous part of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. The Genito-crural. The crural branch of this nerve (p. 542) pierces the fascia lata neaj- Poupart's ligament (fig. 190, «), rather external to the Ime of the femoral artery. After or before the ner^^e has become superficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerwe ; and it extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis.609 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THIGH. Fig. 190.* Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side of the limb. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 542) ramifies on the outer aspect •of the hmb (fig. 190, '). At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigli, Avhere it •divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or tliree others, wliich arch backwards to supply the integuments of the outer part of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the sur- face of the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's ligament and is continued to the knee ; it distributes branches late- rally, but those towards the posterior sur- face are the most numerous, and the largest in size. Mkldle cutaneous (fig. 190, ■). The nerve of the centre of the thigh is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 542), and divides into two branches. It is trans- mitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee. In the fat this neiwe is united with the genito- crural and internal cutaneous nei-^^es. Internal cutaneous. Derived from the an- terior crural trunk, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of the tliigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), which perforate the fascia in sepa- rate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 190, ^), along which it is continued to the Icnee. This branch is distributed in the aower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner side of the knee- joint, and is united with the patellar branch of the internal saphe- nous nerve. The inner branch (fig. 205, ^) perforates the fascia at the inner side of the knee behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communicates ; it furnishes offsets to the inside of the knee, and to the upper half of the leg on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the inner side of the thigh, * Cutaneous nerves on the front of the tliigh. 1. External cutaneous. 2. Middle cutaneous. 3. Internal cutaneous. 4. Internal saphenous. 5. Patellar branch of saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. 7. Ilio-inguinal. 8. Ilio- hypogastric on the belly. R R unusual state. External cutaneous. posterior, and anterior branches. Middle cutaneous reaches the knee. Internal eutaiieous: the anterior branch extends to knee; tlie inner ends in the leg : otlier small twigs to thii thiL'li.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. CIO Internal saphenous passes to the leg: a branch on patella fonns a plexus. Clean the fascia lata. and define saphenous opening. Fascia lata surrounds limb; strength varies: ilio-tibial band. Apertxires in it. Processes between the muscles. Connected "with bone at upjier part of thigh : and appear by the side of the saphenous vein. One or two come into view near the upper part of the vein, and reacli as far as the middle of the thigh ; and one, larger in size than the rest, becomes cutaneous where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. The internal saphenous (fig. 190,0, ^ branch of the anterior crural, is continued to the foot, but only a small part of it is now visible. The nerve pierces the fascia on the inner side of the knee ; and, after communicating with the inner branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwards some oifsets over the knee joint. Finally it accom- panies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. Its patellar branch (fig. 190, appears on the inner side of the knee above the preceding, and is soon joined by the internal cuta- neous nerve. It ends in many branches over the patella ; these communicate with offsets from the middle and external cutaneous nerves, and fonn an interlacement—plexus patella:.—over the joint. Dissection. Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now removed from the surface of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves being thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their trunks. At the upper pai-t of the thigh the student is to define the saphe- nous opening in the fascia lata by detaching the superficial fascia. The inner side is easily shown. But the outer border is blended with the supei-ficial fascia and with the subjacent crural sheath ; and it is only after the uniting fibrous bands are broken or cut through that its semilunar edge comes into view. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It surrounds the limb with a finn sheath, and sends inwards septa between the different muscles. This membranous investment is of a bluish white colour, but in fat bodies is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the subcutaneous fat. It is much stronger on the outer than the inner aspect of the limb where it receives the msertion of the tensor vaginae femoris, and the greater part of the gluteus maximus muscle. This thickened part (ilio-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone and below to the bones of the leg, and helps the extensor muscle to keep the knee-joint straight in standing. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels; and the largest hole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the under surface form septa betAvecn, and fibrous sheaths around the several muscles. Two of the pro- cesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner inter- muscular septa of the thigh : they are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked on the surface by white lines. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the pi'ominent borders of the pelvis. Thus it is connected externally with the iliac crest and internally with the pubes and the pubic arch. In the middle line behind it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's hgament between the pubes and the iliac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes uninterruptedly toCHARACTERS OF FASCIA LATA. 611 the leg ; but in front of the articulation it blends with an espan- difference at sion from the extensor muscle, and is continued over the joint and lower part, the patella, though separated from that bone by a bursa, to be in- serted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. On each side of the patella is a band of almost transverse fibres Bands on sides of patella, (retinaculum) which is attached to and supports the knee-cap. Fis. 191.^ The outer, thick and strong, is continuous externally with the ilio- o^^t^r tibial band, and joins the insertion of the vastus cxtcrnus at its °' attachment to the upper part of the patella: it guides the patella outwards when the joint is bent. The inner band, of slight strength, is fixed to the patella lower than the other, and unites with the inner weak. insertion of the inner vastus. Directions. The flaps of skin which were removed fi-om the front Replace Haps of skin, * Dissection of the supei-ficial parts of the thigh (Ilhistrations of Dissec- tions). Vessels: a. Saphenous vein. b. Superficial pudic. c. Superficial epigastric, d. Superficial circumflex iliac, c. Inguinal glands. /. Saphenous opening. Nerves: 1. Ilio-inguinal. 2. External cutaneous. 3. Genito- crural. 4. Middle cutaneous. Small unnamed vessels accompany the different nerves to the teguments. R K 2DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 612 Saphenous opening: situation, iiiicl size. Inner mar- fpn sharp below : outer is firm, and joins Gimbeniat; femoral ligament. Tenseness of the margins varies. Parts trans- mitted through the opening. of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nei-ves, are to be now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata (fig. 191,/) is a narrow semilunar slit, which is situate rather to the inner side of the middle line of the thigh. It measures about a third of an inch in width, and one inch and a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremit}^ (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure about one inch and a half, and presents a well-defined margin. The inner part of the opening is posterior to the level of the femoral vessels, and is flattened over the subjacent muscle (pecti- neus) ; but it is marked below hj a thin and sharp border. The outer boundary is much stronger, and has a semilunar border when detached, whose conca\'ity is turned downwards and inwards. Tliis edge is named from its shape/a/cf/orm margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the deeper layer of the superficial fascia. Traced upwards, the outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of Poupart): the upper end of this border, where it is internal to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named ^g, femoral ligament. The rigidity of the margin of the opening is much influenced by the position of the limb ; for with the finger beneath the upper part of the falciform border, whilst the thigh is moved in different directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated out, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous vein is transmitted: and through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lj'mphatics and one or two superficial vessels also pass through it. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. Anatomy of femoral hernia. Pissectiou for femoral •slieath To obtain a knowledge of the hernial protrusion in the thigh, the dissector has to study the undermentioned parts, viz. the crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection (fig. 192). To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose membranous sheath around the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions. One cut is to be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia marked out by those incisions has been raised andANATOMY OF FEMOEAL HERNIA. 613 turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brougiit into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be sepai-ated Define carefully fi-om the fascia lata beneath, from Poupart's ligament in fi'ont, and from Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side. PoujKirfs ligament (fig. 192, ^'), or the crural arch, is the firm The crural band of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the ^'^^' abdomen, which stretches fi-om the front of the iliac crest to the ^Int^' pubes (p. 444). When viewed on the surface, the arch is curved ^^1.^. downwards towards the limb, whilst the fascia lata remains on the thigh. The outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is in serted into the pubic spine and pectineal Hne of the hip bone, forming Gimbernat's ligament. The space between the crural arch and the innominate bone is parts cios- larger in the female than in the male, and is closed by parts passing l]efiea°tii°^ from the abdomen to the thigh. The oiiter half of the interval is filled by the fleshy psoas and iliacus muscles, to which the arch is closely bound by fascia ; and the inner half is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath. Glmhernafs ligament, or the part of the tendon of the external Gimbernat's oblique muscle which is inserted into the pectineal line, is about '^sament; three-fourths of an inch in length, and is triangular in shape. Its apex is at the pubic spine ; whilst its base is in contact with the form and crural sheath, and is joined by the fascia lata. By one margin connections, (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural sheath (fig. 192, ^) is a loose tube of membrane around Crarai the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel, sloped unequally • on the sides. The wide part or base of the tube is upwards : and ^^''7^^ 1 . , • 1 11 -r. ,1 T 1 and connec- the narrow part ceases about two mches below Poupart s ligament, tious, by blending with the common areolar sheath of the bloodvessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve (^). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/); this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is con- nected to the falcifoiTn margin and the superficial fascia. In front of the crural sheath and behind it is the fascia lata of the thigh. The sheath is continuous with the fascife lining the abdomen in iiow formed, this way ;—the anterior part is prolonged beneath Poupart's liga- ment into the fascia transversalis, and the posterior half is continued into the fascia iliaca (p. 464). Crossing the front of the sheath beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, is a fibrous band, the deep crural arch. A notice of it is included in the description of the fascia transversalis (p. 453). Dissection (fig. 192). The student is to open the sheath by an Open the incision across the front, and to raise the loose anterior part with sheath, hooks. Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, eachDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 614 Vessels have surrounded by its covering of areolar tissue, together with an in- a sheath. guinal gland ; and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over both the artery and the vein, there will be an appearance of two thin partitions, the one being situate on the inner side of the vein, separating this vessel fi-om the gland, and the other (+) between the vein and the artery. A fatty stratum stretches over the upper aperture of the sheath, closing it towards the abdomen. Interior of ihe crural sheath (fig. 192). The sheath is said to be divided into three compartments by two partitions ; and the posi- Fig. 192.* Contents of the sheath. Space divided into three parts: tlic inner is tlie cniral canal. tion of the so-called septa has been before referred to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery (a), lying close to the side of the sheath ; in the middle one is placed the femoral vein (h) ; and in the inner space (crural canal) only a lymphatic gland (c) is situate. The crural canal (fig. 192) is the innermost space in the interior of the crural sheath :—Its length is about a third of an inch, and it reaches from the base of Gimbernat's ligament to the upper part of the saphenous opening. It decreases rapidly in size fi"om above down, and is closed below. The aperture by which the space com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring, * Dissection of tlie crural sLeath (Illustrations of Dissections). A. Fascia lata reflected, b. Crural sheath opened, c. Poupart's ligament, d. Fascia lata of the thigh in place. J Two septa dividing the space of the crural sheath into three compartments. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, b. Femoral vein, and c, a lymphatic gland, all in the crural sheath, d. Superficial cir- cumflex iliac, e. Superficial pudic. /. Saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. Genito- crural. 2. Ilio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous.615 COURSE AND COVERINGS OF THE HERNIA. Anterior to the canal, are Poupart's ligament and the upper end parts of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the outer side of the canal, but in the sheath, is the femoral vein. Through this channel the intestine passes fi-om the abdomen in femoral hernia. The crural ring''^ is the upper opening of the crural canal. It is Crural ring: on a level with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 140, and situation is larger in the female than in the male. Oval in shape, its greatest' ' measurement is fi-om side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch ; and it is filled by a lymphatic gland. The structures around the ring, outside the crural sheath, are structures similar to those bounding the canal, viz. in front the superficial and the deep crural arch, and behind, the pubes covered by the pectineus muscle and the fascia lata. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament with the conjoined tendon ; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. The position of vessels on the several sides of the ring is stated at page 464. Septum crurcde. That part of the subperitoneal fatty layer which Crural sep- is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has been named ' crural septum from its position between the thigh and abdomen position; (Cloquet). The situation of the septum is now visible, but its how formed, characters are ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 463). Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion of Femoral intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut descends in the crural sheath, being placed on the inner side of the vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its pro- Course; gress from the abdomen, and passes through the crural ring, and first ver- along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface next of the tliigh, where it becomes elongated transversely; and should audThen the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on the abdomen, upwards, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector How it is the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- i,ack.^"''^"^* testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it Avill be necessaiy if the protrusion is small to direct it backwards and upwards; but if the hernia is large it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and after- wards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity the thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Coverings. As the intestine protrudes it is clothed by the follow- Cowrings peritoneum, * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature be made to resemble more that used in describing inguinal hernia, by calling this opening the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture ?DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. CIG crural sep- tiuu, orural sheath. cribrifonn fascia, fat and skin. Tlie cover- ings may be altered. Tiimoiir, how kiio\7n. Place of stricture. How to cut the external and the internal stricture. ing layers, which are elongated and pushed before it fi-om within outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen, whicli forms the hernial sac. Next one from the septum crurale across the crural ring. Afterwards comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side. Over this is spread a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together Avith the skin. The coverings may vary, or may be conjoined in different degrees according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances the prolongation fi-om the crural sheath is wanting. Further, in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is united usually with that from the cniral sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia liropria (Cooper). In general, in an operation for the rehef of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enume- rated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum cnarale. Diagnosis. This hernial tumour is generally smaller than inguinal, and does not extend into the scrotum in the male, or the labium in the female ; and if its neck can be traced below Poupart's liga- ment, it can be distinguished certainly from an inguinal hernia. Seat of stricture and division of it. The strangulation of a femoral hernia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. The external stricture may be found opposite the margin of the saphenous opening, or deeper in, opposite Poupart's ligament. It may be removed by cutting down on the neck of the tumour at the inner side, and dividing the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in this situation, without opening the sac. The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by the thick- ening of the peritoneum. For its relief the neck of the sac is to be laid bare, as if there was an external stricture ; and if the intestine cannot be passed into the abdomen after division of all constricting bands on the exterior of the neck, the sac of the peritoneum is to be opened ; and a director haAdng been introduced through the con- striction, a cut is to be made horizontally inwards for the extent of one or two Hues. The several vessels that may be womided in at- tempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 465. Scarpa's triangulapw space. Triangular siiace. Clean out Scarita's space. Follow vessels. This hollow is situate at the upper part of the thigh, and lies be- neath the depression observable near Poupart's hgament. It corre- sponds with the axilla in the upper limb. Dissection (fig. 193). The space will appear on removing the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side (sartorius) should be fixed in place with stitches. Afterwards, the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away; and the feme-617 SCARPA'S TEMGULAE SPACE. ral vessels are to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels clean the divisions of the seek nerves, anterior crural nerve, together with the branches of an artery (pro- funda) which are buried in the fat. In removing the fat from be- take away neath the femoral artery, the student is to look for one or two small nerv'es to the pectineus muscle. This intermuscular space (fig. 193) contains the tnmks of the blood- couteuts, vessels of the thigh, and the anterior crural nerve, with lymphatics Fig. 193.* and fat. It measures commonly three inches from above down ; but extent,, the length varies with the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. * Dissection of Scarpa's triangidar space (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A, Sartorius. B. Iliacus. c. Tensor fasciae lata. d. Rectus femoris. E. Pectineus. F. Adductor longus. g. Gracilis. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, h. Superficial circumflex iliac, c. Superficial epigastric. e. Superficial pudic (inferior), and i, the accompanying veins. /. Deep circumflex iliac, (f. Deep epigastric, h. Femoral vein. i. Inferior ex- ternal pudic vein. k. Saphenous vein. Nerves : The large anterior crural is close outside the artery. 2. Offset from the same to the pectineus. 3. Middle cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous. 5. Genito-crural. 6. External cutaneous.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 618 boundaries, roof and floor. Position of femoral artery. Vein. Anterior luural nerve. Lymjihatics. Femoral arteiy; extent. course. l>osition to femur and ]>arts around : division into two. Superficial liortion: connection with parts around, position of vein and nerve. The base of the space is at Poiipart's ligament; and the apex is at the meeting of tlic sartorius with the adductor longiis muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the teguments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes towards the middle, where it is deepest ; it is constructed exteiTially by the sartorius, A, and by the conjoined psoas and iliacus, B,for about two inches ; and internally by the pectineus and adduc- tor longus muscle, E and F, and between and beneath these near the large vessels, is a small piece of the adductor brevis. The femoral artery runs through the centre of the hollow, and supplies small cutaneous offsets, as well as a large deep branch, the profunda : a small offset (external pudic) is directed from it to the scrotum across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery and close to it is placed the femoral vein, which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. About a third of an inch external to the vessel is situate the large anterior crural nerve, which lies deeply at first between the iliacus and psoas, but becomes after- wards more superficial and divides into branches. Deep Ij-mphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued into the iliac glands in the abdomen; they are joined by the super- ficial lymphatics. Femoral Artery (fig. 195). This vessel is a continuation of the external iliac, and reaches from the lower border of Poupart's liga- ment to the margin of the opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. Occupying two thirds of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee-joint half bent, by a line drawn from a point midway between the sym- physis pubis and the front of the iliac crest, to the inside of the inner condyle of the femur. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and comparatively superficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but, in the lower part, it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its connections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, superficial and deep. The superfidal part of ihe artenj (fig. 193, o), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is about three inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned. Incased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata, and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the psoas muscle; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus, e, though at some distance from it in this position of the limb, and separated fi-om it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (Ji) is on the inner side and close to it at the pubes, but IS placed behind the arterj- at the apex of the space The anterior crural nerve lies on the outer side, being distant619 UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. about a third of an inch neai- Poupart's ligament ; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve approaches the artery, or lies ou it, near the apex of the containing space. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectineus(-). Unusual position. Four examples of transference of the main artery of the Unusual limb from the front to the hack of the thigh have been recorded. In these position, cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The hranches of the first part of the artery are the superficial Brandies, epigastric and circumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 606), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external imdic artery (fig. 193, e) arises separately One external from, or in common with the other pudic branch (superior).- it i'^*^^^- courses inwards over the pectineus muscle to end in the teguments of the scrotum or the labium pudeiidi, according to the sex, and it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its destination : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the supci'ficial perinatal artery. The deep femoral branch (fig. 195,") or the profunda, is the largest Profunda, offset of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer part of that trunk one to two inches (Quain) below Poupart's ligament. It is Origin consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascertained. In the present dissection it may be seen to and position lie over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex "^^^^^^[1'''^ ^ artery to the outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb.* Variation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to Origin of Poupart's ligament until it arrives opposite that band; or may even go beyond, pi'ofunda and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). And the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement ; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise separately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the si)ot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of so large an olfset. Femoral Vein (fig. 193, li)- The principal vein of the limb, whilst Femoral in the triangular space, has almost the same relative anatomy as the drst inside artery: its position to that vessel, however, is not the same through- arterj% out. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between the psoas and pectineus muscles; but it soon winds beneath ^^^^^g^^lj^^*^-^ the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. Occasionally it is inside the artery * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to the part of the tnink above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal parts into which it divides.620 DISSECTIOX OF THE THIGH. throughout. In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch (/) with the inferior external pudic artery. Muscles oil the front of the thigh. Vessels, Nen-e. Take the fascia from the front of the tJiiKh. Follow out sartorius, and fix it. and pre- sen-e ner\'es in contact with it. Dissect the adductors, and clean the extensor muscles. Dissect tensor of fascia. DEEP PARTS OF THE FROxXT OF THE THIGH. The muscles on the front of the thigh are to be learnt next: they are the sartorius, and the extensor of the knee; and at the top of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Three muscles are combined in the extensor, viz. rectus, vastus extemus, and vastus intemus. The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst the muscles and supplies them with branches; and a large nerve, the anterior cniral, furnishes offsets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the fi'ont of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the leg. In raising the inner piece of the fascia the narrow muscle appear- ing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia: and to prevent its displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nei-ves in contact with the sartorius;—viz. a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous, and obturator; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle; and the tnmk of the great saphenous escaping fi-om beneath it near the Iviiee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the sartorius some strong muscles (adductors) are inclined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of those nmscles; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the sartorius is the large extensor of the knee. For its dissection the knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibres: and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. The little muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh,—tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned; and a strip of the fascia, corre- sponding with its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the thigh. After this slip has been separated, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two trans- verse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its attachment to the femur.SAETORIUS MUSCLE. 621 The SARTORius (fig. 194, ^) is the longest muscle in the body, Sartorius; and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, Fig. 194.* and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. Its origin is tendinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous pro- origin; cess of the hip bone, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, course over the thigh ; * Surface view of tlie front of the thigh, the teguments and fascia being removed (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Sartorius. b. Iliacus. c Tensor fascire latte. d. Rectus femoris. e. Vastus internus. F. Pectineus. g' Adductor longus. h. Gracilis, i. Tendon of Sartorius. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, b. Femoral vein. c. Saphenous vein.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 622 insertion. Connections of the first or oblique part; of the middle part and of the lower i>art. Use ; tlie limb free and fixed : standing on one leg. Divide tlie sartorius. show apo- neurosis, and dissect the nerves and vessels. which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an mc\\ and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated b}^ some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of the triangular space containing the femoral arteiy : it rests on the following muscles, iliacus, b, rectus, D, and adductor longus, G, as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus internus E, and the adductor muscles as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is jDlaced between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gracilis, H, with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous piece, i, rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semi- tendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion to join that from the extensor over the knee ; and from its lower border is given another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears Avith vessels ; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bends the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia ; and makes tense finally the fascia of the thigh. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will support the pelvis in standing, and will assist in bringing forwards the pelvis in stooping and walldng. When standing on one leg the muscle vnW help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 195). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral arter3^ Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is divided the in- ternal saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the upper part of the saphenous nerve but outside it, is the nerve to the vastus internus muscle, which sends an offset on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint : this may be traced now, lest it should be destroyed afterwards. The plexus of nerves on the inner side of the thigh may be more completely dissected in this stage. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises : this branch is to be pursued throuo-h the fibres of the vastus internus, and in fi-ont of the adductorLOWER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 623 magnus tendon to the knee ; au offset of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve. The aponeurotic covering ovei* the femoral vessels (fig. 195, ") Aponeurosis exists only where these are covered by the sartorius. It is thin ftnuorai" artery; Fig. 195.* * Deep part of the femoral artery and its branches, with muscles of the thigh (Quain's Arteiies).—1. Femoral artery. 2. Profunda artery. _ 3. Internal circumflex. 4. External circumflex. 5. Superficial circumflex iliac and epigastric branches. 6. External pudic artery. 7. Aponeurosis over the lower part of the femoral artery. 8. Anterior crural nen^e. 9. Pectineus muscle. 10. Adductor longus. 11. Gracilis. 12. Vastus internus. 13. Rectus femoris. 14, Sartorius cut across.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 024 cuds below liy a free Lorder. Deep part of femoral arterj- : connections ]>osition of veins and ■saplienons nerve. The femoral Jirtery may- be divided. Branches. Anastomo- tic ; superficial and deep piece. Jfuscular brandies. Femoral rein. To ex]iose muscles on front of the femur. above, but below it is formed of strong fibres, Avhich are directed transversely between the vastus intemus and the tendons of the adductor muscles. Infcriorly the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the sajjlienous nerve and its vessels escape. The deep part of the femoral artery (fig. 195, ') lies in a hollow- between muscles (Hunter's canal) until it reaches the opening in the adductor maguus. Here it is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fascijr. Beneath it are the pectineus, the adductor brevis in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. External to the artery and close to it is the femoral vein ; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Crossing over the artery from the outer to the inner side is the internal saphenous ner^'-e, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Splittinf) of the artenj. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two below tlie origin of the profunda. Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with ; but, in all, the trunks were blended into one above the open- ing in the adductor muscle. Branches. One named branch, anastomotic and muscular offsets, spring from this part of the ailery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 196, Ic) (arter. anastomotica magna) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and di^ddes at once into two parts, superficial and deep :— The superficial offset (n) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (Z) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in fi-ont of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur w^ith an offset of the upper external articular artery ; fi-om this loop twigs descend to the joint. Muscular brandies. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the femoral artery ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The FEMORAL VEIN Corresponds closely with the femoral artery in its connections with the parts around, and in its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the ^^rofunda, and are to be thro\vn downwards pre- paratory to the deeper dissection. Aftenvards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed fi-om amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is completed, the upper part of the vastus internus will not be prepared for learning.TEICEPS EXTENSOE OF KNEE. 625 The TENSOR VAGINiE FEMORIS (fig. 19G, ^) OCClipies the upper third Tensor of the thigh, and is the smallest and most external of the outer set femm^ of muscles. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the hip ai-ises fron. bone at the outer aspect; fi-om the anterior upper iliac spine, and 1'*^^^^^"' from part of the notch between this and the inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly iibout two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about eiuis in three inches beloAV, and rather in fi'ont of the line of the great ^"^^^'^ trochanter of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the P^-ts gluteus mcdius. Beneath it are the ascending offsets of the external circumflex artery ; and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve •enters its under surface. A sti'ong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. A ction. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the Use ou thigh, making tense at the same time the fascia lata ; and finally ""'' it will help in rotating inwards the femur. When the limb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in pelvis, ibalancing the same on the femur in walking. Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia Cut tiirougU •extending fi-om it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is muscle, detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus may be followed upwards to the pelvis. The TRiCErs extensor of the knee (fig. 195) consists of three fleshy Muscle on parts or heads, outer (vastus externus), inner (vastus internus), and tidl^h."^ middle (rectus), which are united below in a common tendon. The RECTUS FEMORIS gives rise to a fleshy prominence on the Rectus lias front of the thigh (fig. 195, ''). At its origin fi-om the pelvis the '^'^ muscle consists of two tendinous pieces :—one arises from the origin at tiw ^anterior inferior iliac spinous process ; the other (to be afterwards i^*^^""' seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the hip bone, close 'louWe, ^ibove the acetabulum. The fleshy fibres terminate inferiorly in insertion another tendon, which joins the aponeurotic parts of the other two JJiou tendon, muscles in the common tendon. The rectus is larger at the middle than at the ends; and its fibres Tiie muscle are directed from the centre to the sides, as in a quill, giving rise lona "ami to that condition called penniform. It is subcutaneous, except above ^^J.'y^^'^'"'' where it is overlaid by the sartorius. It conceals branches of the above, external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the vasti. The upper tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior surface where the sartorius touches, whilst the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent vasti. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus Cut the near the lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of ^'"^ vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass on the front of the femur is to be divided into two, above, along the situation of "^JJ^^^^^l^^^^f« some descending vessels and nerves : the part external to the vessels cxterlms' is the vastus externus, and the larger mass, internal to them, is ^"J"^""' vastus internus. s sDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 626 and below from inner vastus. Vastus exteruiis is thill at tlie origin ; but is thicker below. Parts in confcict with the surfaces. Vastus in- temus and crureus. One mass. Its origin : insertion by a common tendon. Upper part «leep, lower supeilicial. Laj' bare common tendon of the exten- sor : Tendon of the exten- sor : attach- Jnents, To make out the lower separation of the two, look to the outer aspect of the thigh about half way clown, where the long and vertical fibres of the vastus externus descending to their tendon, cross over others (deeper), which are continued obliquely inwards, and belong to the inner vastus. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a very narrow attachment to the femur in comparison with its size. It takes origin along the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch tliick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; to the line connect- ing the trochanter with the linea aspera ; and to the upper half of the linea aspera, and the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inf eriorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis which blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus intenius in the common tendon, and sends a slip to the outer edge of the patella. The muscle is pointed at the upper end; but enlarged below where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is covered by the rectus, tensor vagina) femoris, and gluteus muscles. The deep sur- face rests on the vastus internus, and receives branches of the ex- ternal circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (fig. 194, ^) foi-ms the large head of the extensor.* The fleshy mass arises from the anterior and two lateral surfaces of the shaft of the femur, except where the vastus externus is attached, and its limits may be thus indicated :—Upwards it reaches as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line ; downwards, in the middle, to about two inches fi-om the articular end of the femur ; and laterally to both intermuscular septa. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres terminate in an aponeurosis, Avhich blends in the common tendon of insertion, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The upper part of the muscular mass is buried beneath the sar- torius and rectus muscles ; but the lower part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus externus: some of the lowest fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw inwai'ds the patella. The adductor muscles are almost inseparably joined with this vastus along the attachment to the linea aspera. Dissection. The tendon of the extensor will appear by dividing along the middle line of the patella and knee-joint a thin aponeu- rotic layer, which is derived from the lower fleshy fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards, that fibrous layer the tendon will be laid bare to its insertion into the tibia. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg is common to the rectus, the vastus externus, and vastus internus. It is placed in fi-ont of the knee joint, to which it serves the office of an anterior ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, it * Sometimes the part of the mass, inside a line continued up-wards from the inner border of the patella, is named crureus : naturally there is not any separation at that spot.EXTEENAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. 627 narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted inferiorly into the prominence of the tubercle of the tibia, and into the bone below it for an inch : close to its attachment to the tibia a synovial bursa bursa be- is beneath it. In it the patella is situate, some few scattered aponeu- rotic fibres passing over the cutaneous surface, but none being con- tinued over the articular surface of the bone. (See Ligament of the Patella.) From the lower part of the muscle a superficial aponeurotic ex- expansion pansion is derived : this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in fi'ont of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Suhcrureus muscle. Beneath the strong fibres of the vastus, near Small sub- the knee joint, is a thin layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of nmsck ■ the inner vastus, separated fi'om the rest by areolar tissue. Attached ends on the to the femur in the lower fourth, and often by an outer and inner slip, synovial sac. it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the Icnee joint. Action. All three heads of the triceps extend the knee joint when Use with the tibia is moveable ; and the rectus can flex the hip joint over aMe Z"^"^^' which it passes. The fleshy bellies are strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. When the tibia is fixed the vasti will bring forwards the femur, with tibia and straighten the knee, as in walking or standing ; and the rectus ' will prop the pelvis on the femur, or assist in moving it forwards in stooping. The suhcrureus contracts in extension of the knee, and elevates how sub- the synovial membrane above the patella. actsf'^^'' Intermuscular septa. The processes of the fascia lata, which limit intennns- laterally the extensor muscle of the knee, are thus named, and are '^^^^'^'^ ^"i'*''^ fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles of are two. the femur. The external septum is the strongest, and reaches from the outer The outer condyle of the femur to the insertion of the gluteus maximus. It strongest; is situate between the vastus intemus and externus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to which it gives origin ; and it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner partition is very thin along the side of the vastus the inner is intemus ; and its place is supplied by the strong tendon of the i"^^''*^""'*- adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea aspera: the internal articular vessels are transmitted through it to the front of the knee joint. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 195, is the chief vessel External for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises I^Sy""'^'' from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artciy, but often from the femoral trunk. It is directed outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles to the outer part of the thigh, where it ends in branches Offsets are given from it to the rectus and sartorius ; its branches s s 2 -'ire-DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 628 ascending, transverse, and de- scending. and its terminal muscular branches consist of ascending, transverse, and descending :— The ascendincj branch is directed beneath the tensor vaginae femoris to the back of the hip bone, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. The transverse, the smallest in size, di\ades into two which per- forate the vastus externus, and anastomose with arteries on the back of the thigh. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces which ai-e distributed to the vasti muscles. One considerable branch enters the outer part of the vastus internus, and reaching the knee, anasto- moses on this joint with the external articular arteries ; a small offset courses over the muscle with a nerve to the joint. Nerve of the The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE (fig. 195, ^) of the lumbar plexus twgh"^*^'*^ (p. 542) supplies the muscles, and most of the teguments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep parts. A. The superficial part ends in three tegumentary branches :—the middle and internal cutaneous of the thigh, and the great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve (fig. 190, ") perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 609). The interiml cutaneous nerve (fig. 190,''^) sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of tlie uj^per third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into the two followmg branches, anterior and inner. Sometimes these branches arise from the anterior crural trunk at separate spots:— anterior and The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 609). The inner branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 609). Whilst underneath the fascia the nen^e lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with ofi:sets of the obturator and, nearer the Icnee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The internal saphenous nerve (fig. 195) is the largest of the three superficial branches. In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along their outer side, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening iiecomescn- in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nen^e passes the"kn^f ^^^^ beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous (fig. 190, ■'). It supplies two ofi;sets Avliilst it is contained in the thigh beneath the fascia :— A communicating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of the internal cutaneous and obturator, or with tlie internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent. is divided. From its superficial part arise— middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous, which has inner branch. Internal saphenous nerve has a com- municating629 ANTERIOR CRURA NERVE. The patellar branch springs fi-om the nerve near the knee joint, and a pa- and perforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the ^^^^"""^ integument over the knee (fig. 190, B. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve (fig. 195) From the gives branches to all the muscles of the fi'ont of the tliigh, except 'l^^^^ ^'^^ the tensor vaginte femoris ; and it supplies also an offset to one of the adductor muscles, viz., the pectineus. A slender nerve (fig. 193, ^) crosses beneath the femoral artery, iiranchesto and enters the anterior surface of the pectineus : sometimes there P^*^*'"^^^: are two. Brandies to the sartorius are furnished by the middle, or by the sartorius; internal cutaneous ner\^e, whilst it is in contact with that muscle. A nei've enters the under surface of the rectus at the upper part, rectus; and divides into branches as it is about to penetrate the fibres. The nerve to the vastus externus separates into two or more branches vastus ex-^ as it enters the muscle. From one of these an a?'^^■cM?ar• filament is knee joint; continued downwards to the knee joint, which it enters on the ante- rior aspect. The nerve to the' vastus internus (fig. 195) is nearly as large in ^^^g^^'*^*^^ size as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper part of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee joint. Its articular branch is i^rolonged on or in the vastus, and on the with articu- tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee joint; kneef^"*^* *° and it is distributed over the synovial membrane on the front of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. A hranch of nerve to the tensor vagince femoris is derived fi'om Nerve of the superior gluteal ; it enters the under surface of the muscle, and vafednse. extends nearly to the lower end. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front of Take Mxt the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn the tors', adductor muscles, and the vessels and nerves which belong to them. PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,—longus. The adduc- brevis, and magnus, Avith the gracilis and pectineus ; these have the ^^^^ following position with respect to one another. Internal to all and position. the longest, is the gracilis. Superficial to the others, are the pec- tineus and the adductor longus ; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with the muscles, and supplying them are the pro- Vessels, funda artery (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accom- panying vein. The obturator nerve lies amongst the adductor muscles, and fur- Nen-e. nishes branches to them. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing DissectionDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. G30 of adductor fascia and tissue are to be taken away; and the two superficial adductors are to be separated from one another. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve connection with the muscles, viz., those entering the muscular muscles. Nerves. in Fig. 196. * Deep dissection of tlie adductor muscles with their vessels and nerves. (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Adductor longus, cut. b. Pectineus, cut. c. Gracilis. D. Adductor brevis. e. Adductor magnus. F. Obturator extenius. o. Semimembranosus. h. Vastus intemus. k. Rectus femoris. l. Tensor fascise latse. n. Piece of the Sartorius. o. lUacus.631 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES OF HIP JOINT. fibres, and one issuing beneath the adductor longus, to join the plexus at the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and Remove its branches, they must be removed. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 196, and Gracilis is fleshy and ribbon-like above, but tendinous below. The muscle takes origin arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the pifivig*,'"^ pubic border of the hip bone close to the margin, viz., opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about one third of an inch is inserted wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. At the upper part of the Position thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as niusciea to have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third, it inten'-cnes between the sartorius and semi-membra- nosus muscles, and forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. At its insertion the tendon is neai'er the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth fi-om the surface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; and fi-om the tendon an expansion is continued to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bursa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating Use on knee in that bone ; and then brmgs the moveable femm- towards the '[e,"nu-''"^ middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground the gracilis will aid in pelvis, propping the pelvis on the limb. The PECTINEUS (fig. 194, ^) is the highest of the muscles directed Pectineus. from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin Origin from fi-om the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone, and fi-om the triangular ^ ' smooth surface in fi-ont of that line ; and it is inserted inferiorly by a tendon, about two inches in width, into tlie femur behind the small trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which extends fi-om that process to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, so that the surfaces which are directed ^Jj^^^^!^ forwards and backwards near the pehds are turned inwards and outwards at the femur. One surface is in contact with the fascia surfaces; lata; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the r/irts on tiie adductor longus ; and thie internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. p. Psoas. Vessels : a. Femoral artery, and b, femoral vein. c. Trunk of the profunda, d. Internal, and e, external circumflex. /. Fii-st, ff, second, and h, third perforating, i. Muscular and anastomotic of the profunda, k. Anastomotic of the femoral, with I, the articular, and n, the cutaneous piece. Nerves: 1. Obturator, joined by the accessory obturator nerve, with 2, the superficial, and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep piece. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus internus and 9, its articular branch to the knee.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 632 Use on feuiiu- hx-c and lixetl. Adductor longiis ex- teuds from ])elvis to feimu'. Its connec- tious with muscles and vessels. Use on I'enuir, ou pelvis. Dissection of accessory obturator nerve : «ut adduc- tor longus. adductor brevis: trace obturator nerve; and nen'e to kuee joint. Accessory ol)turator nerve. Action. It aclducts the limb and bends the hip-joint. When the fenuir is fixed it can suiJi^ort the pelvis in standing ; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS lies below the pectineus (iig. 194, and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a naiTow tendon from the front of the pubes below the angle of union of the crest and the symphysis; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the jDectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is- covered near the femm- by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obtu- rator nen'e, and on the deep femoral arter}'. Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of insertion Avith the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Action. With the femm- moveable, it will flex the hip-jomt, and with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards the limb, so as to cross the thigh bones. In walking it helps the other adductors to project the limb. With the femur fixed, the muscle props and tilts forwards the pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator nerve and the profmida vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting thi-ough the pectineus near the pubes, and throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small accessory nerve of the obturator wliich turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origni, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nen^e beneath : its tendon is to be detached from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda arteiy. NoAv the adductor bre\is will be laid bare. A part of the obtu- rator ner^-e crosses over this muscle to the femoral ailery, and sends an offset to the plexus at the inner side of the thigh : a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath this adductor. The muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower branch of the nerve with an artery issues. In this last step of the dissection the student should trace on and in the fibres of the ad- ductor magnus a slender articular branch of the obturator nerve to the knee. The accessory obturator nerve^ (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk of the obturator, near the lumbar plexus (p. 543), and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip-joint with the _ * This small nei-ve is often absent; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies which were examined by its discoveL The name riv u to It by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, .-iz.. nerv. ad obturatorem ac^ cessorius inconstans. Commentarius de Nervis Lumbalibus. "''^""'^"^OBTUKATOR NERVE AND BRANCHES. 633 articular arterj^, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. The ADDUCTOR BREVis (fig. 196, ^) has a thin fleshy and aponeu- Adductor rotic attachment, about two inches in depth, to the fi-ont of the hip STn atlhe bone with the gi-acihs. Tlie muscle arises from the pubic border origin of the bone close to and outside the gracilis, reaching upwards as high as the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the gracilis. It is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line leading from the and wide at linea aspera to the small trochanter. tlon.'"^^^' In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus, vavia ia with the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda arteiy ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their in- sertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, behind, with the deep piece of the obturator nei-ve and a branch of the inner circumflex arteiy. In contact Avith the upper border is the and at upper obturator extemus, F, and the internal circumflex arteiy passes be- tween the two. Action. This muscle adducts the limb with slight flexion of the Use on hip joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur it will ^"^^^^^ , , T J. 1.1 1 • and fixed, balance and move ionvards the pelvis. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 196, is a branch of the lumbar Obturator plexus (p. 543), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as ^^^^ well as the hip and knee joints. The nei^ve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and js divided it divides in that opening into two pieces, wliich are named super- ficial and deep from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. A. The siqierficial part (') of the nerve is directed over the adduc- The super- tor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to ^"^^ the femoral arteiy, on which it is distributed ; at the lower border femoral of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two to join in a plexus artery, and with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 628), and . supply the teguments.*^ Near the pelvis or in the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve branches are sends outwards an articular twig to the hip joint with the joint-artery. *^ Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to ductor brevis, and the gracilis. adductors, B. The deep part (^) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of Deep part of the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:— Muscular branches enter the obturator externus as the nerv-e ends in pierces it; others are frimished to the large, and sometimes to the mat^^us^"^ short adductor. A slender articular branch (fig. 196, enters the fibres of the and gives adductor magnus, and passes through it near the linea aspera to Sg^iut * In some bodies the superficial part of the nen-e is of large size, and Las a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, whose place it takes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 634 Dissect pro- funda. Profunda artery, origin, course, and ending. Parts around. Branches to muscles of the thigh join freely. The named branches are— External ■circumflex. Internal • -oircuiuflex, ■ends on back of tliigh, supplies hip joint and jnuscles. Tliree perfo- ating branches. First. Second gives nutritious arterj'. reach the popUteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee joint: its termination is seen in the dissection of the pop- liteal space. Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, sup- poshig the veins and tlie fat removed, it will be requisite to follow backwards the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The PROFUNDA (fig. 196, c) is the chief muscular artery of the thigh, and arises from the femoral about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament (p. 619). At its origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femm-, and ends at the lower tliird of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor raagnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh it rests on the iliacns muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its temiination between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles on the fi'ont and back of the thigh, and maintain free anastomoses with other vessels of the tliigh and leg: through these communications the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named hranches are these:— The external circumflex artery (fig. 196, e) has been described in the dissection of the muscles of the fi-ont of the thigh (p. 627). The internal circumflex branch (fig. 196, d) arises fi-om the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the adductor brevis and magnus. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 648). It supplies the undermentioned offsets to the inner side of the thigh:— An articular artery may enter the hip joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular branches arise:—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles; the other, which is larger, descends with the deep piece of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor bre-vas, and ends in this and the largest adductor. The x^erforating hranches, three in number, pierce the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the hnea aspera of the femur: they supply muscles on the back of the tliigh, and wind romid the thigh-bone to end in the vasti. The first (/) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second branch {g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding: from it a nutritious vessel is supplied to the shaft of the femur.ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. 6S5 The third artery (Ji) springs from the deep femoral tmnk below Third, the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. The tenninal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces And the the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. a ibmih! Muscular or anastomotic Iranches (/) to the back of the thigh Anastomotic (three or four in number) pass tln-ough the adductor magnus at branches, some distance fi-om the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the ham-strings. The PROFUNDA VEIN results fi-om the union of the different branches Profunda corresponding with the offsets of its companion arteiy. It accom- ^^'"* panics closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., ad- Cut throng ductor magnus, obturator externus, and the psoas and iliacus inser- brevis. tion, the adductor bre^•is is to be cut through near the pelvis, and to be thrown down. Then the investing layer of fascia and areolar tissue is to be removed fi-om each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been leanit, it will be needful to detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS (fig. 12G, ^) is narrow at the pelvis, and Adductor wide at the femur. It is triangular in form, with its base directed > upwards, one side being attached to the femm-, and the other free at the inner part of the thigh. The muscle arises along the pubic arch of the innominate bone origin is . iiiirrow * outside the other adductors, rcaclaing from the symphj^sis to the ' lower part of the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres diverge <ibres from their origin, being horizontal above but more oblique below, their^user- and are inserted (fi-om above down) into the line fi-om the great ^ion, trochanter to the linea aspera: into the linea aspera; and into the ^^'"e « ci 1- TIC honzontal, Ime leadmg from that crest of bone to the mner condyle for about ^^jg^j, an inch. The posterior fibres fi-om the ischial tuberosity are vertical vertical, in direction, and end at the lower third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is con- nected by a fibrous expansion to the inner condyloid ridge. The muscle consists of two parts, which differ in their characters. i'"<l f^"" two T^&rts The anterior one, thin and fleshy, fomis a septum between the other adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the pos- terior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the yf°gy®f^*!gg ^ profimda arteiy. The posterior surface touches the ham-string muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with and borders: the internal circumflex vessels ; and along tlie inner border lie the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is used as an adductor, but chiefly as a pro- u&e^onDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. C36 and pelvis. Opening for tile vessels; boundaries. Psoas and iliacus in the tliigli. Insertion into fenuu'. Parts around. Use. Obturator extcmus; origin. insertion. Tlie adduc- tors cover it, and it touches hip joint. Use. Detach obturator. jector forwcords of the femur in walking : in the last office it receives help from the other adductors internally, and fi'ora the gluteus medius and minimus extenially. The femur being fixed it will act powerfully in keeping the pelvis erect on the head of the thigh bone. The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral vessels into the pophteal space is tendinous at the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary- for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus internus ; and on the inside by the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 19G) arise separately in the abdomen (p. 537), but are united in the thigh,—the conjoined portion of the muscles coming beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas, r, is in- serted by tendon into the small trochanter of the femur; and the fleshy iliacus, o, joins partly the tendon of the psoas, but the rest of its fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below that trochanter. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the intei'val between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process,—the iliacus resting on a small bursa ; and below the pehas the mass covers the capsule of the hip joint, and a larger intervening bursa. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nei-ve. The pectineus and the internal circumflex vessels are contiguous to the inner border; and the sartorius and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip joint, and their use is given with the description of the part in the abdomen (p. 538). The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 196, ^) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the anterior half; and from the anterior half or more of the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen,—the attachment being an inch wide opposite the symphysis pubis. The fibres are directed obliquely backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevis and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by part of the obturator nerve. As it winds back it is in contact with the inner and lower parts of the hip joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the Buttock. Action. Tlie muscle is an external rotator of the thigh : and its action will be given in full with the other muscles of the same group in the Buttock. Dissection. By detaching a small part of the obturator muscleOBTUHATOR MUSCLE AXD VESSELS. 637 from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the same name will be seen amongst its fibres. A better view will be obtained if the dissection of the vessel and nerve is deferred till after the limb is detached. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac (p. 563), OMurator and enters the thigh through the upper part of the thyroid foramen. ^^'^'^'^ In the aperture the artery divides into two pieces, which form a dhides into •circle beneath the muscle around the obturator membrane :— ^^^^^ The upper branch extends along the inner half of the membrane ; and the lower, perforating the membrane below the level of the lower other, turns downwards and forms a circle by uniting with the ^^''^"^''^ • upper branch. An articular twig to the hip joint is supplied fi-om this gives the lower branch. ^^^^^ Muscular offsets of the artery are furnished to the obturator muscles, muscular, and some small twigs reach the upper part of the adductors. Branches of nerve to the external obturator muscle come from Branchesot: the deep portion of the obturator trunk, and perforate the membrane ^lerve. with the lower branch of the artery. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both this Section and the following one are to be Directions, •completed by the student in the time aj^pointed for the body to lie in the prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the body Position of is placed with the face down ; and the pelvis is to be raised by ^^^^ blocks, until the lower limbs hang almost vertically over the end of the dissecting table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can be better ascertained. Dissection. The integument is to be raised fi-om the buttock by Take up the means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the ^^^^' iliac crest of the hip bone, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards across the tliigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The -flap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in seek cuta- Ihe fat along the line of the iliac crest. Thus in front, but rather on"t"ie"ci^t! below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the orest towards the fore part is a large offset of the last dorsal nerve; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the iho-hypogastric nerve. In a line with the outer border of the erector spintc, are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves.638 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and by side of sacrum: other neiA'es of small sciatic below. cutaneous ai;teries. Sources of the cutane- ous nen'es. From lum- bar and sacral nerves. From last dorsal nerve. From lum- bar plexus. through ilio-hypo- gastrie, and external cutaneous. From sacral plexus, through small sciatic. Clean By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three offsets of the sacral nerves are to be looked for beneath the fat. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. A few turn upwards over that muscle ; the rest are directed down the thigh, and one (inferior pudendal) bends below the ischial tuberosity to reach the periniBal space. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will serve as guides to their situation. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 197). The nerves distributed in the integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived fi-om the spinal nerves (posterior primary pieces) ; from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses ; and fi-om the last dorsal nerve. Branches of the lumbar nerves (^). The offsets of the posterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (p. 396) are two or three in number, and cross the crest of the hip bone near the anterior edge of the erector spina3: they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the trochanter major. The branches of the sacral nerves Q) perforate tlie gluteus maximus near the sacrum and coccyx, and are then directed out- wards for a short distance in the integuments over the muscle. These offsets are usually two in number : the largest is opposite the lower end of the saci'um, and the other by the side of the coccyx. The last dorsal nerve (^) supplies the buttock by means of its lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). This offset perforates the muscles of the abdomen, and crosses the anterior part of the iliac crest to be distributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar 2)hxus. Parts of two ners-es of the lumbar plexus (p. 541), viz. iUo-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in the integuments of this region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (") crosses the iliac crest in fi-ont of the branches fi-om the lumbar nerves, lying generally in a groove in the bone, and extends only a short distance below the crest. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend back- wards to the integuments above the great trochanter, and cross the ramifications of the last dorsal nerve. Small sciatic ('). This nerve of the sacral plexus (p. 566) sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus maximus, accompanied by superficial branches of the sciatic artery: two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower part of the buttock ; the remaining branches (-) descend to the tliigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it. Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this reoionCUTANEOUS NERVES OYER GLUTEUS. 639 may be disregarded, in order that the great ghiteal muscle, which gi^iteus is the most diflicult in the body to clean, may be Avell displayed. Supposing the student desirous to lay bare the muscle, let him turn Fig. 197.* aside the cutaneous nerves, and adduct and rotate inwards tlie limb to make tense the muscular fibres. Having cut through the fat mode of pn>- and fascia from the origin to the insertion, let him carry the scalpel * Superficial view of the buttock of the left side (Illustrations of Dissec- tions). A. Gluteus maxinius muscle, with the gluteus medius projecting above it. a. Continuation of small sciatic artery along the back of the thigh. Nerves and vessels, most of them cut from the teguments : 1. Small sciatic jiQYve—the trunk ; 2, its cutaneous thigh branches; and 3, inferior pudendal. 4. Small sciatic offsets in the perinc^um. 5. Cutaneous of the sacral. 6. Offsets of the lumbar nerves. 7. Ilio-hypogastric. 8. Branch of the last dorsal.DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, the dissection may be begun at the upper border ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. Fascia of the The fascia of the huttoch is a prolongation of that enveloping the tWnSum- and is fixed to the crest of the hip bone, and to the sacrum important, and coccyx. It is mucli thicker in front of, than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment anteriorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus, the fascia splits to incase the muscle. -Gluteus The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS (fig. 197, ^) is the most superficial muscle maximus. q£ buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of Origin the femur. Its origin fi-om the pelvis is partly connected with bone peMs f °™ partly Avith aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from above down, to the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to a sj^ecial imiDression on the liip bone below it; next, to the aponeurosis cover- ing the multifidus spinaj muscle ; then to the back of the lowest piece of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastly to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres inserted be- are directed outwards to their insertion :—About two thirds of the femur.*° upper fibres, and a few of the lowest, end in the fascia lata of the outer part of the tliigh: and the remainder are fixed for three inches into the lower part of the line leading fi'om the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur. Connections The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles faces'^ deltoid muscle of the arm in the situation, and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common teguments and investing fascia of the limb, and by the superficial nerves and vessels. The parts in contact with the under surface and borders, will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlays the gluteus medius. And the lower edge, which is longer and tliicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates, and bounds posteriorly the perinatal space ; beneath the lower border the ham- string muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue. Use on Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip joint femur free, ^nitting back that bone, and abducts and rotates out the limb, and fixed. When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised fi-om a sitting into a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pelvis. In standing, In standing both muscles assist in keeping the pelvis balanced and on its props; and in rising from stooping they are the active agents stooping; j,^ bringing upright the pelvis. When the body is supported on standing on one leg the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as •one eg. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^j^^ opposite side. SiSfs*^"^ -Disseciwii (fig. 198). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across maximus, i^ear the pelvis, and without injury to the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outernerves. PARTS UNDER GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. G41 part of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detached from the under surface, though the branches of the ghiteal vessels entering the muscle must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between the clean parts pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nei-ves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined, may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, the bursa on each promi- nence of bone will be observed. Lastly the origin of the muscle is to be removed ; and the sacral dissect out nerves are to be dissected out of the gluteus, and to be followed to iierves. the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they will be afterwards seen. Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 198). At its origin the gluteus Parts maximus rests on the peMs, and conceals part of the hip bone, f^uteus atf sacrum, and coccyx, also the ischial tuberosity with the origin of its origin the hamstring muscles, L, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, k. At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great and inser- trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus, i. Between the ^'"'^' muscle and each prominence of bone, viz. the tuberosity and the trochanter, is a large, loose synovial membrane ; and between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle and by the conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts :— part of the^ First, a portion of the gluteus medius, A ; and below it the pyi'i- "luscie. formis, B, with the supei-ficial branch (a) of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels {h)^ and the large and small sciatic nerves which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity ; and internal to the scititic are the pudic vessels and neiwe ((Z, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle ('') with its vessels, which are directed inwards through the small sacro- sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, D, with a fleshy fasciculus—the gemellus (c and e) —above and below it. Next comes the thin quadratus femoris muscle, G, Avith the upper part of the adductor magnus, H : at the upper Iborder of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator ex- ternus, F ; and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery (c) with its veins. Dissection. Tracing back the offsets of the sacral nerves which Trace sacral perfoi-ate the gluteus, and removing a fibrous stratum which covers them, the looped arrangement of the first three nerves on the great sacro-sciatic ligament will appear. Finally the nerves may be followed inwards beneath the multifidus spin» to the posterior sacral foramina. T T642 The sacral nerves are united beneath gluteus: cutaneous offsets. Glutens niedius DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Sacral nerves. The external pieces of the posterior primary branches of the first tliree sacral nerves, after passing outwards beneath the multifidus spinas (p. 402), are joined by loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament (fig. 120). Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this mtercom- Fig. 198.* munication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. G38). The GLUTEUS MEDius (fig. 198, ^) is triangular in form, with its base at the innominate bone, and apex at the femur. It arises from * Second view of the dissection of the buttock (Ilhistrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Gluteus medius. b. Pyriformis. c. Upper gemellus, d. Ob- turator internus. E. Gemellus inferior. F. Obturator externus. g. Quad- ratus femoris. H. Adductor magnus. i. Vastus externus. j. Gluteus maximus, cut. k. Great sacro-sciatic ligament, l. Hamstring muscles. Arteries: a. Gluteal. - 6. Sciatic, c. Internal circumflex, d. Pudic. e. Anastomotic branch of sciatic. /. First perforating. Nerves: 1. Last dorsal. 2. Upper gluteal. 3. Small sciatic. 4. Nerve to the obturator internus. 5. Pudic. 6. Great sciatic. 7. Inferior pudendal. 8. Cutaneous of the thigh of small sciatic. 9. Muscular branch of great sciatic.T T 2 GLUTEAL VESSELS AND NERVE. G43 the outer surface of the hip bone between tiie crest and the supe- ^\^^cs from rior cur\'-ed line, except behind where there is a surface of bone free from muscular fibres ; and many superficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the anterior part of the muscle. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into an impression and inserted across the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending fi-om the i"*^"^ tra- tip behind to the root in fi-ont. chduttr. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus raaxi- Connec- mus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus minimus, and the gluteal vessels and nerve. The anterior border lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in contact with the tensor of the fascia lata. The postei-ior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal vessels intervening. A small bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and tlie trochanter. Action. The whole muscle abducts the hanging femur; and the Use with anterior fibres rotate in the limb. In walking it is combined with hanging, the adductors in moving forwards the femur. Both limbs resting on the ground the muscles assist in fixing the botli limbs pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus will aid in balancing ^^^'^^ \ the pehns on the top of the femur. one"eg.^ °" Dissection. When the gluteus medius is detached from the pehas, Detach and partly separated from the gluteus minimus beneath, the gluteal [{lus^o see" vessels and nerve will come into view. The two chief branches gluteal ves- of the arteiy,—one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower ^^^^ down,—are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main part of tlie nerve and nerve, is to be followed at the same time to the tensor vaginaB femoris muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will be cut in removing that muscle. The gluteal artery (fig. 198, a) is the largest branch of the inter- Gluteal nal iliac (p. 561), and issues fi-om the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle. On the dorsum of the hip bone it ends in offsets which divided into supply the gluteal muscles and the bone. Its named branches are ^ ' superficial and deep :— The superficial branch supplies offsets to the integuments, and Superficial some deeper twigs over the sacrum ; it ends in the gluteus maxi- ^^'^"^ naus, which it penetrates on the under surface. The deep branch (fig. 199, «) is the continuation of the artery, Deep and subdivides into two pieces which run lietween the two smaller o-lutei. One (b) (superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus n^iinimus (supplying mostly the medius) to the front of the iliac crest, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the exter- this has an ujipcr nal circumflex artery. The other portion (c) (inferior) is directed ^^^ ^^ ^ lowcr forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, with the piece, nerve, towards the anterior lower ihac spine where it enters the tensor of the fascia lata, and communicates with the external cir- cumflex branch (p. 628) : many offsets are furnished to the gluteus minimus, and some pierce that muscle to supply the hip joint. Vein The companion vein with the artery enters the pelvis, and Gluteal ■ . , , .,• • vein, ends in the niternal iliac vein.DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. C44 Superior gluteal nerve is muscular. Gluteus luiuimus. The mperior gluteal nerve (fig. 199, is a branch of the lumbo- sacral cord (p. 541). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two branches for the supply of the two smallest gluteal muscles: its lowest branch terminates anteriorly in the tensor vagina) fenioris, B. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 199, c) is triangular in shape Attach- ments. It is next the bone, its borders. Use on femur hanging. and fixed: standing one leg. on Divide smallest gluteus. trace deep vessels. Outer head of the rec- tus. and Origin of I)ynformis. Insertion; lies in sacro- sciatic notch : position to other parts. arises from the dorsum of the liip bone between the superior and inferior curved lines, extending backwards as far as the middle of the hip joint. Its tendon is inserted into an impression along the fore part of the gi-eat trochanter, where it is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip joint. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve; the other with the hip bone, the hip joint, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the other gluteus ; and the posterior is covered by the pyi-iformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. Action. It acts as an abductor and rotator out of the femur when this bone is hanging ; and in walking, it and the medius will be employed in bringing foi-wards the limb. Both legs being fixed, the muscles are used in balancing the pel- vis. In standing on one leg the gluteus pitches the pelvis over the supporting limb with the preceding muscle. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the innominate bone, and define the tendinous part of the rectus femoris underneath it, close above the hip joint. Whilst detach- ing the gluteus from the parts midemeath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be obsei^ved and followed as the muscle is removed. The outer head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the groove above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, which is attached to the anterior in- ferior iliac spine ; and below, it is connected with the capsule of the liip joint. The I'YRiFORMis (fig. 198, b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 594), and leaves that cavity through the gi-eat sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. As the muscle passes through the sacro-sciatic notch it divides that space into two parts:—the upper givmg passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, and the lower transmitting the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius, and its lower, to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it645 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The use of this and the other external rotators is altered Use with by the position of the femur. If that bone hangs the pyrifonnis fngLnd'^"" rotates it out; but if the hip joint is bent the muscle abducts the i"^^^'^^^- limb from its fellow. Both limbs being fixed the muscles balance the pelvis, and help Both limhs to make the tnmk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing °" sround, on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis only one. turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 199). The pyriformis may be cut across and raised Dissect towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the chief v*es- sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to ^^^^^ their origin in the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small nerves to the obturator internus (^), the gemellus and mus- superior (^), and the hip joint, are to be sought in the fat at the brandies, lower part of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (®) will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but it Avill be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The vessels on the back of the The vessels pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal th™mac!'" ihac (p. 561). The sciatic artery (fig. 198, V) supplies the buttock below the Sciatic gluteal. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends Avith the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus : here course the arteiy gives off many branches with the superficial offsets of its and ending, companion nei-ve ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes Branches, the following named branches:— a. The coccygeal branch^ arising close to the pelvis, perforates Coccygeal the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and branch, ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. h. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) Branch to is very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in ucrvef'*"'' it along the thigh. c. 3fuscular brandies enter the gluteus maximus, the upper Muscniar gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to ^"^ ^ the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name Branch to beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the j-atus. hip joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 198, e). Varying in size this artery is An^astomotie directed outwards to the root of the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal and internal circumflex. The pudic artery (fig. 198, d) belongs to the perinteum and the Pudic genital organs ; it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which it ^"^^^^ lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over the ischial crosses the spine, is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perinasalDISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. G46 Veins. Nerves come from sac nil l)lexus. yniall sciatic is chiefly ;i cwtajieous nerve : ends in the leg; gives branches to gluteus: cutaHeous, ascending, descending; inferior pudendal branch. Great sci- atic UGTve; outline of. Course in the but- tock, no branch in this part. Pudic nen'e space through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and is there distributed (p. 422). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacram, which anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive contributing' twigs corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Sciatic and Pudic Nerves. The nei-ves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below the pyrifonnis, are branches of the sacral plexus to the lower limb (p. 56G) ; they are furnished mostly to parts beyond the gluteal region, but a few are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The small sciatic (fig. 198,is a cutaneous nerve of the back of the thigh, for it suppHes only one muscle of the buttock. It sjirings fi-om the lower part of the sacral plexus, generally by two pieces, and takes the course of the sciatic arteiy as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, Avhere it gives many cutaneous branches : much diminished in size at that spot, the nei"\^e is continued along the back of the thigh beneath the fascia, and ends below the knee in the integuments of the back of the leg. The branches which are distributed to, or near the buttock, are muscular and cutaneous :— The muscular branches (inferior gluteal) enter the under surface of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. The cutaneous hranclies are directed upwards and downwards at the border of the gluteus:— The ascending set (fig. 197) are distributed in the fat over the lower third of the muscle. The descending set (fig. 197,-) supply the integuments of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (•'), which is larger than the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior pudendal (p. 426) ; as it courses to the perinajum, it turns below the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner part of the thigh to end in the scrotum. The great sciatic (fig. 198,") is the largest nerve in the body. It is the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous branches distributed to the limb beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the sacral plexus. It is directed through the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyrifonnis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. Fre- quently the ncrA'-e is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyrifonnis muscle. ^ The 2^udic nerve (fig. 198, •^) winds over the small sacro-sciatic ligament by the side of its companion artery, and is distributed with this vessel to the perinajum and the genital organs (p. 422). N-* branch is supplied to the buttock.GEMELLI AND OBTURATOR IXTERXUS. 647 Muscular branches ol the sacral j^lexus are furnished to the ghiteus Muscular maxinius, and to the external rotators except the obturator externus. Branches of gluteus. One or more branches of tlie plexus enter the top of the gluteus maximus (fig. 198). Two branches of the 2)l/''iforniis enter the under surface, and are Branches of learnt with the sacral plexus in the pelvis (p. 567). rynformis. The nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 199, arises fi-om the Nerve of upper part of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through the small sacro-sciatic notch with the pudic nerve : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pelvis. The nerve to the sur)erior gemellus (fig. 199, ^) is a very small of superior twig, and arises separately fi-om the following: it enters the inner end of the muscle on the superficial surface. The nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (fig. 199, '') Nerve to is a slender branch, which passes with a companion artery beneath ami quad- the gcmelli and the obturator internus, to end in the two muscles ''^t'^^' from which it receives its designation. This nen^e will be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments 'P'l iiip from it to the hip joint may be recognised. Dissection. To see the remaining small rotator muscles, hook Clean rota- aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the "ii^cies. sciatic artery if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be separated from the tendon of the obturator internus. The surERiOR gemellus (fig. 198, ^) is the highest of the two muscular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator ° muscle. Internally it is attached to the outer and lower part of the ischial spine, and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great trochanter. Oftentimes the muscle is absent. The INFERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 198, ^) is larger than its fellow. ^^[^^1^^^^ Its origin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, along the lower edge or lip of the hollow for the obturator internus muscle ; and its insertion is the same as that of the obturator tendon, '"^^j^^^^^^^ This muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quad- rator. ratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. Action. These small fieshy slips seem to be but accessory pieces ^i^^^^y^^^i.^^'^^ of origin to the internal obturator, with wHch they combine in use. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS (fig. 198, ^) arises from the innominate 9^^"™*°'^ bone inside the pelvis (p. 594), and passes to the exterior through the small sacro-sciatic notch. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the hip joint, and is inserted with the gcmelli into the ^^^^^^}^^'^ upper part of the great trochanter, in front of the pyriformis, as ^"^ ^ Avell as into the contiguous portion of the neck of the femur. Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is em- ^}^?^^^'^^ braced by the gemelli muscles in the following way : near the pelvis the gemelli meet beneath, but near the trochanter they cover the tendon. Beneath the obturator is a synovial sac. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nen'es and the sciatic vessels;648 DISSECTIOX OF THE BUTTOCK. Its tendon is divided on the edge of the pel- vis. Use like pyriformis oil limb, pelvis; and in rotation. Quadratus I'emoris; origin; insertion; parts over and be- neath it. and at lower border. Use with limb free, and fixed. Dissect cir- cumflex artery. Internal circumflex artery ends in two branches. Obturator extemus is inserted into pit of trochanter. Connec- tions. and covering the Avliolc is the gluteus maximus. On cutting through the tendon and raising the inner end, it will be found divided into three or four pieces as it turns over the margin of the pelvis (fig. 109, ; at this spot the pelvis is marked by ridges of fibro-cartilagc, whicli correspond with the intervals between the tendons, and the surfaces are lubricated by a synovial membrane. Action. Acting from the hinder border of the pelvis round which it tums, it rotates out or abducts the femur according as this bone may be hanging or raised. It will erect the pelvis after stooping, and will balance the same in standing ; and it will rotate to the opposite side the trunk supported on one limb. The QUADRATUS FEMOHis (fig. 198, has the form expressed by its name, and is situate between the inferior gemellus and the ad- ductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer border of the tuber ischii for two inches, along the origin of the semi-membra- nosus and adductor magnus; externally it is inserted into a tubercle in the posterior intertrochanteric ridge, and slightly into the neck of the femur ; and into a line on the upper end of the bone for about two inches above the attachment of the great adductor. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nen'cs, and the gluteus. By the other it rests on the obturator extemus, the internal circumflex vessels, and its small nerve and vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is common also to the uj^per part of the adductor magnus. Action. Though the muscle has but slight power, it will be asso- ciated Avith the other muscles on the back of the pelvis in rotation out of the pendent femur, and in abduction of the femur when the hip joint is bent. And its femoral attachment being fixed, it will help in supporting the pelvis; or it will turn the face to the opposite side, the body being supported on one limb. Dissection (fig. 199). The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may be now cut across, in order that their small nerve and artery, the ending of the internal circumflex artery, and the obturator externus may be dissected out. The internal circumflex branch (fig. 199,/) of the profunda arteiy (p. 634) divides finally into two parts. One {g) ascends beneath the quadratus (in this position of the body) to the pit of the tro- chanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries, and supplies the bone. The other (Ji) passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus to the hamstrmg muscles, and communicates with a branch of the profunda artery. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 199, has been dissected at its origin in the front of the thigh (p. 636). The part of the muscle now laid bare, winds below the liip joint, and ascends to be inserted into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur where the upper border is ingemellus. 7. Nerve to upper gemellus. 8. Large sciatic nerA,'e. uUADEATUS AND OBTURATOR EXTERNUS. G19 contact with the inferior gcmelhis. As it turns hack to its insertion it supports the hip joint. Action. Like the other muscles of the same group it rotates out use on Fig. 199.* the haninng hmb : but it differs fi'om them in liaving the same iiangmg action even when the hip joint is bent, limb. With the hmb fixed, Theile supposes it to help in bending the Limb im- moveable. * Third view of the dissection of the buttock (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Gluteus maxiraus, cut. B. Tensor fasciie lata?, c. Gluteus minimus. D. Gluteus medius, cut. p. Pyriformis. g. Gemellus superior. H. Obturator internus, cut. I. Gemellus inferior, k. Quadratus femoris, cut. L. Obturator externus. N. Adductor magnus. o. Hamstrings, y. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Arteries: a. Gluteal. I. Its upper, and c, its lower piece, d. Sciatic, e. Piidic. /. Internal circumflex ; g, its ascend- ing, and h, its transverse offset, i. First perforating, h. External [circum- flex. Nerves: 1. Superior gluteal. 2. Sacral. 3. Small sciatic, cut. Pudic. 5. Nerve to obturator internus. 6. Nerve to quadratus and inferiorDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 650 Saoro-.sciatic liijameiits. Attaoli- iiients of the lame one. Fonn; gives a i>ro- lougation. Small ligniiicnt attach- ments. Thej- give rise to two uotches: small, with contents: large, and parts ])ass- ing through it liip joint in stooping, instead of extending it and raising the trunk like the other external rotator muscles. The SACRO-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the innominate bone to the sacram and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or xiosterior ligament (fig. 100, ^) is attached internally to the posterior part of the hip bone, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity, sending up- Avards a prolongation along the pubic arch. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral ners'es ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin fi'om it. Branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries per- forate it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united with the large band, but at the opposite end it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is con- cealed ; and it rests on the coccygeus muscle. By their attachments these ligaments convert the large sacro- sciatic notch of the dried peh-is into tAVO apertures or foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the inno- minate bone, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its ner\-e and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nei"ve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis nmscle, with the gluteal vessels and the sui^erior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus below it. Section III. Directiens. Tosition. Take the skin from over the liani. Seek the THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. The ham or the popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less distm-bed state than if it Avas dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been leanit the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection (fig. 200). To remove the skin fi'om the popliteal region let an incision be made behind the knee for the distance of six inches above, and four inches below the joint. At each ex- tremity of the longitudinal cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves and vessels, viz., oneANATOMY OF POPLITEAL SPACE. Gol or two twigs in the middle line of the Hmb from the small sciatic cutaneous nerve and artery beneath the fascia ; and some olfsets of the internal cutaneous nei-ve towards the inner part. After the sub- cutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Fascia lata. Where this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fascia of strengthened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side ; over tile and it is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the Icnee, but usually at a spot lower down. Dissection (fig. 200). The fascia over the ham is now to be Remove removed without injuring the small sciatic nen^e and artery, and the short saphenous vein, which are close beneath it. A large ami take the quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without ham|°"^ ^^^^ injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large Seek the internal popliteal nerve in the middle line ; and nearer the outer th^siiace. side, on the external popliteal. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve from the external popliteal, which sometimes arises from the great sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being Clean the more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (supeiior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur ; and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the leg. On the upper part of the find obtu- arteiy, the branch of nerve fi-om the obturator to the knee joint is audyands' to be found : and on the sides of the arteiy are three or four lym- phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in their natural position on the inner side. The POPLITEAL SPACE, Or the ham (fig. 200), is the hollow behind The ham; the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the form situation of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and <^xt«"t- downwards along one sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condi- tion of the parts the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited, apparently, almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the Boundaries; limb ; and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the tliigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer outer side, is the biceps muscle (•"') as far as the joint: and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimembra- and inner, nosus C) and semitendinosus C^) muscles, with the gracilis andDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 652 Limit aliove iiud below. Superficial .ind deep boundai-ies. Greatest width and deptli. Contents. Popliteal artery; extent: ]\art is in the ham, and part beyond. The part in tlie space; Fig. 200.' sartorius between them and tlie femur; and bej^ond the jonit is the inner head of the gastrocnemius (')• The upper point of the ham is hmitcd by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrmgs ; and at the lower point the heads of the gastrocnemius touch each other. Stretched across the cavity are the fascia lata and the teguments. Forming the deep boundary, or the floor, are the follo^\^ng parts,— the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and part of the pop- hteus nmscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest opposite the femoral condyles, where the muscles are most drawn to the sides ; and is deepest above the articular end of the femur. Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein ; the popliteal trunks of the great sciatic nen^e, and some of their branches; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superfi- cially in the ham; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the arteiy in the bottom of the space. The roPLiTEAL artery (fig. 200, ^) is the continuation of the femoral, and reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. A portion of the artery lies in the ham, and is uncovered by muscle ; but the rest is beneath the gastrocnemius, and beyond the limits of the popliteal space as above defined. The description of the artery may be divided therefore into two parts, corresponding with tliis difference in the connections. In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquety from the inner side of * View of the popliteal space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Intemal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimerabranosus muscle. 5. Scmitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7, 8. Inner and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial vein on the gastroc- nemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal.POrLITEAL ARTEEY AND BRANCHES. 653 the limb to the intei-val between the condyles of the femur ; and is course ami then directed along the middle of the space over the knee joint. As far- as the inner condyle the artery is overlaid by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle ; but thence onwards it is situate between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia lata and the integuments. Beneath it is the femm- with the posterior ligament of the knee jouit. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at Position of first, lies the popliteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the ""'^^^^ arterial trrmk is almost covered ; but in the inten^al between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches conceal altogether the artery. Below the knee the short saphenous vein (fig. 201, ?■), and the muscular branches of the artery, are laid over the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to and of the them in position, is placed the mternal popliteal nerve, which with its branches lies over the aiiery, like the vein, between the heads of the'gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve runs on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the arteiy the inner head of Cut the the gastrocnemius should be cut tlirougli, and raised from the sub- lastioe*^^^ ocuc- jacent parts. On removing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves n^ius. will appear. The lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein, and the first has a companion neiwe. Beymul the ham. Wliilst the artertj is beneath the gastrocnemius Artery be- (fig. 206) it sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small ^ muscle—the plantaris c, and the ending is concealed by the soleus B. It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal ners'e change Position of their position to the arteiy, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie uel^e^^*^ on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery is divided as high as the back of the knee joint; and then the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the pop- liteus muscle. Branches (fig. 201) are furnished by the artery to the surround- Branches, ing muscles, and to tlie articulation ;—those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two supczior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. n The muscular hranches are upper and lower. The upper set, Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the perfora- ting and muscular branches of the profunda. The loAver set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris. h. A mperficial or cutaneous Iranch arises near the Imee joint, and cuta- and accompanies the external saphenous ner\^e over the muscles of the leg to end in the teguments (fig. 201).654 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Branches to the joint {ire five. Two .siii>e- rior, extenial; intenial. Two infe- rior ; •external, internal; and one •central aitery. ropliteal vein. Positiou to the artery. Branches. Popliteal nerves arc two, inner and onter. The internal nerve iu the space. c. Tlie superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles of the femur; tliey are directed ahnost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the front of the joint. The external one (Z) perforates the intermuscular septum, and divides in the substance of the vastus internus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda) : others descend to the joint; and one offset forms an arch across the fore part of the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery (Z), oftentimes very small, winds beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus in- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee joint, and communicates with the anastomotic artery. d. The inferior articular branches (fig. 20G) lie beneath the gastroc- nemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb; for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch (c) supplies the outer side of the knee joint, anastomosing with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery: it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from the lower internal branch. The internal artery (h) ascends at the anterior border of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and after taking its share in the free anas- tomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the articulation and the head of the tibia. e. The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and the synovial membrane of the interior. The PorLiTEAL vein (fig. 201, h) originates in the union of the vena; comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is super- ficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side, and close to the arteiy. It is joined by branches corresponding with those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein (fig. 201). The POPLITEAL NERVES (fig. 200) are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh; they are named internal and external from their relative position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneous and articular offsets, but only the inner one supphes branches to muscles. The INTERNAL roPLiTEAL NERVE is larger than the external, and occupies the middle of the ham : its connections are similar to' those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. Like the vessel it extends through655 POrLITEAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. tlie back of the leg, and retains the name pophteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been already noticed. The branches arising fi-om it here are Brandies the followina::— '^^'^ a. Two small articular twigs (fig. 201, ") are furnished to the two knee joint with the vessels. One which accompanies the lower'"'"'^'^^'^'^' internal articular artery to the fore part of the articulation, is the largest; and another takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. h. Muscular branches arise from the nei-ve between the heads of muscular; the gastrocnemius. One supplies both heads of the gastrocnemius and the pLantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the cutaneous surface of the soleus. And a third pene- trates the popliteus at tlie under aspect, after turning round the • lower border. c. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, ^) (ram. communicans external tibialis) is the largest branch, and is a cutaneous offset to the leg uerve.'^""'* and foot. It lies on the surface of the gastrocnemius, but beneath tlie fascia, as far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes cuta- neous, and will be afterwards seen. The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (fig. 200,^ ) (peroneal) lies along External the outer boundary of the ham as far as the knee joint: at that P^ri'teai . nerve. level it leaves the space and follows the edge of the biceps muscle for two inches, till it is below the head of the fibula. There it enters the fibres of the peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into three,—musculo-cutaneous, anterior tibial, and recur- rent articular. Its branches whilst in the popliteal space are cuta- Branches: neous and articular, a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the articular, upper external artery to the outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower articular artery: both enter the joint. h. The peroneal communicating branch (fig. 205, (ram. commu- communi- nicans fibidaris) joins the external saphenous branch of the internal jji-anch popliteal about the middle of the leg. It soon becomes cutaneous, and offsets are given by it to the back of the leg. c. One or two cutaneous nerves are furnished by the external cutaneous popliteal to the integument on the outer side of the leg in the upper half. The articular branch ot the ohturator nerve (fig. 201,') perforates Articular the adductor magnus, and is conducted by the popliteal artery to obturator.''" the back of the knee joint. After supplying filaments to the vessels, the neiwe enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The lymphatic glands of the popliteal space are situate around Lymphatio the large arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides; f^^^ ^i^. whilst one is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel : they arteiy. are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the saphenous vein.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Dissect the liack of tlie tliiuli. Seek ont cutaneous nerves, clean mus- cles and nerves. Three mus- cles on Lack of tliigh. Situation. Biceps arises bj a Ions and a short head ; is inserted into the filDula and tibia. Connections of the laus- cle. Use on knee and hip joints ; on pehis and femur. iSemi-tendi- nosus is attached to pelvis and tibia. Dissection (fig. 201). Now the popliteal space has heen examined, the student may proceed with the dissection of the back of the thigh. The piece of skin between the buttock and the popliteal space should be divided, and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the sides of the limb fine offsets of the internal and external cuta- neous nerves of the fi'ont of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle line some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia. Eemove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small sciatic nerve and its artery. Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace out the perforating arteries to the fi-ont of the thigh, and clean the branches of the great sciatic nerve and profunda artery to the muscles. Muscles. The muscles behmd the femur act mainly as flexors of the knee joint. They extend from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham: they are three in number, viz., biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. The BICEPS (fig. 201, d) has two heads of origin, long and short, which are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from an impression on the back of the ischial tuberosity, in common with the semitendino'sus muscle. The short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus maximus, viz., to all the linea aspera, to nearly the whole of the line leading inferiorly to the outer con- dyle, and to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres end inferiorly in a tendon, which is inserted into two prominences on the head of the fibula by slips Avhich embrace the external lateral ligament ; and a slight piece is prolonged to the head of the tibia. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus ; it rests on the upper part of the semimembranosus, and on the gi-eat sciatic nerve and the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side is the semitendinosus as far as the ham. Its tendon gives offsets to the deep fascia of the limb. Action. It can bend the knee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and afterwards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head, which passes upwards beyond the femur, will extend the bent liip joint Avhen the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the ground, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis ; and the short head will draw down the femur so as to bend the knee in stooping. The SEMITENDINOSUS (fig. 201, ^) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of the hip bone with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy fibres from the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar extent.HAMSTRING MUSCLES. 667 This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the gluteus Surrotind- luaximus. About its middle a tendinous intersection may be ob- "'SPartski Ti i. .1 . , , contact With seivert. it rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal late- it. ral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer border is in contact with Fig. 201.* * Dissection of the back of the thigh (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Gluteus maximus, cut below, and partly raised. B. Quadratus fenioris. <3. Adductor magnus. D. Biceps, e. Semitendinosus. p. Semimembranosus, ■o. Outer, and, h, inner head of the gastrocnemius. Arteries: a. Small sciatic, cut. b. Ending of internal circumflex to hamstrings, c. First, d, second, and e, third perforating of profunda. /. Muscular branch of profunda. ^. Popliteal trunk. 7i. Popliteal vein. i. Short saphenous vein. k. Upper external, and I, upper internal articular artery. Nerves: 1. Small sciatic. 2. Large sciatic. 3. Branch to hamstrings from large sciatic. 4. External popliteal, and, 5, communicating peroneal. 7. Articular branch of obturator to knee. 8. Internal popliteal. 9. Articular branch to knee of the internal popliteal. 10. Short saphenous. U TJDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 658 Use on knee and hip joints; on tlie pehis. Semimem- Lranosus reaches from l)elvis to tibia. Parts around it. Use on knee, and hip joints; on pelvis. Great sciatic nerve in the thiL'li snpplies muscles. Small .sciatic in the thigh ; cutaneous olTsets. Detach the ham- strings. the biceps as far as the popliteal space. As the tendon turns for- wards to its insertion, an expansion is continned from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, below the level of the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated fi-om the tendon of the sartorius by a bursa (p. 622). Action. If the leg is moveable the muscle bends the knee ; and continuing to contract, rotates iuAvards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by the semitendinosus and the other hamstrings. Should the limbs be fixed on the gi-ound, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk fi-om a stoopmg posture. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS muscle (fig. 201, ^) is tendinous at both ends, and its name is given from the membraniform appearance of the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest impression on the back of the tuber ischii, above and external to the semitendinosus and biceps ; and it is inserted below into the hinder and inner part of the head of the tibia. The muscle is thick and fleshy inferiorly, where it bounds the popliteal space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor mag- nus. Along the outer border lie the gi'eat sciatic, and mternal popliteal nerves. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bm-sa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the knee-joint. Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia ; and with the Icnee straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the femur has been carried forwards. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts altogether on the pehns. The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 201, ") fies On the adductor mag- nus muscle below the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurca- tion may be canied upAvards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps. Brandies. At the upper part of the thigh it supplies large branches to the flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small sciatic nerve (fig. 201, ^). Between the gluteus maximus and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh ; and the largest of these arises near the popliteal space. Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, and the branches of the perforating and muscular aiieries, the ham- string muscles must be detached from the hip bone and thrown down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned.659 BRANCHES OF PKOFUNDA ARTERY. Adductor magnus muscle (fig. 201, At its posterior caspect Posterior the Large adductor is altogether fleshy, even at the opening for the adductof femoral artery ; and the fibres fi'oni the pubic arch appear to form "lagnus. a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the hip bone. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nei-ve. Ending of the perforating arteries (fig. 201, c, e). These branches Perforating of the profunda appear through the adductor magnus close to the Q^^^^j^ femur, and are directed out through the short head of the biceps vasti, and the outer intermuscular septum to the vasti muscles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its course. In the vasti they and ending; anastomose together, and with the descending branches of the external circumflex artery. Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given by each theTkin"'^ to the teguments of the outer part of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Muscular branches of the profunda (fig. 201,/) pierce the adductor Anastomotic magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance fi'om the • femur. Three or four in number, the highest appears about five number and inches from the pelvis, and the rest in a line at intei-vals of about two inches from one another : they are distributed to the hamstring- muscles, especially the semimembranosus, and communicate below with offsets of the popliteal trunk. The HIP JOINT (fig. 202). Tliis articulation is a ball and socket Hip joint, joint, the head of the femur being received into the acetabulum or fonued; the cup-shaped hollow of the innominate bone. Connecting the its liga- bones are the following ligaments :—one to deepen the receiving '"ents. cavity, which is named cotyloid ; another between the articular surfaces of the bones,—the inter articular; and a capsule around all. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the back of ^^^Y i^are the hip joint, and the upper and lower attachments of the capsular behind^^^^^^ ligament are to be especially cleared from areolar tissue. Next, the fi-ont of the joint should be cleaned and examined in and in front, the same manner, with the body turned over for a short time, if this change in position does not interfere with the other dissections. In the capsule itself the student has to define a wide thick part define its in front, and a transverse band near the neck of the femur behind. The capsular ligament (fig. 202) is a thick fibrous case, which is Capsule, strong enough to check the movements of the joint. Its upper margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum at a short Attacii- distance fi'om the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous "^ove band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower and below, margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 202) ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 203); and above, into the neck, near the great trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength, and in the Capsule arrangement of the fibres at the fore and hinder surfaces. in frouT*^ u u 2DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 660 On the front it is strengthened by a Avicle layer of longitudinal fibres (fig ''02 a, h, c). The central portion,—the iho-femoraL liaament (a), is fixed above by a narrow piece to the lower anterior iliac spinous process, and below wliere it widens, into the anterior intertrochanteric line. By its strength it can arrest extension of the joint; and the femur being fixed, it will prop the pelvis. The by an outer outer edge (c) (ilio-trochanteric band) extends fi-om the hip bone ''"P- opposite the outer head of the rectus, to the upper and fore part ot Fig. 202.* by a central band. use; the great trochanter and neck of the femur ; its use is to check use; adduction of the femur. The inner edge (h) (pubio-femoral band) and by is attached superiorly to the prominent pubic portion of the hip inner slip, -[^q^q inside the acetabulum, and inferiorly to a roughened surface at the lower part of the neck of the femur on a level with, and in use. front of the small trochanter: this band controls the abductory movement of the joint. At back of At the back of the capsule close to the neck of the femur is a capsule hand of transverse fibres (fig. 203, h), about as wide as the little is a trans- finger, which arches like a collar over the neck of the bone. By verse band:' j^g lower edge it is united to the cervix f emoris by a thin layer (c) of fibrous tissue and synovial membrane ; at the upper edge it is arrange- . joined by the longitudinal capsular fibres (a). It gives insertion to libres.^^ \ longitudinal fibres of the capsule, and prevents that restriction * Fore part of the capsule of the hip-joint, a. Ilio-femoral Hgament. b. Pubio-femoral edge or band. c. Ilio-trochanteric band.661 LIGAMENTS OF HIP JOINT. of the swinging movement which would result from their insertion Use. i into the hinder part of the neck. ' Posteriorly the joint is covered by the external rotator muscles ; Muscles and anteriorly by the psoas and iliacus, a bursa being between it and them. xVbove is the gluteus minimus, whose tendon is united with the upper and outer band of the capsule ; and below is the obturator externus. Dissection (fig. 204). The capsular ligament is to be now divided Cut open over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone being capsule, disarticulated but not detached, the cotyloid and interarticular liga- ments inside it will appear. The interarticular or roimd ligament is attached to the acetabulum Define rouud by two pieces ; and to bring these into view, the synovial membrane and areolar tissue must be removed. The transverse ligament over the notch is also to be defined. The coiyJoid ligament (fig. 189, g) is a narrow band of fibro- cartilage, which is fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is ° prolonged across the notch on the inner side, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. Its fibres are not continued around the attached r. -, ^ -PI • 1 around acetabulum, but are fixed to the margin of the cavity, and cross acetabulum, one another in the band. It is tliickest at its attachment to the * Hinder part of the hip-joint capsule, a. Longitudinal fibres. 6. Trans- verse band. c. Thin piece attached to the neck of the femur about half way down.662 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Use. Transverse ligament, forms a hole with bone. Round liiiament is divided internally. Attach- ments. How to see its action. State in extension, and flexion and adduc- tion. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. Articular surfaces of femur. acetabulum, bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free margin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This ligament fills up the hollows in the rim of the acetabulum, and deepens the socket for the femur in the same manner as the glenoid ligament increases the surface for the reception of the head of the humerus. The transverse ligament (fig. 180, h) is a firm but narrow band, which reaches across the upper part of the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum. It consists partly of deep special fibres (7i) which are attaclied to the margins of the notch ; and partly of a superficial bundle from the cotyloid ligament {fj). Beneath it is an aperture by which vessels and nerves enter the acetabuhuri to supply the synovial membrane, and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular or round ligament (fig. 204, b) (ligam. teres) is a slight band about an inch long, connecting the fenmr with the innominate bone. One extremity is roundish, and is inserted into the pit in the head of the femur. The other is flattened, and divides into two parts opposite the transverse ligament. The anterior piece (c) (pubic) is attached with the transverse ligament to the pubic edge of the notch. The posterior part (cl) (ischial) is inserted behind the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the cotyloid notch. Dissection. To see its condition in the different movements of the articulation, it should be examined in a joint in which the capsule is entire, and the bottom of the acetabulum has been cut out with a chisel inside the pelvis. When the joint is in the extended state, the ligament is generally lax, the two end attachments being near each other; but if the femur is adducted, the ischial part of the ligament is rendered tight because the head of the femur rises. In flexion of the joint the ligament is tighter than in extension, as the femoral insertion is removed from the acetabular ; and if, in the bent state, the femur be rotated out or adducted, the round ligament will be most stretched. A synovial memhrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along it to the acetabulum and the head of the femur. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it surrounds the ligamentum teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum the lower limb is to be separated fi-om the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis: at this stage the pelvic attachments of the round ligament can be better seen. Surfaces of hone. The articular surfaces of the bones are not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the femur is a pit into which the round ligament is inserted. The acetabulum is coated with cartilage at its circumference,MOVEMENTS OF HIP JOINT. 663 except opposite the notch, and touches the head of the femxu- by eartiiagin- this part: this articular surface is deep above, but gradually de- Imv''^'" creases towards the notch. Within the cartilage and close to the notch, is a mass of fat Fat in the (fig. 189,/) covering about one third of the area of the cotyloid Fig. 204.* bottom. ca^nty, which constitutes the gland of Havers : it communicates with the fat of the thigh beneath the transverse ligament. Mocement. In this ball and socket joint, there are the same kinds of movement as in the shoulder, viz., flexion and extension, abduc- tion and adduction, circumduction, and rotation. Flexion and extension. In the swinging movement flexion is freer than extension, the thigh being capable of such elevation as to touch the belly. During swinging the head of the femur revolves in the bottom of the acetabulum, rotating around a line corresponding with the axis of the head and neck ; and the rapidity and extent of the movements do not endanger the security of the joint, the head of the bone not having any tendency to escape. In flexion, the back of the capsule and the ilio-trochanteric band are put on the stretch ; and in extension, the strong ilio and pubio- femoral bands are tightened. In abduction and adduction the femur is removed from, or brought * Hip joint opeued, to show the interarticular or round ligament, c. Part of the capsuJe. h. Ligamentum teres : c, its pubic, and, d, its ischial attach- ment. Kinds of motion. Swinging movement: motion of head of femur. state of ligaments. Lateral movement;DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 664 motion of the lieait, state of the ligaments. How dislo- cation is produced in the lateral movements; position after reduc- tion. Circumduc- tion, less free than in shoidder. What rota- tion is. Rotation in motion of bone, state of ligament. Rotation out: motion of bone; state of ligament; why greatest. Bend of femur: towards the middle line of the body. Of the two, abduction is tlie most extensive, because the limb may soon meet its fellow when it is moved inwards, though, if it is carried in fi'ont of the other^ adduction is considerable. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and the greater part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum ; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the great trochantei- comes to rest on the margin of the acetabulum, so as to limit farther motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head i-ises into the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the inner band of the capsule is tightened over the projectmg head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the capsule is rendered tense enough to aiTcst the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum by Avhich the femur can be lifted out of the hollow ; in the one case (adduction) the neck of the femur I'ests on the brim of the acetabulum, and in the other (abduction) the gi'cat trochanter is supported on the margin of the joint-socket. After a dislocation has been reduced, the state of adduction, with the knees fastened together, is the securest posi- tion in which the limb can be placed, inasmuch as the head of the femur then occupies the deepest part of the acetabulum. In circuviduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, whose base is at its ex- tremity, and apex at the imion of the neck with the shaft of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint, be- cause of the greater bend between the neck and shaft of the femm-. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external: in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter, the more extensive of the two, it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur rolls backwards hori- zontally across the acetabulum, the gi-eat trochanter being put forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line inside it, wliich passes from the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out the head of the bone rolls forwards across the cotyloid ca\'ity, and the gi-eat trochanter is brought backwards, whilst the shaft of the femur moves round the hne on its inner side before noticed. The fore part of the capsule is now put on the stretch, and the hinder is rendered loose. The movement of rotation is destroyed by fi-acture of the neck of the bone. Its degree is proportioned to the length of the neck and is therefore greater in the femur than in the humerus. Use of lend of femur. By means of the angle at the union of the neck with the shaft, the pelvis is more fimily propped than it would665 SURFACE MARKING OF LEG. be if the neck was in a line with the rest of the f emui-. It permits greater also greater surface contact between the head of the femur and the coSaot"; hip bone, since the whole head can be lodged in the cotyloid cavity in progx-ession ; and gives greater security to the joint in flexion gives and extension, for if the neck and shaft of the bone were in a hue, • only half of the articular surface could enter the socket of the innommate bone in walking, and running. The impoi-tant move- ment of rotation is also due to this angle ; and greater space is rotation; obtained through it for the location of the adductor muscles on the au'i greater inner side of the femur. musdes!" Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the Examine muscles in the thigh are to be examined more mmutely before the ofi|fug"\gs^ dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be renioved fi-om the femur, but about two inches of each should be left for after study. Section IY. THE BACK OP THE LEG. Directions. Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student Examine tiie should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings which lead to the position of the larger vessels. Prominences of hone. The bones of the leg can be traced beneath lu the leg the skin from the knee to the ankle joint. On the inner side is the ami fibula tibia, which is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front super- . . flcial and behind by a sharp ridge : above, it presents in front a promi- nent tubercle into wliich tlie ligament of the j^atella is inserted ; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difliculty in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee ; and the lower end fonns the eminence (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle joint. On the side of the ankle joint are the prominent malleoli; and Ankle-joint, when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt below the tibia. Muscles arul vessels of the leg. On the back of the leg is the swell Beiiind is of the calf : this is formed by the superficial muscles, and fi-oin it l^}}^ ''^ descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by whicli those muscles tendo are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the edge of ^^^^'^'^'llii^^j the tibia, but nearest the former, is placed the superficial part of vessels.' the posterior tibial artery. In front between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the foot and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial arteiy lies deeply ; the position Line of of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the ti'S"^ ankle-joint to the inner side of the head of the fibula. vessels.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. G66 Inner border of the foot. Outer Ijorder. Dorsal artery. Position of the part. Take away tlie skin, seek cu- tiineons iien'es in the fat. :Superficial fascia. Two super- ficial veins. Internal saphenous, external saphenous. Cutaneous arteries. Cutaneous xierves. Internal saphenous. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about an inch in front of the internal malleolus, is the prominent scaphoid bone pointing out the spot at which an amputation (Chopart's) is practised ; whilst one inch and a half farther forwards is a slight depression marking the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the eminence of the tarsal end of the fifth metatarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the centre of the ankle joint to the interval between the inner two toes, will lie over the position of the main artery. Position. For the dissection of the back of the leg, the limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting- table ; and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by- fastening the foot. Dissection. For the removal of the skin, one cut may be made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a trans- verse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised,—the outer one as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is the internal saphenous vein with the nerve of the same name, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous near the knee. In the centre of the leg lies the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve as its companion above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side, in the upper third, cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal nerve will be met with. The superjicial fascia^ or the fatty la3^er of the back of the leg, is least thick over the tibia. Over the line of the superficial vessels it may be separated into two layers. Superficial Veins. Two veins appear in the dissection of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner and outer. The internal saplienoiis vein (fig. 206, f?) begins in an arch on the dorsum of the foot. Ascending along the leg in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, it reaches the thigh (p. 608). In the leg the vein is joined by superficial branches, and by deep roots fi'om the tibial veins. The external saphenous vein (fig. 205, c) begins at the outer end of the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the pophteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg, communicating with the internal saphenous. Cutaneous arteries accompany the superficial veins and nerves of the leg. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 205). The nerves in the fat of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already examined in part viz. the internal and external saphenous, external popliteal small sciatic, and internal cutaneous of the thigh. ' The internal saphenous nerve (fig. 205, accompanies the vein ofCUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. 667 the same name beyond the knee (p. 628), and terminates at the terminatioa middle of the inner border of the foot. In the leg the nerve gives Fig. 205.* Fig. 206.t * First view of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Gastrocnemius, b. Soleus. c. Semimembranosus, d. Biceps. Vessels: a. Popliteal arteiy. h. Inner saphenous vein. c. External saphenous vein. Nerves : 1. External, and 2, internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous. 4. Communicating peroneal. 5. Common trunk of short saphenous. 6. Small sciatic. 7. Internal saphenous. 8. Internal cutaneous (inner) piece. t Second view of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Mus- cles: A. Gastrocnemius, cut. B. Soleus. c. Plantaris. r>. Semimembrano- sus. E. Semitendinosus. F. Tendo Achillis. Vessels: a. Popliteal artery. b. Inner lower articular, c. External lower articular, d. Internal saphenous vein. e. External saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. External popliteal. 2. [ntemal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous, cut. 4. Cutaneous plantar branch.668 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. External saphenous ends on tlie foot; branches to tlie leg. Branches of the 1)01)- liteal; communi- cating and cuta- neous. Termination of small sciatic. Termination of internal cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deep fascia. Continua- tion and attach- ments. Take away the fascia. Muscles in superficial layer. Gastrocne- mius arises by two heads from the femur, off lateral cutaneous offsets, and the outer of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, *) is a branch of the internal popliteal. Perforating the deep fascia about the middle of the leg, it is continued with the external saphenous vein below the outer ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. As soon as the nerve enters the fat it is joined by the communi- cating branch of the external popliteal; and near the heel it gives large and long branches to the integuments. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteal. One branch of the external popliteal tnuik, viz. communicating 2>eroneal (fig. 205, joms the external saphenous nerve about the middle of the leg : but not uncommonly this branch extends as a distinct nerve as far as the heel. One or two other small cutaneous offsets of the external pophteal terminate over the fore part and outer side of the leg in the upper half. The small sciatic nerve (fig. 205, ") perforates the fascia near the popliteal space, and reaches to about the middle of the leg with the external saphenous vein : it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 205, The inner branch of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (p. 609), extends to the middle of the leg, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial vessels and nen^es may be either cut or turned aside. The special or deei) fascia on the posterior aspect of the leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and supei'- ficial layers. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets fi'om the tendons about the knee; and below, it joins the two annular ligaments. Externally it is continued uninterruptedly from the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the heel, and is to be taken from the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner cut head of the gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. Superficial Layer of Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, which extend the ankle. The two first are large, giving rise to the prominence on the surface, and end below by a common tendon ; but the last, in- considerable in size, is chiefly tendinous. The GASTRocKEMius (fig. 205, ^), the most superficial muscle, is tendmous along the middle, and has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the posterior aspect of the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus, and by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle.669 SUPERFICIAL EXTENSORS OF ANKLE. The outer head is fixed by tendon to a pit on the outer surfoce of the corresponding condyle, above the attachment of the pophteus muscle, and to the upper and back part of the same condyle. The ends below fleshy fibres of the heads are united along the middle line by a AchTmb" narrow thin aponeurosis, and terminate inferiorly with the soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in contact with Parts the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the i,yYt^*''^ internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space: and the fleshy inner head descends lower than the outer. In the outer head a piece of fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone may exist. Action. When the foot is unsupported, the gastrocnemius extends Use with the ankle ; and when the toes rest on the ground, it raises the os fj.g'e^""*^ calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, and j^^^ fj^ed. in progression. Taking its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down Acting from the femur so as to bend the knee-joint. below. Dissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected Detach by cutting across the remaining head, and the vessels and nerves it ^'^fu™'^'^''" receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The SOLEUS (fig. 20G, ^) is a large flat muscle, which is attached Soleus to both bones of the leg. It arises fi-om the head, and the upper tVtiie'bcmes third or half of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; of the leg. from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle third ; and between the bones from an and joins aponeurotic arch over the large bloodvessels. Its fibres are directed J,eiow'^^°'^ downwards to the common tendon. The superficial part of the soleus is in contact with the gastro- Parts over cnemius ; and the opposed surfaces of the two are aponeurotic. Beneath the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep layer of and under muscles, and the vessels and nerv^es. Tendo Achillis (fig. 206, ^). The common tendon of the gastro- Tendo cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About three ' inches wide above, it commences at the middle of tlie leg, though extent, it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end : below it is narrowed, and is inserted into the lower half of and inser- the tuber calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, are the external saphenous vein and nerve. Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- Use, cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is ti'e foot free to move, and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground. _^j^7iixed- By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both muscles, the common tendon is sometimes broken across. tendon. If it acts from the os calcis, it will draw back the bones of the Acting from leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to ^ the erect posture after stooping.670 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Use like gastrocne- mius. Detach soleus. anil clean the deep fascia. Piantaris. The TLANTAius (fig. 206, ^) is remarkable in having the longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when Origin. it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the muscle aiises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and fi-om the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and the tendon Insertion, is inserted into the os calcis with or by the side of the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. Position of The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed the muscle. the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Actioji. It assists the gastrocnemius to extend the ankle if the foot is not fixed ; and to bend the knee-joint if the foot is im- moveable. Dissection (fig. 207). The soleus is to be detached fi-om the bones of the leg, and the muscles and nerves entering it are to be di-vided ; but in raising it, the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nerves beneath. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis ; and the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the OS calcis should be opened. Tlie piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep layers is next to be cleaned ; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken aAvay to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nei-ve to the sole of the foot, Avhich pierces the ligament, is to be presen-ed. Deep part of Deej) part of the fascia. This intermuscular piece of the fascia of the leg"'^ is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus it is thin and indistinct; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance and oflfice of an annular ligament in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles (in part), the posterior tibial nerve, and the trunk and offsets of the posterior tibial vessels will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two muscles (flexor communis and flexor pollicis) on the sides ; and it will not fully appear until after the membrane covering it has been divided longitudinally, and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery, evert and partly divide the flexor pollicis in which it is contained; then follow branches of it to the fore part of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and to join the posterior tibial arteiy. Deep Layer of Muscles (fig. 207). The deep muscles at the back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus polhcis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered Position and by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of Clean the deep muscles : dissect l>eroneal artery. Four mus- cles in the deep layer.671 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. Fig. 207. the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot, and have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 207 arises by- tendon, within the capsule of the knee-joint, fi'om the fore part of an oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur ; and external to the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise fi-om the posterior ligament. The tendon gives rise to fibres, which are inserted into the tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived m great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower arti- cular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee ; and the lower border corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Action. The leg being free, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The foot resting on the ground, it will support the knee. According to the view of Theile, it retracts the external semi- lunar fibro-cartilage. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 207, ^) arises below the soleus from the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; fi-om the intermuscular septum be- tween it and the peronei nmscles ; and fi-om the aponeurosis over (lestinatiou. Popliteus arises within knee-joint. Inserted into tibia. Parts around it Use with tibia free. and fixed. Flexor lonsus pollicis is attauliod to fibula. * Deep dissection of the 1)ack of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : a. Popliteus. b. Outer, and c, inner part of soleus, cut. r>. Tibialis posticus. E. Flexor digitorum. f. Flexor pollicis. o. Peroneus longus. H. Peroneus brevis. i. Tendo Achillis. AHeries: a. Popliteal. b. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular, d. Anterior tibial. e. Posterior tibial, and /, its communicating branch to peroneal, g. Peroneal artery, h. Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot. Nerves: 1. Internal popliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. C72 Connec- tions. Use, the toes being free, and fixed. Flexor longus Uiintornm. Oricin. Enters Tinnnlar ligament. Part is sn- ^lerficial lie- low soleus. Use, with foot free, and fixed. Tibialis liosticiis. Origin: Insertion. iSInscles and vessels in connection with it. Use, with foot free, the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muaele enters a groove in the astragalus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. In part the muscle is covered by the soleus ; but in part it is superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nei-ve and vessels : and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. Action. The foot being unsupported, the flexor bends the last phalanx of the great toe, and extends then the ankle. The foot resting on the ground, the muscle raises the heel; and it moves back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. The FLEXOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM (fig. 207, ^) (flexor perforans) arises ivom the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the attachment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity ; and from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition in the annular ligament, which is superficial to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed above, and is placed beneath the soleus; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal jomts of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS (fig. 207,occupies the interval between the bones of the leg, but it crosses over the tibia inferiorly to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle a7-ises fi-om an aponeurosis superficial to it, and fi'om the mterosseous membrane, except about one inch below ; from an impression along the outer border of the tibia, which reaches fi-om the head of the bone to rather beyond the attachment of the flexor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent inner surface of the shaft of the fibula as far down as the lowest fifth. In the lower part of the leg the muscle is directed beneath the flexor digitorum; and its tendon, entering the inner space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be in- serted into the scaphoid and other bones (p. G87). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed betAveen the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper part presents two pointed processes of attach- ment—that to the tibia being the highest—between whicli the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. Action. Its action on the moveable foot is to shorten the inner border by drawing down the scaphoid bone, and to extend the anklerOSTEEIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. 073 joint. The toes resting on the gi-ound, it will aid the muscles of Axed: the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the hod}-. In standing, the muscle can raise tlie inner border of the foot in standing, with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight of the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones "^'"S "P- of the leg, with the soleus. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally to the Tho muscle bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the muscle. By one ||"i^ai)oueu^ surface it gives origin to the flexors of the toes, and by the other to ro.sis. the tibialis. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 207, C) is One of the branches Posterior tiuin.! resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk. The vessel arterj', extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent, part of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, internal to the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is concealed Parts cover- by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but per anV^'' below that spot, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner lower half: edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its npper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but parts be- afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is the flexor pollicis. Between the heel and the ankle, the arteiy is placed between the Beneath tendons of the common flexor of the digits and special flexor of the ^gament. great toe. Venas comites closely suiTOund the vessel. The posterior tibial Veins, nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but at the distance of one Nerve, inch and a half it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a Branches, large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular brancJies enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an offset from the branch to the solens pierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. b. A nutritious artery of the shaft of the tibia is uncertain in its Nutritious place of origin : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the ' posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. A communicating branch (/) arises opposite the lower end of Coinmuni- the tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to imite ^" in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. (L Articular branches arise from the artery opposite the ankle- joint, and enter the articulation. e. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 674 !Siz« of tibial elianges. Peroneal artery is contained in flexor l)ollicis. Teniiina- tion. Veins and ]ier\f. Brandies. !Musculai-. Nutritions to libula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Conimnni- catinjc. Substitu- tions. Posterior tibial veins. Posterior tibial nerve, of the leg; the largest of these pierces the annular ligament, and accompanies the cutaneous plantar ner^'e to the sole of the foot. Peculiarities. If the posterior tibial aHcrrj is smaller tlian usual,_ or absent its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large commimicating branch from the peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole ot the foot. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 207, g) is often as large as the pos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half fi-om the bc'gimiing. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to that bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At this spot it sends forAvards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal) ; and it is directed onwards over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel, where it terminates in branches, which anastomose with offsets of the posterior tibial, and with the tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery ; and the nerve to the flexor pollicis lies on it generallj-. Branches. Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor pollicis ; and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. h. The nutritious artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior jjeroneal branch passes forwards through an open- ing in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsum and outer part of the foot: on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. d. A communicatiiig offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the jilace of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an en- larged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS begin on the imier side of the foot by the union of the plantar : they ascend, one on each side of the artery, and unite with the anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the otlsets of the arteiy : branches connect them with the saphenous veins. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 207,a continuation of the internal popliteal, reaches, hke the artery, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the675 INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular ligament, or some- extent what higher than it, the nerve cli-vides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its connections with surrounding parts are the same as those of counec- the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal offset, but thence to the termination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular and Branches, •cutaneous. Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either sepa- iruseuiar ta i'ately along the trunk, or together fifom the upper part of the Hexoi^**^' aiei-ve. There is an offset for each of the muscles except the popli- teus ; but the branch for the tibialis is the largest, and that for the ilexor pollicis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (fig. 207, ^) begins above Cutaneous the OS calcis, and piercing the internal annular ligament as two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and imder parts of the heel; this uerA'-e will be followed to its termination in the ■dissection of the foot (fig. 208). The internal annular ligament stretches between the heel and the internal 4nner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer of ligament: muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a pointed piece to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the attach- , incuts Jeg; and the opposite gives attachment to the abductor pollicis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost incloses siieaths; the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove in the malleolus. Imme- <liately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum. And ^1^*;^^^*^" about three qiiarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the interval in which the flexor pollicis lies, resting in a groove in the astra- 4^alus. Each sheath is lined by a sjTiovial membrane. • Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the tibial vessels and nerve. Section V. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate rositiou of thickness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating, and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer. Raise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel " to the front ; and by another across the foot at the root of tlic toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same67C DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. uiid (li>seft cutaneous neivcs. Hul)fu- taiieoiis fat. Lay l>are the I'laiitai- fascia, and the iligital Vfs- .sels and nerves: deliue the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia: division into parts. Central part divides into live pieees : termination of the pieces. Inner part of the fa.seia; outer part. Expose the septa. In tlie fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve of the sole (p. 675) ; and he may trace out, at a little dis- tance from each hordcr of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The mhcutmmms fat is very abundant, and forms a thick cushion over the parts that press most on the ground in standing, viz., over the OS calcis, and the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. The fat should be now removed, and the jjlantar fascia laid bare. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between those processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst nuich fatty and fibrous tissues; but the vessels and nei-ves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe, pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. Tlie student is next to define a transverse fibrous band between the toes, over the digital vessels and ner\-es ; and when this has been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends sejDta between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal de- pressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral parts. The central part, Avhich is much the tliickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards, A slight depression, corresponding with an. intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side : and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes, which send fibres to the teguments near the web of the foot, and are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. Where the pieces, separate fi'om each other, the digital vessels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles become superficial; and transverse fibres arch over them. If one of the digital processes be divided longitudinally, and its. parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatarsal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one.. On the iimer margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength^ and is continued to the dorsum; but on the outer side it is''in- creased in thickness, and presents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the middle of the foot througli the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by canying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that nniscle.G77 FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. The intermuscular scj^ta pass down on the sides of the flexor Two intcr- brevis digitorum, and a piece of fascia reaches across the foot from "^^^"^ tlie one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it. The inner septum lies between the short flexor and the abductor inner pollicis ; and the internal plantar nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, pass tlu-ough it. The outer partition between the short flexor and the abductor and outer, minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and vessels for the outer side of the little toe. The superficial transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, Transverse and is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the toes* foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and little toes, and is connected with the sheath of the others as it passes over. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheaths of the flexor tendons (fig. 209, are similar to those Sheaths of of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the aoiis. tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the ai*ticulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubri- cated by a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 208). In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect first numerous, and have been an-anged in four layers. To prepare the n'lu^cies. first layer all the fascia must be taken away ; but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the sheaths in wliich they are contained should be opened. First layer of Muscles. In this layer are three muscles, viz., Muscles in the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi fayen'^^^ digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 208, the most internal muscle of Aixiuctor the superficial layer, takes origin from the inner part of the larger ' tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis ; fi-om the plantar ° fascia ; and from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and the inner side of the. foot as far as the scaphoid bone. In fi-ont the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the insei-tion; jnetatarsal phalanx of the gi-eat toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the connections, plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nen^es, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes with the accessorius muscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the mctatarso- Use,^"'^ phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will abduct slightly that toe fi'om the others. tor.DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. C78 Plexor Tlie FLEXOR BREVis DiGiTORUM (fig. 208, ^) (fiexor i^ei-foratus) torum posteriorly by a pointed process from the inner part of the , larger tubercle of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the- ' sejita. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons, which are directed forwards over the tendons of the long^ flexor, and entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted divides into into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe the tendon of four toes.tliis muscle lies at first, (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor; opposite the centre of the metatarsal jihalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and is attached by two processes to the Insertion, sides of the middle phalanx. Conncp- The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of tlie plantar fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot. It conceals* the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and ner\'e. U.se^ontlie Action. It bends the nearest phalangeal joint of the four smaller joint's'.'^''' toes, like the flexor sublimis in the upper limb, and api:)roximates.- the toes at same time. AMiu torof The,ABDUCTOR MINIMI DiGiTi (fig. 208, ^) has a wide origin behind the little ^.^^ ^jjg Q^^^gj. ^^^ii^gj-cie of the OS calcis, from the fore part of the inner tubercle, and from the plantar fascia and the external inter- Origin and muscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted insertion. -^^^ ^j^^ ^^^^ ^.^^ ^j^^ ^^^^ metatarsal phalanx of the little toe. thefoo?''"^ muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals. the flexor aceessorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Sometimes a part of the muscle is fixed into the projection of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. ibdiictor Action- Though it abducts the little toe from the others, as the and flexor. ^'T^ signifies, its chief use is to bend the metatarso-phalangea-l joint. ?eS'nm^' I^mecfeoji. To bring into view the second layer of muscles and cuiar layer, the plantar vessels and nen-es, the muscles already examined nmst and be reflected. Cut through the fiexor brevis at the os calcis, and as, it is raised, notice a branch of nen^e and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiri near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its ner^^e and vessel close to the calcaneum The abductor pollicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary but it may remain uncut till afterwards. ' SSand . ^'""K ^^f ^f^^^'-^l P^^"*'-^^- nnd nerve are to be followed^ nerves. torwards to their termination, and backwards to their orio-in • and the external plantar vessels and ner^^e, the tendons of the'lone flexors of the toes, the accessoiy muscle, and the small lumbri«iles' should be freed fi-om fat. SerSf'^'- f ^^"^^^J!, ^f^^'^'^^ 208) are the terminal branches of inner nnd ^ T "'"^ ^'''f^ ""'"'^ ^"PP^^ ^^S^^'^^ «ff«ets to the toes jnner and They are two m number, and are named external and intern' from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two tllr external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch of arteriesPLANTAR VESSELS AND NERVES. 670 Tlie internal artery (&) is inconsiderable in size, and accompanies internal the internal plantar nerve, under cover of the abductor pollicis, as ' far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four superficial digital amuLiing.' branches. (Illustrations of Dissections, p. 437.) Fi?. 208.* Fig. 209. t Branches. The artery furnishes muscular branches, like the nerve, Brnnciies to the abductor pollicis and flexor digitorum pcrforatus, and to the '• flexor brevis pollicis and the two internal lumbricalcs. Its super- and super- ficial digital; * First view of tlie sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Abductor pollicis. b. Flexor brevis digitorum. c. Abductor minimi dif^iti. D. Ligament of the toes, ^irto'/cs; a. External plantar. Z>. Intenial plantar. Nerves: 1. Internal plantar, with its four branches ; 2, 3, 4 and 6 for three toes and a half. 6. External plantar nerve, with two digital branches ; 7 and 8, for one toe and a half. f Second view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Musculus accessorius. B. Tendon of flexor digitorum longus. c. Tendon of flexor longus pollicis. D, marks the four himbricalcs muscles, but the letters are put on the tendons of the flexor digitorum perforans. e. Tendon of flexor pei-foratus. f. Tendon of flexor perforans. o. Sheath of flexor tendons, h. Tendon of peroneus longus. Arteries: a. Internal plantar, h. External plantar, c. Branch to abductor minimi digiti. d. Branch to outer side of little toe. JVcrves: 1. Internal, and 2, External plantar. 4. Branch to flexor brevis pollicis.680 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. tirst, second, tliird, fourth. External artery lia.s curved course; partly superficiiil, paiHy deep. Superficial part: connec- tions. veins and nerve. Branches. Plantar nen es also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half: muscular branches. Digital nerves are divided ex- cept first; muscular branches: ticial digital brandies accompany the digital nerves of the internal plantai', and arc thus disposed of:— The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and gi-eat toe ; the secoml lies over the first interosseous space ; the tldrd corresponds with the second space ; and the fourih is placed over the third space. At the root of the toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. The exteimal artery (a) takes an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch turned iuAvards. The vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obhquely inwards towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz. fi'om the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial ; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining part, suppljang the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of nmscles (p. 685). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor pollicis and the flexor brcvis digitoruin ; but for a short distance near its termination' it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os calcis, and the flexor accessorius : and it is accompanied by venaa comites, and the external plantar nen'^e. It supplies offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and others to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The PLANTAR NERVES (fig. 208) are denved from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial trunk behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, like the arteries, and have the same anatomy as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar artery; but the larger nerve lies with the smaller bloodvessel. The internal x>l(intar nerve Q) courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor pollicis, and giving but few muscular offsets, divides into four digital branches (-, *) for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fom-th ; it re- sembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. jMuscular offsets are given by it to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor pollicis ; and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch f) to the inner side of the gi-eat toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. ]\Iuscular branches are furnished by these nen^es before they, reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis pollicis ; the second gives a branch to the inner lumbrical muscle, and the third, to the next lumbricalis.SECOND LA.YEII OF MUSCLES. 681 Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being give cu- •<livided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two aiufartleu- toes, whilst the first belongs alone to the inner side of the great li"" ottsets. toe ; all give offsets to the teguments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The external plantar nerve (^) is spent chiefly in the deep External muscles of the sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to oue^toe and both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It cor- aiialf; responds in its distribution with the uhiar nerve in the hand. It has the same coui'se as the external plantar artery, and divides Jl^^? snper- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial deep parts, and a deep portion :—the former gives origin to two digital nerves; fbut the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor Branches, of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The (liqital branches of the external plantar nerve ^) are Two digital - . . . V ' / branches • two. One (') is undivided; it is distributed to the outer side . " " 0116 Sill^'lG of the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi iligiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (*) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two one divided, toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communi- ■cates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar Qierve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have tlie same dis- distribution tribution as those fi-om the other plantar trunk, and end like them others, in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 209). To complete the preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor pollicis should be i^iye"of detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be turned in- "'uscies. wards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and tlie nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second layer of muscles (fig. 209). In this layer are the Second tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz. flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which cross one another. Connected with the fonner, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle ; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 209, ^), whilst J^'^J^^^^^^f entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the internal the toes lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined b}^ the tendon of '^^^^jj'^ics into the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory nuiscle, and divides into ' tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and beneath a these pierceDISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 682 the otIuT tcudoiis : ligaments to temlous. Use on tlie digits witli others, and with- out. Four liuu- brieales. Attacliiiieut to toes and long tie.xor. Use on the Ijlialanyes. Flexor ac- cessorius is joined with flexor longus. , Connec- tions. Use on the toes, on long flexor. Insertion of tendon of flexor jiol- licis. Connec- tions. tendon from the flexor brevis, E. About the centre of the meta- tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor, F, is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two- nearest phalanges of the toes are ligamentous bands (lig. brevia), one to each, as in the hand; and the one fixing the flexorperforans is anterior (p. 295). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines witb the short flexor in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards,, in consequence of its oblique position in the foot. The lumhricahs (fig. 200, ") are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two tendons, with the exception of the most internal, and this is con- nected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Each is inserted by a slip into the tibial side of the base of tlie metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes, and sends an expansion to the aponeurotic covering on the dorsum of the phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. These small muscles Avill assist the flexors in bending the metatarso-plialangeal joint of the four outer toes ; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they will aid that muscle in straightening the two phalangeal joints. The accessorius muscle (fig. 209, has two heads of origin :— One is mostly tendinous, and is attached to the under or the outer- surface of the OS calcis, and to the ligamentum longum plantfe ; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner or concave surface of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands,. Avhich join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendoa going to the second, third, and fourth digits (Turner). The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve ; and the flexor brevis digitorum con- ceals it. Action. By means of its ofi'sets to the tendons of certain digits the muscle helps to bend those toes. And from its position on the outer side and behind the long flexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward action of that muscle, and Avill assist the other flexors in bending the toes directly back. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis (fig. 209, ^) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum ; and directed to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. It is united to- the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to the second and third toes (Turner). Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus ; and in the foot it occupies aTHIED LAYER OF MUSCLES. 683 hollow below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the os caleis, being enveloped by a synovial membrane. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see page i^'se on fust 671. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the flexor ^^^^ o"^'^'" longus going to the second and third toes, it may bend those digits with the gi-eat toe. Dissection (fig. 210). For the dissection of the third layer of Dissect muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to of muscles, be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. Whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and two small nerves and vessels to the outer two lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third layer of muscles (fig. 210). Only the short muscles of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal cousists of bone of the great toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external to it is the adductor pollicis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS rOLLlCIS muscle (fig. 210, ^) is tendinous and Flexor brc- pointed posteriorly, but bifurcated in front. It is attached behind to the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone, and to a ° ' prolongation from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal insertion. phalanx. Kesting on the muscle at one part, and in the inters^al between connet- the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is imited with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the meta- Use on the tarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe. ^' The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 210, ^), which is larger than the Adduotor preceding muscle and external to it, arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united joins outer with the outer head of the short flexor, and is inserted with it into short "flexor, the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer Covers border the external plantar vessels and nerve are directed inwards, lu-ej}.^^ Action. Its first action will be to adduct the gi-eat toe to the use on others, and it will help afterwards in bending the mctatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The TRANSVERSALIS TEDis (fig. 210, ^) is placed transversely over Tmnsvcrsa- the heads of the metatarsal bones. Its orifjin is by fleshy bundles 'V,^'^^^"684 sertior. DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. from tlie capsule of the inctatarso-phalangcal articulations of tlie four outer toes (ft-eqnently not from the little toe), and ^om tire fascia covering the interossei jnuseles. Its znserUon into the gieat toe is united with that of the adductor polhcis. Pi 210.* F's- 2n.t «Connec- The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons, and the nerves ..loiiB. ^1^^ ^^^g ^ ^^^1^ ^1^^ opposite surface is in contact with the interossei muscles and the digital vessels. * Third view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Flexor brevis pollicis. b. Adductor poUicis. c. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. D. Tranversalis pedis. Artcrks : a. Internal plantar, cut. h. Ex- ternal plantar, and, c, its four digital branches. Nerves: 1. Internal plantar. 2. External plantar ; 3, its superficial part, cut ; 4, the deep part, with the Ijlantar arch. 5. Two offsets to the outer two lumbricales muscles. + Fourth view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Mus- cles: 0. Three plantar interossei. i. Four dorsal interossei. Artcj'ies: a. Internal plantar, cut. b. External plantar ; c, its four digital branches, d. Plantar arch. e. Anterior tibial entering the sole. /. Arteria magna pollicis. f/. Branch to inner side of great toe. h. Branch for the supply of great toe and the next. Nerves : 1. Internal plantar, cut. 2. External plantar ; 3. its superficial, and, 4, its deep part, both cut: the latter supplying offsets to the interossei muscles.PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. Action. It will adduct the great toe to the others, and then Use on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR 15REVIS MINIMI DiGiTi (fig. 210, ^) is a Small narrow riexor muscle on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and resembles one JJ||'|i|"g ^j-g of the interossei. Arising behind from the metatarsal bone and airinter- the sheath of the peroneus longns, it blonds with the inferior liga- ment of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the toe ; it is imited also by fleshy fibres with the fore part of the metatarsal bone. Action. Firstly it bends the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and U-se. nextly it draws down and adducts the fore part of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 211). In order that the deep vessels and nei-ves Dissect the may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis are to be cut and'nerves^^ through at the posterior part, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the ad- ductor lie the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches ; and in the first interosseous space is the part of the dorsal artery of the foot that enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves with their branches require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei ; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 211, d) is the part of the external plantar Arch of the artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone of the artriy"^ little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : internally the arch is completed by a communicating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot (e) (p. 686). It is placed across the tarsal ends Extent and of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, but under ^mi mus-^'^ the flexor tendons, and the adductor pollicis to which it gives many des, branches. VeuiB comitcs lie on the sides of the artety, and the external veins and l^lantar nerve accompanies it. nerve. From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches Branches, are supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the j^osferior perforating, leave the under Posterior part: these pass to the dorsum of the foot through the three outer i'*^'"fo'"»ti'ig- inetatarsal spaces, and anastomose Avith the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial arteiy. The digital branches (c) are four in nmn1)cr, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes, and half the next. One to the outer [I'^e toL** side of the little toe is single ; but the others lie over the interossei and a half, in the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the transversalis pedis (fig. 210), and bifurcate in front to supply the contiguous sides of two toes. They give fine ofi'sets (fig. 210) to the interossei. Muscular to some lumbricales, and the transversalis pedis ; and at the point "n'! of division they send small communicating branches—anterior anterior perforating, to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsiun of the J,'!^!^g°™^'"3 foot. The ^rs^ digital runs on the outer side of the little toe, supplying First,DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. C8G second. tliiicl, t'ourtli 'litrital .inm iinier jilaiitar. Distribution on tlie toes. Knding of the dorsal artery of the foot; its digital branches, on the ■digits. External ]>lantar nerve ends in the deep muscles: like ulnar ■ nerve. Dissection. ■ Transverse nietntarsai ligament. Dissect the last layer of the muscles. tlie flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the teguments of the outer ].)order of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The third is, distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the tliird lumbricalis. The last two digital are joined by superficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand. They extend to the end, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses with a branch from the anterior tibial artery. Near the front of both the meta- tarsal and the next phalanx, they fonn anastomotic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 211, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (mner) metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital miery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. The digital brunch (/) (art. magna pollicis) extends to the front of the first interosseous space, and divides into collateral branches (/t) for the contiguous sides of the gi-eat toe and the next ; near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch {g) for the inner side of the great toe. These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch of the plantar arch. External plantar nerve (fig. 211, 2). The deep branch (<) of this nen^e accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor polUcis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei; to the transversalis pedis; and to the two external lumbrical muscles. The nerve corresponds Avith the deep portion of the ulnar nen^e in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transversalis pedis muscle, to see a ligament across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transrerse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 290), which connects together all the I'neta- tarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia coverin<>- the interossei muscles is connected to its hinder edge. It is coii^ cealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. To complete the dissection of the last layer of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached and687 FOURni LAYER OF MUSCLES. thrown forwards. Dividing tlien the metatarsal ligament between the bones, the knife is to be carried directly backwards for a short distance in the centre of each interosseous space, except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia covering the muscles should be taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them ehould be dissected out. Fourth layer of muscles (fig. 211). In the fourth and last layer Fourth of the foot are contained the interossei muscles, and the tendons of J|^,^yi°g tlie tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The INTEROSSEI MUSCLES (fig. 211) are situate in the intervals be- interossei. tween the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, plantar and dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in number, there are three plantar and four dorsal ; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The plantar interossei, o, belong to the three outer metatarsal bones Three pian- (fig. 211), and are slender fleshy slips. They arise from the under outertoes.*^ find inner surfaces of those bones ; and are inserted partly into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toes, iind partly by an expansion from each to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the <lorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal interossei, i, one in each space, arise by two heads fi-om pour dorsal the lateral surfaces of the bones between which they lie ; and are 1^°*^®®*^ ■inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the meta- tarsal phalanx of certain toes :—Thus, the inner two muscles belong Attach- to the second toe, one to each side ; the next appertains to the outer "lents. side of the third toe ; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external plantar artery and nerve, connec- and their digital branches, and lie beneath the transversalis pedis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the interossei of the hand (p. 299) they will contri- Use as bute to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints by the flexors, find will help the extensors to straighten the last two phalangeal tensors; joints. They can act also as abductors and adductors of the toes. Thus as adduot- the plantar set will l)nng .the three outer towards the second toe ; and the dorsal muscles will abduct from the middle line of the auctors. second toe—the two attached to that digit moving it to the right <ind left of the said line. Dissection. Following the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle Trace out fi-om its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the tendons. scaphoid bone, trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longns, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. Tlie tendon of the tibialis posticus is continued forwards over insertion ofDISSECTION OF THE LEG. C88 tendon of tibialis pos- ticus into tarsQS and meta- tarsus. Insertion of tendon of peroneus longus. Connec- tions. the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and over the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation to be inserted into the i^rominence of the scaphoid bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot:—One is directed backwards to the margin of the gi-oove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards :—one to the internal cuneiform bone ; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. In other words, pieces are fixed into all the tarsal bones except one (astra- galus) ; and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed beneath the articulation of the astra- galus, it contains a sesamoid bone, or fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the rERONEUS longus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on the under surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 211), it is contained in a sheath which is crossed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar hgament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Position of the imb. Raise tlie skin. Seek tlic cutaneous nerves in the leg; on the foot botli vessels and nerves: Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner part of tlie- Icg are some filaments from the great saphenous ner^'e ; and at the outer side others, still smaller, from the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, is- the musculo-cutaneous nerve, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saphenous veins. On the outer side is the external saphenous nerve ; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenousCUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FRONT. 68» Cutaneous- veins : internal saphenous. nerve ceases. In the interval between the great too and the next is the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve. The digital nerves shoiild be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments : and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. Fig. 212.* The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. In- ternally and externally it unites with the saphe- nous veins. The internal saphenous vein begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It as- cends along the inner side of the foot, and in | \ front of the inner ankle to the inside of the I ■/ leg (p. 666). Branches enter it from the inner side and sole of the foot. | ]\ The external saphenous vein begins on the out- side of the little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 666). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 212). The superficial Ij-^l^" nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly fi'om branches of the popliteal 1| f^i trunks, viz. from the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial neiwes of the external jDopliteal, and from the external sajihenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets ramify on the sides of the leg fi-om the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (-) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the integument divides into as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The inner branch (^) comnuuiicates with the internal saphenous iimcr and ners^e, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it joins also the anterior tibial nerve. The outer branch divides into three nen^es ; these lie over the ""^^^^^j^ three outer interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot '''"^ for the contiguous sides of the four toes corresponding with those external saphenous. Source of the cutane- ons nerves. Musciilo- cutaneiius supplies certain toes: * Cutaneous nerves of tlie front of the leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibial. 2. Musculo-cutaneous, with 3, its inner, and, 4, its outer inecc ; the usual distribution is not shown in the cut, 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Otfsets of external poi)liteal.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 690 Anterior til)ial, where found. Extemai saphenous. Internal saphenous. Deep fascia of the leg; iittach- nients: transverse fibres at the ankle. Take away the fascia, leave liga- nientdiis liands. <;lean jierves and vessels. Anterior annular ligament; its upper and lower part. spaces; it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer part of the foot. The anterior iihial nerve Q) hecomcs cutaneous in tlie first inter- osseous space, and is distributed to that space, and to the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, ■') comes from the back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe ; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the offsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe and part of tlie next. Internal saphenous nerve (^). A part of this nerve is continued along the vein of the same name to the middle of the instep, where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass throug-h the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed laterally into the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa are prolonged from the deep sur- face ; and one of these, which is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the front from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg bones, but inferiorly it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle joint it is strengthened by some transverse fibres, and gives origin to the two parts of the anterior annular ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed from the front of the leir and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia is to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band (ex- ternal annular ligament) below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their nerve are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short and long extensors of the toes are to be traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg the anterior tibial ners^e and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and are then to be cleaned as liigh as the knee. The anterior annular Ugatnent consists of two parts, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position :—the former serving to bind the fleshy parts to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot: The upper part (fig. 213, ^), above the level of the ankle-joint, is attached laterally to the bones of the leg ; it possesses one sheath Avith synovial membrane for the tibialis anticus. The loioer part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the os691 FLEXORS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. ■calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament; and internally, where it is tliin and widened, into the plantar fascia and the inner malle- olus. In this piece of the ligament there are three sheaths :—an Sheaths inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus each. digitorum and peroneus tertius ; and an intermediate one for the ex- tensor pollicis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The external annular ligament is placed below the fibula, and is at- External tached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to ligament, the OS calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue to the sheaths of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one compartment; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the sheaths of the peronei muscles. The MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OP THE LEG (fig. 213) are three in Muscles 011^ number. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; the leg that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; whilst a small muscle, apparently the lower part of the last, with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle be- tween the tibialis and extensor digitorum, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot only one muscle appears, the extensor and foot, brevis digitorum. Tlie TIBIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 213, ^) reaches the tarsus : it is thick Tibialis and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. ' It arises from the outer tuberosity and the upper half or more of origin, the tibia ; from the contiguous part of the interosseous ligament ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum be- tween it and the next muscle. Its tendon begins below the middle of the leg, and passes through compartments in the pieces of the annular ligament, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, insertion, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is subaponeurotic. It lies at first outside the tibia, rest- Parts in ing on the interosseous membrane, but it is then placed, successively, over the end of the tibia, the ankle joint, and the inner tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and con- ceals the anterior tibial vessels. Action. Supposing the foot not fixed, the tibialis bends the ankle. Use on the foot fr6ti moves the great toe towards the middle line of the body, and raises ' the inner border of the foot. If the foot is fixed it can lift the inner border with the tibialis and fixed; posticus, and support the foot on the outer edge. If the tibia is slanting backwards, as when the advanced limb reaches the ground in walking, it can bring forwards and make •steady that bone. The EXTENSOR rROPKius POLLICIS (fig. 213) is deeply placed at its Extensor origin between the former muscle and the extensor longus digitorum, I'o^icis but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the middle three fifths of the narrow anterior part "^^^^^^^ on the inner surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous ligament for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes Y Y 2692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. and great toe : it crosses the vessels. Use on {i toe; on tibia. Extensor longus arises from fibula ; inserted into four outer toes : arrange- ment of to the surface through a sheath in the lower piece of the annular liga- ment, and continues over the inner part of the tarsus to be inserted- into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that they are crossed by it beneath the ligament. reat Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal joints, and aftenvards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on the ground and the tibia slants back- wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM (iig. 213, ") is flcshy in the leg, and tendinous on the foot, like the tibial muscle. Its origin is fi'om the head and three fourths of the narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula ; from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and about an inch (above) of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon i enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius,. and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges :— On the metatarsal phalanx the tendons of the long and short the"tendons extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales- on the toes, to form an aponeurosis ; but a tendon fi-om the short extensor is not united to the expansion on the little toe. At the further end of this phalanx the aponeurosis is diAaded into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral unite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the ungual jahalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peronei on the one side, and the tibiaHs anticus and extensor proprius polHcis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis- digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends tlie joints of the four outer toes from root to tip, as in the fingers ; and still acting, bends the ankle joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by this and the other muscles, on the front of the leg. The j>€roneus tertius is situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, from which it is seldom separate. It arises from the lower fourth of the nan-ow part of the inner surface of the fibula, fi-om the lower end of the interosseous ligament, and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle. And it is inserted into the tarsal end (upper surface) of the metatarsal, bone of the little toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the Connections of tlie muscle. Use on toes, and ankle, on the tibia. Peronetis tertius. Origin. Insertion. annular liframent. Use on ankle. Action. The muscle assists the tibialis in bending the ankle, andANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. ! 693 in drawing forwards the fibula when the leg is advanced to make and leg. ■ a step in walking. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 213, extends from the bifur- Anterior tibial artery ; Fig. 213.* ' cation of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle joint. At this spot it becomes the dorsal artery of the foot. The course of the artery is forwards through the aperture in the couree and upper part of the mterosseous membrane, along the front of that ' * Anterior tibial vessel and muscles (Quain's Arteries). 1. Tibialis anticus jnnscle. 2. Extensor pollicis and'extensor longus digitorum drawn aside. 3. Part of the anterior annular ligament. 4. Anterior tibial arteiy : the nerve outside it is the anterior tibial.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 694 •lirection. Connections with j)arts aioiind. Position of veins a»id nen-e. Brauelies. Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Malleolar, inner and outer. Articular. Dorsal arterj', extent and course. Connec- tions. Position of veins and nerve. Varieties in dorsal arter\'. membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A line from the inner side of the head of the iibula to tlie centre of the ankle will mark the position of tlie vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; afterwards it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius pollicis till near the lower end, wliere the last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to the iimer side. The vessel rests on the interosseous membrane in two thirds of its extent, being overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at some depth fi-om the surface; but it is placed in front of the tibia and the ankle joint in the lower tliii'd, and is comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. VenjB comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches on the upjjer part. The anterior tibial nen^e approaches the tibial vessels about the middle third of the leg, and continues with them, crossing once or twice: at the lower end of the artery the nerve lies on the outer side. Branches. In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin. a. Cutaneous branches arise at intervals ; and the largest accom- panies the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and supplies the contiguous muscles. h. A recurrent branch arises as soon as the trunk appears above the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus to the knee joint: on the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. c. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) spring near the ankle joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size and origin ; the external anasto- moses with the anterior peroneal artery. cl. Some small articular branches are supplied fi-om the lower end of the artery to the ankle jomt. ^ The DORSAL ARTERY of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial, and extends from the fi-ont of the ankle joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes down- wards between the heads of the interosseous muscle, to end in the sole (p. G86). The artery is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, viz., the astragalus, and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, and by the inner piece of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor pollicis lies on the inner side, and that of the extensor longus digitorum on the outer side, but neither is near the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in the leg ; and the nerve is external to it. Pecujirtj-iites On tlie dorsum of the foot the arteiyis often removed farther outwards than the hne from the centre of the ankle to the posterior part of the first interosseous space. Furtlier, the place of the artery may be taken by a large anterior peroneal branch. ^695 EXTENSOR BP.EVIS DIGITORUM. Branches. Offsets are given to the bones and ligaments of the Branches, foot : those from the outer side of the vessel are named tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is furnished to the first metatarsal space. a. The tarsal branch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and runs Tarsal, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer side of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal, plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies, h. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer part Metatarsal, of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the extensor muscle, and anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. c. From the arch of the metatarsal branch three dorsal interosseous which gives arteries are furnished to the three outer metatarsal spaces ; and the seouT**' external of these sends a branch to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interossci muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interosseous branch and per- joins a digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior perforatimj tiouj ; and from the beginning of each a small branch, 2)osterior j^erforatinf/, descends to the plantar arch. (/. The Jirst interosseous branch (art. dorsalis pollicis) arises from First inter- the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot ; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed by dorsal digital pieces like the other dorsal inter- osseous offsets. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS have the same extent and connections ^l^f^^'^Jji^g as the vessel they accompany. They take their usual position along the artery, one on each side, and form loops around it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive coirespond with those of the artery ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the ^^^^ov dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus longus. and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM arises from the outer surface of Extensor the OS calcis in front of the sheath for the peroneus brevis muscle, '^^^^^ and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. At the back of the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which <^nrino- fi'om as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four sends ten- opi^^t) -^"-"^ J J , , 1 T , XX 1 dons to four inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment imiertoes. toTthe base of the metatarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 092). The muscle Hes on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the Connec- tendons of the long extensor. Its inner belly crosses the dorsal arteiy of the foot.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 696 Use on the toes. Cut through extensor lireyis, and annular ligament: follow UJ) the nerves. Nerves of the frout of the letr. Recurrent. Musculo- cutaneous supplies peronel. Anterior tibial is with the artery: ■branches to muscles. External muscles of the leg. Peroneus longus. Origin from the fibula; Action. Assisting tlie long extensor, it straightens the four inner toes, sei^arating them slightly from each other. Dissection. The branches of arter}^ and nerve which are beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by dividing that muscle near its front, and turning it ujDAvards. By cutting through the lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor pollicis, and throwing outwards the ex- ternal half of it,—the different sheaths of the ligament, the attach- ment to the OS calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be obsei-A^ed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal: and a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves to the front of the lec. Between the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is small, and takes the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued between the extensor longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. G89). Before the nei-ve becomes cutaneous it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. The anterior tihialnerve (fig. 213) (interosseous) is directed beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery about the middle third of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the foot to the first interosseous space (p. 690). In the leg it crosses the anterior tibial vessels once or more, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery. Branches. In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior tibial muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneus tertius. On the dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extensor; this is enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot. Muscles on the outer tart of the eeg (fig. 207). Two muscles occupy this situation, and are named peronei from their attachment to the fibula; they are distinguished by the terms longus and bre-sns. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The TERONEUS LONGUS (fig. 207, ^■), the more superficial of the two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer border. It arises from the head, and the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula for two thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards ; from the external border neariy to the malleolus ; and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Interiorly it ends in a tendon Avhich is continued through the external annular ligament, with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back of the external malleolus ; and it passes finally in a separate sheath, below the peroneus brcA-is along the side of the os calcis and through the697 PERONEI MUSCLES. groove in tlie outer border of the cuboid bone, to the sole of the insertion foot. Its position in the foot, and its insertion are described before o?the foot (p. 688). In the leg- the muscle is immediately beneath the fascia, and lies Position in on the peroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle with the peroneus brevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula laterally with respect to it, one being on each side. Action. With the foot free the muscle extends the ankle; then Use on foot it can depress the inner, and raise the outer border of the foot in the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground it assists to lift the os calcis, 'I'lil fixed; flnd the weight of the body as in standing on the toes, or in walking, on tlie leg. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The PERONEUS BREVIS (fig. 207, ") reaches the outer side of the foot, Peroneus and is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior in position attached to to it. It arises fi'om the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula fibula, for about the lower two tliirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece internal to the other peroneus ; and fi-om the intermuscular septum in front. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus through the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon and bone of enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus toe.^*^^^ to its insertion into the projection at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the muscle reaches in fi'ont of the peroneus longus. Connec- On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above tlie tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation fi'om the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot is unsupported this peroneus extends the Use on foot, ^mkle, and moves the foot upwards and outwards in eversion. Like the long uniscle, it is able if the foot is supported to raise and fixed, the lieel, and to bnng back the fibula as the body rises from on the leg. stoopmg. Section VII, LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb. Examine the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has become knee joint, dry ; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may be dissected whilst the knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of the liganients of each articula- Dissection tion, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around *° ^^'^ it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure which mayDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 698 a capsule. and tendons. Bones in the kuee joint. Capsule, obscure or conceal the ligamentous bands. In the knee a kind of aponeurotic cajisule is to be defined on the fi-ont of the joint. Some tendons, namely, tliose of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, and a part of each is to be left. Articulations of the knee. The knee is the largest hinge joint in the body, and is formed by the contiguous ends of the tibia and femur, with the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and arc maintained in apposition by strong and numerous ligaments. The cajysule (fig. 214) is an aponeurotic covering on the front of the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and Fig. 214.* Fig. 215.+ how formed, the lateral ligaments ; and is derived from the fascia lata united- Avith fibrous offsets of the extensor and flexor muscles It covers the anterior and the external lateral ligament, being inserted below mto the heads of the tibia and fibula ; and it blends on the inner side with tlie internal lateral ligament. It is not closely applied to the synovial membrane, but it is united below with the interarticular nbro-cartilages. Dissection. Four external ligaments, anterior and posterior, inter- nal and external, ai-e situate at opposite points of the articulation The posterior and the internal lateral ligament will appear on the removal of the ai^olar tissue from their surfaces ; but the anterior and the external lateral are covered by the aponeurosis on the fore part of the joint, and will not be laid bare till this has been cut + Internal ligament of the knee joint (Bourgery).—! Tpnrlnr r.f ensor muscle ending below in the ligament of the patelK 2 ? it' """^ lateral ligament. 4. Lateral part of the capsule. ' ^"^'"''^ arrange ment. The external ligaments. To define tlie liga- ments ; how to proceed.699 EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OP KNEE. through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 214, ^) is round and cord-like. External It is attached to the outer condyle of the fenuu- below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces small; of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but oocasioual it is not attached to the femur ; it is connected above with the gastrocnemius, and below with the posterior prominence of the head of the fibula. The tendon of the hiceps is inserted by two pieces into the points ^j^^'^""gpg jg on the head of the fibula; and from the anterior of these there is divided, a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral liga- ^ ment jjasses between the pieces into which the tendon is split. The tendon of the iwpUteus may be followed by divichng the Tendon of posterior ligament. It arises fi'om the fore part of the oblong teus!'"^^^^" depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal arti- culation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on / the condyle ; but slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. ^ The tendon of the adductor magims is inserted into a tubercle on Adductor the internal condyle of the femur, above the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 215, ^) is attached to the con- internal dyle of the femur, where it blends with the capsule ; but becoming J^eut; thicker below, and separate from the rest of the capsule, it is fixed attaeh- for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the "'"iits; level of the ligamentuin patellae. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles is joined by lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, Lrauosus. and the internal lower ailicular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The tendon of the semimemhranoms muscle is inserted beneath insertion of the internal lateral ligament into an impression at the back of the *ienii,"'i,"io. inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia: between it and the bone sus. is a synovial bursa. The tendon sends some fibres to the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation to join the fascia on the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee joint. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow), wide and mem- Posterior branous, covers the back of the joint between the two lateral, and ^'sament. is joined by fibi'es from the tendon of the semimembranosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer side. It is fixed below to Two sets of the head of the tibia behind the articular surface, and above to the femur, but by strongest fibres opposite the intercondyloid notch. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of the vessels and700 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Anterior ligament, tendon of the exten- sor. •Open tlie Jinee joint nerves to the interior of the articulation ; and the tendon of the pophteus pierces it. The anterior licjament (hgamentum patella)) (fig. 215, "), part of the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscle of the knee (p. 626), is two inches long. Superiorly it is attached to the lower part of the patella, and to the depression on the inner surface of the apex ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the tubercle of the head of the tibia, and into an inch of the bone below it. An expansion of the triceps extensor covers it; and a bursa intervenes between it and the toj) of the tubercle of the tibia. Dissection (fig. 210). To see the reflections of the S3mo\aal mem- brane raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an uicision ■and dissect crucial liga- ments. Syno\nal membrane on each side, above the patella. When the anterior part of the capsule with the patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the intercondyloid fossa of the femur to a mass of fat below the patella. On each side of the knee-pan is a similar fold (alar ligament) over some fat. The limb may be laid flat on the table, and some of the posterior ligament may be removed, to show the pouches of the synovial membrane which project behind over the condyles of the femur - but the hmb IS to be replaced in the former position before the l^arts are learnt. The synovial membrane (fig. 216) lines the interior of the capsule and IS continued to the articular ends of the bones. It invests the mterarticular cartilages after the manner of serous membranes, and .ZJh'' '^P^V/i^^ W-joint cut across, and the patella tlu-oxvn i\omx to show the named folds of the synovial sac. a. Mucous ligament 6 Int^ri^ and c, external alai- hgament. c'^^^euL. u. imeinai.701 SYNOVIAL SAC AND FAT AROUND KNEE. sends a pouch between the tendon of the pophteus and the external fibro-cartihige and the head of the tibia : it is also reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. There are three named folds of the synovial membrane. One in ttn-n-mi into the centre of the joint is the mucous ligament (a), which contains ugameuts!*'^ small vessels and some fat, and extends fi-oni the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. Below and on each side of the patella is another fold—alar ligament (b and c), which is continuous with the former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat : the inner (b) is prolonged farther than the outer by a semilunar piece of the serous membrane. At the back and fi'ont of the articulation pouches are prolonged Pouches, beneath the tendons of muscles. Behind there are two, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of two behind the gastrocnemius. On the front, the sac projects under the extensor muscle one inch above the articular surface; and if it communicates and one with the bursa in that situation, it will reach two inches above the joint-surface of the femur. When the joint is bent there is a greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and Articular below the patella, and some fat is located around the crucial liga- ments. The infi-a-patellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval be- below the- tween the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and i^^*®^^* > gives origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued around the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin of the bone, than on the outer, and overhangs the inner perpendicular facet. During extension of the joint the infra- patellar pad is applied to, and lubricates the articular surfaces of use the femur. The supra-patellar pad is intei-posed between the triceps extensor above the and the femur around the top of the spaoAial sac, and is greater i'**®^'''- on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 217). The ligamentous structures within the cap- Dissect in- sule will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still in the same ifgaments. position, by throwing down the patella and its ligament, and clear- ing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band wliich connects anteriorly the interarticu- lar cartilages. The remains of the capsule and other Hgaments, and the synovial membrane, are next to be cleared away from the front and back of the crucial ligaments, and fi'om the interarticular cartilages. Whilst cleaning the posterior crucial the limb is to be placed flat on the table with the patella down ; and the student is to be careful of a band before it from the external fibro-cartilage, or of two bands, one before and the other behind it. _ Ligaments loithin the capsule. The ligamentous structures within Ligaments the capsule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two caJJ^ulc*''^ plates of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tibia. The crucial ligaments (fig. 217) are two strong fibrous cords Two crucialDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 702 Anterior is oliliqiie, its attacli- iiients. Fig. 217. Posterior is vertical; its attach- iiients. Tlie use. Both join the bones. Rotation cliecked by anterior. Use of anterior. and poste- rior crucial. between the ends of the tibia and femur, wliich maintain in contact the bones. They cross one another somewliaf like the legs of the letter X, and have received their name from that circumstance. One is much anterior to the other at the attachment to the tibia. The anterior ligament (/) is most oblique in its direction, and is smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attaclied in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner point of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted by its posterior shorter fibres into the back of the outer condyle of tlie femur, and by the anterior or longer into the hinder part of the intercondyloid fossa. The posterior ligament (e) is almost vertical between the bones at tlie back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the hinder- most impression of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone; and above, its posterior shorter fibres are inserted into the inner con- dyle along the side of the oblique cun-e, whilst the anterior and longer reach the fore part of the intercondyloid fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, after the external ligaments have been cut through, may now be studied. As long as both ligaments are whole the bones cannot be separated from each other. Kotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Eota- tion out is not checked by either ligament; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will permit the tibia to be put hind foremost. Supposing the tibia to move, as in straightening the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor tendon, or by force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put in fi'ont of the femur. Its use is shown by cutting it across, and leav- ing the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial arrests the too great movement backwards * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and b, external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the latter rather displaced by the bending of the joint, c. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellax surface of the femur.INTRA CAPSULAR LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 703 -of tlie tibia by the flexors or by force ; and it is stretched in extreme flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn bade from the femur. , This use will be exemplified by cutting across tlie posterior (in another joint or in another dissection) and leaving entire the ante- rior ; when this has been done the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind tlie condyles of the femui'. Tlie interarticular or semilunar ^fibro-cartilages (fig. 218) cover Semilunar partly on each side the articular surface of the tibia. ajriwo?* They are thick at the outer margin, where they are united by common fibres to the capsule, and are tliin at the hmer edge ; they are characters, hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth Fig. 218.* to the fossfB for the reception of the condyles of the femur, but are flattened below. In- serted into the tibia at their extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachment to the bone, like the crucial liga- ments ; and they become car- tilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is re- flected over them. The internal cartilage (a) is Internal is ovoid in form, and is a segment of a larger circle than the external, semi-circu- In fi'ont it is attached by a pointed part to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in fi-ont of the anterior crucial ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external cartilage (b) is nearly circular in form, and is con- External nected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow, cuhu-^in"^" Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close to ^^^^ '• "the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore part is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that mendirane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory bands, one at the fore part, the other behind. The anterior or transverse ligament (r) is a narrow band of fibres itstrans- between the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- ^^^^^ '^^^ times it is scarcely perceptible. The vosterior or ascending hand (r/), thicker and stronger than the i>osterior baud. * View of the head of the tibia with the fihro-cartilages attached : the crucial ligaments have been cnt through, a. Inner, and h, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. c. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior band (cut) of .the external cartilage, e. Posterior, and/, anterior crucial ligament.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 Use of fibro- cartilages in flexion and exten- sion, and in rota- tion : use of accessorj' bauds. Surfaces of bone. On feniui', patellar and tibial; characters; peculiarities of inner. Articular surfaces of tibia. Subdivi- sion of joint- surface of patella. Kinds of movement. other, springs from tlie back of the outer fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the femur as a single band (fig. 217, d) in fi-ont of the posterior crucial, or as two bands—one being before, and the otlier behind that ligament. Use. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between the articular surfaces of the bones at the circumference of the joint ; they moderate the injurious effect of pressure of the one bone on the other; and cause the force of shocks to be diminished in transmission. In flexion and extension they move forwards and backwards with the tibia. During flexion tliey recede somewhat fi-om the fore part of the joint, and surround the condyles of the femur ; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages the external moves the most in consequence of its ends being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the tibial movements, but the external is most displaced by the projecting outer condyle of the femur. The accessory bands in front and behind sers^e to retain in place the least fixed external fibro-cartilage ; thus the anterior ligament keeps forwards the fore part of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the same from displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the hones. The end of the femur is marked by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. The patellar is placed in the middle line above the others ; it is hollowed along the centre, with a slanting surface on each side, the outer being the larger of the two. The surfaces for contact with the tibia, two in number, occupy the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- pression by an oblique groove on each side. On the centre of each is a somewhat flattened part, Avhich is in contact with the tibia in standing; and at the posterior third is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia in rotation. The inner condyle of the femur is curved at its anterior third,, the concavity being directed out: this has been named the " oblique curvature." Close to the curved part is a semilunar facet, which touches the perpendicular surface of the patella in extreme flexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle of the bone, on the points of the tibial spine. The joint-surface of the patella is marked by the following im- pressions. Close to the inner edge is a narrow perpendicular facet and along the lower border is a similar transverse mark. Occupying- the rest of the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided by a vertical and a transverse line into two pairs of marks upper and lower. (Goodsir, Edinb. Med. Jour., 1855.) Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are twa in number, bending and straightening, like the elbow; but there is in addition, rotation of the tibia when the joint is bent. '705 MOVEMENTS OF KNEE AND PATELLA. Flexion and extension. Each of these movements may be divided into stages for the purpose of particularizing clianges in its direc- tion. Inflexion the tibia with its fibro-cartilages moves backwards round Flexion, the end of the femur; and its extent is limited by the extensor Movenient muscle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. ^ ' For the anterior third of the movement the tibia is directed down cii'iuKpin and in along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, giving rise to rotation inwards of that bone; but for the posterior two thirds, the tibia passes straight back over the condyles. All the external ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior; and state of both crucials are put on the stretch towards the end of flexion. ligaments. In extension the tibia is carried forwards until it comes into a Extension, straight line with the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent of tibia^^^ its farther progress. In the hinder two thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight course course over the condyles of the femur ; but in the anterior third the ' ' ° " leg-bone is directed up and out over the oblique curve of the inner condjde, and is rotated out. All the external ligaments except the anterior are tightened, and state ... oftlicli"'a- the crucial cords help to limit extreme extension. meuts. " Rotation. A half bent state of the knee is necessary for this Two kinds movement, for the purpose of relaxing the anterior crucial and the station, external ligaments; and the foot must be fi-ee. Then, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates around a vertical axis, the great toe being turned in and out. During rotation in the inner articular surface of the tibia touches Rotation in. the condyle of the femur and moves backwards ; and the outer arti- ^f^^^'^™®"^* cular surface, separated by a slight interval fi-om the thigh bone, passes fonvards. Both lateral ligaments arc loose; but the anterior crucial is state of ..gradually tightened, and stops finally the motion. igamcn s. In rotation out the opposite movement of the tibia takes place,— ^"t*^"^*^'"'^ the inner articular surface being directed forwards, and the outer ' backwards. The internal lateral ligament controls the movement by its fibres j.^^^j^^g^j^g being made tense. The crucials have not any influence on the " motion (p. 702). Movement of the patella. When the loiee passes from flexion to ex- ■'^"^^^"^jj"* tension the patella crosses it obliquely from the outer to the inner ° ^''^ ^ side, touching in succession different parts of the femoral articular surfaces. In complete flexion the knee-pan lies on the outer side of the in flexion, joint below tlie femur, where it is scarcely perceptible, and is fixed in its situation. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner ^^^^'J;^^* •condyle by its perpendicular facet, and the under part of the outer condyle by the upper and outer mark on its square surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to extension the upper pair of impressions on the square surface of the patella, and the lower pair rests successively on the pulley-surface of the femur. z zDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 706 Ill exten- sion. position to femur. Articulation of tibia and fibula. Dissection of tlve liga- ments. Upjier ar- ticulation. by anterior and poste- rior band. Sj'novial sac. Lower ar- ticulation has anterior, posterior. and inferior ligament. Interosse- ous ligament between the bones. Attach- ments. Apertures. In complete extension, the patella is situate at the upper and inner part of the knee joint, where it is very prominent, with its apex and the ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the most part the knee-pan articular surface is raised above the trochlea of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower transverse facet. Peroneo-tibial articulations. The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities, where they touch ; and by an interosseous ligament between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the front and back of the interosseous ligament; and the loose tissue is to be removed from a small band in fi'ont of, and behind the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The UPPER articulation has very small movement, and the struc- tures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends over the joint from the outer tube- rosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint: it is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee joint. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage : and a synovial viemhrane lining the articulation projects backwards so as to touch that of the knee joint. The LOWER articulation possesses an anterior and a posterior band, together with an inferior ligament between the ends of the bones. The anterior lirjament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the tibia to the fibula ; and the ^iosterior has attaclunents behind the articulation similar to those of the band in fi'ont. The inferior ligament closes the space between the contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct from the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit; and on the other it is inserted into the contiguous part of the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. Tlie interosseous ligament fills the intei-val between the bones of the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the leg. Its fibres are directed downwards for the most part from the tibia to the inner surface of the fibula : but some few cross in the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia: and externally, to the oblique line on the inner surface of the fibula along the upper three fourths, but to the posterior border along the lower fourth of that bone. Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture Avhich transmits vessels. The upper opening, about an inch in length, lies along the neck of the fibula, and gives passage to the anterior tibial vessels. The lower aperture is close to the fibula, about an inch707 LIGAMENTS OF ANKLE JOINT. above the lower end, and is only large enougli for the small anterior peroneal vessels. Some strong irregular bundles of fibres, the inferior interosseous inferior ligament, extend between the bones below the aperture for the ° anterior peroneal artery. It may be seen after the examination of the ankle joint by sawing longitudinally the lower ends of the leg bones. Movement. Very little movement is allowed in the tibio-peroneal Motion articulations, as the chief use of the fibula is to give security to the ° ' ankle joint and attachment to muscles of the leg. In the upper joint there is a slight gliding from before back. In in upper the lower articulation the ligaments permit some yielding of the iibula to the pressure of the astragalus, as when the weight of the articuia- body is thro%vn on the inner side of the foot ; but if the force is violent the lower fourth of that bone will be fi-actm-ed sooner than the ligaments. Articulation of the ankle (fig. 219). Like the knee, the ankle is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. In this joint the upper surface of joint. • Fis. 219.* the astragalus is received into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula ; and, the four ligaments belonging to this Idnd of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection. To make the dissection required for the ligaments of ^JfJ^^'"" the ankle joint, the muscles, and the fibrous tissue and vessels must ankle joint, be removed from the front and back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining tlie lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other. The internal ligament is wide and strong, and lies beneath the tendon of the • Internal lateral ligament of the ankle (altered from Bourgery).—1. Posterior piece. 2. Middle piece. 3. Anterior piece of the inner ligament. 4, Inferior calcanco-scaphoid ligament. z z 2708 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Anterior ligiunent is thin and inijierfect. Posterior ligament. Intemal or deltoid ; attach- utents. External has three paiis; anterior. middle. and pos- terior : connec- tions. Open the ankle joint. Sj-novial sac. Surfaces of the hones in the joint. tibialis posticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces; and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus, should be taken away. The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular surface ; and to the upper part of the astragalus near the articulation with the scaphoid bone. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The x^osterior ligament is thinner internally than externally ; and it is inserted into the tibia and the astragalus, close to the ai-ticular surfaces of the bones. Towards the outer part it consists of trans- verse fibres, which are fixed into the hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus. The intemal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 219) is attached by its upper or pointed part to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaplioid bone, by fibres wliich radiate to their msertion in this manner :—The iwsterior Q) are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus ; the middle C'^) pass vertically to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; and the anterior (^), which are thin and oblique, join the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and the inner side of the scaphoid bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digi- torum are in contact with this ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 220) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece (^) is a short flat band, Avhich is directed fi-om the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The onicldle portion (•^) is flattened and descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior (-) is the strongest, and is almost horizontal in direc- tion ; it is connected externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the posterior part of the astra- galus behind the upper articular surface, extending to the groove for the flexor pollicis tendon. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The middle part is but slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane of the ankle joint ; and both it and the posterior piece touch the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle joint, separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the osseous surfaces entering into the joint. The synovial membrane of the joint lines the capsule, and is simple in its arrangement. Articular surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular faces, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and the other with the malleolus. On the fibula the surface of the malleolus which is turned to the astragalus is tipped Avith cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular surface, wider before thanMOVEMENTS IN ANKLE JOINT. 709 behind and trochlear-shaped, which touches the end of the tibia : and on its sides are articuhar impressions for contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the largest. Movement. Only the movements of flexion and extension are per- Kinds of niitted in the ankle: in the former state the toes are raised towards the fore part of the leg; and ui the latter, they are pointed towards the gi-ound. In flexion the astragalus moves backwards so as to project behind ; Flexion, and all further motion is arrested by the meeting of the anterior moving edge of the tibia with that bone. The posterior ligament is stretched over the projecting head of state of the astragalus, and the posterior and middle parts of the external Fis. 220.* lateral, and the posterior piece of the internal lateral ligament, are made tense. In extension the astragalus moves forwards over the end of the Extension, tibia, and projects anteriorlj-. A limit to the movement is imposed moving b}' the meeting behind of the astragalus with the tibia. The lateral ligaments arc partly made tight as in flexion, for state of instance the anterior piece of the external, and the fore and middle ''tJ'''""^"^''^» portions of the internal. . When the joint is half extended so that the small hinder part of slight lateral the astragalus is brought into the arch of the leg bones, a slight "'"''^"^ movement of the foot inwards and outwards may be obtained ; but if the foot is forcibly extended the portions of the lateral liga- ments, attached to the astragalus, prevent this lateral movement by their tightness. * External lateral ligament of the ankle (altered from Bourgery).—1. Anterior part. 2. Posterior part. 3. Middle part of tlie outer ligament. 4, Interosseus of astragalus and os calcis. 5. External calcaueo-scaphoid ligament.7l0 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection for the joints of the foot. Astragalus with OS calcis by posterior, exterual, and Dissection. The joints of the foot will be demonstrated by re- moving fi-om both the dorsum and the sole all the soft parts wluch have been examined. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue fi-om the intervals between them (fig. 221). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of tue astragalus and os calcis. These bones are kept together by two joints, and a strong interosseous ligament; and there are also thin bands at the outer side and behind. Tlie jwsterioi- ligament (fig. 221, o) consists of a few fibres be- tween the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor pollicis; and the external ligament (h) is connected to the Fig. 221.* interos- seons liga- meut. Articular surfaces, synovial membranes. Motion in standing. sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 221, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous sui'faces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 713) articular surfaces will be seen between the bones, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial membranes. Movement. Under the influence of the weight of the body, as in standing, the astragalus moves down and in (not straight forwards) with flattening of the arch of the foot, so that its head projects against the calcanco-scaphoid ligament. In this state the inter- osseous ligament is put on the stretch. * View of the doi-.sal ligaments of tlie tarsiis. a. Posterior, h, extenial and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- scaplioid. c. External calcaneo-scaphoid. /. Internal, and y, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. 7t. Dorsal scapho-cuboid band, i, h, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal scapho-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal tx-ans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. 711 When the pressure of the leg is removed the astragalus is carried and when up and out by the tightened ligaments and muscles^, and the arch };[oveir of the foot is restored. Astragalus with the scArnoiD bone. The head of the astragalus Astragalus 16 received into the hollow of the scaphoid bone, and is united to it scaphoid by a dorsal ligament ; but the place of plantar and external lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be noticed below. The dorsal or astracjah-scaphoid ligament (fig. 221, d) is attached Dorsal liga- to the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface ^ of the scaphoid bone: its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The external ligament of the articulation may be seen To lay bare on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and ligaments, the scaphoid bone. Supposing the tendon of the tibialis posticus removed, the inferior ligament will be defined in the sole of the foot by cutting some fibro-cartilaginous substance fi-om it. The inferior ligament (fig. 223, c) (calcaneo-scaphoid) is attached inferior behind to the fore part of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, ^ and in fi'ont, to the hollow on the under surface of the scaphoid bone. In the upright posture of the body the tendon of the tibialis l>osticus is beneath it in the sole of the foot ; and on it the head of ^the astragalus rests. The external calcaneo-scaphoid (fig. 221, e) is placed outside the external head of the astragalus, and serves as a lateral ligament to the as- tragalo-scaphoid articulation ; it is about three-quarters of an inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is inserted into the outer side of the os scaphoides. A synovial membrane serves for this articulation, and sends back Synovial a prolongation to the joint between the fore part of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head of the astragalus has two articular Surfaces of faces ; a smaller, below, for the os calcis ; and a larger one, elon- gated tranversely and larger externally than internally, for the sca- phoid bone. The scaphoid bone is hollowed, and is widest exter- nally. Movement. The scaphoid moves down and in over the transversely Movement: elongated head of the astragalus, or up and out in the opposite direction. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and external liga- state of ments of the joint are made tight; and when the scaphoid is moved ^• in the opposite way the strong inferior ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid ijone. Tlie ligaments in this articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being much the bone, by strongest ; and there is also an internal band. The dorsal ligament (fig. 221, g) (superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a dorsal, rather thin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the con- tiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimes712 internal. and inferior ligaments. Tlie last is strongest, and (lividixl into two l)arts: DISSECTION OF TEE LEG. divided into two parts, or it may be situate at the outer border of the foot. . , J J , At the inner side of the os cuboides is a stronger mternal hand (ficr 221,/) from the os calcis ; this is fixed behind to the upper pa?t of the OS calcis, external to the band to the scaphoid bone, and in front to the contiguous inner side of the os cuboides. The inferior calcaneo-cuhoid liyament in the sole of the foot (hg. 222) is much the strongest, and is divided into a superficial and a deep part :— • ++ i l The superficial portion, ligammtum lonfjum 2)lantce ( ), is attacnea to the under surface of the os calcis from near the posterior to the Fi<». 222.* Fig. 223.+ superficial and deep baud. anterior tubercle; its fibres pass forwards to be connected with the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; but the most in- ternal are contmued over the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle,. assisting to form its sheath, and are inserted into the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The deep piece of the ligament (fig. 223, i), seen on division of the superficial, extends from the tubercle and the hollow on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the cuboid bone internal or posterior to the ridge. * Plantar ligaments of tlie foot (Bourgery).—1. Long 2. Deep portion of tlie inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, peroneus longus muscle. •j- View of the inferior ligaments of the tarsal bones, a. h. Short or deep inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament. c. scaphoid, d. Plantar transverse scapho-cuboid ligament, scapho-cunciform extending into the sole of the foot. /. ligament between the inner and middle cuneifoi'm bones, verse band between the cuboid and outer cuneiform. plantar ligament. 3. Tendon of the Long plantar, cut. Inferior calcaneo- c. Dorsal inner Plantar transverse r/. Plantar trans-713. TKANSVEESE TARSAL ARTICULATION. A simple synovial membrane belongs to the articulation. SjTioviai Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer gj^'^'fj^^gg part of the articulation ; but at the inner side the os calcis is hone. hollowed from above down, and the os cuboides is convex to fit into it. Movement. In tliis joint the cuboid bone possesses two movements, Movemeut: viz. an oblique one, down and in, and up and out. In the downward movement the internal lateral and the upper state of ligament are made tight ; and in the upward, the calcaneo-cuboid ^'saiuents. ligaments of the sole are stretched. Transverse tars^u. articulation (fig. 221). The joints of the Transverse astragalus with the scaphoid, and os calcis with the cidioid bone, ta'i"u°^ form a transverse articulation across the foot in which the move- ments of inversion and eversion take place. In inversion the great toe is adducted ; the inner border of the inversion, foot is shortened, and is raised fi"om the ground so that the sole looks inwards. The scaphoid bone passes down and in over the head of the movement astragalus, being approximated near to the inner malleolus ; and the cuboid bone moves down and in on the os calcis. The cunei- foiTQ bones are raised at the same time and contribute to the movement (p. 715). The ligaments connected with both joints on the dorsum of the state of x A A- I J. J ligaments. loot are tightened. In eversion the inner border of the foot descends and lengthens, Emersion: the outer border is raised, and the gi'eat toe is abducted from the middle line of the body. The same two tarsal bones are directed up and out, and the bones ami cuneifonns sink. The ligaments in the sole of the foot of both joints now come ligaments, into use to prevent over movement. Dissection. Saw through the astragalus in front of the attachment Dissection, of the interosseous ligament between it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone for the purpose of obsen^ing the lower and outer calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the articular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 710). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal bones. There are two articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and the OS calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex trans- versely and the anterior is concave; but sometimes the last is subdivided into two. The surfaces of the astragalus will have a iv"<i astra- ''ill US form exactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz. the hinder one " concave and the anterior convex; the ^mterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. The calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces : and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to be opened for the like pui-pose, even should directions not be given.714 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Union of the scaplioid bone to the cunei- fonn: synovial sac. To the cu- Jjoid hone: sjTiovial sac. Union of the cuneiform hones ■one witli anotlier. 4in(I witli the cuboid hone : sjniovial sac. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of hones. Motion in inversion Articulations of the scaphoid boxe. The scaphoid bone articu- lates in fi-ont with the three cuneiform bones, and laterally with the OS cuboidcs. In the artkulatlon with the cuneiform hones (fig. 221) there are three longitudinal dorsal lifjaments (i, h, I), one to each bone ; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 223, e). The place of j^Janfar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial memhrane (common of the tarsus) lines the articu- lation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneiform bones. In the articulation with the os cuhoides there is a dorsal oblique band of fibres (fig. 221, //) between the contiguous surfaces of the bones ; a plantar transverse band (fig. 223, f7), which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and are furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial memhrane of the tarsus. Articulatioks of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands; and the external one articulates with the OS cuboides after a similar manner. The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal bands (fig. 221, ii) between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except one between the two inner- most (fig. 223, /). There are also interosseous ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. Laterally there are articular surfaces between the bones, Avith offsets of the common synovial membrane. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 221, n) jiasses transversely between the two ; and a plantar ligament (fig. 223, g) takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct sjniovial sac, or w^ith a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane. The synovial memhrane of the articulations of the cuneiform bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiforms it sends one pro- longation forwards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones ; another, out- M-ards, to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone ; and sometimes a third to the jomt between the external cuneiform and the os cuboides. Articular surfaces. On the scaphoid are three articular faces, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The three cunei- forms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, Avhich is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the scaphoid715 LIGAMENTS OF TARSUS WITH METATARSUS. Fis. 224.* in inversion of the foot, and clown and in in eversion ; and the inner one moves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments arc made tight: and as they rise the interosseous and transverse plantar bands will keep them united. In standing and in progression these bones are separated some- what from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and stretching of the transverse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are small transverse bands from the base of one metatarsal bone to the next. The plantar ligaments (fig. 222) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are short, transverse fibres between the conti- guous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly^separating tiie bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourth is in contact internally with the outer cunei- form. Those articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and are provided with synovial membrane, which is de- rived from the sacs serving for the articulation of [the same four metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The digital ends of the five metatarsal bones are united b}'- the transverse metatarsal li(janient; this has been descril)cd in page G8G. Tarsal with metatarsal hones. Tliese articulations resemble the like parts in the hand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals. Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are incased by a capsule, and are provided with an upper and a loioer longitudinal hand to give strength to the joint: the lower band is placed between prolongations from the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A simple synovial membrane serves for the articulation. and ever- sion : state of the ligaments. and joints in pro- gression. Union of tlie meta- tarsus by dorsal, plantar. and interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral union: synovial sacs. Great toe separate. Anterior ends. Tarsus and metatarsus. Joint of great toe separate from rest: synovial sac. * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to tbe metatarsus, and the metatarsal bones to each other behind (Bourgery).DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 716 Form of bones. Motion up and down. and lateral motion. Joints of four outer toes: dorsal liga- ments. plantar. lateral liga- ments : oblique plantar. Line of the articixlation across tlic foot. The articular surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards,, and constricted in the middle ; that of the great toe is excavated, and the other is convex. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform with the scaphoid bone ; and this will contribute some motion to inversion and eversion of the foot. The joint possesses likewise slight abductoiy and adductory move- ment. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tarsal bones of the last row correspond with four metatarsals ;—the middle cunei- fonn being opposite the second metatarsal bone, the external cuneiform touching that of the third toe, and the os cuboides carrying the two outer bones. The bones in contact are tipped with cartilage, and have longitudinal dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, with some oblique in the sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are thin bands of fibres, which arc more or less longitudinal as they extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone receives one ligament, except that of the second toe, to which there are three ;—the three bands to the second coming fi-om all the cuneiform bones, one from each. The third bone obtains a ligament from the external cunei- form ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the OS cuboides. Plantar ligaments (fig. 222). There is one longitudinal hand from each of the two outer cuneiform to the corresponding metatarsal bone ; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal ; they lie deeply between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsals : they will be better seen by cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe there are two bands, one on each side:—the inner is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed into the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral slip on its outer side, which is inserted above into the external cuneiform bone. Oblique plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends across fi-om the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsals ; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knife should be earned obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal with tlie middle cuneiform; and finally, half an inch in front of the last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone.METATAESO-rnALANGEAL JOINTS. 717 Two 'Synovial memhranes are present in these tarso-metatarsal Two syno- iirticulations. Si'^!"'' There is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, •which serves for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the bones : this is not always separate from the following. The second is placed in the johit between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is •an ofEset of the common synovial membrane belonging to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuneiform bones (p. 714): prolongations fi'om it are furnished to the lateral articular surfaces of the second, third, and fom-th (inner side) metatarsals. Articular surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not flat; for the Form of metatarsal bones are undulating, and the tarsal are uneven to fit ^'''^ ^oi^es, into the others. Movement. From the wedge-shaped form of the metatarsal bones Motion from a sUght movement fi'om above down is obtainable; and this jg'^^ov'*^i'^^^'^ greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there is an abductory and adductory motion ; and mth aMuc- a small degree of the same exists in the fourth toe. a(.iductk)n. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been taken away, separate the the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus may be seen i^o'ies- by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and from the os cuboides; the latter bone from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsals from one another. The dissector will find that, in using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the ligaments. Metatarsus with phalanges. These are condyloid joints, in Union of which the head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cavity J^'fa'pha!^^ of the phalanx. langus, by Each articulation has two lateral and an inferior lir/ament, as in two lateral the hand; and the joint is further strengthened above by an ex-. pansion derived fi'om the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A distinct synovial membrane exists in each joint. In the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones, synovial which are connected with the inferior and lateral ligaments. All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct; and their anatomy is more fully described with the dissection of that part. (See page 322.) Surfaces of hone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, which F'lrm of is longest fi-om above down, and reaches farthest on the plantar surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint as in the hand, there is angular Kind of motion in four difEerent directions, with circumduction. inotion. Flexion aiul extension. When the joint is bent the phalanx passes Bending under the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is extended li^i"^^^ the phalanx moves back beyond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to ficxion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the state of .stretching of the fore part of the lateral ligaments, and by the • extensor tendon; and to extension, by the tightness of the inferior,DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 718 lateral motion: circular motion limited. Union of the phalanges. synovial sac. Form of bones. Kind of motion, movement of bone, state of ligaments. and the hinder part of each lateral ligament, and by the flexor tendons. Lateral movement. The j^halanx passes from side to side across the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by the lateral ligament of the side from Avhich it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the revolving of the phalanx over the rounded head of the metatarsal bone, is least impeded in the great toe joint: but these movements in the foot are not so free as in the hand. Articulations of thk niALANOES. There are two phalangeal joints to each toe, except the first. Ligaments similar to those in the metatarso-phalangeal joints, viz., two lateral and an inferior, are to be recogm'sed in these articula- tions. The joint between the last two phalanges is least distinct; and oftentimes the small bones are immoveably united by osseous substance. These ligaments receive a more particular notice with the dissection of the hand (p. 323). A simple synovial membrane exists in each phalangeal articulation. Articular surfaces. In both phalangeal joints, the nearest phalanx presents a trochlear surface; and the distal one is marked by two lateral hollows or cups with a median ridge. Movement. Only flexion and extension are permitted in the two phalangeal joints of the toes, as in the hand. In flexion the farther phalanx glides under the nearer; and in extension the two are brought into a straight line. The bending is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon; and the straightening is limited by the inferior ligament and the flexor tendons.ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Tl* TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. o S3 < -<! Pi O w Em External inidic ^ (. mlenor. sui)erficial epi- gastric suiHjrficial cir- cuMitlex iliac Profiinila Muscular Anastomotic Popliteal External circumflex ( Ascending :x. ■< deseendiiu I transverse ■{ /Muscular internal circumflex J s^iti^'ulp- \^ trans vei'so first perforating second perforating . nutritious, third perforating terminal branch. ■ final branches. (Superficial ' { deep branch. ^Muscular upper internal) upper external) lower internal \ lower external ) azygos articular sural. Anterior tibial Posterior tibial articular articular Recurrent cutaneous muscular internal malleolar external malleolar articidar tarsal metatarsal. first interosseous communicating to deep arch (three iiiteros- ( seous. > digital Peroneal . nutritious to tibia comimmicatiiig to i)eroneal articidar uitenial plantar ( To great toe and ■ ( half the next. ( Muscular . ■( nutritions to fibula (. anterior peroueaL Muscular , external plantar - .plantar arch /Muscular posterior perfor- ating J. digital, f(n- three toes and a half I anterior perfor- V ating. N.B. Tlie branches of tlie internal iliac artury which end in tlic limb, will be found in tlie tabl of the arteries of the abdomen.VEIXS OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLE OF THE VEIXS OP THE LOWER LIMB. p > o P. Anastomotic Muscular Profunda . Internal sa- lilienoiis. Posterior tibial External plantar intemal plantar articular ( communicating to saiilieiious nutritious Muscular lilantar arcli (Posterior per- forating digital from three toes and a lialf anterior per- \ forating. peroneal /"Anterior iicro- I neal "j muscular luitritious. Anterior tibial, to aeep arcli . ^^ j^^j. ^j^^ ^^^^^ interosseous ' Popliteal . ( metatarsal, tarsal malleolar communicating to saphenous muscular recurrent. /Branch from dor- 1 sal arch of foot ]ilantar External saphenous. ■< veins from outer side of oscalcis cutaneous in the (Three interos- ■ i seous. le<i sural articular muscular. {Superficial deej) branch. Terminal branch first perforating second perforating . Nutritious, third perforating. ( Ascending External circumflex. < transverse ( descending llntenial circumflex . iMuscular ( articular (Branch f ronx dorsal arch of the foot plantar veins about os calcis communicating with posterior and anterior tibial communicating with deep veins of thigh cutaneous from outer and inner parts of thigh external jnidic superficial epigastric* superlicial circumflex iliac.NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 721 TABLE OF THE NERVES OP THE LOWER LIMB. 1. external ('^'^tf ior and branclit's. Accessory . to obturator trunk to peotineus to hip joint. to obturator externus to arliL-ulation 2. Obturator/ Muscular suj)erficial divi- sion deep division j To gracilis (to adductor longus • ] to plexus in the tliiKh and aiterv j" To adductor bre- -' vis and niagnus (articular. Muscular 'Superficial por- tion 3. Anterior crural (To sartorius ■ t to pectineus. niidtHe cutaneous '"neous } '^"terior and inner branches. Muscular ^deep part ( To rectus , < to vastus (to vastus externus—articular iuternus and crureus . articular. 4. Branch of genito- crural internal saphe- ) Branch to plexus over patella nous . . )" to leg and foot. To intescuments. 1. Small S(;iatic 2. Great sciatic t Inferior gluteal < inferior pudendal ■ (cutaneous to gluteal region, thigli, and leg. ' Articular to hii> to hamstrings. external pop- liteal internal pop- liteal 3. To gluteus 4. To qua- dratusand }• Articular. Kemelli Articular cutaneous peroneal communicating recui-rent articular ( niuscnlo-cuta- neous anterior tiltial /'Articular muscular short sai)lieuous f To ])cronci . t cutaneous to foot and toes I* Muscular . ■( articular ( cutaneous to two toes. Muscular to flexors posterior tibial . / iutemal plantar external plantar 5. Superior /To glutei gluteal . (to tensor \-agiua3 fenions Cutaneous of tlie sole muscular four digital connnunicating branch articular to the toes. f Superficial f?^'^^^^!''.«r, part .-jt^vo digital ' I. articular Ueep rart.P^i^.^";^''!' ^ * ^ (articular 3 ACHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball, and sur- roundiiij; sheath. Parts in front of it. The dissec- tion to be made on tlic eye of tlie ox. Detacli tlie muscles. Form of the ball Position of optic nerve. Diameter; Composi- tion ; number of coats, and central parts. Dissection. The eyeball is the organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit. Supported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded by muscles which impart movement to it; and a thin membrane (tunica vaginalis oculi) isolates the ball, so as to allow free movement. Two lids protect the eye from external injury, and moderate the degree of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or ex- posed surface is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the structure may be learnt on the eye of the ox or pig. Let the stu- dent procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissec- tion. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep jilate, may be useful. Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the differ- ent muscles are to be taken away; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. The ball of the eye (fig. 225) is roundish in form and consists of two parts, Avhich differ in appearance, viz., an opaque i:)osterior por- tion, fonning five-sixths of the whole, and a smaller transparent piece (cornea) in front ; these two parts are segments of different- sized spheres, the anterior belonging to the smaller sphere. To the back of the eye the optic nen^e is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it nutritive vessels and the nerves enter. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to nearly an incli (-j^Qths), but the transverse measures an inch. The organ of vision is composed of central transparent parts, with enclosing membranes or coats. The coats, posited one within another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection. To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dis- sected, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly : he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, with their strength and appearance ; and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are after- wards given.CHARACTERS OF FIBROUS COAT. 723 Fibrous coat of the eyeball. The outer casing of the eye eon- f-sists of an opaque hmder part called sclerotic, and of an anterior transpai-ent portion, the cornea. The SCLEROTIC (cornea opaca) is the firm, whitish, and opaque portion of the external stratum of the eyeball, wliich supports the ••••more delicate structures within. Dissection. To examine the inner and outer surfaces of this layer -it will be necessary to cut circularly with a scissors through the cornea close to the sclerotic, and to remove the cornea from the -front of the eyeball; on piercing the cornea the aqueous fluid escapes Fig. 225.* Fibrous coat. Sclerotic part. Dissection to see the interior. from the containing chamber. The other structures may be then abstracted from the interior of the sclerotic covering, and may be set aside with the cornea for subsequent use. The sclerotic tunic of the eye (fig. 225, a) is bell-shaped, and Form ami extends from the entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the cornea, forming about five sixths of the ball. At its back, and a little to the inner side of the centre (one tenth Aportiues of an inch), the optic nerve (/) is transmitted through an aperture in it : this opening decreases in size from without inwards, and is ■cribriform wlien the nerve is drawn out—the lattice-like condition w* Diagram of a horizontal section of the eychall. and d, the cornea, h. Middle or choroidal coat. a. Outer or sclerotic coat, m. Ciliary ligament, s. Ciliary process, e. Ciliary muscle, and /, iris. c. Inner coat or retina, con- tinuous with the optic nerve behind, with a dark layer outside it. ff. Lens. t. Suspensory ligament of the lens. h. Vitreous body. n. Hyaloid mem- brane, i. Posterior chamber, o. Canal of Petit. ?•. Sinus circularis iridis. I. Optic nerre. The dotted line through the centre is the longitudinal axis of •the ball. 3 A 2724 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Endiug ill front. Outer and inner sur- face. Thickness. Sinus circidaris. Formed of white and yellow libres with cells. Vessels and nerves. Cornea; form, size, extent. Ciure. Surfaces. Action on the rays of light. ■ Composi- tion. Coniea proper is formed of layers; its tissue continued into that of the sclerotic. being due to the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is con- tinuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached ; on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch fi-om the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Where it joins the cornea it becomes again somcAvhat thickened. In its sub- stance near the union with the cornea is a small flattened venous space, the canal of Schlemm (siiius circularis iridis) (fig. 233, ''). Structure. The sclerotic coat is formed of layers of white fibrous tissue, collected into bundles, with a fine network of yellow or elastic fibres. In it are scattered nucleated cells, fusiform in shai^e,. or possessing rays, and some with pigment. Though interlaced with one another, the fibres have rather a longitudinal direction to- wards the back of the ball, and a transverse one at the outer surface near the cornea. Only a few vessels ramify in the membrane, and end in capillaries with large meshes. The presence of nerves in it is a subject for inquiry. Cornea (fig. 225, d). This firm transparent membrane (coniea pellucida) forms about one sixth of the eyeball, and measures about half an inch transversely, but rather less from above down. Its shape is circular ; though, when viewed in front, it appears largest in the transverse direction, in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure encroaching further on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex anteriorly, but concave posteriorly ; and it is -Jpth to -j^jjth of an inch in thickness. Its anterior is of rather less extent than its posterior surface. At the circumference it is thinned, and is blended with the sclerotic coat by continuity of tissue. Sup- ported by the aqueous humour, it deflects the light transmitted to the eye, and influences by its greater or smaller convexity degrees of sight at difirerent distances. After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour ; or, if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered opaque by infiltration of the tissue by that flnid. Structure (fig. 22G). The cornea is laminar in texture. It is con- structed of a special thick part called corimi j^roi^er: in front of this is the conjunctiva, and behind is the membrane of Demours. The cornea proper^ a (lamellated cornea), is made up of a series of superposed layers, about sixty in number, which join one another at numerous points, and cannot therefore be detached for any dis- tance. The laminte are formed of fibres, continuous with those of the sclerotic, and are flattened into membranous layers, arranged one over another. This structure possesses great toughness ; and.725 STRUCTUEE OF CORNEA. its transparency is destroyed by disturbance of the position of the strata. The tissue when boiled gives chondrin. Between the corneal layers are flattened irregular spaces, wliich join freely with one another ; and these intervals are occupied by nucleated stellate cells, called corneal corpuscles. In the healthy condition bloodvessels do not permeate it, but cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Nerres ramify in it, after losing- their opacity at the circumference : they are said to form a subepithelial plexus on the anterior surface, fi-om which varicose fibrils are prolonged amongst the pieces of the epithelium. The membrane at the back of the cornea (fig. 22G)—menihrane of Demours—consists of a basement layer covered by epithelium. The hasement layer, e (posterior elastic lamina, Bowman), may be peeled off after a cut has been made across the cornea. It is dense, hard and elastic, measuring ^J^tli to ness ; it is very brittle, tearing readily when an attempt is made to separate it, and curls up when it is free, with the attached surface innermost. Though very elastic, the struc- ture is destitute of fibres. It is always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into processes ("pillars of the iris ") which blend with the outer margin of the iris, and with the sclerotic and choroid Comciil spaces, and cells. Has not blood-ves- sels. Nerves. Layer lie- luud coniea. Basement layer; ^Q^^jyth of an inch in tliick- coats. A laminar ejiitkelium, a, like that on serous membranes, clothes its fi-ee surface (fig. 226). The covjunctica in front of the cornea (fig. 22G) consists chiefly of epithelium cells, though there is a subjacent basement-like stratum. The hasement layer, b (ant. elastic lamina. Bowman), is transparent, and only fi'om "■cToo*^ ToVo*^^ "^^^^ thick. It seems to be a somewhat hardened piece of the cornea, without corneal si:)aces and cor- puscles. From it fine tlu-eads are prolonged into the proper corneal layers, as in the woodcut. The ej)it1ielium, D, is formed of three or four layers of scales, the deeper being columnar, but the superficial laminar in fonn. Vascular Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 22'J). The next covering is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of blood-vessels characters ; attachment at margin ; lias an ex>i- theliuui. '^-r:^^^ Conjunctiva. Basement layer has an epi- thelium. Choroid coat is vascular. * Vertical section A of the cornea.—l. Basement layer of coi-nea, with fZ, the conjunctival epithelium on it. c. Oblique fibres from it to the layers of the cornea, e. Basement lamina, witli /, epithelium on it of the mem- brane of Demoiu-s. a. Surface View of the epithelium of the membrane of Demours.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 726 Coinpo- Ill'IltS. Dissection to see the cliorowl portion. To show the ciliai-y pro- cesses liy an ante- rior and a pos- terior view. To make a vertical sec- tion. Form and extent: anterior tcnnination, openmg. and pigment cells: the muscles in the interior of the ball are con- nected with it. It is constmcted of three parts: a posterior (choroid) correspond- ing with the sclerotic ; an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea ; and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a level with tlie union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection, Supposing the cornea of an eye cut through circularly, as before directed (p. 723), it will be necessary to take away the sclerotic to lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel, or with a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the fi-ont of the choroid by breaking through a soft whitish stnicture uniting them. Then, the eye being put into water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piece-meal Avith a scissors ; in taking it off the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be pre- served. The white ring aromid the eye in fi-ont, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the piu'pose of obtaining an anterior view of the ciliarj' pro- cesses, Avhich are connected with the anterior termination of the cho- roid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic from the choroid ; and after two or three cuts have been made in it towards the optic nerve, the I'csulting flaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position. On removing with care the iris, taking it away fi-om the centre towards the circumference, the ciliary processes be- neath will be displayed. A posterior view of the processes may be prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with a scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed fi'om the posterior half ; on taldng away the portion of the vitreous mass adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and Aviping off the pigment from the back of the iris, the small' processes Avill be made manifest. By means of this last dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This section, which is made Avith difficulty, should be attempted m water Avith a sharp large knife, and on a surface of Avax or Avood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut Avith a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the hah-es should remain in Avater. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 225, b) is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When vicAved on the eye in AA'hich the ciliary muscle is entire, it appears to terminate there ; but it may be seen in the other dissec- tions to bend inwards behind that muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliaiy processes) behind the iris. This covering is rather tliicker and stronger behind than in front. It is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in front by the ciliary muscle. PosterioHy it is pierced by around aperture for the passage of the optic nerve; and anteriorly it is united Avith the iris.727 CHOROIDAL COAT WITH ITS STRUCTURE. The outer sm-face (fig, 229) is flocculent. and is covered by the remnants of a thin membranous layer (menibrana fusca, supra-cho- roidea) between it and the sclerotic coat: on it may be seen small veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary arteries and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, and touches the thin dark pigmentary layer of the retina (fig. 225). The ciliary processes (fig. 227, h) are solid projections on the inner surface of the choroidal coat, and are arranged in a circle. About 85 in number, they lie side by side, and consist of larger and smaller eminences ; at their inner extremity they are united by transverse ridges. About Y^oth of an inch in length, they increase in depth internally, and projecting around the lens, bound circumferentially l)y their free Outer sur- face rough; inner smooth. Ciliary jjrO" cesses, position, two kinds ; small and large. Ci>nnecti(iu» with parts around. Fig. 227.* Fig. 228. t ends the space (fig. 225, i) (posterior chamber) behind the iris. In front they correspond with the back of the iris towards their inner end, but are separated from it by pigment ; and behind they are closely connected with the membrane (t) (suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous body, and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that membrane. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed structure of principally of bloodvessels. Ramified pigment cells make up most of the rest of the coat. The stroma or web of the choroid is fonned by the outrunners of its stroma, special pigment cells (fig. 228, *-') which unite together, and con- struct, with fine areolar tissue, a fibrous network. Its meshes ai-e finer towards the inner than the outer surface of the choroid. On * Inner view of the front of the choroid coat with its ciliary processes, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. h. Ciliary pro- cesses, c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, c. I'undles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil. t Pigment cells of the ej'cball (Kolliker).—a. Ramified pigment cells of the choroid coat. b. Front view of the hexagonal cells of the pigmentary membrane.Blood-ves- sels, with lart;c meshes ami pigment cells exter- jially : caidllaries iutenially. Structure of ciliary i>ro- cesses. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the exterior and interior of the fihrous web the vessels ramify, with the following difference in their arrangement. _ At the outer part (fig. 229) the larger branches of both arteries and veins are situate ; and the veins (h) form curves (vasa vorUcosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent tnuiks. In the mterspaces of the vessels are the ramified pigment cells (fig. 228, ), which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colourmg matter. At the inner part of the choroid the vessels form a net- work of capillaries without pigment cells, and with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is described sometimes as a separate layer (tunica Ruyschiaim). In the ciliaiy processes there is a similar texture of ramihed bloodvessels though with larger capillary meshes than in the Fi<r. 220.* choroid and the intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter towards the free ends. Ciliary CiLiARY MUSCLE (fig. 229). In the eye from which the sclerotic muscle. ^.Qrj^i i^rjg hccn removed, the white band of the ciliary muscle (e) (annulus alhidus), may be seen in its natural position outside the front of the choroid coat. It consists of unstriatcd fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about •J^th of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat (fig. 229, c) : there are two sets of fibres in it, radiating and circular :— Radiating The radiating or superficial, arise in front from the sclerotic coat (fig. 225, fl), and the fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the * View of the front of the choroidal coat and iris—external sxn-face (Zinn). —a. Sclerotic, cut, and reflected, b. Choroid coat. c. Iris. d. Circular, e. Radiating fibres of ciliary muscle. /. Ciliary nerves, antl g, ciliary arteries between the two outer coats, h. Veins of the choroid coat.CILIARY MUSCLE AND IRIS. 729 <-oi'nea ; its iibrcs are directed backwards, and are inserted into the <^-horoid coat opposite to, and rather behind the cihary processes. The nerves to the iris pierce it. The circular fihres'J^Qi\m\y ligament, fig. 229, (1) are internal to circular the radiating, and form a ring about -^jfi^ of an inch wide around the edge of the iris : they are not attached to the sclerotic or the cornea. Use. The radiating fibres of the muscle draw forwards the fore Action, part of the choroid coat, and the ciliary processes, and thereby relax the suspensory ligament of the lens. The circular fibres are isaid to compress the outer part of the lens. The IRIS (fig. 229, c) is a vascular and muscular structure, about ins is vai . . . cular and half an inch in diameter, whose vessels are continuous with those nmscular. of the choroidal coat. Its position and connections may be observed in the different dissections that have been prepared. Placed within the ring of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in front Situation, of the lens (fig. 225,/), and is pierced by an aperture for the trans- mission of the light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured Form, in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference it is connected with the choroid coat and the Attach- posterior elastic layer of the cornea. The anterior surface is free ^ '. \iitcrioi' in the acpieous humour, and is marked by lines converging towards surface the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of posterior, pigment (fig. 225), to which the term uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 229) is the pupil of the eye ; this is Tlie central slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from -^-^yth to ^ of an inch) by the ■contraction of the muscular fibres, according to the degree of light dieting on the optic nerve. Membrane of the pupil. In the fetus the aperture of the pupil is ^[eInl)rane of tliG pnpil ■closed by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attached to lu theietus. the edge of the iris, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in Avhich the iris is suspended. The vessels in it are con- Situation; tinuous behind with those of the iris and the case of the lens. About the eighth month the vessels become impervious, and at the time of dis- time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. appearance. Structure (fig. 227). The stroma of the iris is composed of fibres ■of areolar tissue, arranged circularly at the circumference, and as ' radiating bundles passing like rays towards the pupil. In it are involuntary muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment cells. Vessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular Jibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig. 227, d) is a narrow Muscular hand about /oth of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on yjScter the posterior aspect of the iris. The dilator of the piupil (e) is said a„d dilator to begin at the outer border of the iris, and to consist of bundles of of pupil, fibres which join one another, and end internally in the sphincter. Action. Enlargement of the pupil is eflrected by shortenhig of the How they a-adiating fibres ; and diminution, by contraction of the circular • ring. The movements of the iris are involuntary and regulate the admission of light into the ball.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 730 Position and fomi of I'ig- inent cells The 2)igment cells are spread out in tlie stroma, and are disposed' also on both surfaces. In the stroma the}' are ramified and irre- Piguicnt Arteries are looped. gular, as in the choroid (lig. 228, and may contain j-ellow,. brown, or very dark pigment. On the front they are ovahsh or- rounded, but still ramified ; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uyea), the cells are round without outrunners, and are filled! with granules. The colour of the iris is dependent upon the tint,, gives colour. ^^^^^^ ^j^^ position of the pigment. The arteries of the iris (fig. 230, ^) have a looped an-angement: they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (r7), but some come Fig. 230.* from the vessels of the ciliary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the long ciliarj'- arteries form a circle (e) around the margin of the iris ; from this loop other anastomotic branches are directed towards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the arte- ries in their arrangement in the iris, and terminate in the- veins of the choroidal coat. The verves of the iris (fig-.. Veins. Ncn'es of the iris. Arteries of the eyeball are posterior ciliary ; two of tlicni named lonp ciliary. Anterior ciliary. 230, a) divide into branches, are with- which communicate, and extend towards the pupil ; they out dark outline, and their ending is not known. Ciliary Vessels and Kerves (fig. 229). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 46), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior and anterior,, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but they Avill not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. The posterior ciliary branches (j/) pierce the sclerotic coat around and close to the optic nerve, and running forwards on the choroid^ enter its substance at different points. Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards, one on each- side of the eyeball, and form a circle around the iris in the ciliary muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather- above, and the inner, rather below the middle. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, arc smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the iris. a. Half of the iris representing the nerves. a. Nerves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, 1), within it (Kijlliker). b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, c. Arch of vessels at tlie outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. </. Sphincter of the iris.CHAMBER OF AQUEOUS HUMOUR. branches (p. 4G) ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a hue behind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflammation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring around the cornea. The posterior ciliary veins (fig. 220) are conmionly four in number, Posterior and the branches entering these trunks form arches (/^) (vasa vorti- '^'^^''^y^^"'^'- cosa) on the surface of the choroid coat: they perforate the sclerotic layer at separate points, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. Anterior cilianj veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, anterior and accompany the ai-teries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- vehls? y thalmic : they conmiunicate with the venous space of the sinus cir- \/^ cularis iridis (p. 724). Tlie ciliary nerves (fig. 229, /) arc derived from the lenticular ciliary ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 95). Entering the back of the ^^^""'^^ eyeball Avith the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid, nearly as far as the ciliary muscle: at this spot the nei-\'es send otfsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the ciliary muscle, enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unknown. Offsets fi'om the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and end in iris the choroid. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 225). The space between spape ton- the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, taiuingaque- in-i Ti -1 TI P ous humour; contams a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the letus before the seventh month this intei-val is separated into two by the iris and the pupillaiy membrane, but in the adult it is only partly is jwrtly divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boun- two by the daries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a section has been made. The anterior chamber is tlie larger part of the space; it is limited Anterior in front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. The posterior chamber (i) is a narrow interv^al behind the iris at Posterior; the circumference, Avhich is bounded in front by the iris ; behind bound- by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous humour is quite ti'ansparent, and consists nearly of Af|ucous pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. The Retina (fig. 225, c). This layer (tunica nervea) is in part Retina con- continuous with the optic ners'-e, and is the most delicate of all the opt\Tuerve/ coats of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is fonned in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an Disseetion eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To Jetiiia.'^'''^ bring it into view on the eyeball in which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully Avith two pair of forceps, AN'hilst the eye is immersed in water or spirit. The retina is the most internal of the three concentric strata in Situation iu. the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and732 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Form aud extent. Cells pro- longed in front. Colour; traiisjia- rency and thickness. Outer sur- face i.s floc- culent. On the inner siu-- face are .seen jiorus opti- lUS, ycll(3\v spot. fovea cen- tralis. Layers in the retina. Fig. 231.* One of nerve substance lias two strata; the transparent mass (vitreous) in the interior. It is moulded upon, and supported b}^ the vitreous body ; and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, witli a harge aperture in front. Beginning behind at the optic }ien-e (fig. 225, c), the thin Layer extends forwards to the cihaiy processes (their outer extremities), where it ends in a wavy border—the ora serrata. AVhere the retina ceases in front, a thin gray Layer {ciliary part of the retina) composed of elongated nucleated cells, which are not nerve elements, is continued on as far as the tips of the ciliaiy pro- cesses (fig. 233, j) on which it ends. The retina is of a pinkish gray colour, and is seniitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it when the two external coats of the eye have been removed ; but it soon loses this translucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. Its thickness is greater at the pos- terior than the anterior part of the eyeball, being -g-Vth of an inch ill the former, and y^oth in the latter situation. On the outer surface of the dissected retina are some fine frag- ments of a structure (Jacob's membrane) to be noticed presently, which lloat in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed. The inner surface is smooth ; it is covered with folds in a pre- paration of an eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of the retina (fig. 231). In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, is a slightly elliptical yellow part (fig. 231), yV^h of an inch in diameter, which is named the yelloio sjiot (limbus luteus of Sommerring). Almost in the centre of that spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. Structure (fig. 232). In the retina are layers or strata with blood- vessels : viz., an inner (^), composed of nerve elements ; an outer Q) (Jacob's membrane), formed of peculiar bodies ; and an inter- mediate or granular layer ("-) ; and outside all is a pigmentary stratum. Passing through the layers of the retina except Jacob's and the pig- mentary, are minute threads—fibres of Miiller. The layer of nerve siihstance (^) is made up of nei-ve fibres, and of a molecular matrix containing different-sized nerve cells; these constituents have the following arrangement:— The tubules of the optic nerve (/;.), having become solid in texture * Objects on tlie inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the ball i.s the yellow limlnis luteus, here represented by shading ; and in its middle the dark spot. To the inner side is the nerve, with its accompanying artery. (Soramemng). °STRUCTURE OF RETINA. 733 Fig. 232.' Mm V. and gray in colour from the absence of the white substance of Schwann, radiate in bundles from the end of the optic trunk, and communicate together to construct a thin web at the inner aspect of the nervous layer; this delicate network with lengthened meshes chminishes in streno-th as it is followed forwards. Outside the nerve fibres is a stratum of molecular material (/), with large pale pyriform and roundish nucleated nerve cells (g) with offsets: this layer begins at the entrance of the optic nerve, and becomes thinner as it extends foi-wards. Around the optic nerve the cells are arranged in a layer one deep, but over the yellow spot theyare about six or eight deep ; near the ora serrata they are scattered in clusters. An offset from each cell is supposed to join internally the nerve fibres ; and other offsets are prolonged ex- ternally into the molecular material (/) and seem lost in it. The outer or columnar stratum (') (Jacob's membrane) consists of two different elements—rods and cones, which are arranged with their ends inwards and outwards. The rods (a) are elongated solid and grooved particles, which are pointed at the inner end, and are more numerous than the other ele- ments ; from their inner ends fine threads (rod-fibres) are prolonged througli the outer set of granules (c), and are there connected Avith ellip- tical transversely striated bodies. The cones (6) are shaped like a flask with a long neck, and liave the larger end turned inwards : they do not project so far out as the rods. AVhen viewed on the outer surface, they form large isolated an inner of altered nerve fibres ; and an outer of molecules, and nerve cells. Outer layer has special parts. Rotls, with fibre.?. Cones, form. * Magnified vertical section of the retina (altered from Kolliker)—1. Columnar layer with rocLs, a, and cones, b. 2. Granular layer with outer, c, and inner granules, e, and intermediate non-granular jxart, d. 3. Nervous layer with //, nerve cells, and h, nerve fibres : outside the cells is a finely granular part, /, and inside the fibres a limiting layer, i, formed by fibres of Miiller. On the left of the vertical section is an ideal plan of the connection of the several parts. Thus the nerve cell, y, unites internally with nerve fibres, and externally with the inner granular layer ; and the inner granular layer is fiu-ther joined by a thread (fibre of Midler) to the outer granular layer. k. Microscopic appearance of the outer sm-face of the retina over the yellow spot, where there ai'e only cones. I. Appearance of the retina near the yellow spot—a single circle of rods surrounding each cone ; in, appearance of the middle of the retina, a large number of the rods surrounding each cone. In all three figures the larger rings represent the cones, and the smaller ones the rods seen endwise.734 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and endiiiK. •Characters. Granular layer. Inner set of cells; ■outer set. Molecular •material. Fihrps of Jliiller. Extent. Connec- tions. Inner •€ndinr'. Structure of .yellow spot. <;o]oiu". Vessels. swellings (m) amongst the ends of the rods, and at a deeper level. By their inner ends they are united with a pear-shaped cell (fig. 232) in the outer part o£ the granular layer, and are said to reach as far as the molecular material (</) hetween the two sets of granules. In the fi-esh state both are soft, clear, and homogeneous, vnth a glistening appearance, but these characters are soon destroyed by water and other fluids : their structure is very uncertain. The granular layer (-) consists of innumerable rounded and ovalish bodies with imclei, Avhich are collected into two sets (c and e), with an intervening flue molecular material (d). In the inner set (e) there are several kinds of cells, whose nature is unknown : two sets, which are oval and nucleated, are said to have this arrangement:—One is connected with the fibres of Miiller; and the other has a fibre at each end, like a bipolar ganglion-cell, which is contmued outwards and inwards into the molecular material (d and/). In the outer set (c) two kinds of nucleated cells are to be recog- nized, which are connected with the fibres from the rods and cones in Jacob's layer. The cells of the rod-fibres, the most numerous, are elliptical, and marked b}- cross strife (Henle) (fig. 232). The cells of the cone-fibres are pyriform in shape, with the base turned to the cone, but are free from cross stripes. The hitervening molecular portion (d) has a striated appearance, from the passage of the fibres of Miiller through it. The fibres of Miiller (fig. 232) are extremely fine threads, which pierce the substance of the. retina, supi^orting and uniting the several layers, as with a framework of areolar tissue: they reach from Jacob's layer to the inner surface. As they pass through the granular layer they are connected Avith very fine threads amongst both set of gi-anules (c and e) ; and in the inner set (?) each possesses an oval nucleated cell. At the inner surface of the retina they are dilated and joined to each other, so as to construct a bounding stratum (i) {inemhrana Umitans interna) ; and at the outer part they are united into another boundaiy line at the bases of the cones (inemhrana Umitans externa). Structure of the yellow spot. The strata of the retina undergo modifications in the yellow spot, the chief of which are the follow- ing :—externally, the rods of Jacob's layer Q) are absent, and the cones become less bulged and longer towards the centre. Inter- nally, the nen^e cells {g) of the layer (•'') are six to eight deep, but the nerve fibres (Ji) gradually cease at the edge of the central fovea. The intermediate strata thin gradually towards the fovea centralis, where they are so blended as to render difficult their identification. The yellow colour is due to pigment diffused through the sub- stance, except through Jacob's membrane and the outer set of cells (c) of the granular layer. Water removes it easily. Capillary vessels occupy the yellow spot, whilst the larger branches pass aromxl on each side.VITREOUS BODY AND MEMBRANE. 735 The pigmentary layer (fig. 225) covers the outer surface of the Pigmentary retina, and is connected thereto by fine processes.* It consists of a single stratum of six sided nucleated cells, with granular contents (fig. 228, ^) which are applied to each other by the edges. Each '^^o"' ^orm^; possesses a nucleus towards the outer surface, and mucli pigment towards the inner. From the inner surface of the cells i^roiect characters ^ of cells * very hne threads, which penetrate between the rods and cones of ' -Jacob's layer. The pigmentary layer is constituted thus as far as the ora serrata of the retina ; but in front of that line, viz., on the •ciliary portion of the retina, the cells are rounded and full of pig- ►nient, and are continuous with the pigment on the ciliary processes extent. and back of the iris. Vessels of the retina. The central artery of the retina, accom- Vessels of . . retina ^anied by its vein, enters the eyeball through the optic nerve <(p. 46). Inside the retina the vessel divides into four or five branches ; these pierce the sti'atum of fibres (fig. 232, /i), and end in a network of capillaries amongst tire ganglion cells (</), and in the molecular material outside them (/). In the yellow spot only at yellow capillaries exist. In the fetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of Branch in the vitreous mass to supply the lens capsule. fetus. Vitreous Body. A transparent mass fills the greater part of the vitreous ;space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 225, 7i), which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistency of jelly. Dissection. The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which To obtain a the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, the iris, and ^^^^^ °^ the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, and of its an eyeball should be fixed upright ; the sclerotic and choroid coats •are to be cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; and on removing carefully the cornea, ciliary muscle and processes with the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The. vitreous body (fig. 225, li) is globuhar in form, and fills four- Part of the fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly f/yit*; hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule (^7), to which it is closely united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same Composi- ■ composition as the aqueous humour with some salts and albumen. Enveloping the whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the fine transparent covering of the Hyaloid '\'-itreous body. It passes continuously over the surface ; and in the ' fetus it is connected with fibres which penetrate the mass. On the Connec- inner aspect are a few delicate nuclei. At the fore part it is joined by the membrane (t) supporting the in front, lens ; and it ends by uniting with the back of the lens capsule, and behind. * In the dissection of the retina this pigmentary layer is removed with the ..choroid through the rupture of those processes ; and it has therefore been ■ commonly described as part of the choroid coat.736 Stniettire. Fibrous, with a central caiial. How nourished. Suspensory ligament, extent. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. At the bottom of tlie ball the membrane is closely connected with the retina. . Structure of the vitreous viass. From the slow escape of the fluid after puncture of the hyaloid membrane, it has been supposed that there are membranous partitions, dividing the \'itreous mass intO' compartments which communicate with each other. In the centre of tlie vitreous body is a fibrous canal, which reaches to the back of the lens, and transmits a branch from the central artery of the retina to the lens capsule in the fetus. The Aatreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extra-vasciilar, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensorj/ Urjament of the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a trans- parent membranous structure (fig. 233, 0) phaced around the len» capsule, which joins externally the hyaloid membrane opposite the Fig. 233.* is marked l)y folds called ciliaiy processes. Conditiou how altered. Petit: X situation : anterior part saccu- lated. anterior tcrmhiation (ora seixata) of the retina. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached fi-om it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface ; and when these are washed away plaits {ciliary j^rocesses) come into view, wliich are less prominent and longer than the processes of the choroid coat, and do not quite reach the lens capsule internally. The two sets of prominences are dovetailed together,—the projections of one being received intO' hollows between the other. In this membrane are stiff longitudinal and elastic fibres. The tenseness or laxness is influenced by the state of the ciliary muscle, for during its contraction the membrane is rendered lax by the drawing forwards of the ciliary processes. Canal of Petit. Around the margin of the lens capsule is a small canal (fig. 233, o) abont one tenth of an inch across, which is situate between the suspensory ligament and the fi'ont of the hyaloid mem- brane. When the canal has been opened, and filled Avdth air by means of a blowpipe, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the * Enlarged representation of the parts of the eyeball on one side opposite the lens: the letters refer to the same parts as in the woodcut, 255. d. Cornea, e. Ciliary muscle. /. Iris. (j. Lens. i. Posterior chamber, j. Ciliary part of the retina, m,. Ciliary ligament, n. Hyaloid membrane. 0. Canal of Petit, r. Simis circularis iridis. s. Ciliary process, i. Sus- jiensory ligament of the lens.737 LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. large intestine, by the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Lens and its capsule. The lens is situate behind the pupil of i-ens of the the eye (fig. 225, ry), and brings to a focus on the retina the light ^y®^""- passing through that aperture. The capsule is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which is Capsule of permeable to fluid, and closely surrounds the lens: it is seated in a ^^^^ hollow on the fi-ont of the vitreous body. The anterior part projects a„*d connec- towards the pupil ; whilst the posterior is received on the vitreous tions. mass, to which it is inseparably united. The circumference of the case corresponds with the canal of Petit (o). Its anterior surface (fig. 225) is free, and touches the iris (/), its anterior but is separated from it by a slight space at the outer part (poste- ' ■rior chamber, i) ; it gives attachment towards the circumference to the suspensory ligament {€). The fore part of the capsule is four or five times thicker than the very thick ; posterior, as far outwards as the attachment of the suspensory liga- ment, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm imd quite transparent, and remains clear for some time when im- is fii-m and mersed in spirit, acids, and boiling water, like the elastic layers of t^''^^®P'"'<"^t- the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule is thin and mem- Posterior In-anous, and decreases in thickness towards the centre : it is joined li^ro^^g"^ hy the hyaloid membrane («) of the vitreous body. In the adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not provided Vessels to it. with bloodvessels ; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery •of the retina supplies it (p. 735). Dissection. The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin Open eap- 'membranous capsule in wliich it is inclosed. suieofieus. The lens is a solid and transparent doubly convex body ; but the •curves are unequal on the two surfaces (fig. 225, g), the posterior equaUy; l)eing greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded ; dimensions; •and the measurement from side to side is one third of an inch, but fi-om before back about one fourth of an inch. The density density, increases fi-om the circumference to the centre; for whilst the superficial part may be rubbed off with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines or stella? diverging from the centre, on the ?ind reaching towards the margin ; they are the edges of planes or septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifiu-cate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the anterior surface of the lens, and connecting it with A layer of the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated polygonal cells, to the clip- Avhich can be recognised only in a fi-esh eye : these become elon- siiie, gated towards the circumference of the lens, and seem to pass into the superficial lens-fibres. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling, J^ens^J^s it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers (fig. 234) arranged one within another, hke those in an onion. Under the 3 b738 Form of the lainiua\ Fibres DISSECTION OF THE EYE, anicroscope each layer may be seen to be const™cted ol^^hmt^ parallel fibres. It consists mostly of albumen, and no bloodvessels are found in its texture. _ . „.i,^rfv The lamina of each surface have their apices m the centie, whem the septa meet; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and may be turned outwards towards the equator of the lens The constituent^fcr^s of the laminai are about ^oW^ Fig. 235. t are wavy at the edge, and six- sided. in diameter, sohd, and flattened at the margin of the lens deeper fibres are nanowed and less distinct. In the superficial softer fibres are contained gra- nular nuclei (fig. 235, «). The edges are slightly wavy ; and each fibre touches six others (fig. 235, b), viz. two on each side, with one above, and another below : contiguous fibres are Fig. 234.* and the and attached to the septa by their ends. Change in form, colour, and consistence of lens with therefore dovetailed together, and this interlocking is best seen in the lens of the codfish. The ends are soft and not well defined, and are connected with the partitions on the opposite surfaces of the lens in this way :— those attached at the union of two septa on the one aspect, are fixed to the extremity of a septum on the other aspect: and the fibres passing between two septa are nearer to the pole at one end^ and farther from it at the other, Avhile the middle ones are at the same distance from the ends of the septa on both aspects. Chamjes in tJie lens loitli age. The form of the lens is nearly spherical in the fetus ; but its convexity decreases with age, particularly on the anterior aspect, until it becomes flattened iii the adult. In the fetus it is soft, is reddish in colour, and is not quite trans- parent ; in mature age it is firm and clear; and in old age it becomes flatter on both surfaces, denser, and of a yellowish colour. * A representation of tlie laminae in a hardened lens. a. The nucleus. 1). Superficial laminae. + Views of the lens fibres after Henle.—a. Surface fibres with their nuclei, in the equatorial region of the lens. h. Transverse section of the fibres of the surface of the leus, showing their union with others.CHAPTER XI. DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The organ of hearing is made up of complex parts, which are Constitu- lodged in, and attached to the surface of the temporal bone. The fundamental structure, as in the eyeball, is an expansion of Outline of a special nerve over a membrane containing fluid. This delicate helriii°^ apparatus is enclosed in bone for its protection ; and it is surrounded by certain accessory bodies which convey to it the vibrations pro- duced by the sonorous undulations of the air. The auditory apparatus may be arranged into the parts outside, Arrange- and those within the substance of the temporal bone. tvro sets * In the EXTERNAL SET wluch may be first examined, are included outer set the pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal : the former has been noticed at p. 33, and the latter is described below. The AUDITORY CANAL (fig. 236) (ineutus auditorius 6xt6imus) is the Auditory passage which leads from the pinna to the ca^'lty (tympanum) in the temporal bone, and transmits inwards sonorous imdulations of the air. Dissection. To obtain a view of this canal, a recent temporal How to ob- bone is to be taken, to wlaich the cartilaginous pinna remains ont.*^ ^^^^ attached. x\fter the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn ofE; and the front of the meatus, except a ring internally which gives suppox-t to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone forceps. The canal (fig. 236) is about one inch and a quarter in length. Length, and is formed ]3art]y by bone, and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely. In shape it is rather flattened from direction, before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous part. The size and outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ^ ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The cartilaginous part (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in cartiiagi- length, and is formed chiefly by the pinna of the outer ear which i^'"'* is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed is deficient by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) cross the piece of cartilage. The osseous part (b) is about three quarters of an inch long in Osseous the adult, and is constricted sometimes about the middle. Its outer ^''^'■'^' 3 B 2740 outer end, inner end. Condition in the fetus. Lining membrane of the skin. DISSECTION OF THE EAR. extremity is clilated, and the posterior part projects farther than tho anterior ; the greater portion of the margin is rough, and gives at- tachment to the cartilage of the pinna. The inner end is smaller, and is marked in the dry bone by a groove for the msertion ot the membrane of the tympanmn ; it is so sloped that the anterior wall juts beyond the posterior by about two lines. In the fetus the osseous part of the meatus is absent. After birth it grows out of the osseous ring (tympanic bone) which supports the membrana tympani. Lining of the meatus. A prolongation of the integument lines the auditory passage, and is imited more closely to the osseous than Fiff. 23G.* glands. the cartilaginous portion ; it is continued over the membrane of the tympanum in the form of a thin pellicle. At the entrance of the meatus are a few hairs. In the subcutaneous tissue of the carti- Cemminous laginous part of the meatus lie some ceruminous glands of a yellow- brown colour, resembling in form and arrangement the sweat glands of the skin ; these secrete the ear wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices : they are absent in the osseous part, and are most abundant in that portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. Vessels ami nerves. The meatus receives its arteries fi'om the pos- terior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the temporal branch of the external carotid. Its nerves are derived fi'om the auriculo-tem- poral branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditoiy passage be- tween the bone and the cartilage (p. 91). * Vertical section of the meatus auditorius and tympanum (Scai*pa). a. Cartilaginous pai-t of the meatus, h. Osseous portion, c, Memhi'ana tympani. d. Cavity of the tympanum, e. Eustachian tube. Vessels. Nerves.741 BOUNDARIES OF TYMPANUM. Inner parts of the ear. The internal constituents of the organ internal set of hearing are enclosed within the temporal bone, and consist of part?'*°'^^ two large spaces,—tympanum and labyrinth, Avith their accessory parts. The TYMTANUJr, or drum of the ear (fig. 236, d), is a hollow inter- Tympanum, posed between the meatus auditorius and the labyrinth. It commu- nicates with the pharynx by a tube (e) (Eustachian), through which the air has access ; and it is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are connected. Minute vessels and nerves are contained in the space. Dissection. The tynapanic cavity should be examined in both a dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the squamous Open it in portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw tlirough the root of ^oue the zygoma and the Glaserian fissure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone forceps some of the upper surface of the petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the dissection as above, but without ^^'^tiie doing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. Form. The cavity of the tympanum has the fonn of a slice of a Form and small cork, about a quarter of an inch thick, the outer and inner boundaries being flattened and the circumference circular. Its size is greater across the space, than from without inwards ; in the former dimensions. direction it measures about half an inch, but in the latter not mox'e than a quarter of an inch. The inner houndani (fig. 237) is of greater extent than the outer, inner wall . . is marked and on it the following objects are to be noticed. Occupying nearly by promon- the whole surface is the large projection of the j^romontoivj (a) ; i°g"^j*"ygg. this is i^ointed posteriorly, and is marked by two or three minute grooves (d) which lodge the nerves in the anastomosis of Jacobson. Above and below the narrowed part of the promontoiy is a large aperture ; both lead into the labyrinth. The upper opening (b) semicircular in shape, with the convexity fenestra placed upwards, is named fenestra ovalis: into it the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture (c),— fenestra rotunda, is rather triangular in shape, and leads into the and fenestra cochlea ; it is situate within a hollow, which is somewhat semi-ellip- tical in form. In the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane, the secondary membrane of the tympanum. The outer boundary of the caAdty is formed by the membrana tympani (fig. 236, c), and the suiTOunding bone. Above and in membrana front of the membrane, is the Glaserian or glenoid fissure, which is ^^^^q^^^_ occupied in the fresh condition by the long process of one of the rian fissure, small bones (malleus) ; by a small muscle, the laxator tympani ; and by tympanic vessels. Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues through the Glaserian fissure. The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and is rough and ^^^^"^^'^DISSECTION OF THE EAE. 742 the roof; the floor. At back, opening of mastoid cells; pyramid; uneven on the surface here and there : round it the student may observe the followuig facts. The roof is flattened, and consists of the thin osseous phate sepa- rating the tympanic cavity from the cranium. The floor is narrower than the roof, and is curved over the subjacent juguLar fossa; it has more or less of an areolar condition, and some small apeilures communicate with the fossa beneath. At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large, with other small apertures, leading into the mastoid cells (fig. 237). Below those apertures, but near the inner wall and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontory, is the small conical hollow projection (e) of the pyramid ; this is perforated by Fig. 237.* an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle ; a minute canal con- nects its cavity with the aqueduct of Fallopius : sometimes a small round spiculum of bone attaches the pyramid to the promontory. In aqueduct of a line with the pyramid, and arching upwards above the fenestra Fallopius. ovalis, is a bony ridge (/) marldng the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. In front The fi'ont of the tympanic ca-sdty corresponds with the carotid tensor tym- artery, only a thin piece of bone intervening. In it are the aper- Eustachiau ^^^'^^ '^^ ^^^^ canals which lie on the outer side of the passage for tube. the vessel: the upper (li) contains the tensor tympani muscle ; and the lower (i) is the Eustachian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, which is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and is named j^rocessus cochleariformis. Some parts that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tympanic mem- brane, require separate notice. Membrana The niemhrana tympani (fig, 238, a) is a thin translucent stratum * View of the inner wall of the tympanum enlarged (Bowman), a. Promon- toiy. h. Fenestra ovalis. c. Fenestra rotunda, d. Nerve grooves on the promontory, c. Pyramid. /. Prominence of aqueduct of Fallopius. g. Open- ings of mastoid cells, h. Canal of tensor tympani. i. Osseous part of Eusta- chian tube. Ic, Internal carotid artery. I. Facial nerve.SPECIAL PARTS IN TYMPANUM. 743 between the meatus aTiditorius and the cavity of the tympanum, tympani; It measures one third of im inch across, is oval in form, and is adidV attached by its circumference to a groove at the inner end of the auditory passage ; but in the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous and the ring, the tympanic bone. The membrane is phaced verj^ obhquely . so that it forms \vith the floor of the meatus an angle of 45 degrees, ' and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditory surfaces, canal the surface is concave ; but in the tympanum it is convex, and attached to its upper half is the handle of the malleus (6),— one of the ossicles. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, i*'-^ formed internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- lar, cpithe- ments of the meatus auditorius; and the ^'^^^ inner is derived from the mucous membrane Fig- 238.* of the typanum. The middle layer is formed _^ fibrous of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and is ^/ a stiatum. fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is connected with the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference; and near the margin, at the inner surface, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 238, c), wdiich bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. The Eustachian tube (fig. 236, e) is the channel through which Eustar-liian tUDP Ills / the tympanic cavity communicates with the fauces. It is about an ' ,y/ inch and a half in length, and is directed do^vnwards and inwards to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and is narrowed at the middle. Its course in the temporal bone is along gj^^jj^j^,^ the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated ^^'^j*^""'" and somewhat oval opening, with an ii-regular margin, which gives attachment to the cartilage. The cartilaginous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, cartilagi- and extends fifom the temporal bone to the interior of the phaiynx (p. 126). Throuffh this tube the mucous membrane of the drum of the car Use of the o tube, is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The secondary membrane of the tympanum is placed within the ?^^'^f",|g™j^^^ fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, rotunda:' but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of tlu-ec strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the cavity, viz. an external or mucous, derived from the * Inner view of the membrana tympani in the fetus with the malleus attached, a. Membrane or drum of the tympanum, h. Malleus, c. Band of circular fibres at the circumference, d. Inferior, and c, superior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.DISSECTION OF THE EAE. 744 of three layers. Ossicles of the tjTupa- num ;irc three. Malleus has head, neck, handle: short and long I)rocess. Incus, its body : lining of the tympanum; an internal or serous, continous with that clothing the cochlea; and a central layer of fibrous tissue. Ossicles of the Tympanum (fig. 240). Three in nun^ber, they are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; tlie next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stiiTup. For their examination the student sliould be provided with some separate ossicles. The malleus (fig. 239) is the longest bone, and is twisted and bent. It is large at one end (a) (head) and small and pointed at the other (c) (handle); and it has two processes with a narrowed part or neck. Tlie head or capitulum («) is free in the cavity, is oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression for articulation with the next bone. The nech (b) is the slightly twisted part between the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before backwards; but at the extremity it is com- pressed from within outwards: to its outer margin the special fibrous stratum of the merabrana tympani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in number, long and short. The short one (e) springs from the root of the handle on the outer side, and touches the membrane of the tympanum. The long process— processus gracilis {d), is a flattened slender piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure : in the adult this process is joined with the surrounding bone, and cannot be separated from it. The incus is a flattened bone (fig. 239), and possesses a body and two processes. The body (b) is hollowed at the upper and anterior Fig. 239.* processes; short and long. part to articulate with the malleus. The two processes (short and long) extend from the side opposite to the articulation :—The shorter process (c) is somewhat conical, and is received into the laro-e aper ture of the mastoid cells : the long process (d) decreases towards the extremity, where it curves, and ends in a rounded point (e) the or oicular process. . ^ i?V!"''^ the tympanum : the central bone is the malleus the eft-hand l^one, incus and the right-hand one stapes. Malleus a fead f'of ' y,^' long> apd c, short process. In us Head VOSSICLES, LIGAMENTS, AND MUSCLES. 745 The stapes (fig. 239) lias a base or wider part, and a head, with Stapes: two sides or crura, Hke a stin-up. The base (d) is formed by a base; thin osseous plate, which is convex at one margin and almost straight at the other, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis : the surface turned to the vestibule is convex, Avhile the opposite is cxcaA-ated. The head (a) is marked by a superficial head; depression which receives the orbicular process of the incus ; and below it is a constricted part (&), the neck of the bone. The a-ura crma- (f) extend fi-om the neck to the base, and are grooved on the inner surface : the anterior crus is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of the ossicles (fig. 240). The malleus (d) is placed verti- Position of cally in the tympanum, with the head upwards, and the joint sur- face turned backwards to articulate with the incus. Its handle is inserted externally into the membrana tympani between the mucous and fibrous layers ; and its long process is directed forwards into the Glaserian fissure. The incus (e) is also upright, so that the long process is vertical, of the incus^ and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united with the mal- leus ; the short process is received into the large aperture of the mastoid cells ; and the long one descends, like the handle of the malleus, but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the and of the cavity, to join inferiorly Avith the stapes. The stirrup bone (/) has a horizontal position, with the crura directed forwards and backwards : its base is fixed over the fe- nestra ovalis, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. Lirjaments of the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity are united into one chain by joints, and are further kept in i^osition sets of liga- by ligaments fixing them to the surrounding wall. mcuts; Joints of the hones. Where the ossicles touch they are connected [ojjj'^one'to together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger another bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are sur- rounded by a thin capsular lir/ament of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second be- hy joints, tween the extremity of the long process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Union of the hones to the roall. The bones are kept in place by the or to Mx reflection of the mucous membrane over them, and by special liga- tynlpauic ments. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of wall, fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band {posterior) passes backwards fi-om the incus, near the end of its short process, to the bone supporting it. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by ^ fibres constituting an orhicular ligament. In the recent bone the thin mucous membrane closes the interval Membrane betAveen the crura of the stapes, and is attached to the groove on the inner aspect. Muscles of the ossicles (fig. 240). Three muscles which possess ThreeDISSECTION OF THE EAR. 746 mnscles to the ossicles. Tensor tym- l>uiii. Origin. Insertion. Use. Laxator tympani. Origin. Insertion. Use. Stapedius attached to stapes. Use. Lining of tympanum. transversely striated fibres are connected with the chain of bones ; two of these are attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. The tensor tympani (fig. 240, h) (internal muscle of the malleus) is the largest and most distinct of the nmscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of its containing tube, Avhich must be laid open to see it completely. The muscle arises fi-om the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform process, Fig. 240,* and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the mal- leus, near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the membrane of the tympanum ; and as the long process of the incus is moved inwards with the malleus the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra ovalis. Laxator tijmjjani (fig. 240, </) (external muscle of the malleus). It is connected externally with the spinous process of the sphe- noid bone ; and passing through the Glascrian fissure, it is at- tached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Action. The muscle draws inwards and forwards the upper part of the malleus, and tilts outwards the handle, so as to relax the membrana tympani ; and on the cessation of the contraction of the tensor, it can move out the bony chain. The staindius (fig. 240, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small tendon, which issues from the pja-amid, and is inserted into the neck of the stapes at the posterior part. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminish- ing the pressure on the fluid in the vestibule ; and supposing it to contract sinndtaneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous memhi'ane of the tymjMnum. The mucous lining of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall ; it is contmuons with * Plan of the ossicles in position in tlie tympanum with their muscles. a. Cavity of the tjanpannm. b. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. Malleus, c. Incus. /. Stapes, y. Laxator tympani muscle, h. Tensor tympani. i. Stapedius.747 VESSELS AND NERVES OF TYMPANUM. that of the pharynx through the Eustacliiau tube, and is prolonged into the mastoid cells through the apertures leading into them. It assists to form part of the memhrana tympani, and of the Arraiige- secondary membrane in the fenestra rotunda ; it is reflected also cavity." over the chain of bones and the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tympani nerve. In the tympanum the membrane is thin, not very In Eusta- vascular, and secretes a watery fluid ; but in the lower part of the Eustachian tube it is thick and more vascular, is provided with numerous glands, and its epitheliuui is laminated. Its surface is covered with a columnar ciliated epithelium, but on Eiiithelium. the membrana tympani and the ossicula it is laminar and unciliated. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the tympanum are furnished from Ai-teries are the following branches of the external carotid, viz., internal maxil- carotids! lary, posterior auricular, ascending pharyngeal ; and some offsets come fi'om the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The veins join Veins, the middle meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery supplies a tympanic hrancJi (fig. -^^'j ' 238, d) (inferior, p. 88), which enters the cavity through the lary, Olaserian fissure, and distributes a branch to the membrane of the tympanum. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery (p. 80), posterior entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to '^^^''^^'^^i' the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set,sup)erior tijmpanic (fig. 238, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharvngeal, or fi-om the in- inferior ferior palatine artery, enter the fore part of the space by the Eustachian tube. Nerves. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied from Nei-vcs from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic sources, nerve : but the muscles derive their nerves fi'om other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 241). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will Dissection to require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in JjeJver*''' diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened entire; afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the skull; and the fine auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. Ill), outsiiie Supposing the nerve to be found, the student should place the cavltyr'^ scalpel on the outer side of the Eustacliian tube, and carry it back- wards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to and inside be followed in its canal ; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pursued:—one of these arch- ing forwards joins in the carotid plexus ; and two others directedDISSECTION OF THE EAE. 748 Tympanic nerve supplies ineiuljranc and other ■branches, viz,: upwards, unite with the large superficial petrosal, and the facial nerve. The connections of the chorda tyinpani nerve can be seen on tlie preparation used for the muscles. The Uimpanic hranch of the glosso-pharyngeal nen^e (fig. 241, -) nerve of Jacobson (p. 109) enters a special aperture in the temporal bone, to reach the inner wall of the tympanum. In this cavity the nerve supplies filaments to the lining membrane and the fenestra Fiir. 241.* One to the .sympa- thetic. Another to petrosal nerve. And a third to otic ganglion: rotunda ; and it terminates in the three undermentioned branches, which are contained in grooves on the promontory, and connect this nerve with others.f Branches. One branch is arched foi-wards and downwards, and enters the carotid canal to communicate with the S}Tnpathetic (•'') on the artery (p. 116). A second (^) is directed upwards to join the large superficial petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii. And the third C) has the following course:—It ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and near the gangliform enlargement on the * Jacobson's nerve in the tympanum (Breschet).—o. Carotid arterj-. b. Tensor tympani muscle. c Inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. d. Otic ganglion. Nerves : 1. Petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Nerve of Jacobson. 3. Sympathetic on the carotid. 4. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 5. Offset to join large petrosal nerve. 6. Branch to Eustachian tube. 7. Facial nerve ; 8, chorda tympani branch. 9. Nerve of the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. t Instead of viemng these filaments as offsets of the nerve of Jacobson, they may be supposed to come from the other nerves : according to this view the tympanic plexus would be derived from several sources.749 BOUNDARIES OF VESTIBULE. facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (fig. 35). Be- this called yond the union with the facial, the nerve is named small superficial y"}^' 2)eti'osal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 14G). Nerves to muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a Nerves for branch from the otic ganghon (fig. 241, ^): the stapedius receives ''^^^cies. an offset from the facial trunk ; and the laxator tj^pani from the chorda tympani nerve (?). The chorda tijmpani (fig. 241, is a branch of the facial ncr^e Chorda_ (p. 146). Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana crosses^ tympani, and issues fi'om the space by an aperture in, or internal cavity, to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the gustatory nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 92. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a nerve of Brancli of the tympanum, is an offset to the outer ear, and maybe now traced ojJterej*/^'^ in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. Ill), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. The labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing is so Labyrinth named from its complexness. It consists of three spaces sur- osseoas and rounded by dense bone ; and of sacs containing fluid for the membra- expansion of the auditory nerve, which are contained within the former. The OSSEOUS labyrinth includes the vestibule, the semicircular Constitu- cuts of the canals, and the cochlea: these communicate externally with the osseous tympanum, and internally, through the meatus auditorius internus, P'""*- with the cranial ca^'^ty. The vestibuli; (fig. 242), or the central cavity of the osseous Vestibule labj-rinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in fi'ont of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has Dissection been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to ° ' • be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear ; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the knowledge and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 242) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- Form and treraities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under part or floor is more nan-owed tlian the upper part or roof. It measures about ith of an inch in length, dimensions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of tlie space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (^r) leading Apertures into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the three Leh'ind!^ semi-circular canals (f/, /). The outer wall con-esponds with the tympanum, and in it is the i» outer wall.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 760 Ci-est on aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On tlie inner ^vall, nearer the front inner wall: ^^^^^^ ^^ic back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista (&). In front of it- front of the ridge is situate a circidar depression,/wm hemis- pherica (a), which is pierced by minute apertures for nerves and Fig. 242.* and aque- duct beliind. Roof has ii fossil. Three semi- circular canals;' preparation of them. Length. Termination by five open- ings : one end dilated. vessels, and corresponds with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. Beliind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two of the semicircular canals, is the small aperture of the aqueduct of the vestibule (c), which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The roof is occupied by a slight transversely oval depression^ fovea semi-elliptica ; this is separated fi-om the fovea hemispherica by a prolongation of the crista (&) on the inner wall before men- tioned. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS (fig. 243) are three osseous tubes, which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. Dissection. These small canals will be easily brought into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or hone forceps. Two may be seen openhig near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are unequal in length, and each fonns more than half an ellipse. They communicate at each end Avith the vestibule, but ■ the contiguous ends of two are hlended together so as to give only five openings into that cavitj'. Each is marked by one dilated * View of the vestibule obtained by cutting away the outer boundary in a fetus, enlarged three times. a. Fovea hemispherica. h. Crista vestibuli. c. Aperture of aqueduct of the vestibule, d. Common opening of two semi- circular canals, e. Upper vertical semicircular canal pai'tly laid open. /. Horizontal semicircular canal, partly opened. fj. Opening of the scala vestibuli.751 SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. and horw zoutal. extremity which is called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across Form and it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -J^th of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been They are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizontal. named The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of the superior petrous part of the temporal bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, Avhilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical tube (&) is directed backwards from its posterior junction with the preceding towards the posterior sm-face of the ' temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior ver- Fig. 243.* tical canal, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal (c) has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level Avith the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining inemhrane of the osseous lahyrinth. A thin fibrous perios- teal membrane lines the vesti- bule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scala vestibuli (fig. 242, g). The outer surface of the membrane is adherent to the bone; but lias an the inner is covered by a single layer of flattened epithelium. It ^^^^ ' ^' ^ is supplied by the vestibular vessels; and it secretes a thin serous and con- tiiins fli fluid, liquor Cotunnii^ or perilymph^ which surrounds the membran- fluui. ous labyrinth, and occupies for a short distance the aqueduct: this fluid also fills the scala3 of the cochlea. Cochlea. Tliis part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior Cochlea, to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to Dissection cut or file away the bone between the promontoiy of the tympanum °^' and the meatus auditorius internus, on the preparation before used Fibrous mem!)raue lines the labyrinth; * Representation of the semicircular canals enlarged (from a model in University College Museum), a, Upper vertical; h, posterior vertical; and c, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule. Part of752 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. and recent bone. Foviii and •situation; ■.size; ve.senibles ;i snail-.shell in some respects. A central )iillar or axis: for displaying tlie vestibule; or this section ma}'- be made on an- other tenif)oral bojie in which the semicircular canals arc not laid bare. For the same dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea (fig. 244) is conical in form, and is lolaced almost horizontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertures; whilst the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Resembling a spiral shell in construction, the cochlea consists of a tube wound round a central part or axis; but it differs from the shell in having its tube subdivided by a partition. The axis or modiolus (fig. 244, o) is the central stem which sup- ports the windings of the spiral tube. Conical in shape, its size Fi?. 244.* 7/t-. is conical; and porous. A spiral tube closed at one end forms 2J turns; " niea.sure- inent; coils. diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (&), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- tracted part in the last half turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the stem, and terminates above in a closed extremity named tlie cupola. When measured along the outer side, it is about one inch and a half long. Its diameter at the beginning is about one tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest; this projects towards the tympanum, and gives rise to the emiitence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first coil. The last half turn bends * Section through the cochlea (Breschet). a. Axis with its canals & Infundibulum or enlarged upper end of the axis. c. Septum of the cochlea" d. Membrane of Corti. c. Membrane of Reissner. /. Hiatus or heUcol trema. s.t. Scala tympani. s.v. Scala vestibuli.753 COMPOSITION OF SEPTUM COCHLEAE. sharply round, and presents a free margin (b) (the edge of the axis). In the recent bone the tube is divided into two main passages Tube divided (scahi2) by the septum (fig. 244, c). In the dry bone a remnant of '^^^ this partition is seen in the form of a thin plate of bone,—lamina spirahs, projecting from the axis ; and on the outer wall is a slight groove, opposite the ridge of bone. Septum of the spiral tube (fig. 245). Tlie partition in the recent Septum bone dividing the tube of the cochlea into two passages, consists of n°em-^'^ an osseous and a membranous portion :— brauous. The osseous pai-t (^), formed hy the lamina spiralis, extends about Osseous half way across the tube. Inf eriorly it begins in the vestibule, where ^'^^'^" Fi?. 215.* it is wide, and is attached to the outer wall so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity ; and diminisliing in size ends above in a point,—the hamulus, opposite the last half turn of the cochlea. Between the hamulus and the axis is a space, which is ends above converted by the membranous part of the septum into a foramen (fig. 244,/) (hiatus, heUcotrema), and allows the intercommunication arurture. of the two chief passages of the cochlear tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates of bone, wliich en- Lamina close canals for vessels and nerves, and are separated farthest from '^P^''^'* * A (lia'Tam of a section of the tube of the cochlea enlarged (modified from Henle). SV. Scala vestibuli. ST. Scala tymijani. CC. Canal of the cochlea. 1. Membrane of Eeissner. 2. Cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. 3. Lamina spiralis ossea, 4. Ligamentum spirale. a. Lamina den- ticulata. b. Sulcus spiralis, c. Tympanic lip of the sulcus spiralis, d. Inner rods of Corti. e. Outer rods of Corti. /. Lamina reticularis, i. Inner hair cells, m b. Membrana basilaris. m c. Membrane of Corti. p. Outer hair cells, s m. Central space between the rods. 3 cDISSECTION OF THE EAR. 754 differs on two surfaces; denticulate Btructure. Sulcus spiralis. Jlem- brauous part: width aud extent. Is glassy looking, with trans- verse lines. Spiral ligament. Scalcie of the coch- lear tube. Position, extent; joined above, separate below. They differ in extent aud size: opening in lower. Lining membrane, and con- tents. Subdivision of coclilea Jrcmbrane of Reissner. each other at the axis. The surface of the lamina which is turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages (st) is most pierced by apertures. The opposite surface is covered in the outer fiflh of its extent by a border or Unihus of fibrous structure (a), which ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the mai-gin of the bony plate, (denticulate lamina, Bowman). Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (Z*), lined by flat epithelium, which is called sulcus spiralis : its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The memhranous part of the septum (membrana basilaris, fig. 245, m h) reaches from the lower edge (c) of the lamina spiralis to the gi-oove in the outer wall of the cochlear tube. Its width varies:— near the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube, but at the apex, where the bony part is wanting, it constructs the septum altogether. This membrane is firm and stiff, and possesses fine i-adiating lines, which cause it to split in shreds. At its outer attachment there is a fibrous band (•*) (ligamentum spirale, Kolhker) fixing it to the bone. Scakc of ilie coclilea (fig. 244). The tube of the cochlea is di^^ded by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is the scala tympani (st) and the other scala vestibuli (sv) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by two canals being cut off from it by mem- branes. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli (sv) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above they communi- cate through the aperture named helico-trema (/). Below they end difi:erently, as the names express :—the scala vestibuli opens into the front of the vestibule (fig. 242, g) ; but the scala tympani is shut ont from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochleaj, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra ro- tunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tj-mpanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into the apex of the cochlea ; whilst the tympanic scala is largest near the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the coclilea, which begins close to a ridge near the lower end of the scala, and opens at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The scalar are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins tlie fibrous process in the aqueduct of the cochlea. The fluid of the vestibular space fills both scalro. Smaller tartitions of the cochlea (fig, 245). Two thin mem- branes are prolonged fi-om the septum to the outer wall, across the vestibular scala. One is called membrane of Keissner, and the other membrane of Corti. The memhrane of Reissner (^), which is easily torn, is prolonged obliquely from the upper surface of the septum cochlea;, where theCOCHLEAR PASSAGES .VND ORGAN OF CORTl. 755 limbns ends, to the outer part of tlie tube of the cochlea, so as to cut off a small channel,—the canal of the cochlea (cc). It is formed by a very thin layer of fine connective tissue with blood capillaries, and is covered by the epithelial lining of the two spaces between which it intervenes. The membrane of Corti (mc) (membrana tectoiia) stretches liori- Membrane zontally across the tube of the cochlea near, and parallel to the membrana basilaris. Internally it is attached to the limbus of the septum cochlete, and externally to the wall of the cochlear tube. It is a thin elastic transversely-fibred layer, which is thicker inter- nally than externally. Between it and the membrana basilaris (mh) is a narrow channel for the reception of the organ of Corti. Smaller passages op the cochlea (fig. 245). The spaces re- smau spaces suiting frona the subdivision of the scala vestibuli by the membranes of cochlea, above noticed are two in number, viz., canal of the cochlea, and space for the organ of Corti. The canal or duct of the cochlea (cc) is the narrow interval Duct of the towards the outer part of the cochlear tube, between the membrane of Reissner 0), and the membrane of Corti (inc). It extends from apex to base of the cochlea like the larger scaUc ; it is lined by epithelium, and contains a fluid (endolymph). Above it reaches into the cupola and is closed. Below it is joined ciosea by a very small tube (fig. 246, c) (canalis reuniens Hensen), with the saccule in the vestibule. ciucrbeiow. The spoce for the organ of Corti is a narrow interval correspond- smallest ing in depth with the sulcus spirahs, and is placed between the space, membrane of Corti (rnc) and the membrana basilaris (^mh). It i^o^m'^f^ries. contains the organ of Corti and is filled with fluid. The organ of Corti (fig. 245) rests on the membrana basilaris Organ of (//i&), and occupies the narrow space between this and the mem- brane of Corti; it consists of rods and cells placed vertically on each side of a median space (sm). The rods are firm peculiar bodies, which are arranged in two Two rows of rows {d and e) over an intervening triangular space ; they slant towards each other above, and are separated below like the rafters position in a roof. The inner row, the more numerous, are in contact with each other on the sides, and the outer set touch only by the upper end. Where they touch above they are flattened and directed out, and ^ ^ tlie inner (fZ) overla^jping the outer (e) ; and where they rest on the membrana basilaris each is provided Avith a nucleus-hke body. The cells^ somewhat like columnar epithelium, (fig. 245) are nucleated, and are arranged vertically on the sides of the rods ; the "^'^yH lower end is furnished with a process which is directed to the membrana basilaris, and the other placed upwards, is provided with stiff filaments or hairs. The inner set (/) stand in a single line between the sulcus spiralis inner set, and the inner row of rods. The other set (p) four deep, are flat- and outer tened and riband-like, and bulged below, and are placed outside the external row of rods ; the filaments at the upper end project through apertures in the layer (/) above tliem. 3 c 2DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 756 Lainuia reticularis. Two saos Hoat in fluid of labjTiutli. Dissection of them in a fresh bone. Lamina reticularis (/) (Kulliker). A veiy thm layer of flattened particles (phalanges) is continued over the outer half of the organ of Corti; in it are apertures, through which pass the filaments at the end of the cells. And around the upper ends of the inner cells is a similar uniting material. It is supposed to fix and keep in place the cells. Eintbelium. An epithelial layer, consisting of cubical cells, covers the floor of the space outside and inside the organ of Corti. The MEMBKAXOUS LABYRINTH (fig. 24G) is Constituted of sacs, con- taining fluid, in which the auditory nerve is expanded. The sacs are two in number, viz., utricle and saccule, and have the general shape of the surrounding bony parts ; they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals. Surrounding them is tlie perilymiDhic fluid. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone wliich has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous stnictures "\\'ithin it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. A microscope will be needed for the comiDlete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood-vessels a minute injection will be required. The utricle (fig. 246, rf), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is trans- versely oval in form, and connected with it i^osteriorly are three looped tubes, which are prolonged into the semicircular canals. These prolongations {rj) are smaller than the osseous tubes, being only one third of their diameter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is filled by fluid—the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they are marked at one end by a dilatation (/) corresponding with the ampulla of the osseous tube ; and, further, two are blended at one end, hke the canals they occupy : they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the fluid of that sac. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection into the interior of the cavity, and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the Avail. The utricle and its offsets are filled with a clear fluid, like Avater which is named endolymph; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit (otolith, e) opposite the entrance of the nen-e into it. The saccule (fig. 246, o) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It is separate from the other ; but it is continuous, beloAv, by a short and small duct (c, ductus reunicns) with the The utricle, situation, and form It sends tul)os into tlie arclied canals ; they are ililated at one end. and contain a fluid. Endolympli and otolith. Smaller sac is before the other, .joins (■anal of <!ochlea: fluid in it. canal of the cochlea. Like the larger sac it has a translucent wall, in which IS an757 STEUCTURE OF MEMBRANOUS SACS. otolith (h) opposite the entrance of the nerve ; it is also filled by endolymph, which is continued into the canal of the cochlea through the ductus reuniens. Structure of the sacs. The wall of the sacs of the membranous Wall of labyrhith is translucent and firm ; but it is more opaque where the three vessels and nerves enter it. Three strata enter into its construction, strata: together with bloodrvessels and nerves. The outer fibrous covering is loose and flocculent, is easily outer, detached, and contains irregular pigment cells with ramifying Fig. 2i6* blood-vessels. The middle stratuni (tunica propria) is clear and middle, tough, like the hyaloid membraiie in the interior of the eyeball: its inner surface is irregular owing to slight eminences ; and in the ampulla of the semicircular tube this layer forms the transverse projection. The inner one is formed by a layer of flattened inner, nucleated cells, which are continued over the eminences in the interior. In the region of the nerve, both in the ampulla of the semicircular canal and in the sacs, the epithelium is said to become columnar, and to have intermixed spindle-shaped nucleated cells (hke the olfactorial), which possess hair-hke processes at their free ends. The small calcareous masses, or the otoliths, consist of minute, otoliths elongated, six or eight-sided particles of carbonate of lime, which oniy^g'" are pointed at the ends, and are situate in the inner part of the wall of the utricle and saccule. Within the enlargement of each semicircular tube there is also a calcareous material. * Petrous bone partly removed to show the membranous labjTinth in place (Breschet). a. Small sac ; h, its otolith ; c. Ductus reuniens. d. Large sac, or utricle ; e, its otolith. /. Ampullary enlargement on a semicircular tube. g. Semicircular tube. \758 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. Blood-vessels of the mem- branes. Internal iiiiditoiy arteiy has a hranth to mem- branous sacs; termination: and another to the cochlea: mode of tenuination: joins a longi- tudinal vessel. Vein to petrosal .sinus. Auditory nerve divides into two. A cochlear branch, runs at first in the bone. and then enters the membrane. Ending un- known. Vestibular bninch divides into three. Blood-vessels. The membranes of the lab^Tinthic cavity receive their blood from an artery Avliich enters the internal auditory meatus with the ner\-e ; but some offsets from the posterior auricular supply their hinder part. The internal auditorij artery arises fi'om the basilar trunk Anthin the skull (p. 183), and enters the internal meatus -with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches —one for the vestibule, the other for the cochlea. The hronch of the vestibule^ after piercing the wall of the cavity, subdivides into small offsets, which supply the lining membrane, and ramify over the sacs, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a network of capillaries on the exterior of the special layer of the sacs, and this is most developed about the termination of the nen'es. The branch of the cochlea subdivides into twigs which enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets from these are directed out- wards through canals in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near the margin of that osseous zone. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the basement layer and the membrane lining the seal® ; but the septum cochleaj prevents the communication of the vessels of the two passages. A longitudinal vessel is placed on that surface of the membranous part of the septum cochlea! which is turned to the scala t3-m23ani, and is opposite the outer rods of Corti; it communicates here and there Avith the arterial Iooids before mentioned. The vein. One branch of vein is derived from the cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth : the two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the sui^erior jDetrosal sinus in the base of the skull. Nerve of the Labyrintti (fig. 247). Only one special nerve, aiKlitoi-y (p. 188), is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the in- ternal auditoiy meatus, the nei"ve divides into two branches, like the artery, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In the trunk and in both branches nerve cells are contained: in the branch to the labyrinth they form a swelling (intiimescentia gcmrjliqformis of Scarpa). The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modiolus into twigs, which enter it, and are directed outwards with the vessels, into the canals in the lamina spiralis (fig. 245, -). As they enter the lamina they form a plexus with ganglion cells, and are con- tinued onwards near the scala tjonpani, being still plexiform, as far as the edge of the bone. At this spot they leave the bone and are arranged in conical bundles, which pass through apertures at the junction of the bone with the lamina basilaris of the septum cochlear: consisting now of axis cylinders they are directed towards the cells of the organ of Corti, but their ending is unknown. Tlie vestibular branch ends in three nerv-es for the membranous labyrinth: these pierce the cribriform plate in the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed :—One appertains to the utricle (c), and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior759 AUDITORY ELOOD-VESSELS AND NERVE. vertical and horizontal semicircular canals (fig, 247) ; a second ends in the saccule (a) ; and the third belongs to the ampullary swelling (6) on the tube in the posterior vertical semicircular canal. On the sacs the nerve divides, and its filaments separate, some Termination fibrils passing through the otolith and others outside it, and pierce the middle layer of the Avail. Now becoming axis cylinders they l^JlS? divide, and unite in a plexus beneath the epithelium, and are thought to be united with the deep ends of the spindle-shaped cells with hair-like processes. On the amjmllarT/ enlargement of the semicircular tubes the nerA'^e in the tubes enters the external side, where it forms a forked eminence (Steifen- projections sand), coiTCsponding with the projection in the interior. The nerve and, brancii- divides at first into two chief pieces, which are directed to the sides ; -"Jj^ ""^^ and it is doubtful whether filaments extend into the tube beyond those eminences. Finally it pierces the wall of the tube, and fonning a sub-epithelial plexus of nerv^e-fibres, as in the utricle, is supposed to be connected with similar auditorial cells. * Distribution of nerves to the membranoits labyrinth (Breschet). a. Nerve to the saccule, b. Nerve entering the ampullary enlargement on a semicircular tube. c. Branch of nerve entering the large sac or utricle.INDEX Tlie letter (o) refers to the origin, (cj to the i-oursc, and (il) to the distributioii of a nerve or vessel whicii is deseribeil in clitfeient pages. Abdomen, 4G6. surface of, 436. Abdominal aorta, -482, 533. cavity, 466. hernia, 455. regions, 467. ring, external, 443. internal, 451, 456. Abducens nerve, (o) 188, (d) 47, (c) 18. Abductor mbiimi digiti. 297. pedis, 678. pollicis nianns, 295. pedis, 678. Accessorius muscle, 682. ad sacro-lunibalem, 391. Accessory nerve of the obturator, (o) 543, (d) 632. pudic artery, 432, 564. spleens, 506. Acini of the liver, structure, 511. Acromial artery inferior, 248. cutaneous nerves, 256. thoracic artery, 247. Acromio-clavicular articulation, 261. Adductor brevis, 633. longus, 632. magnus, 635, 659. minimi digiti, 298. oculi, 47. pollicis manils, 296. pedis, 683. Air-cells of the lung, 360. Alar ligaments of the knee, 701. Alveolar plexus, 144. Ampulla), membranous, 756. of the semicircular canals, 751. Amygdaloid lobe of cerebellum, 225. Aua'stomotic artery of brachial, 270. femoral, 624, Anconeus muscle, 304. Angular artery, 28. vein, 28. Ankle joint, 708. Annular ligament of ankle, anterior, 690. external, 691. internal, 675. of -ttTist, anterior, 300. posterior, 301, 309. Annular pi-otuberance, 196. Annulus of Yieussens, 338. Anterior elastit' layer of cornea, 725. commissure, 217. medullary velmn, 226. Auti-helix, 34. Auti-tragus, 34. muscle, 34. Anus, 417. Aorta, 343, 349. abdominal, 482, 533. thoracic, 349, 361. Aortic arch, 350. opening, 531. plexus, 481. sinus, 350. Aperture of the aorta, 343. of the cava', 338. of Eustacliian tube, 126. for the femoral artery, 636. of the heart, 338, 343. larynx, 127. mouth, 127. nares, 126. cesophagus, 128. of the pulmonary arteiy, 341. veins, 342. thorax, 118. Aponeurosis, epicranial, 3. of external oblique, 442. over femoral artery, 623. of internal oblique, 445. lumt)ar, 385. palmar, 290. of tlie pharynx, 123. plantar, 676. of the soft palate, 129. temporal, 4. of the transversalis muscle, 448. vertebral, 389. Appendages of the eye, 31. Appendices epiploica-, 470. AppencUx auricula', 338, 342, cxci, 502. vermiformis, 502. Aqueduct of the cochlea, 754. of Sylvius, 217. of the vestibule, 750.762 IXDEX. Aqueous humour, 7S1. Arachnoid membrane of the brain, 178. of the cord, 406. Arbor vittc ccrebcUi, 227. Arch of aorta, 350. crural or femoral, 613. of diaphragm, 'Wl. palmar deep, 298. superficial, 291. plantar, 685. of soft palate, 126. Arciform fibres, 194. Areola of the mamma, 239. Arm, dissection of, 263. veins of, 264. Arter. acromialis inferior, 248. aiiastomotica brachialis, 270. magna, 624. angularis faciei. 28. aorta abdominalis, 482, 533. thoracica, 349, 361. articulares infcriores, 6-)4. superiores, 654. articularis azygos, 654. aiuicularis posterior, 6, SO. auditoiia, 183, 758. axillaris, 245. basrilaris, 181. brachialis, 268. brachio-cephalica, 351. bronchiales, 361, 362. buccalis, 89. capsularis inferior, 534. media, 522, 534. superior, 534. cai'otis comnumis dextra, 74. sinistra, 118, 351. externa, 77. interna, 19, 103, 182. carpi ulnaris anterior, 286. posterior, 286. radialis anterior, 283. posterior, 308. centralis retina\ 46, 735. cercbelli inferior, 181. inferior anterior, 182. superior, 182. cerebri anterior, 182. media, 183. posterior, 182. cervicalis ascendens, 71. profunda, 71, 397. choroidea cerebri, 182, 183. ciliares anteriores, 46, 730. posteriores, 46, 730. circumflexa anterior, 248, 258. externa, 627. ilii interna, 454, 535, 648. superficialis, 439, 606. interna, 634, 648. posterior, 248, 258. coccygea, 645. cochlcaris, 758. cccliaca, 485. colica dextra, 478. media, 478. sinistra, 408. comes nen'i ischiadici, 645. Ai'tcr. comes ner-vi phrenici, 354. communicans cerebri anterior, 183. posterior, 183. palmaris, 292. plantaris, 685. coronaria dextra, 336. labii inferioris, 27. supcrioris, 27. sinistra, 336. vcntriculi, 485. corporis bulbosi, 431, 582. _ caveniosi, 431, 585. cremasterica, 453, 454. crico-thyroidea, 79. cystica, 487. defercntialis, 563. dentalis anterior, 102. inferior, 88, 92. superior, 89, 102. diaphragmatica, 534. digitales mands, 292. pedis, 685. dorsales poUicis, 308. dorsalis carpi radialis, 308. carpi ulnaris, 286. indicis, 309. lingua\ 97. pedis, 686, 694. penis, 431, 441. pollicis, 308. scapula^ 248, 263. epigastrica, 454, 535. superficialis, 439, 606. ethmoidalis, anterior, 46, 144. posterior, 46, 144. facialis, 27, 79. femoralis, 618, 624. frontalis, 5, 46. gastrica', 485, 495. gastro-epiploica dextra, 486. sinistra, 485. glutea, 563, 643. htemorrlioidalis inferior, 422. hivmorrhoidalis media, 563. superior, 480, 564,, 583. helicina-, 581. hepatica, 485, 513. hyoidea lingualis, 97. tliyroideu', 79. hypogastrica, 561. iliaca communis, 535. externa, 535. interna, .561. ileo-colica, 478. lunibalis, 562. incisoria, 92. iiifi-a-orbitalis, 89, 102. scapularis, 248, 256. iinnoniinata, 351. intercostales anteriores, 254, 362. rami anteriores, 362,453. posteriores, 397,410. mtercostalis superior, 71, 363. interossea, 286. anterior, 288. posterior, 307. interossew man (is, 298, 308.INDEX. Artcr. interossere pedis, 695. intestiualcs, 478. intni-spiuales, 415. isehiadica, 563, 645. labialis inferior, 27. laehr}inalis, 33, 45. laryngealis inferior, 162. superior, 79, 162. lingualis, 77, 97. lumbales, 543. rami anteriorcs, 543. posteriores, 398. magna pollieis nianfts, 299. pedis, 686. malleolares, 694. mamraaria, externa, 248. interna, 70,253,354, 454. masseterica, 89. maxillaris interna, 70, 87, 143. inediana, 289. mediastinal, 253, 362. meningea media, 15, 88. parva, 15, 88. meuingero anteriores, 15. posteriores, 15, 80,181. mesenteiica inferior, 480. superior, 476. metacarpa radialis, 308. uluaris, 286. metatai-sea, 695. musculo-phrenica, 253, 534. niylo-hyoidea, 88. nasalis, 46, 144. lateralis, 28. septi, 28. nutritia femoris, 634. fibula;, 674. humeri, 270. tibite, 673. obturatoria, 563, 637. occipitalis, 6, 79, 397- a-sophageales, 362, 485. ophthalmiea, 19, 45. ovariana, 534, 564. palatina inferior, 79. superior, 143. pahnaiis profunda, 291. palpebralis inferior, 33, 46. superior, 33, 46. pancreatica}, 485. pancreatico-duodenalis, 478, 486. perforautes femoralcs, 634, 659. mamraaria' iiitemoe, 253. manfls, 298. pedis, 685, 695. pericardiaca;, 362. perina;i superficialis, 425. peronea, 674. anterior, 674. petrosa, 15. pharyngca ascendens, 106. phrenictc inferiores, 534. superiores, 354, 534. plantaris externa, 680, 685. interna, 679. poplitea, 652. princeps cervicalis, 397. pollieis, 299. Arter. profunda cervicis, 71, 397. femoris, 619, 634. inferior, 270. superior, 270, 274. pterygoideiu, 89. pterygo-palatiua, 144. pudenda externa, 006, 619. interna, 422, 431, 441, SC pulraoualis, 341, 348, 360. dextra, 349. sinistra, 349. pj lorica inferior, 486. superior, 486. radialis, 282, 298, 308. indicis, 299. ranina, 97. receptaculi, 19. recurreus interossea posterior, 307 radialis, 283. tibialis, 694. uluaris anterior, 286. posterior, 286. renales, 519, 533. sacra media, 533, 565. sacro-lateralis, 562. scajjularis posterior, 70, 263, 387- sciatica, 563, 645. sigraoidea, 480. spennatica, 527, 534. spheno-palatina, 143. spinales posteriores, 180, 410. spinalis anterior, 180, 410. splenica, 485, 507. steiTio-mastoidea, 79. stylo-mastoidea, 80. subclavia dextra, 68. sinistra, 117, 352. sublingualis, 97. submentalis, 79. subscapularis, 248. superficialis cervicalis, 387. pcrina)i, 425. vo\x, 283. supra-orbitalis, 5, 46. scapularis, 70, 262, 387. spinalis, 263. tarsea, 695. temjjorales profunda', 88. temporalis, 80. anterior, 5. media, 80. posterior, 6. superficialis, 5, 80. thoracica acromialis, 247. alaris, 248. longa, 248. suprema, 247. thyroidca ima, 120. inferior, 70, 120. superior, 78, 120. tibialis antica, 692. postica, 673. tonsillaris, 79. transversalis colli, 70, 387. faciei, 28, 80. perinaji, 425. pontis, 182. pubis, 454.INDEX. 764 Arter. tj-mp:mica, 88. tjTTipanica inferior, 747. superior, 747. ulnaris, 284,_2'J1. umLilicalis, 561. utcrina, 564. vaginalis, 5G4. TertobraUs, 70, 171, 180. vesicidis inferior, 563, 575. superior, 563. vestibuli, 758. vidiana, 144. Articular poi)liteal arteries, 654. nerves, 655. Articulation, acromio-clavicular, 250. astragalo-scaphoid, 711. astrajjalus to os calcis, 710. atlo-axoidean, 172, 175. of bones of the tympanum, 745. ealcaneo-cuboid, 711- scaphoid, 711. of carpal bones, 318. cai-po-metacarpal, 320. of eervical vertebra), 172. ehondro-costal, 372. sternal, 372. of coccygeal bones, 595. coraco-clavicular, 250. of costal cartilages, 372. costo-clavicuhir, 176. vertebral, 369. ciico-aiyta'noid, 166. thyroid, 165. of cuneiform bones, 714. cuneiform to cuboid, 714. cuneifonn to scaphoid, 714. of dorsal vertebrae, 372. femoro-tibial or knee, 697. humero-cubital or elboAv, 312. ilio-femoral or hip, 659. of lower jaAV, 85. of lumbar vertebra', 372. of the metacar])al bones, 320. metacarpo-phalangeal, 322. metatarsal, 715. metatarso-phalangcal, 717- occipito-atloidean, 172. axoidean, 174. OS calcis to cuboid, 711. to scaphoid, 711. peroneo-tibial, 706. phalangeal of fingers, 322. of toes, 718. of pubic symi)hysis, 599. radio-carpal or wrist, 316. cubital inferior, 317. superior, 314. sacro-coccygeal, 595. iliac, 596. vertebral, 595. scaphoid to cul)oid, 714. to cuneiform, 714, scapulo-humeral, 309, sterno-clavieular, 176. sternum, pieces of, 372. tarsal transverse, 713. tarso-metatarsal, 715. temporo-maxillarj-, 85. Ai-ticulation, thyro-aryta-noid, 167- of the thumb, 320. tibio-tai-sal or ankle, 707. of vertebra^, 372. Arcus cxtenius diaphragmatis, 531. internus diaphragmatis, 531. Aryticno-epiglottidean iolds, 161. ArVtienoid cartilages, 164. glands, 132. muscle, 156. Ascending cerAical artery, 71. vein, 70. colon, 470. phar5-ngeal artery, 106. vein 107. Attollens aurcm, 2. Attrahens aiu-em, 2. Auditory artery, 183, 758. tube, external, 739. nerve, (o) 188, (d) 758. nucleus, 196. Auricle of the ear, 33. Auricles of the heart, 335. left, 342. right, 338. structure of, 345. Auricula-, 338, 342. Articular artery, posterior, (d) G, (o) 80. nerves, anterior, 8. gi-eat, 8, 57. inferior, 91. posterior, 8, 36. Auricular vein, 6, 80. nerve of vagus, (o) 111, (d) 709. Auriculo-tempoi-al nerve, 8, 91. ventricular aperture, left, 343. right, 340. rings, 344. Auricularis magnus nerve, 8, 57. Axilla, 240. dissection of, 240. Axillary artery, 245. glands, 243. plexus, 249. vein, 248. Axis, ewliac, of artery, 485, 533. of cochlea, 752. thyroid, of artery, 70. Azygos, artery, 654. veins (o) 544, (d) 363, 640. uvula' muscle, 131. Back, dissection of, 380. Ease of brain, 198. the skull, arteries of, 15, 19. dissection of, 12. nerves of, 16, 20. Basilar arteiy, 181. membrane, 754. sinus, 15. Basilic vein, 264. Biceps fcnioris muscle, 656, 699. flexor cubiti, 267, 289, 310. Bicuspid teeth, 133. Bile ducts, 488, 497, 513. structure, 501, 514. Biventral lobe, 225. Bladder, 572, 559.INDEX, 765- Eladder, interior of, 574. connections of, 552, 559. ligaments of, 549, 551. structure of, 573. Bones of the ear, 744. ligaments of, 745. muscles of, 745. Brachial aponeurosis, 266. artery, 268. plexus, 72, 249. veins, 270. Brachialis antieus, 272, 289. Brachio-cephalic artcrj-, 351. vein, left, 352. right, 352. Brain, base of, 198. examination of interior, 208. membranes of, 9, 12, 178. origin of nerves, 184. preservation of, 11. removal of, 10. vessels of, 180. Breast, 238. Broad uterine ligament, 557- Bronchial arteries, (o) 362, (d) 361. glands, 365. veins, 361, 362. Bronchus, left, 358. right, 358. structure of, 359. Brunnor's glands, 500. Buttock, dissection of, 637. muscles, 640. vessels and nerves, 643, G45. Buccal artery, 89. nerve, 91. Buccinator muscle, 26. Bulb of the urethra, 555. artery of, 431, (d) 582. nerve of, 432. Bulbi vestibuli, 587. Bulbous part of the urethra, 556, 578. Bulbus olfactorius, 185. Cajcum coli, 502. connections of, 470. structure of, 503. Calamus scriptorius, 228. Calices of the kidney, 520. Calciform papilho, r49. Canal of cochlea, 755. of Petit, 736 of spinal cord, 413. of the tensor tympani, 742. Canine teeth, 133. Capsular arteries, inferior, 534. middle, 522, 534. superior, 534. ligament of the hip, 650. knee, 698. shoulder, 310. thumb, 320. Capsule of crvstalline lens, 737- of Glisson, 510. suprarenal, 521. Caput coli, 502. gallinaginis, 576. Cardiac ncn'e, inferior, (o) 115 (d) 357 Cardiac nerve, middle, (o) 115 (d) 357. of pneumo-gastrie, (o) 111, 355, (d) 357- superior, (o) 115, (d) 337, 357. plexus, 337, 356. veins, 336. Camei-D colunuia;, 340, 343. Carotid artery, external, 77. internal, (d) 19,182, (c) 103. left common, 118, 351. right common, 74. plexus, 20. Cai-pal arter}-, radial anterior, 283. posterior, 308. ulnar anterior, 286. posterior, 286. Carpo-metacarpal articulation, 320. Cai-tilage, aryticuoid, 161. cricoid, 163. cuncifonn, 164. of the ear, 35. thyroid, 163. triangular of the nose, 135. Cartilages of the eyelids, 32. of the nose, 30. of Santorini, 164. of trachea, 167- Cai'uncula lachrjanalis, 33. Carunculse myrtiformes, 585. Cauda equina, 409. Cava, inferior, 331), 482, 536. superior, 339. Cavernous body, 555, 579. artery of, (o) 431, (d) 532. plexus, 20. sinus, 14. structure, 580. Cavity of the omentum, 474. Central artery of tlio retina, (o) 45, (d) 735. ligament of cord, -107. lobe of bram, 203. pillar of cochlea, 752. pomt of the perin;Dum, 426. Centrum ovale cerebri, 208. Cephalic vein, 265. Cerebellar arteries, inferior, 181. superior, 182. Cerebellum, form of, 222. lobes of, 224. structure of, 226. Cerebral artery, anterior, 182. middle, 183, posterior, 182. Cerebrum, division into lobes, 202. convolutions, 204. form of, 198. interior, 208. structure, 219. Cervical fascia, 53, 59. ganglion, inferior, 116. middle, 115. superior, 114. glands, 74. nerves, anterior brunches, 72, 170. posterior, 170, 394. plexus of nerves, 73. deep branches,73.INDEX. 7C6 Cervical plexus of nerves, supci-fieial, 57, dd, 73. CeiTicalis, ascendcus artery, 71. niiisclc, 391. vein, 71. profunda artery, (o) 71, (d) 397- vein, 70, 398.^ superfit ialis nerve, 57, 59. Cervico-facial nerve, 38. Cervix uteri, 588. vesica', 553. Chamber of the eye, anterior, 781. posterior, 781. Check ligaments, 174. Cheeks, 133. Chiasma of the optic nerves, 186. Chondro-costal articulations, 372. glossus muscle, 151. sternal articulations, 372. Chorda tympani ncr^•c, (o) 709, (d) 92, 98. Chordaj tendinea\ 341, 343. A-ocales, 160. Willisii, 19. Choroid artery of the brain, 182. coat of the eye, 726. plexuses of the brain, 216,230. veins of the ej-e, 731. brain, 216. Cilia, 31. Ciliary arteries, (o) 45, (d) 730. ligament, 729. muscle, 728. processes of the choroid, 727. of the suspensory ligament, 736. nei-ves of nasal, (o) 44, (d) 731. of lenticular ganglion, 45, 731. Circle of Willis, 183. Circular sinus, 14. Circumflex artery, anterior, 248, 258. external, 627. intenial, 634, 648. posterior, 248, 258. iliac artery, deep, 454, 535. superficial, 606, 619. nerve (o) 249, (d) 258. Clavicular cutaneous nerves, 57, 73. Clitoris, 584. Coccygeal ailcry, 645. muscle, 547. nerve, 566. Cochlea, 751. canal of, 755. nerve of, 758. vessels of, 758. Ca'liac artery, 485. plexus, 490. Colic artery, left, 480. middle, 478. right, 478. Colon, 469, 501. coui'se of, 470. structure of, 503. Columnar layer of retina, 793. Colunma) oarneiE, 340, 343. Columns of the cord, 412. Columns of the vagina, 586. Comes nervi ischiatici artery, 643. plii-enici artery, 354. Commissure, anterior, 217. of the cerebellum, 223, 227. of the cord, 413. great, 209. of the optic nerves, 186. ijosterior, 217. soft, 217. Commissural fibres of the medulla, 194. Communicating arterv of anterior cerebral, 183. of posterior cerebral, 183. in the palm, 291. peroneal nerve, 668. Complexus muscle, 392. Comi)ressor of the bulb, 427. of the nose, 21. Couarium, 218. Concha, 34. Cones of the retina, 733. Congenital hernia, 459. Coni vasculosi, 526. Conical pajjilhe, 148. Conjoined tendon, 448. Conjunctiva, 33. Conoid ligament, 250. Constrictor inferior, 123. of the fauces, 130. middle, 123. superior, 124. urethra', 430, 435. Conus arteriosus, 340. Convolutions of the brain, 203, 208. of hemisphere, 204. of longitudinal tissure, 206. Coraco-brachialis muscle, 268. clavicular articulation, 250. humeral ligament, 310. Cordiform tendon, 530. Cords of the abdominal Avail, 462. Cornea, 724. structure, 724. Coniicula laryngis, 165. Cornua of gray crescent, 413. of lateral ventricle, 210. Corona glandis, 555. radiata, 220. Coronary vessels of the heart, 336. of the lips, 37. artery of the stomach, 486. ligament of the liver, 476. plexus of the stomach, 490. ])lexuses of the heart, 337. sinus, 336, 353. vein of the stoiuach, 488. Corpora albicautia, 200. Arantii, 341, 344. cavernosa, 555, 579. geniculata, 208, 222. JIalpighiana, 507, 515. mamiilaria, 200. olivaria, 191,193. pyramidalia antcriora, 191, 192, postcriora, 191, 194. quadrigemina, 219.INDEX. 767 Corpora rcstifonnia, 191, 194. ■Corpus callosuni, 201, 209. cleiitatum cerebclli, 227. medulla', 193. fimbriatum uteri, 592. geniculatum exteruuni, 218. iutornum, 218. Higlimori, 524. lutcum, 592. olivare, 191, 193, 219. spon5,nosuin urethra", 556, 581. strialum, 213, 222. thyroideum, 119. •Corpuscles of JIalpighi, 507, 516. Corrugator cutis aui, 420. supercilii muscle, 23. Cortex of the tongue, 151. Cortical substance of the kidney, 517. Costo-clavicular ligament, 176. coracoid membrane, 245. transverse ligaments, 371. €otunnius, nerve of, 141. Cotyloid ligament, 661. Covered band of lleil, 208. ■Cowper's glands, 430. Cranial aponeurosis, 3. nerves, 16, (o) 134. Cremaster muscle, 446. Cremasteric artery, 453, 454. fascia, 446. -Cribrifonn fascia, 607. Crico-aryticuoid articulation, 166. muscle, lateral, 156. posterior, 155. thyroid articulation, 165. membrane, 166. inuscle, 155. Cricoid cartilage, 163. Crista vestibuli, 750. Crucial ligaments, 701. Crura cerebclli, 226. cerebri, 198, 222. of the diaphragm, 530. of the fornix, 212. •Crural arch, 613. deep, 453, 613. canal, 614. hernia, 465, 615. nerve, (o) 542, (d) 628. ring, 464, 615. sheath, 464, 613. Crypts of Lie berk iihn, .498. Crystalline capsule, 737. lens, 737. structure, 737. Cuneiform cartilages, 165. Cupola cochle;c, 752. Curve of the urethra, 555. Cutaneous nerves of the abdomen, 438. of the arm, 265. of the back, 381. of the buttock, 638. of the face, 38. of the foot, back, 689. sole, 676. of the foreami, 278. of the hand, back, 278. of the himd, palm, 290. Cutaneous nerves of the liead, 6. of the leg, back, 666. front, 689. of the neck, behind, 381. fore part, 59. of the periuicum, 422,425. of the shoulder, 256. of the thigh, front, 608. of the thorax, 238. Cystic artery, 487. duct, 515. plexus of nerves, 490. Dartoid tissue, 440. Decussation of the oblong medulla, 194. Deep cervical artery, (o) 71, (d) 397. crural arch, 453, 613. transverse muscle of perinaium, 427, 434. Deferential arter}-, 583. Deltoid ligament, 708. muscle, 257. Dens sapientia>, 133. Dental artery, anterior, 102. inferior, 88, 92. superior, 89, 102. nerve, anterioi-, 101. inferior, 91. posterior, 101. Dentate, lamina, 214. ligament, 407. Denticulate lamina, 754. Depi'essor anguli oris, 26. epiglottidis, 157. labii inferioris, 25. al-ai nasi, 22. Descendens noni nerve, 76, 113. Descending colon, 470. Diaphragm, 327, 528. arteries of, 534. plexus of, 400. Digastric muscle, 75. nerve, 36. Digital arteries of plantar, 685. of radial, 299. of tibial, anterior, 686. of ulnar, 292. nerves of median, 293. of plantar, 680. of radial, 278. of ulnar, 202. Dilator of the nose, 22. of the pupil, 729. Discus proligcrus, 591. Dissection of the abdomen, 436. of the abdominal cavity, 466. of the anterior commissure, 217. of the arm, 236, 263. of the axilla, 240. of the back, 380. of the base of the skull, 12. of the brain, membranes, and nerves, 179. of the buttock, 637. of the cardiac plexus, 356. of the carotid artery, internal, 103.INDEX. 768 Dissection of the carotid plexus, 20. of the ccrebelluin, 222. of the cerebrum, 198. of the corpus callosum, 201, 209. of the corpus striatum, 213, 222. of the crus cerebri, 198. of the extcmal ear, 33, 739. of the internal car, 741. of the cightli nerve, 107. of the eye, 722. Ms, 31. of the face, 20. of fascia lumborum, 385. of femoral hernia, 463, 612. of the fifth ventricle of the brain, 212. of the foot, back, 689. sole, 675. of the foreanu, 276. back, 301. front, 276. of the fourth ventricle, 227- of the glosso-pharvngeal nerve, 1C9. of the hand, back, 277. palm, 289. of the head, exteraal parts, 1. internal parts, 9. of the heart, 333. of the hypot;astric plexus, 481. of the interior maxillarv ner^■c, 89. of the inguinal heniin, 455. of the internal maxillarv arterv, 87.' of Jacobson's nerve. 109, 747. of the labyrinth, 749. of the larynx, 154. cartilages. 162. muscles, 154. nerves, 161. of Ihe lateral ventricles, 209. of the left side of the neck, 116. of the leg, back, 665. front, 688. of the ligaments of atlas and axis, 172. of the ligaments of atlas and occiput, 172. of the ligaments of axis and occiput, 174. of the ligaments of chn icle and scapula, 260. of the ligaments of hi]> joint,659. of the ligaments of jaw, 85. of the ligaments of lower limb, 697. of the ligaments of pelvis, 595. of the ligaments of ribs, 276. of the ligaments of shoulder, 309. of the ligaments of upper limb, 309. of the ligaments of the vertehroe, 373. of the lower limb, 697- of ileckel's ganglion, 139. of the medulla oblongata, 189. of the neck, 51. Dissection of the neck, anterior triangle, 59. left side, 116. posterior triangle, 53. of the ninth nerve, 112. of the nose, 134. of the ophthalmic of the fifth nerve, 18, 40. of the orbit, 39. of the otic ganglion, 146. of the pelvis, female, 556. side view, 557. of the pelvis, male, 545. side view, 546. of the perinaeum, female, 433. male, 417. of the pharynx, 121. of the pucumo-gastric nerve,. 107, 354, 491. of the pons, 196. of the popliteal space, 651. of the portio dura nerve, 36, 144. of the preA crtebral muscles, 168- of the pterj-goid region, 82. of the sacral i)lexus, 566. of the saplicnous opening, 612. of the semiluiuir ganglia, 489. of the shoulder, 256. of the soft palate, 128. of the solar plexus, 489. of the spinal cord, 409. accessory nerve, 107. of the subclavian artery, 65. of the submaxillary region, 93. of the superior maxillary nerve,. 100. of the testis, 523. of the thigh, back, 650, 656. front, 604. of the tliird ventricle, 216. of the thorax, 326. of the tongue, 148. of the triangular space of the thigh, 616. of the tympanum, 741. vessels and nerves, 747. of the upper limb, 236. of the vena ca\ a inferior, 482, 536. of the vidian nerve, 142. Dorsal artery of the foot, 686, 694. of the penis, 431, (d) 441. of the tongue, 97. of the scapuhi, (o) 248, (d)263. nerves, anterior branches, 253, 368, 409. posterior branches, 396, 409. cutaneous of the hand, 278. of the penis, (o) 432, (d) 441. Ductus ad nasum, 51. arteriosus, 349. communis choledochus, 488,497,501. cysticus, 515. cjaculatorius, 572. hepaticus, 488, 514. lymphaticus, 71, 366. pancreatici;s, 505. reuniens, 7^6.INDEX. 709 Ductus Rivitiiani, 99. Stcnonis, 29. thonicicus, 117, 365, oiO. vciiosus, 510. Whartouii, 93, 99. Duodenum, connections, 482. peritoneum of, 475. Dum mater, 9, 12. of the cord, 404. nerves of, 16, 407. vessels of, 15, 407. Ear, external, 33, 739. internal, 741. Eighth nerve, 19, (o) 188. Ejaculutor urimv, 426. Elastic layers of cornea, 725. Elbow joint, 312. Eniinentia coUateralis, 211. teres, 229. Encephalon, 179. Endocardium, 348. Endolymph, 756. Ependyma, ventriculorum, 210. Epididymis, 526. Epigastric artery, 454, 535. supera. ial, 439, 619. region of the abdomeu, 467. veins, 464. Epiglottidean gland, 161. Epiglottis, 165. Erector clitoridis, 434. penis, 426. spin;e, 391. Ethmoidal arteries, 46. Eustachian tube, cartilaginous part, 126. osseous part, 743. valve, 339. E.Ktensor carpi radialis brevis, 303. longus, 302. carpi ulnaris, 304. digiti minimi, 304. digitorum brevis, 695. communis, 303. longus pedis, 692. indicis, 305. ossis metacarpi, 305. proprius polli('is, 691._ prinii interaodii policis, 305. _ secundi intcniodii policis, 305. External cutaneous nerves of arm, 266,278. . of thigh, (o) 542, (d) 609. saphenous nerve, 655, 668, 690. vein, 466, 089. Eye-hall, 722. hrows, 31. laslies, 31. lids, 31. muscles of, 32. nerves of, 33. structure, 31. vessels, 33. Face, dissection of, 20. Facial artery, (d) 27, (o) 79. nerve, (d) 36, (c) 645, (0) 188. Falciform ligament of the liver, 478. Falciform border of saphenous opening, 612. Fallopian tube, 559, 592. Falx cerebelli, 12. cerebri, 10. Fascia, axillarv, 237. brachial, 266. cervical, deep, 53, 59. costo-coracoid, 245. cremasteric, 446. cribrifonu, 607. of the forearm, 279. iliac, 464, 539. intermuscular of the humerus, 274. of the thigh, 627- lata, 610, 651. of the leg, 66S, 690. lumborum, 385. obturator, 546. palmar, 290. pelvic, 546. perimeal, deep, 428. superficial, 425. plantar, deep, 676. propria, 616. recto-vesical, 549. spermatic, 458. temporal, 4. transversalis, 451, 463. Fasciculus teres, 229. Femoral artery, 618, 624. hernia, 46:3, 615. liffament, 612. vein, 619, 624. Femoro-tibial articulation, 697. Fenestra ovalis, 741. rotunda, 741. Fibres of the cerebrum, 220. of the cerebellum, 227. of Midler, 734. Fibro-cartilage. See Interarticular. of heart, 345. of tongue, 150. Fibrous coat of eye, 723. Fifth nerve, 17, 187. ventricle of brain, 212. Filifoi-m papilhc, 148. Fniet of the corpus callosum, 209. of the olivary body, 194, 197, 210. Filum terminale, 407. Fimbria- of the Fallopian tube, 592. First nerve, (o) 135, (c) 16, (d) 138. Fissure, longitudinal, 201. parieto-occipital, 203, 207- of Kolando, 203. of Sylvius, 202. transverse of brain, 214. Fissures of Santoiini, 35. of the cord, 412. of the cerebrum, 202. Fle.xor accessorius mu-cle, 682. bx'cvis minimi dig.ti, 298. pedi?, 685. carpi radialis, 281, 301. ulnaris, 2S2. digitorum brevis pedis, 078. longus pedis, 672, 681. ])rofundus, 288, 294. sublimis, 284, 294. 3 DINDEX. 770 Flexor pollieis loiigus, 288, 295. pedis, 671, 682. brevis, 296. pedis, 683. Flocculus cerebelli, 22o. Follicles, Jlcibouiiaii, o2. ceruminous, 740. solitary, 493, 504. Foot, dorsxun, 6b8. sole, 675. Forameu of Monro, 213. ovale, 338. for vena cava, 531. of "Winslow, 474. Foramina Thebosii, 338. Forearm, dissection of, 276. cutaneous nerves, 278. veins, 277. Fornix, 212. Fossa, ischio-rectal, 419. navicular of the urethra, 578. of the pudendum, 584. ovalis, 338. Fossa^ of abdominal wall, 462. Fourth nerve, (o) 187, (c) 16, (d) 40. ventricle, 227. Fovea, centralis, 732. hemispherica, 750. semi-elliptica, 750. Fovea) of fourth ventricle, 229. Framulum labii, 584. Frrenum lingua', 148. pi'a'])utii, 555. Frontal arter}-, 5, 46. nerve, 40. lobe, 203. vein, 6. Fungiform papilLr, 148. Fiuiiculus gracilis, 191. lateralis, 191. Galactophorus ducts, 239. Galen, veins of, 216. Gall bladder, 514. structin-e, 514. Ganglia, cervical, inferior, 116, 121. middle, 115, 121. superior, 114, 121. lumbar, 543. sacral, 568. semilunar, 490. of spinal nerves, 409. thoracic, 365. Ganglion of the vagus, 110. Gasserian, 18. impar, 568. jugular, 109. lenticular, 45. Meckel's, 141. ophthalmic, 45. otic, 146. petrosal, 109. spheno-palatinc, 141. submaxillary, 97- thyroid, 115". Gastric arteries, 485. vein, 488. Gastro-colic omentum, 474. Gastro-epiploi'c arteries, 485, 486. vein, 488. hejjatic omentum, 474. Gastrocnemius muscle, 668. Gemellus iuferior muscle, 647- superior muscle, 647. Geniculate bodies, 208, 2_22. Genio-hyo-glossus, 96, 151. hyoid muscle, 96. Genital "organs, 555, 584. Genito-crural nerve, (o) 542, (d) 453, 609, Gimbernat's ligament, 444, 613. Gland, lachrjiual, 40. parotid, 28. prostate, 553, 569. sublingual, 99. submaxillary, 93. Glands, aryta'uoid, 132. axillary, 243. Bartholine's, 588. bronchial, 365. Brunner's, 500. cardiac, 365. ceruminous, 740. cervical, 57, 58. concatenate, 58. Cowper's, 430, 653. Haver's, 663. inguinal, 440, 606. intercostal, 365. intestinal, 480. labial, 133. Lnyngeal, 161. lingual, 152. lumbar, 540. mammary, 238. mediastinal, 365. Meibomian, 32. mesenteric, 479, molar, 30. O'sophageal, 365. of Pacchioni, 9. pelvic, 569. Peyer's, 499. popliteal, 655. solitary, 498, 504. sternal, 365. tracheal, 365. Glans of the clitoris, 584. of the penis, 555. Glaseriau-tissure, 741. Glenoid ligament, 310. Glisson's capsule, 510. Globus major epididymis, 526. minor epididymis, 526. Glomerulus, 518. Glosso-pharyngeal nen'e, (o) 188, (d) 109, 153. nucleus, 196. Glottis, 158. Gluteal artery, (o) 563, (d) 643. nerve, superior, 541, 644. nerves, inferior, 646. Gluteus raaximus muscle, 640. medius muscle, 642. minimus muscle, 644. Graafian vesicles, 591. Gracilis muscle, 631.771 INDEX. Granular layer of retina, 73-1. Gray commissure of the cord, -113. crescent of the cord, 413. substance of the corpus striatum, 213. of the medulla oblongata, 194, 229. of tlic tliird ventricle, 217. tubercle of Rolando, 19o. Groat omentum, 474. Gustatory nerve, 92, (d) 97, 155. Gyrus fornicatus, 206. Hannorrhoidal artery, inferior, 422. midiile, 563. superior, (o) 480, 564, (d) 583. nerve, inferior, 422. plexus, 568. veins, 565. Ham, 651. Hamulus laminco spiralis, 753. Hand, dissection of, 289. Head, dissection of, 1. Heart, 333. constituents, 334. dissection of, 338. position, 334. structure of, 344. Ilelicine arteries, 581. Helicis major muscle, 34. minor muscle, 34. Helicotrema, 753. HeUx, 34. Hepatic artery, 485, (d) 513. cells, 511. ducts, 488, (o) 511. plexus, 490. veins, 513, 537- Hemia, crural or femoral, 465, 615. inguinal, external, 456. internal, 400. umbilical, 451. Hiatus coi hleic, 753. Hip joint, 659. Hippocampus major, 214. minor, 214. Hollow before elbow, 280. Hiimero-cubital articulation, 312. Hunter's canal, 624. Hyaloid membrane, 735. Hymen, 585. Hyo-glossus muscle, 95, 151. glossal membrane, 150. Hyoid bone, 163. Hypochondriac region of abdomen, 467- Hypogastric artery, 561. plexus of nerves, 481. region of the abdomen, 467. Hypoglossalne^-ve, (o) 189, (e) 112, (d) 76,99. nucleus, 195. Ileo-ciTOcal valve, 503. Ileo-colic artery, 478. valve, 503. Ileum intestine, connections of, 469. structure of, 495. Iliac artery, common, 535. extcnial, 535. Iliac artery, internal, 561. fascia, 539. region of the abdomen, 467. vehi, common, 536. external, 536. internal, 563. Iliacus muscle, 538, 636. Ilio-costalis, 391. femoral articulation, 659. hypogastric nerve, (o) 542, 450, 638. inguinal nerve, (o) 542, (d) 451, 608. lumbar artery, 5(52. Incisor branch of nerve, 92. teeth, 133. Incus, 744. Indicator muscle, 306. Infantile hernia, 459. Inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, 211. maxillary nerve, (o) 18, (d) 89. Infra-costal muscles, 368. orbital artery, 89, 102. nerves, 38, 101. vein, 102. scapular artery, 248, 256. trochlear nerve, 44. Infra-spiuatus muscle, 259. Infundibulum of the brain, 200. Inguinal canal, 456. glands, 440, 606. hernia, external, 456. internal, 459. region of the abdomen, 467- Innominate arteiy, 351. veins, 352. Interarticular cartilage of the jaw, 85. of the liip, 662. of the knee, 703. of the ribs, 370. of the scapula, 261. sacro-iliac, 596. sterno - clavicular, 176. of the symphysis pubis, 599. of the vertebra?, 374. of the wrist, 3l7. Interclavicular ligament, 176. Intercolumnar fascia, 443. fibres, 443. Intercostal arteries, anterior branches, 254, 362, 453. posterior branches, 397, 415. artery, superior, (o) 71, (d) 353^ muscle, external, 251, 368. internal, 252, 368. nerves, 253, 368, 450. cutaneous, anterior, 238.. lateral, 238. yeins, superior, 363. Intercosto-humeral ner^-e, (o) 369, (d) 238,. 266.. Intennediate tract, 414. Intermuscular septa of the arm, 274. of the foot, 677. of the thigh, 627. Internal cutaneous nerve of arm, 249, 266,.. 271. 3 D 2772 INDEX. Intenial cutauooiis iioi vc of thigh, (o) 628, (d) 609. saphenous vein, G08, 689. nerve, G.j.5, 668, 690. Interosseous arteries of the foot, 695. of the hand, 298, 308. artery, anterior, 258, 288. posterior, 307- ligament of the arm, 311. of the leg, 70G. muscles of the foot, 687. of the hand, 299. nerve, anterior, 275, 289. posterior, 308. Intersi)inal muscles, 399. Intertransverse muscles, 170, 400. Intervertebral ganglia, 409. substance, 374. Intestinal arteries, 478. canal divisions, 469. structure, 495, 503. Intestine, large, 469, 501. _ small, 469, 495. Intra-spinal arteries, 415. veins, 416. Iris, 729. nerves of, 730. structure of, 729. vessels of, 730. Ischio-i-ectal fossa, 419. Island of Eeil, 203. Isthmus faucium, 127. of the thjToid bodj', 119. of the uterus, 589. Iter a tertio ad quartum vcntriculum, 217. ad infundibulum, 217. Jacob's membrane, 732. structure, 733. Jacobson's nerve, (o) 109, (d) 748. Jejunum, connections of, 469. structure, 495. Joint, ankle, 707. elbow, 312. !;reat toe, 715. hip, 659. knee, 697. lower iaw, 85. shoulder, 309. thumb, 320. wrist, 316. JuguLar ganglion, 109. vein, anterior, 62. external, 29, 53. internal, 75, 106. Kidney, 515. connections of, 471. stnxcture, 517. vessels of, 519. Knee of the corpus callosum, 201. jomt, 697. Labia pudendi externa, 584. interna, 585. ' Labial glands, 133. artery, inferior, 27. nerve, 92. Labyrinth, 749. lining of, 751.___ membranous, 756. osseous, 749. Lachrymal artery, 33, 45. canals, 50. duct. 51. gland, 40. nerve, 41. point, 31, 50. sac, 51. Lactiferous ducts, 239. Lacunar of the urethra, 578. Lamina cinerea, 201. dentata, 214._ reticularis, 756. Bjjiralis cochlea', 753. Laminio of cerebellum, 224. of the lens, 738. Large mtestine, connections, 459. structure and form of, 501. Laryngeal arteries, 162. nerve, external. 111. inferior, (o) 112, 355, (d) 161. superior, (o) 111, (d) 162. pouch, 159. Larpix, 154. aperture of, 127, 158. cartilages of, 163. interior of, 158. ligaments, 165. muscles, 154. nerves, 161. ventiicle, 159. vessels, 162. Lateral column of the medulla, 191, 193. of the cord, 413. Lateral sinus, 13. ventricles, 210. Latissimus dor.si, 250, 384. Laxator tympani, 746. Leg, dissection of the back, 665. front, 688. Lens of the eye, 737. structure of, 737. Lenticular ganglion, 45. Levator anguli oris, 26. scapnUv, 386. ani,421, 548. glandukc thyroide;r, 119. labii superioris, 25. alreque nasi, 22. infei-ioris, 25. palati, 129. jnilpebne superioris, 42. Levatores costarum, 403. Lieberkuhn's cryi)ts, 498. Ligament of the" lung, 328. Ligaments of the hladder, 549, 551. of the larynx,165. of the ovary, 559. of the pinna, 35. of the uterus, 557. Ligament, acromio-clavicular 261. alar of the knee, 701. annular, anterior of the ankle, I 690.INDEX. 773 anient, annular, external of the ankle, 691. internal of the ankle, 675. anterior of the wrist, 300. posterior of the wrist, 301, 309. anterior, special, of ankle, 708. of elbow joint, 313. of knee jouat, 700. of wrist joint, 316. of carpus, 31S. astragalo-scaphoiil, 711. alto-axoicl, anterior, 172. posterior, 172. transverse, 175. calcaneo-astragaloid, 710. cuboid, 710. scaphoid, 711. capsular of tne hip, 659. of the knee, 698. of the shoulder, 310. of the thumb, 320. cai"pal, dorsal, 318. palmar, 318. caiiio-metacarpal, 320. ehondi'o-stenial, 372. common, anterior, of vertebra;, 373. common posterior, 373. conoid, 260. coi'aco-acroraial, 260. clavicular, 260. humeral, 310. costo-cluvicular, 176. coracoid, 245. transverse, anterior, 371. middle, 371- posterior, 371. vertebral, 370. xiphoid, 372. cotyloid, 661. crico-thyroid, 166. crucial, 701. deltoid, 708. dorsal of the carpus, 018. of Gimbernat, 444, 613. glenoid, 310. ilio-fenioral, 660. lumbar, 598. interarticular, of the clavicle, 176. of the hip, 662. of the jaw, 85. of the knee, 703. of the pubes, 599. of the ribs, 370. of the wrist, 317. interclavicular, 176. interosseous of astragalus and os calcis, 701. of carpus, 318. of cuneiform bones. 714. Ligament, interosseous of metacarpal bones, 320. of metatarsal bones, 715. of radius and ulna, 314. of the scaphoid and cuboid, 714. of the tibia and fibula, 706. interosseous, inferior, of the tibia and hbula, 707. interspinal, 377. intertransverse, 377. intervertebral, 374. lateral, external of the ankle, 708. internal, 708. external of the carpus, 319. internal, 319. external of the elbow, 312. internal, 312. phalangeal of the foot, 718. phalangeal of the hand, 323. external of the jaAV, 85. internal, 85. external of the knee, 699. internal, 699. external of the ^\'rist, 316. internal, 316. long plantar, 712. metacarpal, dorsal, 320. palmar, 320. metatarsal, dorsal, 715. plantar, 715. mucous, 701. obturator, 598. occipito-atloid, anterior, 172. posterior, 173. occipito-axoid, 174. odontoid, 174. orbicular of the i-adius, 314. of the patella, 700. palmar of carpus, 318. peroneo-tibial, 706. of Poupart, 444, 613. posterior of ankle, 708. of carpus, 318. of elbow, 313. of knee, 699. of scapula, 262. of wrist, 316. proper of the scapula, 262. pubic anterior, 599. superior, 599. round of the hip, 662. round of the radius and uhia, 315. sacro-coccygeal, anterior, 596. posterior, 596. sacro-iliac, anterior, 596. posterior, 596. sacro-sciatic, large, 597, 650. small, 597, 650. sacro-vcrtebral, 595. of the scapula, anterior, 262. posterior, 262.INDEX. 774 Ligament, stemo-clavicular, 176. stylo-hvoid, 103. maxillary, 85. subpiibic, odd. supraspijious, 377. suspensory of penis, 4-10. tarso-nietatarsal, dorsal, 716. lateral, 716. plantar, 716. th}TO-aryta}noid, 107. epiglottidean, 167. hyoid, 165. tibio-tarsal, 708. transverse of the atlas, 175. of the fingers, 291. transverse of the hip, 662. of the knee, 703. of metacarpus, 299. of metatarsus, 686. of the toes, 677. trapezoid, 260. triangular of the abdomen, 444. of the urethra, 428. of AVinslow, or posterior, 699. Ligamentuni arcuatum, 531. denticulatum, 406. ductus arteriosi, 345. latum pulmonis, 328. longum i)lant:e, 712. mucosum, 701. nucha), 383. patella;, 700. spirale, 754. subtlavmn, 376. teres, 662. Limb, upper, 236. lower, 004. Limbus cochlcir, 754. luteus, 732. Limiting membrane of retina, 734. Linea alba, 443. semihuiaiis, 450. LinciB transvcrsie, 449. Lingual artery, 77, 97. glands, 152. nerve, 92, 97, 153. vein, 97. Lingualis muscles, 152. Lip.s, 133. Liquor Cotunnii, 751. Lithotomy, parts cut, 432. Liver, 507. connections of, 471. ligaments, 476. structure, 510. vessels, 512. Lobes of the ccrebelhnn, 224. of the cerebrum, 203. Lobules of the testis, 525. of the liver, 510. Lobulus auris, 34. caudatus, 509. quadratus, 508. Spigclii, 509. Locus niger, 200. perforatus anticus, 201. posticus, 200. Longissimus dorsi, 391. Longitudinal fibres of the brain, 201. fissure of the liver, 509. sinus, inferior, 13. superior, 10. Longus colli muscle, 168. Lumbar ajxmeurosis, 385. arteries, 543. anterior branches, 544. posterior branches, 398. ganglia, 543. glands, 540. nerves, anterior branches, 541. ])Osterior branches, 398,415. plexus, 541. region of the abdomen, 467. veins, 537, 544. Lnmbo-sacral nerve, 541. Lunibricales of the foot, 082. of the hand, 295. Lungs, 35S. connections, 330. ])hysical characters, 358. structure, 359. ■vessels and nerves, 360. Lymphatic duct, 117, 365. right, 71, 366. L\inphatics of the arm, 265. of the axilla, 243. of the groin, 440, 606. of tbe lungs, 361. of the nuseuterj', 479. of the neck, 58. of the pelvis, 569. of the popliteal space, 655. of the thorax, 365. Lyra, 212. ]\[allcolar arteries, 694. IMalleus, 744. muscles of, 745. Malpighian corpuscles of sjjlecn, 507. of kidney, 518. jMamilhe of the kidney, 516. Mamma, 238. structure of, 239. Mammar\- arterv, internal, (o) 70, (c) 253, 354, 454. gland, 238. jSlasseter muscle, 81. Masseteric artery, 89. nerve, 90. Jlastoid cells, 742. ilaxillary artery, internal, 87, 143. nerve, inferior, (o) 18, (d) 89. superior, 18, 100. vein, internal, 89. Meatus auditorius externus, 739. nerves of, 740. vessels of, 740. urinarius, 578. Meatuses of the nose, 135. Meckel's ganglion, 141. Median basilic vein, 204. cejjhalic vein, 264. nerve, (o) 249, (c) 270, (d) 287,292. vein, 264, 277. Mediastinal arteries, 253, 362. Mediastinum of thorax, 328.776 INDEX. Mecliastiiium of testis, .121, Medulla oblongata, 190. gray matter of, 194, 229. Medulla spinalis, 411. Medullary substance of the kidney, 516. velum, anterior, 226. posterior, 226. Meibomian follicles, 32. Meuibrana basilaris, 754. g-ranulosa, 591. pigment!, 735. piipillaris, 729. reticularis, 756. saceiformis, 318. tynipani, 743. Membrane of Corti, 755. of Uemours, 725. hyaloid, 735. Jacob's, 732. of the labyrinth, 751. of lieissner, 754. Membranes of tlie brain, 9, 178. of spinal cord, 404. Membranous labyrinth, 756. part of the cochlea, 754. part of the urethra, 578. Meningeal artery, anterior, 15. middle, 15, 88. posterior, 15, 80, 181. small, 15, 88. nerves, 16. Mesenteric arter}-, inferior, 480. superior, 477. glands, 479. ple.\us, inferior, 481. superior, 481. vein, inferior, 480. superior, 478. Jlesentery, 475. Meso-ciccuni, 475. colon, left, 475. right, 475. transverse, 475. rectum, 475, 550. Metacarpal arteries, 286, 308. Jlctatarsal artcrv, 695. Mitral valve, 343. Modiolus of the cochlea, 752. Molar teeth, 133. glands, 30. Mons Veneris, 584. Motor oculi nerve, (o) 187, (c) 16, (d) 43, 47. Mouth, cavity of, 132. Mucous ligament, 701. Multitidus spina) muscle, 400. Muscularis mucosiu, 496. Musculi papillares, 340, 343. pectinati, 338, 342. Musculo-phrcnic artery, 253, 534. cutaneous nerve, (o) 696, (d) 689. of the arm, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. spiral nerve, 249,275. Muse, abductor digiti minimi, 297. digiti minimi pedis, 678. indicis, 299. poUicis, 295. Muse, abductor pollicis pedis, 677. accessorius pedis, 682. ad sacro-lumbalem, 391. adductor brevis, 633. digiti minimi, 298. longus, 632. magnus, 635, 659. pollicis manus, 296. l)edis, 683. anconeus, 304. anti-tragii'us, 34. arytivnoideus, 156. attoUens aurcm, 2. attrahens aurem, 2. iizygos uvulic, 131. biceps femoris, 656, 699. Hoxor, cubiti, 267, 289, 310. brachialis anticus, 272, 289. buccinator, 26. cervicalis ascendens, 391. chondro-glossus, 151. ciliaris, 728. circumHe.xus palati, 129. eoccygeus, 547. complexus, 392. compressor uaris, 21. constrictor inferior, 123. isthmi faucium, 130. medius, 123. superior, 124. urethrie, 430, 435. coraco-brachialis, 268. corrugator cutis ani, 420. supercilii, 23. cremastcricus, 446. crico-aryticnoideus lateralis, 156. posticus, 155. thyroidcus, 156. deltoides, 257. depressor anguli oris, 26 epiglottidis, 157. depressor labii inferioris, 25. akc naisi, 22. diaphragma, 528, 369. digastricus, 75. dilatator uaris, 22. pupillw, 729. ejaculator urinre, 426. erector clitoridis, 434. penis, 426. spiufc, 391. extensor carpi radialis brcvior, 303. longior, 302. ulnaris, 304 digiti minimi, 1504. digitorum brcA'is pedis, 695. digitorum communis, 303 digitorum lougus pedis, 692. indicis, 306. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 305. pollicis proprius, 691. primi internodii pollicis, 306. secundi iiitcniodii pollicis, 306. flexor accessorius, 682. brevis digiti minimi, 298. brevis digiti minimi jiedis, 685. carpi radialis, 281, 301776 IXDEX. Muso. flexor carpi iilnaris, 282. digitorum brevis pedis, fi78. longus iwdis, 672, 681. profmidus. 287, 294. sul)liiiiis, 284, 294. poUicis longus, 288, 295 pedis, 671, 682. pollicis brevis, 296. pedis, 683. g-astrocnemiiis, 668. gemellus inferior, 647. superior, 647. genio-hyo-glossus, 96, 1(51. liyoideun, 96. glosso-pharyngcus, lo2. gluteus luaximus, 640. medius, 642. minimus, 644. gi'acilis, 6;>1. lielicis ]najor, 3o. minor, 35. hyo-glo.';sus, 95, 189. iliaous, 5o8, 636. ilio-costalis, 391. indicator, 306. infru-costalis, 368. infra-spinatus, 259. intercostales externi, 251, 368. intcrni, 252, 368. interossei manfts dorsales, 299. palmares, 299. pedis dorsales, 687. plantares, 687. interspinales, 399. intertransversales, 170, 399. keriito-cricoidcus, 156. latissimus dorsi, 250, 384. laxator tympani, 746. levator a'nguli oris, 26. scapuhe, 386. ani, 421, o48. glanduliu thyroidcfc, 119. iabii superioris, 25. aliu nasi, 22. lal)ii inferioris, 25. ])alati, 129. palpebra), 42. uvulio, 131. levatores costarum, 402. linguales, 152 longissinnis dorsi, 391. longus colli, 168. lunibricales nianus, 295. pedis, 682. mallei extcrnus, 746. internus, 746. massetericus, 81. multitidus spina', 400. mylo-hyoideus, 93. obliquus abdominis extcrnus, 441. internus, 445. capitis inferior, 399. superior, 399. oculi inferior, 48. superior, 42. obturator extcrnus, 636, 648. intenius, 594, 647. Muse, occipito-frontalis, 2. omo-hyoideus, 64, 386. opponens digiti minimi, 298. polUcis, 296. orbicularis oris, 24. palpebrarum, 23. orl)italis, 50. palato-glossus, 130, 151. pharyngeus, 130. palmaris brevis, 290. longus, 282, pectineus, 6.31. pectoralis ma jor, 243, 244. minor, 244. peroneus bre^'is, 697. longus, 688, 696. tertius, 692. plantaris, 670. platysma niyoides, 52, 58. l)opliteus, 671, 699. pronator quadratus, 288. radii teres, 280. psoas magnus, 537, 636. parvus, 538. pterygoideus extemus, 84. intemus, 84. pjTamidalis abdominis, 450. nasi, 21. pyriformis, 594, 644. quadratus femoris, 648, luniborum, 539. rectus abdominis, 448. capitis anticus major, 169. minor, 169. lateralis, 113. posticus major, 398. minor, 398. femoris, 625, 644. oculi extcrnus, 47. infei-ior, 47. internus, 47. superior, 42. retrahens aurem, 2. rliomboideus major, 386. minor, 386. risorius Santorini, 26. rotatores dorsi, 401. sacro-lumbalis, 391. salpingo-pharyngeus, 125. sartorius, 621. scalenus anticus, 67. medius, 67. posticus, 67. semi-spinalis colli, 399. dorsi, 399. semi-membranosus, 658, 699. semi-tendinosus, 656. serratus magnus, 250. posticus inferior, 388. superior, 388. soleus, 669. sphincter ani extenius, 421. internus, 421. pupilla^, 729. vagina\ 434. spinalis dorsi, 390. splenius capitis, 389. colli, 389.777 INDEX. ^[usc. stapedius, 7-16. stenio-clc'ido-raastoicleus, G2. hyoidcus, G-i. thyroidcus, 64. stylo-glossus, 9o, lol. liyoiuous, 76. pharyiigeiis, 102. subaiiconcus, '27o. subelavius, 245. subcrurous, 627. subscapularis, 263. supinator radii brevis, 307. lon!> us, 301. supraspinatus, 262. tcuiporulis, 4, 82. teusor palati, 129. tarsi, 49. tympani, 746. A ao-inye fenioris, 625. tei'es major, 259. iniuor, 259. thyro-aryttcuoidcus, 157. hyoidcus, 65. tibialis auticus, 691. posticus, 672, 687. trachclo-mastoideus, 391. tragicus, 34. transversalis abdominis, 447. colli, 391. transversus auris, 35. lingua\ 152. pedis, 683. perinaei, 427, 434. alter, 427- profundus, 429, 434. trapezius, 382. trianjiularis sterni, 252. triceps extensor cruris, 625. cubiti, 273. ^'astus cxtcrnus, 626. internus, 626. zygomaticus major, 26. minor, 26. Mylo-hyoid artery, 88. muscle, 93. nerve, 92. Nares, 30, 126. Nasal artery, internal, 46, 144. artery, lateral, 28. cartilages, 30. duct, 51, fossa;, 134. nerve, (d) 43, (c) 143, (o) 46. Naso-palatinc nerve, 141. artery, 143. Neck, anterior triangle of, 60. posterior, 53. dissection of, 51. Nerve of Jacobson, 109, 748. Wrisberg, (o) 249, (d) 266, 271. Ner\'c to the inferior gemellus and quad- ratus, 647. latissimus, 250. levator anguli scapube, 72. obturator internus, 567, 647. pectineus, 629. ptcr\ goid, internal, 147. Nerve to the pj-riformis, 567. riiomboid muscle, 72, 387. scaleui, 73. serratus muscle, (o) 72, (d) 250. sid)claviu3, 72. superior gemellus, 647. tensor jjalati, 147. tympaui, 147. vagiuio fenioris, 629. teres major, 250. minor, 259. vastus extenuis, 629 . internus, 629. Nei'vous tunic of ej eball, 781. Nerv. abducens, (o) 188, (c) 18, (d) 47. accessorius obturatorius, 543, 632. spinalis, 112, 188, 383. acromiales eutanei, 73, 256. articularcs poplitei, 655. articularis poplitei, obturatorius, 633, 655. auditorius, 188, 750. aurieulares anleriores, 8. auricularis magnus, 8, 57. pueumogastricus, (o) 111, (d) 749. auricularis inferior, 91. posterior, 8, 36. auriculo-temporalis, 8, 91. buecales, 38, 90. bucciuatorius, 90. cardiacus inferior, (o) 115, 121, (d) 357. cardiacus medius, (o) 115,121, (d) 357. cardiacus pneumogastrici. 111, 355, (d) 357. cardiacus superior, (o) 115, 121, (d) 337, 357. cervicales ncrvi facialis, 59. rami anteriorcs, 72, 170. postcriores, 170, 394. cervicalis superticialis, 57, 59. cervico-facialis, 38. chorda tympani, 92, 146. ciliares ganglii oplithalmici, 45, 731. ciliai'is nasalis, 44, (d) 731. circumdexus, 249, 258. claviculares cutauci, 57- coccygcalis, 402, 566. cochlearis, 758. connnuuicans tibularis, 668. corporis bulbosi, 432. cnu-alis, (o) 542, (d) 628. cutauci abdominis, autciiores, 439. latcrales, 438. ciitaneus extemus bracbialis, (o) 249, ((•) 272, (d) 278. lumbalis, (o) 542, (d) 609. musculo - spiralis, 266, 275, 278. cutaneus internus brachialis, major, 249, 271, 278. brachialis minor, 249, 266, 271. femoris, (d) 609. (o) 628.INDEX. cutaiicus intcmus musculo-spiralis, 266, '270. outaneus medius ieiiioris, (o) 628, ((]) 60y. outaneus niusculo-ciitaneiis, 266. pahuaris, 287, 290. plantaris, 675. railialis, 278. dorsalis iiianfts, 287- dcntales po.stenorcs, 101. dontalis, anterior, 101. inferior, 91. descendcns noni, 76, 113. diaphragniatieus, (o) 73, (d) 3.34. digastricus, 36. digitalcs mediani, 293. ])lantares, 680. radialos, 278. ulnaiTS, 292. <lorsales, rami anteriores, 2.53, 368, 409. postcriores, 396, 409. dorsalis penis, 432, 441. nlnaris, 278, 287. facialis, 3.5, 14.5. frontalis, 40. genito-cruralis, .562, 608. eruralis, I'araus femoralis, 609. ramus genitalis, 453. glosso-pharyngeus, 109, 153, 188. glutei inferiorcs, 646. gluteus superior, 541, 644. gustatorius, 92, 97, 153. lurmorrhoidales superiores, 481. liajmorrhoidalis inferior, 422. hypoglossus, 76, 99, 112, 153. ilio-liypogastricus, 450, 542, 638. inguinalis, 451, .542, 608. incisorius, 92. infra-ma.\-illares faciales, 38, 59. orbitales nervi facialis, 38. ori)italis, 50, 101. troelilearis, 44. intercostalcs, 253, 4-50. intenosto-cutanei anteriores, 238,439. t utanci laterales, 238, 438. humeralis, 269, 238, 266. intcrosseus anticus, 289. posticus, 308. labialis, 92. lachrymalis, 41. laryaigeus e.xteruus, 111. inferior, (o) 355, (d) 112, 161. laryngeus superior, (o) 111, (d) 162. lumbales, rami anteriores, 541, ])ostcriores, 398, 415. lunibo-sacralis, 541. iiialares nervi facialis, 38. massetericus, 90. jna.xillaris inferior, (o) 18, (d) 89. superior, 18, 100. medianus, 249, 270, 287, 292. meningci, 16. molles, 115. motor oculi, (o) 187, (c) 18, (d) 43,47. musculo-cutaneus braehii, 249, 272, 278. •V. musculo-cutaneus cruris, 696, (d) 689. musculo-spiralis, (o) 249, (d) 275. niylo-li\ oid(His, 92. iia.salis," (o) 40, (d) 43, 46, 143. na.so-i)alatinus, 141. obturatorius, (o) 542, (d) 633. articularis, 633, 655. occipitalis, majo)-, 395. minor, (d) 8, (o) 57. tt>sopliagealcs, 3-55. olfactorius, ((•) 16, (d) 138, (o) 185. ophtlialmicus, 18, 40. opticus, 46, 138, 185, 218. orbifilis, (d) 50, (o) 101. palatinus magnus, 141. medius, 142. minor, 142. palpebrals, 33, 101. pulniarLs cutaneus, 290. ulnaris profundus, 299. .supcrficialis, 292. patcllaris, 610, 629. perforans Casserii, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. jteiijiivalcs superficiales, 422,426. peronealis, 654. pctrosus superticialis extemus, 20. magnus, 20,143. parvus, 20, 749. pharj-ngei, 109, 115. jiharyngeus, 111. plirenicus, 73, 354. plantaris e.xtenius, 681. externus profundus, 686. internus, 680. pneumo-gastricus, 110, 188, 3'54, 491. l)opliteus externus, 654. internus, 654. portio dura, 35, 144, 188. mollif;, (o) 188, (d) 758. pterygoidci, 91. pterygoideus intcmus, 91, 147. pudendus inferior, (o) 646, (d) 426, 439. internus, (o) 567, (d) 422, 432, 441. pulmonares anteriores, 355. posteriores, 355. vadialis, 278, 287. recun-ens, 112, 355, (d) 161. articularis, 696. sacrales, rami anteriores, 566. ]iosteriores, 401, 638. .saphenus externus, 668 (d) 690. intcmus, (o) 628, (d) 610, 628, 690. sciaticus magnus, 567, 646, 658. parvus, 567, 638, 641, 658. spermatiei, 481. splieno-palatini, 101. splancluiicus major, (o) 367, 491. minor, (o) 368, (d) 491. minimus, (o) 368, (d) 491. eplenici, 490. stylo-hyoideus, 37. suboccipitalis, ramus anterior, 113.779 INDEX. Ncrv. suhocuipitalis ramus posterior, 397. subscapulares, 249. superticialis cordis dexter, (o) 115, (d) 3o6. sinister, (o) 121, (d) 337. supra-maxillares uervi facialis, 38. orbitalis, 6, 40. scapularis, 73, 263, 378. trochlearis, 7, 41. sympatlioticus abdoiniuis, 481, 489, 543. cervicis, 113. pelvis, 567. tlioracis, 356, 367. teniporales nervi facialis, 38. profundi, 90. sui)crticiales, (d) 8, (o) 38. temporo-facialis, 37- malaris, 50, 101. thoracici, antcriorcs, 249. latcrales, 238. thoracicus posterior, 72, 250. tibialis anticus, 690, (d) 696. })osticus, 674. tri2:eminus, 17, 187. trochlearis, 17, 40, 187. tympanicus, (o) 109, (d) 748. ulnaris, 271, 286, 293. uterini, 568. vaginales, 568. vestibularis, 758. vidianiis, 142. Ninth nerve, (o) 189, (c) 112, (d) 76,99. Nipple of the breiist, 238. Nodule, 224. Nose, cartilages, 30. cavity of, 134. meatuses of, 135. nerves and vessels of, 141, 143. Nuclei of medulla oblongata, 195. Nucleus caudatus, 213. lenticularis, 213. Nutritious artery of fibula, 674. of femur, 634. of humerus, 270. of tibi«, 673. Nympha>, 584. Obliquus abdominis extenius, 441. internus, 445. capitis inferior muscle, 399. sujjorior muscle, 399. oculi inferior, 48. superior, 42. Obturator artery, (o) 563, (d) 637. fascia, 546. ligament, 598. membrane, 598. muscle, externnl, 636, 648. internal, 594, 649. nerve, (o) 543, (d) 633. Occipital artery, (o) 79, (c) 397, (d) G. lobe, 203, vein, 6, 50. sinus, 13. Occipito-atloid articulation, J72. ligaments, 172. Occipito-axoid ligaments, 174. frontalis muscle, 2. Odontoid ligaments, 174. ffisophagus, connections of, 120, 364. structure, 132, 364. (Esophageal arteries, 362, 485. nerves, 355. opening of diaphragm, 531. Olfactorv bulb, 185. cells, 138. nerve, (o) 185, (d), 138. region, 137. Olivary body, 191, 193. commissure. 194. fasciculus, 194, 197, 219. Omentum, great, 474. small, 474. splenic, 474. Omo-hyoid muscle, 64. Ophthalmic arterv, 19, 45. ganglion, 45. nerve, (o) 18, (c) 18, (d) 40. vein, 46. Opponens iwUicis muscle, 296. OxJtic couuuissure, 186. nerve, (o), 185, 218, (c) 46, (d) 732. thalamus, 217, 222. tract, 186. Ora servata, 732. Orbicular ligament of the radius, 314. Orbicularis oris, 24. palpebrarum, 23. Orbit, 39. muscles of, 42, 47. nei'ves, 40. periosteum of, 39. vessels, 45. Orbital brunch of nerve, (d) 50, (o) 101. Organ of Corti, 755. of Giraldes, 527. Orifice of the uretln-a, 878. of the uterus, 588. of tile vagina, 585. Os hyoides, 163. Ossicles of the t\Tnpanum, 744. Os tincic, 588. Os uteri externum, 588. Otic ganglion, 146. btolitlis, 756. Outlet of the pelvis, 418. Oi'aries, 559, 590. api)endage to, 592. arteries (tf, -534, 564. Ovicapsule, 591. Ovisacs, 591. Ovum, 591. Palate (soft), 128. I'alatine, artei-ies, su])crior, 143. artery, inferior, 79. nerve, external, 142. large, 141. small, 142. Palato-glossus, 130, 151. Palato-pharvngeus, 130. Palm of the"hand, 289. cutaneous nerves of, 290.780 INDEX. Palmar arfli, deep, 208. siipertieial, 291. nerve of the ulnar, deep, 299. superlicial, 292. eutaiieous nerves, 290. fascia, 2i)0. Palmaris brevis muscle, 290. longus muscle, 282. Palpebral, 31. Pall)ebrul arteries, 33, 4G. ligament, 32. nerves, 33. veins, 33. Pancreas, 505. connections, 484. structure of, 505. Pancreatic arteries, 485. duct, 497, 505. veins, 488. Pancreatico-duodenal arteries, 478, 486. Papilla lachrvmalis, 31. Papilla' of the tongue, 148. Parietal lobe,_203. Pai'ovarium, 592. Parotid gland, 28. arteries, 80. Patellar nerve, G29. plexus, 610. Pectineus muscle, 631. Pectoralis major muscle, 243, 244. minor muscle, 244. Peduncle of the cerebellum, inferior, 227. middle, 227. superior, 226. of the cerebnnn, 198, 222. of the pineal bod}-, 218. Peduncular fibres, 219. Pelvis, female, dissection of, 555. male, 545. dissection of, 545. Pel\ ic cavity, 545. fascia, 546. plexus, 568. Penis, 555. integument of, 440. structure of, 579. vessels of, 582. Peptic glands, 495. Perforating arteries of the femoral, 634,659. of internal niammar\-, 253. of the palm, 298. of the sole, 685, 695. Perforans Casserii nerve, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. Pericardium, 332. vessels of, 333, 362. Perilyni])!!, 751. Periuieum, female, 433, male, 417. Perina-al artery, superficial, 425. fascia, dei'p, 428. superficial, 424. nerves, sui)erficial, 422, 425, 432. Periosteum of the orbit, 39. Peritoneal prolongation on the cord, 451. Peritoneum, 472. of female pelvis, 557. Peritoneum of male peh is, 550. Peroneal artery, 674. anterior, 674. nerve, 655. Peroneus brevis muscle, 697. longus muscle, 688, 696. tertius muscle, 692. Peroneo-tibial articulations, 706. Pes hii)nocampi, 214. Petrosal ganglion, 109. sinus, inferior, 15. sui)erior, 15, nerve, large, 20, 143. small, 20, 749. external, 20. Pcver's glands, 499. Pharynx, 123 interior, 125. muscles of, 123. openings of, 126. Pharyngeal iiscending arter}', 106 nerve. 111. vein, 109. Pharyngeo-glossal muscle, 152. Phrenic artery, 354, 534. nerve, 73, 354. Pia mater of the brain, 179. of the cord, 406. Pigmentary layer of retina, 735. Pigment cells of choroid, 727. iris, 730. Pillars of the abdommal ring, 443. of the fornix, 218. of the iris, 725. of the soft palate, 128. Pineal body, 218. Pinna, or auricle of the ear, 33. Pituitary bodj', 200. Phmtar aponeurosis, 676. arch of the artery, 685. arteries, 678, 685. ligament, long, 712. nerve, external, 681, 686. internal, 680. Plantaris muscle, 670. Platvsma mj oides muscle, 52, 58 Pleura, 328. Plexus, aortic, 481. brachial, 72, 249. cardiac, superficial, 337. deep, 350. carotid, 20. cavernous, 20. cervical, 73. posterior, 396. choroides cerebri, 216. cerebelli, 250. c(rliac, 490. coronary, anterior, 337. posterior, 337. coronary of the stomach, 490. diaphragmatic, 490. guhv, 355. hepatic, 490. hiTcmorrhoidal, 568. hypogastric, 481. lumbar, 541. mesenteric, inferior, 481.781 INDEX Plexus, mesenteric superior, 481. (esophageal!, 35o. ovarian, 068. patellar, 610. pelvic, 568. pharyngeal, 111. prostatic, 568. pterygoid of veins, 89. l)uhnouary, anterior, 3o5. posterior, 355. renal, 490. supra, 490. sacral, 066. solar, 489. spermatic of nei'ves, 481. of veins, 537. splenic, 490. tympanic, 748. uterine, 568. vaginal, 568. vesical, 068. vertebral, 116, 171. Plica semilunaris, 33. Pneumo-gastiic nerve, (0) 188, (d) 110, 188, 354, 491. Pons Tarini, 200. Varolii, 196. structvu-e of, 191. Popliteal artery, 652. glands, 655. nerve, extemal, 655, intei"nal, 654. space, 651. vein, 654. Popliteus muscle, 671, 699. Portal veins, 487. Portio dura, (c) 145, (d) .35, (0) 188. molUs, (o) 188, (d) 758. Porus opticus, 732. Posterior commissure, 217. clastic layer of cornea, 725. ligament of knee, 699. medullary vellum, 226. pjramid, 191, 194. triangle of the neck, 53. vesicular column, 414. Poupart's ligament, 444, 613. Pouch, lai-yngeal, 158. of the auricula, 338, 342. Prepuce, 640. Princeps cervicalis artery, 397. pollicis artery, 299. of the foot, 686. Processus cochleariformis, 742. vcrmiformis, 223, 227. Profunda artery, inferior, 270. of the neck. (0) 71, (d) 397. of the thigh, 619, 634. superior, (0) 270, (d) 274. Promontory, 741. Pronator quadratus muscle, 288. radii teres muscle, 280. Prostate gland, 569. connections, 553. structure, 570.^ Prostatic part of the urethra, 575. sinuses, 577. Psoas niagnus muscle, 537, 636. Psoas parvus muscle, 538. Pterygoid arteries, 89. nerve, external, 91. internal, 91, 147. plexus of veins, 89. Pteiygoideus externus muscle, 84. iuternus muscle, 84. Pterygo-maxillary ligament, 125. region, 81. palatine artery, 144. Pubic region of the abdomen, 467. symphysis, 599. Pudendal inferior nerve, (0) 646, (d) 426. Pudic arteries, external, 606, 609. artery, internal, (d) 441, (c) 422, 431. (0) 564. nerve, internal, (0) 567, (d) 422, 432, 441. Pulmonary artery, (d) 341, 348, 3:0. nerves, 355. veins, 342, 353, 360. Puncta lachrymalia, 31, 50. Pupil, muscles of, 729. Pylorus, 492. Pyloric arteries, 486. Pyramid, anterior, 191, 192. decussation of, 194. of the cerebellum, 224. of the thyroid body, 119. of tlie tjinpanum, 742. posterior, 191, 194. PjTamidal fibres of the medulla, 192. masses of kidney, 516. Pyramidalis abdominis muscle, 450. nasi muscle. 21. Pyramids of Malpighi, 517. Pyrifonnis muscle, 594, 644. Quadratus femoris muscle, 648. luniborum muscle, 539. lladial artery, 282, (d) 298, 308. nerve, 278, 287. veins, 283. cutaneous, 277. Radialis indicis artery, 299. lladio-carpal articulation, 316. Eadio-uluar articulations, 314, 317. Ilanine artery, 97. vein, 97- Raphe of the corpus callosum, 209. of the medulla, 194. of the periuDDum, 417. Receptaculum chyli, 540. Recto-vcsical fascia, 549. pouch, 550. Reotus abdominis muscle, 448. capitis anticus major, 169. minor, 169. posticus major, 398. minor, 398. lateralis, 113. femoris, 625, 644. Rectus oculi externus, 47. inferior, 47. iuternus, 47. superior, 42. Rectum, connections of, in the female, 558.782 INDEX. Ecctinn, coiuicf tions of, in th(> male, ■'>'>2. stnu tuve, -582. Eccxirrent iutorosscous artcrv, 307. rndial, 283. tibial, 694. ulnar, anterior, 286. posterior, 286. EeciUTcnt nerve of pneumo-gastric (o) 112, 3o5, (d) IGl. nerve of the tibial, 694. Eenal artery, (d) -519, (o) 533. ])lexus, 41.0. vein, (o) 519, (c) 537. Ecstiform body, 191, 194. Eete testis, 52G. Eetina, 781. strncture, 782. Eetrahens aurem, 2. Elioniboidens major nuisc-lc, 386. minor, 3S6. Eima of the glottis, 158. Eiug, abdominal, external, 443. internal, 451, 456. Eisorius Santorini muscle, 2G. Eods of rethia, 733. Eoot of the lung, 329, 331. Eoots of the nerves, 408, 414. Eotatores dorsi, 401. Eound ligament of the hip joint, 6G2. of the liver, 509. of the uterus, 452, 559, 590. Saccule of the ear, 75G. Sacculus laryngis, 158. j vostibuli, 75G. Sacral artery, lateral, 562. middle, 533, 565. ganglia, 568. nerves, anterior branches, 566. posterior branches, 401, 638, 642. plexus, 566. Sacro-coocygeal articulation, 595. iliac, 596. A crtebral, 595. lumbalis muscle, 391. sciatic ligament, large, 597, 650. small, 597, 650. Salpingo-pharyngcus muscle, 125. Salvatella vein, 277. Saphenous vein, extcmal, 666, 689. intenial, 608, 628, 666, (o) 689. opening, 612. nerve, external, 668, (d) 690. internal, (o) 628, (d) 610, 628, 690. Sartonus muscle, 621. Scala tynipani, 754. vcstibuli, 754. Scalenus anticus muscle, 67. mcdiu.s, 67. posticus, 67. Scapular artery, i)osterior, 70, 263, 387. ligaments, 262. muscles, 255, 259. Scapulo-davicular articulation, 260, humeral, 309. Scarpa's triangle, 616. Schneidcrian membrane, 136. Sciatic artery, (o) 563. (d) 645. nerve, large, 567, 646, 658. small, 567, 638, 646, 658. Sdei-otic coat of the eye, 723. structure, 724. Scrotum, 440. Second nerve, (o) 185, (c) 46, (d) 732. Secondary membrane of the tympanum, 741, 743. Segments of the cord, 412. Semicircular canals, 750. Semilunar cartilages, 703. ganglia, 490. valves of aorta, 344. of pulmonary arter}', 341. Semi-bulbs of vagina, 587. Semi-membranosus muscle, 658, 699. Seminal ducts, 572. Seminiferal tubes, 524. Semi-spinalis colli muscle, 399. dorsi muscle, 399. Semi-tendinosus muscle, 656. Septum ainicularum, 345. cochlea?, 753. ci"urale, 463, 615. iutennuscular, of the arm, 274. of the thigh, 627. lucidum, 211. nasi, 135. pectinifonne, 580. scroti, 440. of the tongue, 150. ventriculorum, 348. Sen-atus maguus muscle, 250. posticus inferior, 388. superior, 388. Seventh nerve, (o) 188, (c) 144, (d) 36. Sheath of the finger-s, 291. of the rectus, 449. of the toes, G77. Shoulder joint, 309. Sigmoid artery, 480. flexure of the colon, 470. valves, 341, 344. Sinus, ba.silar, 15. of the bulb, 578. cavemou.s, 14. circular, of Eidley, 14. coronarv, 336. lateral," 13. longitudhial, inferior, 13. superior, 10. occipital, 13. petrosal, inferior, 15. superior, 15. pocularis, 576. prostaticus, 577. •straight of the skull, 13. torcular, 13. transverse, 15. of Valsalva, 344. Sixth nerve, (o) 188, (c) 18, (d) 47. Small intestine, 469, 495. omentum, 474. Socia parotidis, 29. Soft commissure, 217.783 INDEX. Soft palate, 128. muscles of, 129. Solai- plexus, 489. Sole of the foot, disseution of, 67-5. Soleus muscle, 669. Solitary -lands, 498, 504. Spermatic artery, (o) 534, (il) 527. cord, 452. fascia, 458. plexus, 481. veins, (o) 527, (< ) 537. Spheno-palatine artery, 143. ganglion, 141. nerves, 101. Sphincter ani externus. 421. internus, 421. of the pupil, 729. vagiiue, 434. vesicx', 574. Spigelian lobe, 509. Spinal accessory nerve, (o) 189, (d) 112. nucleus, 195. arteries, 180, 410. cord, 411. membranes of, 404. structure, 413. nerves, 408. tilamcnts of origin, 414. roots of, 408. veins, 416. Spinalis dorsi muscle. 390. Spiral tube of the cochlea, 752. Splanchnic nerve, large, 367, (d) 491. small, 367, (d) 491. smallest, 367, (d) 491. Spleen, 506. connections, 471. structure, 506. Splenic artery, 485, 507. omentum, 474. plexus of ner^■es, 490. vein, 488. Splenius capitis muscle, 389. colli, 389. Spongy bones, 135. part of the urethra, 578. Stapedius nuiscle, 746. Stapes bone, 745. Stellate ligament, 370. Stenson's duct, 29. Stemo-clavicular articulation, 17G. cleido-mastoid muscle, 62. liyoid muscle, 64. thvroid, 64. Stomach, 'form and divisions, 491. connections of, 467. structure of, 492, Straight sinus, 13. Striate bodj-, 213, 222. Stylo-hyoid ligament^, 103. muscle, 76. nerve, 37. _ glossus muscle, 95, 151. mastoid artery, 89. maxillary ligament, 85. pharyngeus muscle, 102. Subanconeus muscle, 275. Subarachnoid space, 406. Subarachnoid space, of the cord, 406. Subclavian artery, left, 116, (o) 352. right, 68. vein, 71. Subclavius muscle, 245. Subcrureus, 627. Subcutant'ous malar nerve, 50, 101, Sublingual artery, 97. gland, 99. Submaxillary ganglion, 97. gland, 93. region, 93. Submental arter)-, 79. Suboccipital uerA'c, anterior l)ranch, 113. posterior branch, 397. Subpeduncular lobe, 225. Subperitoneal fat, 451, 615. Subpubic ligament, 599. Subscapular artery, 248. nerves, 249. Subscapularis muscle, 255. Substantia gelatinosa, 413. perforata antica, 201. Sulci of brain, 202, 224, Sulcus, longitudinal, of the liver, 509. spiralis, 754. transverse, 509. Superficial fascia of the abdomen, 438. of the j)erintcum, 424. of the thigh, 606, 607. Supcrficialis cervicalis artery, 387. volic artery, 283. Supinator radii brevis, 307. longus, 301, Supra-orl)ital artery, 5, 46, nen"e, 6, 40, renal ca])sule, 521. plexus, 490. scapular artery, 70, 263, 387. nerve, 73, 263, 387. spiiial artery, 263. spinatus muscle, 262. ti'ochlear nerve, 7, 41. Suspensory ligament of the lens, 736. of the liver, 476. of the penis, 440, Sympathetic nei-ve in the al)domen, 480, 490. in the head, 20. in the loins, 543. in the neck, 113. in the ])elvis, 567. in the thorax, 367. Symphysis pubis, 599. Synovial gland of Havers, 663, TiTinia hippociunpi, 214, semicircularis, 213. Tarsal artei-}-, 695. articulation, 713. cartilages, 32. Tarso-nu'tatarsal articulations, 715. Taste buds, WJ. Teeth, 133. Tegmentmn, 200. Temporal aponeurosis, 4. arterv, 80. deep. SO. middle, 80.INDEX. 784 Temporal arterj-, supcrfici;il, o, fascia, 4. muscle, 4, 82. nerves, deep, 90. superficial, 8, 38. vein, 6, 81. Temporo-fucial nerve, 37. malar nerve, 50. maxillary articulation, So. Kphcnoidal lobe, 203. Tendo Acliillis, 6G9. l)al])ebrarum, 32. Tendon of tri('ei)s extensor, 620. Tensor palati muscle, 129. tarsi, 49. tympani, 746. A-aginiC feinoris, 625. Tentorium cerebclli, 12. Teres major muscle, 259. minor, 259. Testes, 522. Thalamus opticus, 217, 222. Thebesian foramina, 338. valve, 339. Thigh, dissection of, back, 650, 656. front, 604. Third nerve, (o) 187, (d) 43, 47, (c) 16. ventricle, 216. Thoracic duct, 117, 365, 540. ganglia, 365. Thoracic-acromial artery, 247. alar, 248. humeral, 248. loug, 248. sujierior, 247. Thorax, boundaries of, 326. parietes of, 251, 368. Thymus body, 329. Thyro-arytiunoid articulation, 167. ligaments, 160. ar5'tirnoideus nuiscle, 157. epiglottidean ligament, 167. hyoid membrane, 165. muscle, 65. Thyroid artery, inferior, 70, 120. superioi-, 78, 120. axis of arterv, 70. body, 119. cartilage, 163. plexus of veins, 120. vein, inferior, 71, 120. middle, 75. superior, 79. Tibial artery, anterior, 693. posterior, 673. nerve, anterior, 696, (d) 690. posterior, 674. veins, anterior, 695. posterior, 674. Tibialis anticus muscle, 691. posticus, 672, 687- Tibio-tarsal articulation, 708. Tongue, 148. muscles of, 1.50. nerves of, 153. vessel? of, 97. Tonsil. 131. Tonsillitic artery, 79. Torcular Herophili, 13. Trachea, connections of, 120, 357. structure of, 167. Trachelo-mastoid muscle, 391. Tractus interniedio-latcralis, 414. Tragus, 34. muscle, 34. Transverse colon, 470. fissure of tlie cerebrum, 214. of the liver, 509. ligament of tlu- acetabulum, 662. of the atlas, 175. of tlie fingers, 291. of the knee, 703. of the metacarpus, 299. of the nietatarsu.s, 686. of the toes, 677- perinatal artery, 425. sinus, 15. tarsal articulation, 713. Transversalis abdominis muscle, 447. cer\-icalis arter\-, (o) 70, (d) 387. colli muscle, 391. faciei artery, (o) 80, (d) 28. fa.scia, 451,'463. Transvcrsus auricuUe muscle, 35. linguie, 152. ])cdis, 683. perimvi, 427, 434. deep, 429, 434. Trapezius muscle, 382. Trapezoid ligiunent, 250. Triangle of the neck, anterior, 60. posterior, 53. Triangular cartilage of the nose, 135. fibro-cartilage of wrist, 317. ligament of uroin, 444. of the urethra, 428. space of the thigh, 616. surface of the bladder, 575. Triangularis sterni muscle, 252. Triceps extensor cruris, 625. cubiti, 273. Tricuspid valve, 340. Trigeminal nerve, (o) 187, (c) 17. Trigonum vesicu', 575. Trochlea, 42. Trochlear nerve, infra, 44. supra, 7, 41. Tube of the cochlea. 752. Tuber cinereuni, 208. Tubercle of Holando, 195. Tubules of the stomach, 494. of small intestine, 498. of large intestine, 504. Tubuli seminifori, 524. miniferi, 617. Tunica albuginea testis. 524. Ruyschiana, 728. vaginalis, 523. oculi, 722. vasculosa testis, 524. Turbinate bones, 135. Twelfth intercostal nerve, 450, 543, 638. Tympanic artery, 88. Tympanum, 741. arteries of, 747.INDEX. 785 Tympanum, lining monibraue, 746. nerves of, 7*7. Ulnar artery, 284, 291. nerve, (o) 249, (c) 271, (d) 286, 293. veins, 285. cutaneous anterior, 277. posterior, 277. Umbilical lieniiu, 461. region of the abdomen, 467. vein, 510. Umbilicus, 436. Ureter, 520, 558, 575. Uretln-a, female, 593. connections, 560. oritice of, 585. structure, 593. male, interior, 575. connections, 554, 575. structure, 578. Uterine artei-ies, 564, 590. plexus of nerves, 568. veins and sinuses, 565. Uterus, 588. interior of, 589. ligaments of, 557. connections of, 558. structure of, 589. Utricle of the ear, 756. Uvea iridis, 729. Uvula cerebelli, 224. palati, 128. Tesicie, 574. Vagina, connections, 559, 586. structure and fonn, 586. Vaginal arteries, 564, 587. plexus, 568. veins, 565. Vagus nerve, 110, 188, 354, 491. nucleus, 196. Vallecula, 223. Valve, Eustachian, 339. of cjecum, 503. mitral, 343. semilunar, 341, 344. of Thebesius, 339. tricuspid, 340. of Vieussens, 226. ValvuIiC conniventes, 496. Vas deferens, 452, 526, 572. aberrans, 527- Vasa aberrantia, 270. brevia, 485. efferentia testis, 526. rete testis, 526. vortioosa, 728 Vascular coat of eye, 726. Vastus externus niuscle, 626. internus muscle, 626. Vein, alveolar, 144. angular, 6. ascending cervical, 71. lumbar, 544. pharyngeal, 107. auditory, 758. auricular, posterior, 6. axillary, 248. Vein, azygos, large, 363, 540. siaall, 364, 540. superior, left, 364. basilic, 265. brai hial, 270. bracliio-ccphalic, left, 352. riglit, 352. bronchial, loft, 361, 362. riglit, 3G1, 362. cardiac, anterior, 337. great, 336. small, 337. cava, inferior, 353, 482, 536. superior, 352. cephalic, 265. cerebellar, 184. cerebral, 183. choroid, 216. ciiiaiy, anterior, 731. posterior, 731. circumflex iliac, 455, 535. coronary of the heart, 336. of the stomach, 488. of the corpus cavcrnosiiiii, 581. striatum, 216. <leep cervical, 70, 398. cliapln-agmatie, inferior, 537. dorsal, of the j)enis, 565. dorsi-spinal, 398. emissarj", 6. emulgent, 519, 536. epigastric, deep, 454, 536. superficial, 439, 608. facial, 28, 79. femoral, 619, 624. frontal, 6. of Galen, 216. gastro-cpiploic, left, 488. h;enaorrhoidal, 565, 583. hepatic, 513, 537. iliac, common, 536. external, 536. internal, 565, infraorbital, 28, 102. iiniomiuatc, 352. intercostal, 363. ])Osterior branch, 398,416. superior, left, 363. right, 363. intras])inal, 416. interlobular, 513. intralobular, 513. jugular, anterior, 62. external, 29, 53. internal, left, 118. right, 75, 106. larjTigeal, 162. lingual, 97. longitudmal, of the spmc, anterior, 416. lumbar, 398, 544. mammarj-, internal, 253, 353. median, of the arm, 264, 277. basilic, 264. cephalic, 264. maxillary, internal, 89, 353. anterior, internal, 28, 144. mesenteric, inferior, 480. 3 EINDEX. 786 Vein, nicsoiitei ic, superior, 478. occii>ital, G, 80, 398. oplithiilniic, 4(j. ovariim, o'67. paliiebral, inferior, 28. j)ancreatic, 488. periiia-al, superficial, 425. pharyngeal, 107. phrenic, inferior, 536. pojiliteal, G54. portal, 488, 512. l)Osterior, s-pinal, ])lexus of, 416. profunda of the thigh, 635. ptery goid i)Ie.xus, 89. pudin external, 608. internal, (o) 582, (c) 432. pulmonary, 342, 353. radial cutaneous, 277. I'anine, 97. renal, 519, 536. sacral, lateral, 565. middle, 565. saphenous, external, 666, (o) 689. intei nal, 608, (o) 689. spennatic, 527, 537. spinal, 410. splenic, 488. subclavian, 71. sublobular, 513. supra-orbital, 6. renal, 522, 536. scapular. 71, 263, 387- temporal, 6, 81. superficial, 6. thyroid, inferior, 71, 120, 353. middle, 75. sui)erior, 79. tibial anterior, 695. ])osterior, 674. transverse cervical, 71, 387. ulnar, 285. cutaneous, anterior, 277- posterior, 277. umbilical, 510. uterine, 565. vaginal, 565. vertebral, 70, 171. vesical, 565. of the vertebra', 416. Telum interi)ositum, 215. pendulum palati, 128. Yena cava, inferior, 482, 536. superioi-, 352. portse, 488, (d) 512. THE Yena" cava- hepatica>, 513. Yenous arch of the foot, 689._ of the hand, 277. Yentricles of the brain, 20. fifth, 212. fourth, 227. lateral, 210. third, 216. of the heart, 335. left, 343. right, 340. ^ structure of, 344. of the larynx, 159. Ycimifomi appendix, 470, 502. processes, 223, 227. Yertebral artery, (o) 70,_(c) 171, (d) 180. ])lexu?, 116, 171. vein, 70, (o) 171. Yeru montanum, 576. Yessels of the brain, 180. of the dura mater, 15, 407. Yesica urinaria, 573. Yesical artery, inferior, 563. superior, 563. plexus of nerves, 568. veins, 565. Yesicula prostatica, 576. Yesicular column of cord, 414. Yesicula' seminalcs, connections, 554. structure, 571. Yestibule of tlie ear, 749. artery of, 758. nerve of, 758. of the vulva, 585. Ycstigial fold of pericardium, 333. Yidian artery, 144. nerve, 142. Yilli, intestinal, 497. Yitreous body, 735. fluid, 735. Yocal cords, 160. Yulva, 584. Wharton's duct, 93, 99. "White commissure of the cord, 413. "Winslow's I'oranien, 474. Wrisberg's nerve, 249, 266, 271. Wrist joint, 316. Yellow spot of eyeball, 732, 734. Zonule of Zinn, 736. Zygomaticus major muscle, 26. minor muscle, 26. END.. BRADBURY, AGKEW, t CO., PEINTERS, WHITEFEIARS.ILLUSTRATIONS OF DISSECTIONS IN A SERIES OF ORIGINAL COLOURED PLATES, THE SIZE OF LIFE, RKPRESENTING THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY. BY GEORGE VINER ELLIS, rROKESSOR OF ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON, AS1> G. H. FORD, Esq. THE DRAWINGS ARE FROM NATURE AND ON STONE BY MR. FORD, FROM DISSECTIONS BY PROFESSOR ELLIS. SECOND EDITION. 1 Volume Folio, ivith 8i?o Volume of Letterpress, £6 6s., half-hound Morocco ; or. In 29 Parts, price £o os. These Plates are designed to serve both as patterns for the Student to copy in his dissections, and as aids to him in after-study. For the purpose of carrying out the pictorial representation of dissections, the part of the human Body to be illustrated is divided into suitable stages or regions ; and the muscles, bloodvessels, and nerves of each region are shown in layers in the natural order of succession, so that their mutual connections may be brought before the eye at one and the same time. The Illustrations compri.se views of the Head and Neck, the ujjper Limb, the Perinifiuni, the Abdominal parietes, the Pelvis, and the lower Limb ; and they are accompanied by a concise description of the objects displayed in each Plate, with a short notice of the practical applications of Anatomical facts to Surgery. All the Figures are drawn of life-size from actual dissections ; and they are printed in colours w-ith the object of making them as true pictures as po.ssible of Nature, and more serviceable as copies for the Student to imitate. {List of Plates on oilier side.)ILLUSTRATIONS OF DISSECTIONS. LIST OF THE UPPER LIMB. Plate I.—Sunerlicial Muscles of Thorax and Axilla with Contents. Plate II.—Axillary Vessels, and Brachial Plexus of Ker\'es, with Brandies. Plate III.—Superficial Veins and Nerves in front of bend of Elbow. Plate IV.—Superficial view of Arm on inner side, with parts undisturbed. Plate v.—Shoulder, with Muscles at back of Scapula. Plate VI.—Triceps Muscle behind Humerus, and some Shoulder Muscles. Plate VII.—Musculo-S]>iral Nerve in Arm, and Profunda Vessels. Plate VIII.—Surface view of Forearm, with parts undisturbed. Plate IX.—Deep view of front of Forearm. Plate X.—Superficial and deep views of Palm of Hand. Plate XI.—Superficial view of back of Fore- arm and Hand. Plate XII.—Deep view of back of Forearm. THE HEAD AND NECK. Plate XIII.-Base of Skull, and first and second views of Orbit. Plate XIV.—Sinuses of Dura Mater, and two deep views of Orbit. Plate XV.—Anatomy of side of Neck behind Sterno-mastoid Muscle. Plate XVI.—Surface view of Neck in front of Stemo-mastoideus Muscle. Plate XVII.—View of front of Neck after dis- placement of Stemo-mastoideus. Plate XVIII.— Subclavian Arterj' and sur- rouading parts. Plate XIX.—Deep View of back of Neck. Plate XX.—Superficial view of Pterygoid region. Plate XXI.—Deep view of Dissection of Pterygoid region. Plate XXII.—Anatomy of SubmaxiUarj' re- gion. Plate XXIII.—Upper Maxillarj- Nerve, and dee)) part of internal Maxillary Artery. Plate XXIV.—Internal Carotid and ascending Pharyngeal Arteries, and Cranial Nerves in Neck. Plate XXV,—External view of Pharynx with its Muscles. Plate XXVI.—Interior of Pharynx, and Mus- cles of Soft Palate. Plate XXVII.—Larj-nx and Vocal Apparatus, with Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves. Plate XXV r 11.—Nose Cavity, with Bounda- ries and Openings. THE PERIN^U>L Plate XXIX.—Anatomy of posterior half, or anal part of Perinaeum in Male. PLATES. Plate XXX.—Superficial view of anterior or urethral half of Male Peri- nfeum. Plate XXXI.—Deep view of anterior half ol Perinajum of Male. THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES. Plate XXXII.—First view of Abdominal Wall in Inguinal region. Plate XXXIIL—Second view of Abdominal Wall in Inguinal region. Plate XXXIV.—Third view of Abdominal Wall in Inguinal region. Plate XXXV.—Inner view of Wall of Abdo- men in Inguinal region. Plate XXXVI.—Deep Muscles of Abdominal Parietes, and Vessels of Cavity. Plate XXXVII.—Internal Iliac Artery, and Lumbar and Sacral Plexuses. THE PELVIS. PlaU XXXVIII.—First side view of Male Pelvis, with Muscles below. Plate XXXIX.—Second view of Male Pclvi-s, showing Fascia in interior. Plate XL.—Side view of Viscera of Male Pelvis. Plate XLI.—Side view of Viscera of Female Pelvis. THE LOWER LIMB. Plate XLII.—Superficial parts of Groin, and Fascia Lata at top of Tliigli. Plate XLIII.—Anatomy of Parts concerned iu Femoral Hernia. Plate XLIV.—Surface view of Thigh, with cutaneous Nerves and Vessels. Plate XLV.—Anatomy of Femoral Vessels, and anterior Crural norve. Plate XLVI.—Deep view of fore and outer parts of Thigli. Plate XLVII.—Muscles inside Femur, with Vessels and Nerves. Plate XLVIII.—First stage in the Dissection of the Buttock. Plate XLIX.—Buttock, second stage. Plate L.—Buttock, third stage. Plate LI.—Popliteal Space, with Contents. Plate LII.—Back of the Thigh. Plate LIII.—Ham undisturbed, and first stage of Back of Leg. Plate LIV.—Deep Muscles of Calf, and Popli- teal Vessels and Nerves. Plate Lv.—Deep Dissection of Back of Leg. Plate LVI.—First and Second stages in ex- amination of Sole of Foot. Plate LVII.—Third and fourth stages of Dis- section of Sole of Foot. Plate LVIII.—Front of Leg and Dorsum of Foot. Loadou : SMITH, ELDER. & CO., 15, Waterloo Place.I > »r jlOJnj'hJJL CP( /a TiCMt jiOJi^tioJi