☆ ☆☆ The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: A COL 0106 0110 7 0603Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2152970x/ v . >£% V *THE UNIVERSAL COOK, AND City and Country Houjekeeper.. . > , i ] ' * ' 1 • • * I ■ ' ■ A * • • • 1 \ * r>.uHsoK (R^VajA.) THE UNIVERSAL COOK, 40 AND City and Country Houfekeeper. CONTAINING ALL THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF COOKERY: THE DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING Butchers Meat, Poultry, Game, and Fijh; GRAVIES, CULLICES, SOUPS, AND BROTHS ROOTS AND VEGETABLES, and to prepare Little elegant Dijhes for Suppers or light Repajls ; TO MAKE ALI, SORTS OF PIES, PUDDINGS, PANCAKES, AND FRITTERS; C ^ K E S, PUFFS, AND BISCUITS \ CHEESECAKES, TARTS, AND CUSTARDS 5 CREAMS AND JAMS £ BLANC MANCE, FLUMMERY, ELEGANT ORNAMENTS, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. The various Articles in CANDYING, DRYING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING. THE PREPARATION OF HAMS, TONGUES, BACON, &c. DIRECTIONS FOR * TRUSSING POULTRY, CARVING, AND MARKETING. THE MAKING AND MANAGEMENT OF Made Wines, Cordial Waters, and Malt Liquors. Together with Diredlions for Baking Bread, the Management of Poultry and the Dairy, and the Kitchen and Fruit Carden ; with a Catalogue of the various Articles in Seafon in the different Months of the Year. Ilefdes a Variety of USEFUL AND INTERESTING TABLES. The Whole Embellifhed with The Heads of the Authors, Bills of Fare for every Month in the Year, and proper Subjects for the Improvement of the Art of Carving, elegantly engraved on fourteen Copper-Plates. By FRANCIS COLLINGWOOD, and JOHN WOOLLAMS, Principal Cooks at the Crown and Anchor Tavern in the Strand, Late from the London Tavern. LONDON: PRINTED BY R. NOBLE, FOR J. SCATCHERD AND J. WHITAKER No. 12, A VE-MARIA-LANE. * 1?9 2.PREFACE. We fhall not attempt to ranfack the Annals of Antiquity, with a View to difcover what was the Food of our firft Parents in the Garden of Eden, or in what Manner they performed their culinary Operations: It is fuf- ficient for us to know at prefent, that Cookery is become a Science, that every Age has contributed its Mite to the Improvement of this Art, which feems now to have reached a very high Degree of Perfection. ♦ Complete however as this Science may now be confidered, it will ever be fubjeCt to the Variations of Tafte and Falhion ; and from this Source proceeds the great Variety of Books on Cookery now prefented to the Service of the Public. After fome ; A 3 YearsPREFACE. Years Practice in two of the moft ca- pital Taverns this great Metropo- lis produces, we have had frequent Occalions to deviate from the printed Directions we found in Books of this Kind, fometimes by altering, but more frequently by reducing the Number of Ingredients, and thereby rendering the Difh more fimple and lefs expenfive, though equally falu- tary to the Conffitution, and grateful to the Palate. It will from hence follow, that we do not prefume to arrogate to our- felves the Reputation of having ufhered into the World a Work en- tirely new, which indeed cannot be expeCled; but we flatter ourfelves, that the Alterations we have made in the different Receipts, the new ones we have added, and the methodical Manner in which we have arranged the Whole, will in fome Degree en- title us to the Patronage of the Public. Glaffe, Mafoiij Raffald, and Farley, are,PREFACE. are, like us, equally indebted to the Labours of our Predeceffors. It cannot be expefted from Men, whofe Time is wholly employed in the culinary Arts, that they fhould be much converfant in the Preparation of made Wines, Cordial Waters, and Malt Liquors, or in the Management of Poultry, the Dairy, and the Kitch- en and Fruit Gardens; yet thefe being Matters elfentially neceffary to be known by everyHoufekeeper in the Country, and equally ufeful and amufmg to thofe, who retire from the Noife and Buftle of the Metropo- lis to enjoy the calm Retreat of a rural Life, we could not prevail on ourfelves to omit thofe neceffary Articles, or be fatisfied folely with our own Judgement thereon. We have therefore engaged different Per- fons to treat on thofe different Sub- jects ; and we doubt not but that, from their known Skill and Experience therein, they will be found to have A 4 done\ PREFACE. done no Difcredit to the other Parts of the Work. While we, on our Part, have been particularly careful of improving and amending the different Receipts, and adding fuch new ones as have occur- O red to us in the Courfe of our exten- Rve Praftice, the Publifhers have been no lefs attentive to the elegant- ly Printing of the Work, a bare Infpeftion into which will give it, in Point of Elegance, a decided Su- periority over every other Book ol the Kind. The Defigns and Engrav- ings of the Plates have been executed at a very great Expence; and we may fafely venture to affert, that no Work of this Nature ever received fuch expenfive Affiftance as The Uni- versal Cook, now humbly fubmit- ted to the Perufal and Patronage of the Public. F. COLLINGJVOOD. y. WOOLLAMS:CHAP. CONTENTS. CHAP. I. General Obfervations. Cleanliness duties of a Cook Rules for roafting - Boiling Frying Page Broiling ■ — 4 Made difhes — Soups Puddings — ibid. Pies — 7 CHAP. II. # The various Methods of drejftng Beef. Pieces in a Bullock 8 To roaft a Bullock’s Heart ibid. ■ Ox Palates 9 To ragoo Ox Palates i o To boil a Rump of Beef ibid. Rump of Beef fmoked — 11 To bake a Leg of Beef — ibid. To broil Beef Steaks 12 To fry Beef Steaks — ibid. Another Method * ibid. Beef Steaks rolled 13 A Rump of Beef rolled ibid. To flew a Rump of Beef 14 Another Method 1 ^ To force the Infide of a Sir- loin of Beef ibid. ■ To drefs a Fillet of Beef 16 To drefs Beef Collops ibid. Beef Goblets ibid. To Hew Neat’s Tongues 17 To make a Meek Hare ibid. To ragoo a Piece of Beef 17 Beef in Epigram .. — 19 BouiIIi.e Beef —— ibid- Beef Efcarlot • 20 Portugal Beef ibid. Beef Tremblant • ibid. Beef a la Mode 21 Beef a la Royal — ibid. Beef a la Daube 22 Beef Olives — ■— 23 A Fricando of Beef ibid. Another Method 24 A Porcupine of the flat Ribs of Beef — . ibid. A Rib of Beef glafle, with Spinach ■ ibid, Beef Steak Pie 25 Beef Steak Pudding ibid. To collar Beef 26 To pot Beef • ibid.CONTENTS. CHAP. CHAP. HI. The various Methods of dr effing Veal. ^ Page Pieces in a Calf 28 A Fillet of Veal with Col- lops — ibid. Breaft ofVeal in Hodge Podge ib. To ftew a Breaft in its own Sauce — — 29 To ftew a Knuckle of Veal ibid. Veal Olives a la Mode — 30 Neck of Veal and lharp Sauce ibid. - a la Royal ibid. . a la Braize 31 Neck of Veal ftewed with Celery — 31 . ragooed 32 Breaft of Veal ragooed — ibid. TheGriftlesof a Breaft of Veal with a white Sauce 33 Fillet of Veal ftewed ibid. Leg ofVeal marinated ibid. .—.—— in Difguife ibid. daubed 34 To drefsjVeal a la Bourgeoifeibid. Loin of Veal in Epigram ibid. To roaft Sweetbreads with Afparagus 3 5 Sweetbreads a la daube 36 — a la Dauphine ibid. —: ragooed 37 as Hedge Hogs ibid. - forced — 38 Shoulder of Veal a la Piedmontoife bid. Page To mince Veal —* — 38 A Pillaw of Veal 3^ Veal Blanquets — — ibid. Bombarded Veal 40 A Harrico ofVeal ibid. Veal Rolls — — 41 To fry cold Veal ibid. A Florentine of Veal ibid. To boil a Scrag of Veal 42 To mince Veal for the Sick ibid. To make Marble Veal ibid. Calf’s Head Surprize 43 The beft Way to drefs a Calf’s Head 44 To haft) a Calf’s Head ibid. To grill a Calf’s Head 47 To roaft a Calf’s Head ibid. Calf s Head boiled 46 Veal Palates ibid. Scotch Collops white ibid. • brown — 47 the French Way 48 Veal Cutlets — — /bid. A Calf's Heart roafted 49 A fine fweet Veal Pie ibid. A Calf’s Head Pie 30 A Veal Suet Pudding ibid. Veal Hams -— jx To collar a Breaft of Veal ibid. a Calf's Head 32 To pot Veal ibid.CONTENTS, CHAP. CHAP IV. The various Methods of dr effing Mutton. Page Pieces in a Sheep 52 To road a Haunch of Mut- ton Venifon Fafhion 53 Another Method ibid. Gigot of Mutton with Spa- ni(h Onions ibid. Leg of Mutton Modern Fafhion 54 Split Leg of Mutton with Onion Sauce ibid. Leg of Mutton a la Dauba ibid. a la Mode 55 a la haut Gout ibid. forced —— ibid. ragooed 56 • a la Royale ibid. Shoulder of Mutton boiled with Onion Sauce ibid. Shoulder of Mutton in Epigram ibid. furprifed 58 Bread of Mutton collared ibid. - dreded another Way ibid. — grilled 59 To drefs a Neck of Mutton ibid. Neck of Mutton larded with Ham and Anchovies ibid. Page Neck of Mutton called the Hady Difh 59 Dreded like Venifon 60 Fillet of Mutton with Cu- cumbers ibid. Saddle of Mutton a la Mene- hout 61 • frenched ibid. Mutton kebobbed 62 Mutton the Turkilh Way 63 Mutton a la Maintenon ibid. A Bafque of Mutton — ibid. A Harrico of Mutton 64 Chine of Mutton with Cu- cumber Sauce ibid. A Hodge-podge of Mutton 65 Mutton Rumps a la Braize ibid. To hldh Mutton 66 - cold Mutton ibid. Mutton Cutlets in Difguife 67 Lovers Fafhion ibid. To broil Mutton Steaks ibid. Mutton Steaks baked — 68 A Mutton Pie ibid. Sheeps Tongues in the French Fafhion ibid. Sheeps Trotters Afpic — ibid. Mutton Hams ~—— 69CONTENTS. C H A P. V. ✓ V / The various Methods of dr effing Lamb. Page Page Pieces in a Lamb 69 Lamb’s Head and Pluck 75 To forcea Quarter of Lamb 70 To fry a Loin of Lamb ibid. Two Hind Quarters of Lamb baked with Rice 76 Lamb with Spinach ibid. Grafs Lamb Steaks — ibid. Shoulder of Lamb Neigh- Lamb Chops larded — ibid. bourFafhion 71 Lamb Chops in Cafarole 77 To fry a Neck or Loin of To drefs Lamb Bits —ibid. Lamb -• ■— — ibid. Lambs Sweetbreads ibid. To ragoo Lamb 72 Lambs Stones and Sweet- To force a Leg of Lamb ibid. breads fricaffeed 78 To boil a Leg of Lamb 73 To fry Lambs Rumps ibid. To drefs a Lamb’s Head ibid. Lamb Cutlets fricaffeed ibid. To flew a Lamb’s Head 74. Lambs Ears with Sorrel 79 A Lamb’s Head Conde Fa- A Lamb Pie - ibid. Ihion — 75 A favoury Lamb Pie 80 CHAP. VI. • The various Methods of dreffing Pork. Pieces in a Hog 'Si To bake a Pig 84. To duff a Chine of Pork • ibid. To barbacue a Pig ■ 85 Chine of Pork with Poiv- Another Method ibid. rade Sauce ibid. Hind Quarter of Pig Lamb To barbacue a Leg of Pork 82. Falhion 86 To boil pickled Pork ibid. A Pig au Pere Duillet ibid. To broil Pork Steaks 83 A Pig the French Method 87 Other Methods of drefling A Pig Matelot ibid. Pork Steaks ibid. A Pig in Jelly 88 Pork Cutlets dreffed ano- To collar a Pig ibid, ther Way ibid. To boil Pigs Pettitoes 89 Td road a Pig ibid» AnotherCONTENTS. To ' Page Another Method to drefs Pigs Pettitoes 89 Pigs Feet and Ears ragooed 90 Another Method —— ibid. Page A Sucking Pig Pie 91 A Chefhire Pork Pie ibid. A Pork Pudding ibid. CHAP. VII. Directions for trujftng Poultry and Game. General Preliminaries 92 To trufs Chickens ibid. Fowls — 93 Turkies 9+ Turkey Polts 95 Geefe — — — ibid. TotrufsaHare —— 96 Pheafants and Partridges 97 Woodcocks and Snipes ibid. Wild Fowl 98 Pigeons ibid. Larks —— — 99 CHAP. VIII. The various Methods of drcffing Poultry. Pullets & la St. Menehout 99 Chickens and Tongues 100 Chickens in Jelly ibid. To force Chickens 101 To fry cold Chickens ibid. To broil Chickens ibid. Chickens pulled ibid. To drefs Chickens the Scotch Way 102 Chickens in Afpic ibid. Chickens a la Cavalier 103 To flew Chickens ibid. Another Method ibid. Artificial Chickens 104 Chickens Chiringrate ibid. Chickens Feet with Force- meat — 105 A Fowl with its own Gravy ibid. Fowls Huffed ibid. A Fowl forced with a Ragoo of Oyfters 106 To Hew a Fowl ibid. To force a Fowl — ibid. A Fowl with lharp Sauce 107 To marinade a Fowl ibid. A Fowl a la Braize 108 To hafh Fowls ibid. Another Method — ibid. To ragoo Fowls —. j 09 A Fowl Servant Falhion ibid.CONTENTS. CHAP, Page To d refs a cold Fowl 109 Another Method — 110 To roaft a Fowl with Cheft- nuts — — ibid. To drefsa Turkey 111 To roaft a Turkey ibid. ^A. Turkey roafted with Cray Fifti — ibid. Turkey a la Daube 112 Turkey and Chickens 113 Turkey drefled the Italian Way ibid. ToftewaTurkey 114 Another Method —— ibid. Turkey with pickled Park and Onions 115 A Turkey fluffed ibid. A Turkey in Jelly ibid. To glaze a Turkey 116 Turkey a la Hate 117 To hafh a Tu rkey ibid. Another Method 118 Ducks a la Braize ibid. Ducks a la Mode 119 A Duck with green Peas ibid. Macedonian Ducks 120 To hafh Ducks — ibid- To boil Ducks the French Way 121 Another French Method ibid. Ducklings rolled — ibid. To drefs Wild Ducks 1 z 2 Goofe a la Mode ibid. To fmoke a Goofe 123 To ragoo a Goofe ibid. To marinade a Goofe 124 To flew Giblets — ibid■ Another Method — 125 Page Giblets a la Turtle 125 Pigeons en Compote 126 Pigeons a la Souffel 126 Pigeons a la Duxelle 127 • Surtout — ibid. in Savoury Jelly 128 a la Daube ibid. a la Royale 129 • in Difguife ibid. in Pimlico ibid. a la Charmante 130 A Pupton of Pigeons ibid. To broil Pigeons — 131 To flew Pigeons ibid. Pigeons in Fricandcau ibid. a la Braize 132 To bake Pigeons — ibid. Pigeons in a Hole ibid. ■ au Soleil 133 Boiled Pigeons and Bacon ibid. To boil Pigeons with Rice 134 Pigeons tranfmogrified ibid. To roaft a Rabbit Hare Fa- fliion 13^ Rabbits pulled •—- ibid. To florendine Rabbits ibid. Rabbits in Caflerole 136 Portuguefe Rabbits ibid To make a Chicken Pie ibid. Another Method — 137 Duck Pie — ibid. A Goofe Pie — ibid. Another Method — 138 A Giblet Pie — ibid. A Pigeon Pie ibid. A Rabbit Pie —— 139 Another Method k — ibid.CONTENTS. CHAP. IX. The different Methods of dr effing Ga?ne, f,mall Birds, &c. Page To roaft a Hare ! — 14° Another Method to drefs a Hare H1 To ftew a Hare ibid. To hath a Hare ibid. Hare a la Daube 142 To hodge-podge a Hare ibid. TojugaPIare 143 A Hare Civet ibid. To fcare a Hare — ibid. Hare Cake in Jelly — 144 To collar a Hare — ibid. To pot a Hare • ibid. To drefs a Leveret Kid Fa- ction 145 To roaft a Pheafant — ibid. Pheafants a laMangelas — ibid. To boil a Pheafant 146 Pheafants a l’ltaliene ibid. To ftew Pheafants — 147 Pheafants a la Braize ibid. Partridges in Panes 148 * a la Braize ibid. rolled —... 149 To ragoo Partridges ibid. To boil Partridges x Partridges with confummee C * • Page Partridges en Afpic — 150 To ftew Partridges — ibid. Partridges boiled with fweet Herbs — — To roaft Woodcocks or Snipes - -— ibid. To boil Woodcocks or Snipes — 172 To hafh a Woodcock ibid. Woodcocks or Snipes en Sur- tout — — 153 Snipes dreffed with Purflain Leaves — — ibid. Dutchefs Fafhion 154 in Solmy ibid. To drefs Ruffs and Reifs ibid. Plovers 155 Plovers dreffed Perigord Fafhion ibid. Quails and Ortolans ibid. Larks a la Fran^oife 156 To ragoo Larks ibid. Small Birds in favoury. Jelly ibid. A Hare Pie ibid. A Partridge Pie 157 To make a Venifon Pafty 158 To roaft Venifon ibid. CHAP. /CONTENTS. CHAP. CHAP. X. The different Methods of drcffing Fijh. Page Salmon a la Braize 159 To broil Salmon ib % Salmon with fweet Herbs ib. To roll Salmon 160 To drefs dried Salmon ib. To flew a Cod ib. Cod's Head and Shoulders 161 To crimp Cod ib. To broil Cod 162 Frelh Cod with fweet Herbs ib. To drefs fait Cod ■ ib• To drefs Cod Sounds ib. To fricaflee Cod Sounds 163 To drefs a Turbot with Ca- pers ib. To bake a Turbot 164 To fry Trout ib. Toftew Trout —— ib. To marinade Trout To drefs Carp ib* To fry Carp 166 To ftew Carp -- — ib- To fricaflee Carp Roes ib* To fry Tench 167 T0 ftew Tench - — ib* To ftew Soals —— ib. To fry Soals ■■ — ib. To marinade Soals — 168 Soals a la Francois ib. To drefs Sturgeon ib. To broil Sturgeon 169 To ftew Flounders and Plaice ib. Page. To fricaflee Flounders and Plaice —. ■ - — 169 To broil Mackarel 170 Mackurel au Bouillon ib. To fry Whitings ib. To broil Whitings or Had- docks _____ ib, To ftew Pike 171 To fry Perch ib. To drefs Perch in Water So’jchy — ib. To flew Eels — - 172 To fricaflee Eels ■ ■ ■ ib. To broil Eels 173 To fry Eels ib. To pitchcock Eels — ib. To fricaflee Skate or Thorn- backs ib. To fricaflee Oyfters — 174 To drefs Herrings — ib. Herrings with MuftardSauce ib. To fry Herrings 175 To bake Herrings — ib. To bake Sprats ib. To make an Eel Pie ib. Salmon Pie 176 Turbot Pie ib, Lobfter Pie ib. To drefs a Turtle *77 To drefs a Turtle the Weft India Way 178 To drefs a Mock Turtle 180CONTENTS. CHAP. XI. Sauces, Gravies, and Cullices. Page 181 Eflence of Ham ib. Sauce for roaft Meat in ge- neral ib* Caper Sauce •— 182 Anchovy Sauce — ib. Shalot Sauce ib. Egg Sauce — ib. Lemon Sauce ib* Bread Sauce 183 Fennel Sauce - ib. Goofeberry Sauce OO Os> Mint Sauce ib. Shrimp Sauce ib. Oyfter Sauce ib. Sauce for Wild Fowl — 184 Page A general Filh Sauce 184 A relifhing Sauce — ib. Afpic Sauce — 185 Sicilian Sauce — ib. To make a rich Gravy ib: To make a common Gravy 186 Brown Gravy — ib- To make Browning — ib. Forcemeat Balls OO M I To make Lemon Pickle ib. To make a White Cullis 188 A rich Cullis — ib. A Family Cullis — 189 A Cullis of Roots — ib. A Filh Cullis — ibi CHAP. XII. Soups and Broths. Gravy Soup, or Soupe Sante i go Vermicelli Soup —. igi Soup Creffy — — ib. Soup and Bouillie — 192 Macaroni Soup jb. Dauphin Soup . 193 Soupe a la Reine jb. Tranfparent Soup jg^ Soupe au Bourgeoife — jb. Calf’s Head Soup igc Hare Soup . ig^ Almond Soup jbm Partridge Soup 196 Giblet Soup . jb% Green Peas Soup ib. Common Peas Soup — 197 Portable Soup jb. Afparagus Soup — 198 Soupe Lorraine — 199 Soupe Maigre — ib. EggCONTENTS To Egg Soup Page • 200 Rice Soup ib* Onion Soup — 201 Muflel Soup ibm Oyfter Soup 202 Eel Soup ib. Scate Soup — — ib. Milk Soup — ~ 203 JL • C PI A To drefs Roots To drefs Cabbage 206 Brocoli — — ib. Cauliflowers — - — ib. Spinach — — 207 French Beans — — ib. Afparagus ib. Peas — — ib. Garden Beans ■— — 208 To drefs Artichokes ib. C H A Chicken Broth Page — 203 Veal Broth —. — 204 Strong Beef Broth to keep for Ufe — — ib* Common Beef Broth ib. Mutton Broth 20c Scotch Barley Broth ib. P. XIII. ■ and Vegetables. To fricaflee Artichoke Bot- toms — ib. To drefs Turnips — ib. Carrots — — 209 Potatoes — — ib, Parfnips — — ib. To fricaflee Skirrets — ib. To fricaflee Mufhrooms 21 o P. XIV. .Elegant little Difhesfor Suppers or light Repajls. To ragoo Afparagus 210 Eggs and Brocoli — 211 To ragoo Cauliflowers ib. To flew Peas with Lettuce ib. To ragoo Cucumbers ib. Artichoke Bottoms with Eggs • 212 To ragoo Artichoke Bottoms 212 To flew Mu fit rooms ib. To ragoo Mufhrooms ib. To make Mulhroom Loaves 213 Afparagus and Eggs ib. Spinach and Eggs ib. To make an Amulet ib.CONTENTS, Page Page To force Eggs 214 To fcollop Potatoes — 215 To ragoo Celery ib. To mafh Potatoes —* ib; To fry Celery — ib. To fry Potatoes -— ib. To fry Chardoons — ib. CHAP. XV. To make Fruit Pies. (The Reader voill find Directions already given for making Meat, Poultry, and Fijh Pies, in the preceding Chapters, on the difife rent Methods of drefiing Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game, and FiJh.J To make a Pafte for large To make an Apple Pie 217 Pies A Codling Pie — 21S A Puff Pafte 216 A Cherry Pie — 210 A ftiort Cruft: ' ib. Orange or Lemon Tarts ib. A Pafte for Cuftards ib. A Tart de Moi — 220 A Pafte for Tarts ib. A Mince Pie — it. A crifp Pafte for Tarts 217 Another Method — ib. To make an Apple Tart ib. CHAP. XVI. Tt make all Sorts of Puddings. To make a Hunting Pud- ding 221 A Cuftard Pudding 222 A boiled Almond Pudding Aif Almond Pudding baked ib. ib. A Rice Pudding 223 A plain cheap Rice Pudding ib. A ground Rice Pudding ib. An A.pple Pudding baked ib. A Bread Pudding 224 An Italian Pudding 224 A Plain Pudding — - ib. A Batter Pudding ib. A Marrow Pudding 22C An Orange Pudding ib. An Apricot Pudding ib. A Goofeberry Pudding 226 A green Codling Pudding ib. A Quaking Pudding ib. A Spoonful Pudding ib. 2 A York-CONTENTS. Page Jellies for Moulds, &c. 263 Gold Fifli in Jelly 269 Calf s Feet Jelly 264. Green Melon in Jelly ib, Hartfhorn Jelly ib, Black Currant Jelly ib. Orange Jelly 265; Red Currant Jelly 270 Fruit in Jelly ib. A Trifle — ib. Savoury Jelly 266 An Everlafting Syllabub 271 Chicken in Jelly ib. A folid Syllabub ib. Turkey in Jelly 267 A Lemon Syllabub 272 Hen’s Neft in Jelly ib. A Syllabub under the Cow ib. Ribband Jelly 268 A Floating Ifland ib. , CHAP. XXII. Candying and Drying. To prepare Sugar for can- To dry Plums green 27 7 dying 273 To dry Cherries 276 To Candy Melons 274 Another Method ib. Lemon and Orange Peel To dry Damfons 277 candied — — ib. To dry Peaches ib. Caflia candied ib. To dry Apricots ib. Angelica candied 275 To dry Plums 278 Ginger candied ib. CHAP. XXIII. To make all Sorts of Preferves. To preferve Goofeberries To preferve Almonds dry 282 whole 278 Tranfparent Marmalade 283 Currants preferved for Tarts 279 To preferve Damfons ib. Red Currants preferved in To preferve Strawberries ib. Bunches 280 Syrup of Quinces 284 Rafpberricspreferved forTarts/L To preferve Rafpberries ib. To preferve Golden Pippins ib. To preferve Walnuts green 285 To preferve Codlings all To preferve Walnuts white 286 the Year —281 To preferve Walnuts black 286 Apple Marmalade ib. To preferve Eringo Root ib. Quince Marmalade ib. To preferve Cucumbers 287 To preferve green Apricots 282 To preferve Fruit green 288 Apricot Marmalade ib. To preferve white Citrons ib. 1 ToCONTENTS. To Page To preferve Lemons 288 To preferve Oranges 289 To preferve Morelia Cher- ries — 29° Cherries preferved with the Leaves and Stalks To preferve Green-gage Plums ib. To preferve Pine Apples Page 291 Conferve of Red Rofes, or any other Flowers 292 Conferve of Orange Peel ib. Syrup of Citrons ib. Syrup of Peach Blolfoms 293 CHAP. XXIV. To prepare Pickles of all Sorts. The Preparation of Vinegars 294 White-wine Vinegar 295 Elder Vinegar ib. Tarragon Vinegar 296 Sugar Vinegar ib. To pickle Cucumbers ib. Cucumbers pickled in fliees 297 To pickle Walnuts white 298 Walnuts green ib. ■ — Walnuts black 299 ——-— Onions 303 Another Method ib. To pickle Mangoes 301 ■ French Beans 302 Red Cabbage ib. Gerkins ib. Peaches 303 Afparagus ib. Radifh Pods 304 Mulhrooms white 305 • Mulhrooms brown ib. To make Mulhroom Pickle 30$ To pickle Samphire 306 ——— Capers ib. Cauliflowers 337 Beet Roots ib% Codlings ib. Barberries 308 To make Mock Ginger ib. Walnut Ketchup ib. Mulhroom Ketchup 309 Mulhroom Powder ib. To pickle Artichoke Bottoms 310 • Nafturtium Buds ib. To make Peccadillo, or Indian Pickle 3IQ To make Caveach 311 To make Mock Anchovies ib. To pickle Salmon. 312 Oyllers ib• Smelts 3l3 Sturgeon ib. CHAP. XXV. The Preparation of Plains, Tongues, Bacon, &c. To cure Pork Hams 314. To pickle Tongues Beef Hams ib. Pork / 3*5 ib.CHAP. C O N T ENTS Page Page To make Hung Beef 315 To make Weftphalia Bacon 3*8 Yorkfhire Hung Beef 316 ——--fine Saufages ib. • Dutch Beef ib* Oxford Saufages ib• • Bacon 3T7 —• Common Saufages 3!9 Another Method ib. Sham Brawn ib. CHAP. XXVI. Directions for Carving. To cut up a Hare 320 To cut up a Partridge 324 a Goofe 321 • Pigeons ib. a roafted Fowl 322 a Fore Quarter of a Pig 323 Lamb 325 a Pheafant ib. ——— a Haunch of Venifon ib. CHAP. XXVII. Directions for Marketing. Page To choofe Turkies 326 Cocks and Hens 327 .— Geefe ib. Ducks ib. , Pheafants 328 . Partridges ib. . ■ Woodcocks ib- Pigeons 329 . Hares ib. Rabbits ib. Beef 330 . —— Mutton ib. Lamb ib. Veal 331 , Pork •— ib. . Bacon — ib. — —Hams — — 332 .. — Brawn • ■— ib. . — Venifon ib- Page To choofe Eggs 333 ■ Butter ib. Cheefe 334 • Salmon ib. Turbot ib. • Trout 335 Cod ib. Tench ib. Soles — ib. Flounders — 336 - Eels — ib. Smelts — ib. Skate 336 Sturgeon ib. - OyIters — 337 Lobfters — ib* Prawns and Shrimps ib. - Herrings 338CONTENTS. CHAP. CHAP. XXVIII. • / The Preparation of made Wines. Page Page To make Smyrna Raifin Mountain Wine 343 Wine 338 Cherry Wine —— ib. Common Raifin Wine ib. Black Cherry Brandy ib. Red Currant Wine 339 Birch Wine 344 Grape Wine ib. Apricot Wine 345 Orange Wine ib. Balm Wine ib. Orange Wine with Raifins 340 Quince Wine ib. Elder Wine ib. Rafpberry Wine *346 Elder Flower Wine, in Imita- Rafpberry Brandy ib. tion of Frontiniac 341 Orange Shrub ib. Mead Wines ib. Damfon Wine 347 White or Sack Mead ib. Cowfiip or Clary Wine ib. Walnut Mead 342 Turnip Wine ib. Cowfiip Mead ib. Blackberry Wine — ib. Goofeberry Wine ib. CHAP. XXIX. The Preparation of Cordial Waters. Cordial Poppy Water 349 Milk Water 350 Another Method ib. Walnut Water ib. Aqua Mirabilis 3^1 Treacle Water ib. Lady Monmouth’s Treacle Water ib, Angelica Water 352 Fever Water - Piedmont Water ib. c V Red Rofe Water 353 Black Cherry Water ib. Stag’s Heart Water 354 Peppermint Water ib. Orange or Lemon Water 355 Nutmeg Water —— ib. Hyfterical Water ib. Surfeit Water 356 Rofe Water ■ ib. Lavender Water ■xenCONTENTS. CHAP. CHAP. XXX. Directions for brewing Malt Liquors. Page Page On what Principles the Cop- The Quality of the Malt per fhould be built 357 and Hops moft proper for The proper Management of Brewing . 365 Veflels for Brewing 358 The pra&ical Part of The Management of the Brewing • 367 Ma(h-Tub and other The proper Management of Utenfils 360 Malt Liquors 371 The proper Seafon for Brew- The propereft Method to ing 362 bottle Malt Liquors 373 The mod proper Water ib. To keep Yeaft good for feve- ral Months — 374 CHAP. XXXI. Directions for baking Bread. The proper Form of an To make Bread without Oven 377 Yeaft, by the Means of a The London Method of Leaven ^ • 377 making Bread 376 To make Muffins and Oat To make French Bread ib. Cakes 37 S C H A P. XXXII. ‘The Breeding, Rearing, and Management of Poultry. The proper Choice of Fowls for breeding 379 The belt Method of fetting . Hens 3*° How to treat the Chickens when hatched 3^2 Difeafes incident to Hens 383 3 The Management of Ducks 3S4 The Management of Geefe, and how to fatten them 385 Turkies 386 Pigeons 3^7 Rabbits 3^*CONTENTS. CHAP. XXXIII. The Management of the Dairy. Page To make Butter 39° TomakeCheefe 391 To make Cream Cheefe 392 Page To make Sage Cheefe 393 To make Marigold Cheefe ib. To imitateCheftiire Cheefe 394 CHAP. XXXIV. The Management of the Kitchen Garden. In the Month of January 395 February 39^ March * 397 April * * 399 May 4°° June * 401 In the Month of July 402 Auguft — 404 September - — 40J October — 4°7 November — 408 December — 409 I CHAP. XXXV. The Management of the. Fruit Garden. In the Month of January 410 February - 412 March - 4i3 April ' 4*4 May - ib* June - 4*5 In the Month of July 416 Auguft — 4*7 September — 418 October — 419 November — ib. December — 421 C H A P.CONTENTS. CHAP. XXXVI. Articles omitted in the preceding Part of the Work. To preferve Dripping To keep and drefs dried fifh To make Panada — Sweet Panada - Beef Tea Water Gruel Barley Gruel Barley Water Orgeat - - - Lemonade Sack Poflet . Wine Poflet . Ale Poflet Page 422 ib. 424 ib. ib. 425 ib• ib. ib. ib. 426 ib. ib. ib. 427 ib. To mull Wine T o make Goofeberry Fool A White Pot A Rice White Pot To make Sago -Rice Milk -Salop -White Caudle -Brown Caudle To fricaflee Chickens To fricaflee Rabbits white To fricaflee Rabbits brown To fricaflee Tripe Ox Palates ■ Pigeons Eggs — Page ' 427 428 ib. - ib. • 429 ib. ib. ib. ib. 43° ib. ib. 431 ib. ib. 432 To make an Orange Poflet White Wine Whey — Capillaire A Catalogue of the various Articles in Seafon in the different Months of the Year m — — 433 Marketing Tables, from one Penny Three Farthings to Three Pence per Pound — — — 443 Ditto from Three Pence Farthing to Four Pence Halfpenny per Pound — — — 446 Ditto from Four Pence Three Farthings to Six Pence per Pound 447 Ditto from Six pence Halfpenny to Nine Pence per Pound 44S Ditto from Nine Pence Halfpenny to One Shilling per Pound 449 Table of Expences, Income, or Wages, by the Day, Week, Month, and Year, from One Penny to Ten Pounds per Day, how much per Week, Month, and Year — 430 Table of Expences, Income, or Wages, by the Year, Lunar Month, Week, and Day, from One Pound to Forty Thou- fand Pounds per Year, Iiow much per Month, Week, or Day 431 T H EJet ‘osm/ f'’/t/ire\ ./ 'J'ec '&■//(/ ( '{>///;>•(■ Trrj ' f' ///?,-/ 7 ///a'/ (Ff 'nrt C fat/badF 0/r/t'n,/ i /v/i'/Awr/. yfi/'/H'/S/} !}’/ •(■>// (/. ( }>///,'JY ,I '4r/n’M/ /.-i ■, Y’f0 . / . * • - \///te JTt/V'f C bu/vr irreWf/( b//A'JV /?< < //77t L trie/ <?#//&/ *00711First Course Second Course(f ?]urrc 'for llevem First c\ Cou rse ?u6on iV (Fetid Chicken■ OnuniFeufi Second Cou rse (Tloajt I'tu/iji raw/u dot tifetoTHE UNIVERSAL COOK. n C H A P. I. General Obfervations. BEFORE we enter on the practical part of the Cook’s bufinefs, it may not be improper to make a few general obfervations, which are as- necef- fary to be attended to as any part of the culinary profeflion. The firft and moll important of all thefe is cleanlinefs, not only in their own perfons, but alfo in every article ufed in the kitchen. To the want of a due attention to copper velfels badly tinned or decayed, and foups or broths that have been fuffered to remain in them all night, many people have unhappily loft their lives, of which the melancholy affair at Salt-hill is a recent proof. To prevent any thing of this kind, the cook fhould be particularly careful, in families where copper utenfils are ufed, frequently to infpeft them, and ■\ fee that no part of the copper be uncovered with tin ; and be careful likewife to wipe them perfeftly dry after they have been ufed, as the leaft moifture ) left in them may produce verdigreafe, which may ! affeft the health, if not endanger the lives, of fome ■ part of the family. A kitchen properly fupplied i with utenfils kept neat and clean is an ornament to a houfe, and a credit to the cook. But I fhall not B here2 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. here dwell any longer on matters fo generally known, but proceed to give general directions for Roafting, Boiling, Made Dilhes, Soups, Puddings and Pies. And firft of Roajling. THE fire muft be prepared according to the weight and fize of what is to be roafted. If it be any thing fmall or thin, a brifk fire will be necefTary, in order that it may be done quick ; but if it be a large joint, it will require a ftrong fire that has lain fome time to cake. It is a very good cuitom to put a little fait and water in the dripping-pan, with which you may at firft bade your meat. As foon as the fire has dried it, you may throw a little flour over it, and then bafte it with butter. This will give an agreeable colour to your meat. Take care to keep the meat at a proper diftance from the fire; becaufe, if it once gets fcorched, it will make the outfide hard, and will prevent the fire from having a proper effeCt on the meat, fo that it will appear to be thoroughly cooked, while it may be nearly raw within fide. A clear fire, and often bailing the meat, are very eflential points to be obferved by the cook. Any kinds of wild-fowl require a brills, fire ; but care muft be taken not to road them too much, as that fpoils them. Tame fowls require a longer time, as they are not fo foon heated through as the wild fort; and they muft be often balled, as that keeps up the froth, makes them more plump, and gives an addition to their colour. Geefe and pigs require a good fire, and Ihould turn quick. In order to prevent hares and rabbits from appear- ing bloody at the neck when they be cut up, when they are about half roafted, cut the neck (kin, and the blood will then run out. 1 hefe re- quire time and care. Every thing will require more roafting in frofty than in mild weather. ItGENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 3 is an improper method, though praftifed by fome cooks, to fait the meat before it be put to the fire, for that draws out the gravy. Take care that the fpit be clean, for a fpit mark is very difagreeable. When your meat is done, flour and bafte it juft before you take it up, when it will have a nice froth, and make a better appearance. Boiling. MUCH care, nicety, and attention, are re- quired in boiling all forts of meat, but particularly veal; to boil which properly, you muft fill your pot with a proper quantity of foft water. Having dufted your veal with flour, put it in your pot over a ftrong fire. The cuftom of putting in milk to make it white is ufelefs, and had perhaps be better left out. Oatmeal has no better effeH than milk, and flour is certainly better than either, when dufted on the meat. Be fure to fkim it well, for every thing will throw up a fcum, and if that be fuffered to boil down, it will give a black caft to the meat. The meat muft have plenty of water, and boil very flowly, which will give a plump ap- pearance to the veal. To let any fort of meat boil fall is a great error, as it hardens the outfide, pre- vents the water from properly penetrating, and gives a difagreeable colour to the meat. It is a general rule in boiling meat, to allow a quarter of an hour to every pound; but a leg of veal of twelve pounds, will require three hours and a half boiling, for the flower it boils the better. All forts of frefh meat may be put in when the water boils, but fait meat when the water is warm ; though there are many experienced cooks who always put the meat in when the water is cold, as they fay it thereby gets warm to the heart before t e outfide gets hard. To boil a leg of lamb of tour pounds weight, you muft allow an hour and B 2 half.4 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. half. Mutton or beef, which you mull: always be careful to dredge well with flour before you put them into the pot, do not require fo much boiling as lamb, pork, and veal, which, if they are not well boiled, will be unwholefome ; but it is not fo much thought of, if mutton and beef be not quite fo well done. A leg of pork will take an hour’s boil- ing more than a joint of veal of the fame fize; but never forget to fcum the pot, let the meat be what fort it may. Frying. T O fry fifh properly, they mull be firft dried in a cloth and then dredged with flour. The drip- ping or hogflard, of which you mull put plenty in your pan, muft always boil before your fifh be put in. Hogflard, for frying, is preferred to but- ter, as the latter frequently makes the fifh foft, and is apt to burn and blacken them. Your fifh, when fried, fhould be put to drain, either in a difh or hair fieve, that, when you fend them up to table, they may not appear or eat greafy. If you make ufe of parfley, pick it very clean, and wafh it well in cold water, before you throw it into the pan of boiling fat, where you muft not let it remain too long. It will then be of a fine green, and eat very crifp. Broiling. THE principal matter in broiling is to have a clear fire. Turn your meat often while it is broil- ing, which will prevent its burning or getting fmokey. You muft have a difh placed over fome hot coals, in order to keep it hot as fall as it be broiled; for no meat of any kind is good unlcfs it be carried hot to table; and for this purpofe, many cooks fend up only a fmall quantity at a time, and that as foon as it is broiled. q Made5 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. Made Difhes. THOUGH it is not our intention to devote any particular chapter to the article of Made Difhes of butcher’s meat, as we fhall infert them under the general heads of Beef, Mutton, &c. yet it may not be amifs to give fome general obfer- vations thereon, as we find them in Raffald, Glaffe, Mafon, Farley, and other modern books of cook- ery. As neither eggs nor cream will contribute much to thicken your white fauce, be careful, before you put your eggs or cream into it, to have all your ingredients well boiled, and the whole of a proper thicknefs. Do not ftir them with a fpoon, nor fet your pan on the fire, after you have put in your eggs and cream, for fear they fhould gather at the bottbm and be lumpy. To prevent this, hold your pan at a proper height from the fire, and keep fhaking it round one way, which will keep it from curdling ; but be fure that you do not fuffer it to boil. Remember to take out what you are drefiing with a fifh (lice, and ftrain your fauce upon it, which will prevent any fmall bits of meat mixing with your fauce, and you will thereby have it clear and fine. Be particularly cautious, in browning difhes, that no fat floats on the top of the gravy, which may be prevented by its being properly fkimmed. It fhould have no predominant tafte, which depends on your juftly proportioning the different ingredients, and fhould be of a fine brown. Nothing is more hurtful to the reputation of a made difh than the tafte of raw wine, or frefh anchovy; in order therefore to avoid this defeft, you muft deprive it of its rawnefs, by putting them in fome time before your difh is ready. Fried force-meat balls muft. be put in a fieve to drain, that the fat may run from them, and never let them boil in your fauce, as that will foften B 3 them.6 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. them, and give them a difagreeable appearance; the belt method therefore is, to put them in after the meat is difhed up. Force-meat balls, morels, truffles, artichoke bottoms, and pickled mufhrooms, may be ufed in almoft every made difh. Soiups. IN making any kind of foups, particularly ver- micelli, portable, brown gravy foup, or any other in which herbs are ufed, remember to lay the meat in the bottom of your pan, with a large lump of butter. Having cut the roots and herbs fmall, drew them over the meat, and fet the pan on a very flow fire. This will draw all the virtues out of the different ingredients, will produce a good gravy, and a very different effeCt in point of fla- vour, than if at firft you had put in the water. Fill your pan with water, as foon as the gravy is almoft dried up. Take off the fat as foon as it begins to boil, and then follow the directions for making the fort of foup you wifli to have. Green pealc, intended for foup, require hard water; but loft water is preferable for old peafe foup. In making white foup, let it be taken off the fire before you put in the cream. As foups are foon cold, always difh them up the laft thing. Take care that all the greens and herbs you life in foups are well wafhed and clean picked, and that any one thing has not a predominant tafte over apother, but that it has a fine agreeable relifh, and that all the taftes be united. Puddings. WE need not here mention, that the cloth in which you boil puddings fhould be perfectly clean; but it may not be amifs to tell the cook, that the cloth fhould be dipped in boiling water, and dredg- 'cd with flour. A bread pudding may be tied loofe; „ butGENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 7 but a batter pudding muft be tied clofe, and no pudding muft be put into the pot till the water boils. Puddings may be boiled in a bafon ; in which cafe, butter the bafon, and let it have plenty of water, and turn it frequently. As foon as you think it is enough, take it out of the pot, and let it ft and a fhort time to cool. Then take off the ftring, wrap the cloth round the bafon, and laying the difh over it, turn the pudding into it, in doing which you muft take great care that you do not break the pudding, as every light pudding is very liable to that accident. In making a batter pud- ding, begin with mixing the flour well with a little milk, after which gradually put in the ingredients, and thus your pudding will be perfectly fmooth, and without lumps. In making all forts of pud- dings, ftrain the eggs when you beat them, fo that they may neither have treadles nor lumps in them. Bread and cuftard puddings that are to be baked require time, and a moderate oven to raife them. If they be put in too great a heat, they will burn, and in courfe be fpoiled ; but batter and rice pud- dings require a quick oven. Before you put in the pudding, remember to butter the difh or pan. i Pies. ' RAISED pies require a quick oven, and that they fhould be well clofed up, otherwife they will fall in the fides. Put no water into them till juft as you are going to put them into the oven; for, if the water be put in fooner, it will give the cruft a fodden appearance, and may perhaps occafion it to run. Great judgment is ncceffary in determin- ing what fhould be the heat of your oven ; for light pafte requires a moderate, but not too flow a heat, as the latter will occafion it to look heavy ; and too great a heat will catch and burn it, without giving it time to rife. Iced tarts fhould be baked B 4 iu8 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. in a flow oven, otherwife the icing will become brown before the pafte is properly baked. The pafte neceflary for tarts, we 111 a 11 mention here- after. Having thus given a few general obfervations, which the young cook fhould always bear in mind, we fhall proceed to defcribe the proper method of drefling all forts of butchers meat, and lhall then proceed to poultry, game, &c. —«wwM8§SSr<«»*" C H A P. II. The various Methods of Dr effing Beef. , Pieces in a Bullock. THE Head includes the tongue and palate. The Entrails confift of the fweetbread, kid-, nies, fkirts, and tripe; as alfo the double, the roll, and the reed-tripe. The Fore Quarter confifts of the haunch, and in- cludes the clod, marrow-bone, fhin, and the ftick- ing-piece, that is the neck end. The leg of mut- ton piece, which has part of the blade bone. The chuck, the brifket, fore ribs, and middle rib, which is called the chuck-rib. The Hind Quarter confifts of the firloin and rump, the thin and thick flank, the veiny piece, the ifch bone, or chuck bone, buttock, and leg. To roaf a Bullock's Heart. AS we have already given general direflions for roafting joints of beef, we prefume there is no oc- cafion for repeating it here: we (hall confine ourfelves to the manner of drefling the fmaller partsdifferent methods of dressing beef, 9 parts of the ox. To roaft a bullock s beait, mix crumbs of bread with fome chopped fuet, or a piece of butter; add fome chopped parfley, fweet marjoram, grated lemon peel, pepper, lalt, and nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Stuff the heart with this, and either roaft or bake it. You may, if you pleafe, lard it with bacon. Put a little red wine into the gravy, and ferve it up, with melted butter and currant jelly in boats. To roajl Ox Palates. FIRST boil your palates tender, then blanch them, cut them into pieces about two inches in length, and lard one half with bacon. Have ready two or three pigeons, and two or three chicken-peepers, which muff be drawn, truffed, and filled with force-meat. Having larded one half of them, put them on a bird fpit thus : a bird, a palate, a fage leaf, and apiece of bacon, and fo on till you have fpitted the whole. Parboil and blanch fome lambs and cocks ftones, lard them with little bits of bacon, large oyfters parboiled, and each larded with a piece of bacon. Put thefe on a fkewer, with a little bit of bacon and a fage leaf between them. Tie them on the fpit and roaft them. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, fome nut- meg, a little fait, and crumbs of bread. Bafte them with thefe all the time they are roafting, and have ready two fweetbreads, each cut in two, fome artichoke bottoms quartered and fried, and then rub the difh with fhalots. Pile the birds one upon another in the middle, and lay the other things round them all feparate by themfelves. Have your fauce ready, which muft be made of a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of red wine, an an- chovy, the oyfter liquor, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Boil all thefe together, and pour themlO DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEE F. them into the difh, with a little juice of lemon, and the lemon itfelf you may make ufe of as a garnifh. To ragoo Ox Palates. BOIL four ox palates till they be tender, clean them well, and cut them fome into long and fome into fquare pieces. Put them into a rich cooley thus made : put a piece of butter into your ftew- pan, and melt it; put a large fpoonful of flour to it, and ftir it till it be fmooth. Put to it a quart of good gravy, a gill of Lifbon, and three fhalots chopped; put in fome lean ham cut very fine, and half a lemon. Let it boil twenty minutes, and then ftrain it through a fieve. Put this and your palates into a pan, with fome force-meat balls, truffles, and morels, and pickled or frefh mufh- rooms flowed in gravy. Seafon it with pepper and fait to your talle, and tofs them up five or fix minutes. You may ufe either lemon or beet- root for garnifh. To boil a Rump of Beef. BOIL a rump of beef half an hour, and then take it up. Lay it into a large pewter difh or flew- pan, and cut three or four gafhes all along the fide of it. Rub the gafhes with pepper and fait, and pour into the difh a pint of red wine, as much hot water, two or three onions cut fmall, the hearts of eight or ten lettuces cut fmall, and a large piece of butter rolled in a little flour. Lay the flefhy part of the meat downwards, and cover it clofe. Let. it flew for two hours and a half over a charcoal fire, or a very flow coal fire. When you do it in a pewter difh, it is befl done over a chaffing-difh of hot coals, with a bit or two of charcoal to keep it alive. You muft take care that the bone be choppedDIFFERNT METHOD-6 OF DRESSING BEEF. 11 To chopped fo clofe, that the meat may lie perfe&ly flat in the difli. When the beef is enough, take it up, lay it in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. This is a difli cooked in the French manner. Rump of Beef fmoked. BONE a rump of beef as well as poflible with- out fpoiling the fliape, and fait it with a pound of common fait, and two ounces of falt-petre. Put it lengthways into a falting pan, with all forts of fweet herbs, as parfley, flialots, thyme, bafil, win- ter favoury, a little coriander, fix cloves, and two cloves of garlic. Leave it about a week or ten days in fait, and then hang it in the chimney. When dried, keep it in a dry place. When you ufe it, boil it in water without fait, with a few onions, cloves, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a little nutmeg. When it is cool in the liquor, ferve it up, and garnifli with parfley. If you ap- prehend it will be too fait, you may foak it fome time before you boil it. To bake a Leg of Beef. LAY your beef at the bottom of a large deep pan, and put in a little piece of bacon, a flice or two of carrot, fome mace, cloves, black and white whole pepper, a large onion cut in flices, and a bundle of fweet herbs; pour in water till the meat be covered, then cover it up, and fend it to the oven. When it is baked, {train it through a coarfe fieve, take out all the finews and fat, and put them into a faucepan, with a few fpoonfuls of the gravy, a little red wine, a fmall piece of butter rolled in flour, and fome muftard. Shake your faucepan often, and when the fauce is hot and thick, difh it, and ferve it up.12 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. To broil Beef Steaks. A rump is generally ufed for {leaks, which mufl be cut about half an inch thick. Having got a clear fire, rub your gridiron well with beef fuet, and when it is hot, lay on your {leaks. As foon as they begin to brown, turn them, and when the other fide is brown alfo, lay them on a hot difh, with a piece of butter between each {leak. Sprinkle a little pepper and fait over them, and let them {land two or three minutes. Then flice a fiialot very thin into a fpoonful of water. Lay your {leaks upon the gridiron, and keep turning them till they be enough. Put them on your difh, pour the fhalot and water among them, and ferve them up. To fry Beef Steaks. FRY fome {leaks, cut out of the middle of the rump, in butter. When they arc done, put a little good fmall beer into the pan, a little nutmeg, a fiialot, fome walnut catchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Shake it round the pan till it boils, and pour it over the {leaks. Pick- led muflirooms, or oyfters, may be added, if you chufe. Another Method. BEAT the lean of a beef {leak well with the back of a knife, and then fry it in juft as much but- ter as will moiften the pan. Pour out the gravy as it runs from the meat, and turn them often, over a gentle fire. Fry the fat by itfelf, and lay it upon the meat; put to the gravy a glafs of red wine, half an anchovy, a little nutmeg and beaten pepper, and a fiialot cut fmall. Give it two or three gentle boils, and feafon it with fait to your tafte. Pour the fauce over the {leaks, and ferve them up. BeefDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. lg Beef Steaks rolled. TAKE what quantity of beef {leaks you have occafion for, and beat them with a cleaver till they be tender. Make a forcemeat with a pound of veal beaten fine in a mortar, the flefli of a fowl,-half a pound of gammon of bacon or cold ham, fat and lean, the kidney fat of a loin of veal, and a fweet- bread. Cut all thefe very fmall, and add fome truffles and morels Hewed and cut fmall, two fhalots, fomeparfley, a little thyme, lemon peel, the yolks of four eggs, a nutmeg grated, and half a pint of cream. Mix thefe well together, and ftir them over a flow fire for eight or ten minutes. Put them upon the fteaks, and roll them up, and fkewer them tight. Put them into the frying-pan, and fry them of a nice brown. Take them from the fat, and put them into a ftew-pan with a pint of good drawn gravy, a fpoonful of red wine, two of catchup, a few pickled muflirooms, and let them flew for a quarter of an hour. Take up the fteaks, cut them in two, lay the cut fide uppermoft, and garnifh with lemon. A Rump of Beef rolled. CUT the meat from the bone as whole as pof- fible, fplit the infide from top to bottom, and fpread it open. Take the flefh of two fowls and fome beef fuet, of each an equal quantity, and as much cold boiled ham, a little pepper, an anchovy, a nutmeg grated, fome thyme, a good deal of parfiey, and a few muflirooms. Chop all thefe together, and beat them in a mortar, with halt a pint bafon full of crumbs of bread. Mix all thefe together with four yolks of eggs. Put it into the meat, cover it up, and roll it round. Stick it in one fkewer, and tie it fall together with packthread. Put a layer of bacon and a layer of beef, cut in thin flices, into a pot14 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. pot or large faucepan that will juft hold it; put in a piece of carrot, fome whole pepper, mace, fweet herbs, and a large onion. Lay the rolled beef on it, and put in juft water enough to cover the top of the beef. Cover it clofe, and let it ftew very foftly, on a flow fire, for eight or ten hours, but not too fait : as foon as you find the meat is tender, which you may know by running a fkewer into it, take it up, and keep it hot. Boil the gravy till you think it be ftrong enough, then (train it off, and take fome chopped mufhrooms, fome truffles and morels cut fmall, two fpoonfuls of red or white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. You may alfo put in the yolks of two eggs; but, as they are apt to curdle, they had perhaps better be omitted. Boil thcfe together. Set the meat before the fire, bade it with butter, and throw crumbs of bread over it. As foon as the fauce is enough, lay the meat in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. To few a Rump of Beef. HAVING cut the meat clean from the bone, put it into your ftewpan, and cover it with an equal quantity of gravy and water. Put in a fpoonful of whole pepper, a bundle of fweet herbs, two onions, fome fait, and a pint of red wine. Cover it clofe, and fet it over a ftove or flow fire for fome hours, (halting and turning it four or five times, and ftirring it till dinner be ready. Cut ten or twelve turnips into dices the broad way, then quarter them, and fry them in beef dripping till they be brown. Take care to let your drip- ping boil before you put them in, and when done drain them well from the fat. Lay the beef in your foup difh, toaft a little bread very nice and brown, which cut three corner ways, and lay them and the turnips into the difh. Skim the fat off clean, drain in the gravy, and ferve it up, havingDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. 15 To firft feafoned it with pepper and fait to your tafte. If you have the convenience of a ftove, you may put the difli over it for four or five minutes, which will give the liquor a fine flavour of the turnips, make the bread tafte better, and be a great addi- tion to the whole. Another Method. TAKE it up as foon as it is boiled a little more than half enough, and peel off the {kin. Take pepper, fait, beaten mace, grated nutmeg, a handful of parfley, a little .thyme, winter favoury, and fweet marjoram, all chopped fine and mixed. Make great holes in the fat and lean, and fluff thefe into them. Spread the reft over them, with the yolks of two eggs. To the gravy that runs out, put a pint of claret. Put the meat into a deep pan, pour the liquor in, cover it clofe, and let it bake two hours. Put it into the difh, ftrain the liquor through a fieve, and, having fkimmed off the fat very clean, pour it over the meat, and ferve it up. To force the Infide of a Sirloin of Beef. H A VIN G fpitted your firloin, cut out from the infide all the fkin and fat together, and take oft all the fiefh from the bones. Chop the meat very fine, and put to it a little beaten mace, two or three fhalots, an anchovy, half a pint of red wine, a little pepper and fait, and put all on the bones again. Then lay on your fat and {kin, {kewer it clofe, and paper it well. When it is fuf- ficiently roafted, take off the fat, and difh up your meat. Make a fauce of a little red wine, a fhalot, an anchovy, and two or three flices of horfe-rad- difli. Pour this fauce over the meat, and fend it to table.lS DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. To drefs a Fillet of Beef. CAREFULLY cut out the infide of a firloin from the bone, grate fome nutmeg over it, a few crumbs of bread, a little pepper and fait, lemon- peel, and thyme, with fome parfley fhred fmall. Roll it up tight, tie it with packthread, and roaftit. Put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter into the dripping-pan, and bafte the meat well. As foon as it is enough, take it up, untie it, and leave a fkewer in it to keep it together. Put fome good gravy into the difh, and fome fweet fauce into a cup. Plain butter will do very well to bafte it with ; but, if you like it better, you may make ufe of wine and butter. To drefs Beef Collops. TAKE any tender piece of beef, fuch as the rump, and cut collops rather larger than Scotch collops. Hafh them with a knife, and flour them. Melt a little butter in a ftewpan, and put in your collops. Having firied them quick for about two minutes, put in a pint of gravy, a little butter rolled in flour, and feafon it with pepper and fait. Cut fome pickled cucumbers into thin dices, half a walnut, a few capers, and a little onion fhred very fine. Stew them five minutes, then put them into a difh, and ferve them up. If you chufe it, you may put into it half a glafs of wine. Beef Gobbets. TAKE any piece of beef, except the leg, cut it into pieces, and put it into a ftewpan. Cover them with water, and let them ftew an hour. Then put in a little mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied loofely in a muflin rag, with fome celery cut fmall. To thefe add fome fait, turnips and carrots pared and cut in dices, a little parfley, a bunch of fweet herbs.different methods of dressing beef. 17 herbs, a large cruft of bread, and an ounce of bar- ley or rice. Having covered it clofe, let it ftew till it be tender. Then take out the herbs, fpices, and bread, and have ready a French roll toafted, and cut it into quarters. Put them into your dilh, - pour in the meat and fauce, and ferve it up hot. To Jiew Neat’s Tongues. STEW two tongues, for two hours, in water juft I fufficient to cover them. Take them out and peel them, and then put them in again with a pint of ftrong > gravy, half a pint of white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, a little pepper and fait, fome mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied in a muflin rag; a fpoonful of [I capers chopped, turnips and carrots fliced, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Let all ftew to- gether very foftly over a flow fire for two hours, and then take out the fpice and fweet herbs, and fend the difh to table. Some omit the turnips and carrots, and boil the tongues by themfelves. To make a Mock Hare. IT A K E a large bullock’s heart, wafh it, and cut off the deaf ears; then fluff it with fome forcemeat in the fame manner as a hare. Cover the top-of it either with a caul of veal or paper, to keep in the fluffing. Roaft it by a hanging fpit, and it will [ take an hour and a half before a good fire. Bafle it with red wine, and when it be roafted, take the i wine out of the dripping-pan, fkim off the fat, and I add a glafs of wine to it. When it is hot, put in fome lumps of red currant jelly, and pour it into the difh. Send it up to table, with fome red cur- rant jelly cut in flices, and placed on a faucer.' To ragoo a Piece of Beef. ANY piece of beef, which is cut fquare, is free from bones, and has fat at the top, will anfwer this C purpofe;l8 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. purpofe; either the rump or flank will do very well. Cut the meat from the bones, which laft will make excellent foup. Put the meat into a large ftew-pan with a good piece of butter, and fry it "till it be all a little brown; but flour your meat well before you put it into the pan. Then pour into it as much gravy as will cover it. Your gravy mult be thus made : take about a pound of coarfe beef, a little piece of veal cut fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, fome whole black and white pep- per, two or three large blades of mace, four or five cloves, a piece of carrot, a little piece of ba- con, fteeped a little while in vinegar, and a cruft of bread toafted brown. To this add a quart of white wine, and let it boil till it be half wafted. While this is doing, pour a quart of boiling water into the ftewpan, cover it clofe, and letitbeftew- ing foftly. When the gravy is done, ftrain it, and pour it into the pan in which the beef is. Take an ounce of truffles and morels cut fmall, fome frefli or dried mufhrooms cut fmall, two fpoonfuls of catchup, and cover it clofe. Let all this flew till the fatice be thick and rich ; and then have ready ' fome artichoke bottoms cut into four, and a few 1 pickled mufhrooms. Give them a boil or two, and when your meat be tender, and your fauce quite' rich, lay the meat into a difli, and pour the foup over it. You may add a fweet-bread cut in fix pieces, a palate ftewed tender and cut it into little pieces, fome coxcombs, and a few forcemeat balls. Though it will be very good without this addition, yet it will be much better with it. Some j cooks, merely for the fake of variety, when the beef is ready, and the gravy put to it, add a large! bunch of celery, cut fmall and wafhed clean, two fpoonfuls pf catchup, and aglafs of red wine. Beef Idifferent Methods of dressing beef, ig C 2 Beef in Epigram. HAVING roafted a firloin of beef) take it off the fpit, raife the {kin carefully off, and cut the lean parts of the beef out; but obferve not to cut near the ends or fides. Cut the meat into pieces about as big as a crown-piece, put half a pint of gravy into a tofs-pan, an onion chopped fine, two fpoonfuls of catchup, fome pepper and fait, fix fmall pickled cucumbers cut in thin flices, and the gravy that comes from the beef, with a little butter rolled in flour, put the meat in, and tofs it up for fiveminutes. Then put it on the firloin, put the fkin over, and ferve it up. You may ufe horfe-radifh for garnifh. Buillie Beef. PUT the thick end of a brifket of beef into a kettle, and cover it quite over with water. Let it boil two hours; then keep flewing it clofe by the fire for fix hours longer, and fill up the kettle as the water wafles. At the fame time that you put in your beef, put in alfo fome turnips cut into little balls, carrots and fome celery cut in pieces. About an hour before it be done, take out as much broth as will fill your foup-difh, and boil in it for that hour turnips and carrots cut into balls, or little fquare pieces, with fome celery, and fait and pepper to your palate. Send it to table in two difhes, the beef and the foup feparately. You may, if you pleafe, put pieces of fried bread into your foup, and boil in a few knots of greens. If you apprehend your foup will not be rich enough, you may add a pound or two of fried mutton chops -;to your broth when you take it from the beef, and let it flew for that hour in the broth ; but be fure i to remember to take out the mutton before you fend the difh to table. Beef20 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. Beef Efcarlot. TAKE half a pound of coarfe fugar, two oun- ces of bay fait, one ounce of fait petre, a pound of common fait, and, having mixed them all well together, rub them into a brifket of beef. Then lay it in an earthen pan, and turn it every day. You may let it lie a fortnight in the pickle. Then boil it, and fend it to table either with favoys, cabbages, greens, or peafe pudding. It eats much better cold, and lent to table cut into dices. Portugal Beef. CUT off the meat from the bone of a rump of beef, cut it acrofs, dour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter. Stuff the thick end with fuet, boiled chefnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pepper. Stew it in a pan of drong broth, and, when it is tender, lay both the fried and dewed meat together in your didi. Cut the fried in two, and lay it on each fide of the dewed. Strain the gravy it was dewed in, put to it fome pickled gerkins chopped, and boiled chefnuts. Thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in dour, a fpoonful of browning, and give it two or three boils up. Seafon it with fait to your tade, and pour it over the beef. You may ufe lemon for garnidi. ✓ Beef Tremblant. T AK E a rump of beef, which is the bed of the ox you can ufe for this purpofe, and cut the edge of the bone quite clofe to the meat, that it may lie dat in your didi. If it be a large rump, cut it at the chump end fo as to make it fquare. Hang it up for three or four days at lead, without put- ting any fait to it. Prepare a pickle, and leave it all night in foak. Fillet it two or three times a- crofs, and put it into a pot, the fat uppermoih Put to it a little more water than will cover it, take care21 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. care to fkimit well, and feafon it as you would for a good broth, adding about a pint of white wine. Let it funnier as long as it will hang together. There are many fauces for this difh, as minced cairots, herbs, &c. The carrots mull be cut an inch long, boiled in a little water, afterwards ftewed in broth proportionate to your meat. When they are done tender, put in a glafs of wine, a little minced fhalot and parfley, and the juice of a lemon. Take your beef out, and put it on a cloth, clean it from the fat and liquor, place it hot and whole in your difli, and pour your fauce hot over it. Beef a la Mode. TAKE fome of the veiny-piece, orfmall round of beef, which is generally called the moufe but- tock. Cut it five or fix inches thick, and flice fome pieces of fat bacon into long bits. Take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nut- meg, with double the quantity of fait. Mix them together, dip the bacon into fome vinegar, (gar- lick vinegar, if agreeable) and then into the fpice. Lard the beef with a larding-pin, very thick and even. Put the meat into a pot juft large enough to hold it, with a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, half a pint of wine, and fome lemon peel. Cover it down very clofe, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to pre- vent the fteam evaporating. When it is half done, turn it, and cover it up again. Do it over a ftove or very flow fire. It will require five hours and a half to do it properly. You may add to it truffles and morels. Beef a la Royal. TAKE a rump, firloin, or brifket of beef, and cut fome holes in it at a little diftance from each other. Fill the holes, one with chopped oyfters, C 3 another22 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. ' another with fat bacon, and a third with chopped parfley. Dip each of thefe, before you fluff your beef, into a feafoning made with fait, pepper, bea- ten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, fweet mar- joram, and thyme. Put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and, when it has done hilling, put in the beef. Make it of a fine brown, then put in fome broth made of the bones, with a bay-leaf, a pint of red wine, two anchovies, and a quarter of a pint of fmall beer. Cover it clofe, and let it flew till it be tender. Then take out the beef, fkim off the fat, and flrain the gravy. Put in two ox pa- lates Hewed tender and cut into pieces, fome pickled gerkins, truffles, morels, and a little mufhroom powder. Let all thefe boil together. Thicken the fauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, put in the beef to warm, pour the fauce over it, and fend it up to table. Beef a la Daube. BONE a rump of beef, or you may take part of the leg of mutton piece, or a piece of the hut- tock. Cut fome fat bacon as long as the beef is thick, and about a quarter of an inch fquare. Take eight cloves, four blades of mace, a little all-fpice, and half a nutmeg beat very fine. Chop fine a good handful of parfley, fome fweet herbs of all forts, and put to them fome pepper and fait. Roll the bacon in thefe, and then take a large larding-pin, ora fmall bladed knife, and force the bacon through the beef. Then put the meat into the flewpan, and cover it with brown gravy. Chop three blades of garlick very fine, and put in fome frefh mufhrooms or champignons, two large oni- ons, and a carrot. Stew it gently for fix hours, then take out the meat, flrain off the gravy, and fkim off all the fat. Put your meat and gravy again into the pan, put a gill of white wine into it, anddifferent methods of dressing beef. 23 and feafon it with pepper and fait, if wanted. Stew them gently for half an hour, and add fome artichoke bottoms, truffles and morels, fome oyf- ters, and a fpoonful of vinegar. Put the meat into a foup-difh, and the fauce over it. You may, if you choofe it, put in turnips and carrots cut in round pieces, fome fmall onions, and thicken the fauce. Then put in the meat, and flew it gently for half an hour with a gill of white wine. Beef Olives. CUT (leaks from the rump, or infide of the fir- loin, half an inch thick, about fix inches long, and four or five broad ; beat them a little, and rub over them the yolk of an egg. Strew on them crumbs of bread, chopped parfley, lemon- peel fhred fine, pepper and fait, chopped fuet or marrow, and grated nutmeg. Roll them up tight, fkewer them, and fry or brown them in a Dutch oven. Stew them in beef broth or gravy till ten- der, thicken the gravy with a little flour, and then add a little catchup or lemon juice. If you wifh to make it richer, you may add forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mufhrooms. A Fricando of Beef. TAKE one or more pieces of beef, of what fize you pleafe, and lard them with coarfe pieces of bacon feafoned with fpices. Boil it in broth with a little white wine, a bundle of parfley and fweet herbs, a clove of garlick, fhalots, four cloves, whole pepper, and fome fait. When it is tender, fkim the fauce well, and drain it, and re- duce it to a glaze, with which you may glaze the lai ded fide, and fend it up to table on what flowed herbs you pleafg. Another24 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. Another Method. CUT fome dices of beef five or fix inches long, and half an inch thick. Lard them with bacon, dredge them well with flour, and fet them before a brifk fire to brown. Put them into a tofiing-pan, with a quart of gravy, a few morels and truffles, half a lemon, and then ftew them half an hour. Add one fpoonful of catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and a little chyan. Thicken your fauce, and pour it over your fricando. Lay the yolks of hard eggs and forcemeat balls round them. A Porcupine of the fat Ribs of Beef. HAVING boned the flat ribs, beat the meat half an hour w-ith a pafte pin, and then rub it over with the yolks of eggs. Strew over it bread crumbs, parfley, leaks, fweet marjoram, lemon-peel fhred fine, nutmeg, pepper and fait. Roll it up very clofe, and bind it hard. Lard it acrofs with ba- con, then a row of cold boiled tongue, a third row of pickled cucumbers, and a fourth row of lemon-peel. Do it all over in rows till it be larded all round, when it will look like red, green, white, and yellow dice. Then put it in a deep pot, with a pint of water ; lay over it a caul of veal to keep it from fcorching, tie it down with ftrong paper, and fend it to the oven. When it comes out, fkim off the fat, and ftrain your gravy into a faucepan. Add to it two fpoonfuls of red wine, the fame of browning, one of mufhroom catchup, half a le- mon, and thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Difh up your meat, and pour the gravy , into the difh. You may garnifh with forcemeat balls and horfc-radifh, and then fend it to table. A Rib of Beef glaffe, with Spinach. TAKE one of the prime*ribs, trim it neatly, and lay it in a marinade for an hour or two. Fake j a (lew- MDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. 25 a ftewpan that will juft fit it, put a dice or two of bacon at the bottom, lay in your beef, and cover it with the fame. Seafon it with an onion or two, fome bits of carrot, a little fweet bafil, thyme, and parlley, a little pepper, fait, and a blade or two of mace. Let it ftew gently till it be very tender, then take it out upon a plate, ftrain your braze, and clean it well from the fat. Put it into a clean ftewpan, and boil it with a ladle of gravy very faft, and you will find it come to a fort of gluey con- fidence. Then put your beef in, keep it hot till dinner time, and then fend it up to table with fpinach. You may ferve it up with favoys or red cabbage, ftripped fine and ftewed, after being blanched, only adding a piece of bacon, with a few cloves ftuck in the ftewing, but not to fend to table. A fillet of the firloin is done nearly in the fame manner, marinated and roafted, with bacon over it, and the fame fort of fauces. Beef Steak Pie. BEAT fome rump fteaks with a rolling-pin, and then feafon them with pepper and fait to your palate. Make a good cruft, lay in your fteaks, and then pour in as much water as will half fill the difh. Put on the cruft, fend it to the oven, and let be well baked. Beef Steak Pudding. MAKE a good cruft with dripping, or mutton fuet, if you have it. Hired fine. Make a thick cruft, take a piece of fait beef, which has been twenty-four hours in foft water. Seafon it with a little pepper, put it into the cruft, roll it up clofe, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. If it be about four or five pounds, boil it five hours. To26 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING BEEF. To collar Beef. BONE a-piece of a thin flank of beef, and cut off the fkin. Salt it with two ounces of falt- petre, the like quantity of fal-prunella, and alfo of bay-falt, half a pound of coarfe fugar, and two pounds of common fait. Beat the hard falts very fine, and mix all together. Turn it every day, and rub it well with the brine for eight days; then take it out, wafh it, and wipe it drv. Take a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the like quantity of mace, twelve corns of allfpice, and a nutmeg beat- en very fine, with a fpoonful of beaten pepper, a large quantity of chopped parflev, and fome fweet herbs Aired fine. Sprinkle this mixture on the beef, and roll it up very tight; then put a coarfe cloth round it, and tie it very tight with beggars tape. Boil it in a copper of water, and, if it is a large collar, it will take fix hours boiling, but a fmall one will be done in five. When it is done, take it out, and put it into a prefs; but, if you have not that convenience, put , it between two boards, with a weight on the uppermoft, and let it remain in that (late till it is thoroughly cold. Then take it out of the cloth, cut it into thin flices, lay them on a difh, and fend them up to table. Raw parfley may be ufed as a garnifh. To pot Beef. TAKE twelve pounds of beef, and rub into it a pound of brown fugar, and an ounce of falt-pc.tre, After it has (lain twenty-four hours, wafli it clean, and' dry it well with a cloth. Having feafoned it to your tafte with pepper, fait, and mace, cut it into five or fix pieces. Then put it into an earthen pot, with a pound of butter in lumps upon it, fet it in a hot oven, and let it ftand three hours. Then take it out, cut off the hard outfides, and beat it in !different methods of dressing beef. 27 in a mortar. Add to it a little more pepper, fait, and mace. Then oil a pound of butter in the gravy and fat that came from your beef, and put it in as you find neceflary ; but beat the meat very fine. Then put it into your pots, prefs it clofe down, pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. If you wifh to pot your beef fo as to imitate venifon, proceed in the following manner. Take a buttock of beef, and cut the lean of it into pieces of about a pound weight each. To eight pounds of beef take four ounces of faltpetre, the fame quantity of bay-falt, half a pound of white fait, and an ounce of fal-prunella. Beat all the falts very fine, mix them well together, and rub them into the beef. Turn it twice a day for four days fucceftively. After that put it into a pan, and cover it with pump water, and a little of its pwn brine. Send it to the oven, and bake it till it is tender ; then drain it from the gravy, and take out all the (kin and finews. Pound the meat well in a mortar, lay it in a broad difii, and mix on it an ounce of cloves and mace, three quarters of an ounce of pepper, and a nutmeg, all beat very fine. Mix the whole well with the meat, and add a'little clarified frefh butter to moiften it. Then prefs it down into pots very hard, fet them at the mouth of an oven juft to fettle, and then cover them two inches thick with clarified butter. When quite cold, cover the pots over with white paper tied clofe, and fet them in a dry place. It will keep good a great while, if made agreeable to thefe di- rections. C II A P.t *8 ] C H A P, III. The various Methods of dr effing Veal. s Pieces in a Calf. \ TH E Head, and Inwards are the pluck, which contains the heart, livet, lights, nut and melt, and what they call the fkirts, (which eat finely broiled) the throat fweetbread, and the wind-pipe fweetbread, which is the fined. The Fore Quarter is the fhoulder, neck, and breath The Hind Quarter is the leg, the knuckle, fillet, and loin. - A Fillet of Veal with Collops. CUT what collops you want; then take a fmall fillet of veal, and fill the udder full with force- meat. Roll it round, tie it with packthread acrofs, and road it. Lay your collops in the difh, and your udder in the middle. Garnifh your difiics l with lemon. Breaf of Veal in Hodge Podge. CUT the brifket off a bread, of veal into little j pieces, and every bone afunder. Then flour it, and put half a pound of good butter into a dew- pan. As foon as it is hot, put in the veal, and fry ; it all over of a fine brown. Have ready a tea- kettle of boiling water, and pour it into the dew- pan. Fill it up, dir it round, and throw in a pint of green peafe, a fine whole lettuce clean wafhed, two or three blades of mace, a little whole j pepper tied in a mufiin rag, a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, a fmall onion duck with a few cloves,DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. 29 and a little fait. Cover it clofe, and let it (lew an hour, or till it is boiled to your tafte, if you wifli to make foup of it; but, if you only intend to have a fauce to eat with the veal, you mull ftew it till it comes to the quantity you want, and then feafon it with fait to your palate. Take out the fpice, onion, and fweet herbs, and pour it into your difli, which will be a very fine one. If yon have no peafe, pare three or four cucumbers, fcoop out the pulp, and cut it into little pieces. Take four or five heads of celery, wafh them clean, and cut the white part final 1; but, for want of let- tuces, you may take the little hearts of favoys, or the little young fprouts that grow on the old cab- bage (talks, about the fize of the top of your thumb. If you with to make a very fine difh of it, fill the infide of your lettuce with force-meat, tie the top with a thread, and ftew it till there is but juft enough for fauce. Set the lettuce in the middle, the veal round it, and pour the fauce all over it. This difh willferve a number of people, and it is the cheapeft and bed way of drefling a bread of veal. To flew a Breafl of Veal in its own Sauce. PUT a bread of veal into a ftewpan of its own length, with a little broth, a glafs of white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, a few mufhrooms, a little coriander tied in a bag, diced roots, onions, pep- per, and fait. Stew it (lowly till very tender. When it is done enough, drain and (kirn the fauce, pour it over the meat, and fend it up to table. To few a Knuckle of Veal. LAY at the bottom of your faucepan four wood- en fkewers, and wa(h and clean the knuckle well. Lay it in the pot with two or three blades of mace, a littde .gO DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. a little whole pepper, a little thyme, a fmall onion, a cruft of bread, and two quarts of water. Cover it down clofe, make it boil, and then let it only firnmer for two hours. As foon as it is enough, take it up, lay it in a difh, and drain the broth over it. Veal Olives a la Mode. TAKE two pounds of veal, fome marrow, two anchovies, the yolks of two hard eggs, a few mufh- rooms, fome oyfters, a little thyme, marjoram, parfley, fpinach, lemon-peel, fait, pepper, nut- meg, and mace, finely beaten. Take your veal caul, put a layer of bacon, and a layer of the in- gredients : roll them in the veal caul, and either road or bake it. An hour will do either. When it is enough, cut it into flices, lay it in your difh, and pour good gravy over it. You may ufe lemon for a garnifh. Neck of Veal and fiarp Sauce. MAKE a marinade with butter and a little flour, diced onions, roots, a little coriander feed, one clove of garlick, three fpice cloves, thyme, bafil, pepper, and fait. Warm it, and put it in a larded neck of veal. Let it lie in a marinade about two hours, then wrap it in buttered paper, roaft it, and ferve it up with a fharp fauce. Neck of Veal a la Royal. CUT off the fcrag end of a neck of veal, and part of the chine bone, fo that it maylie flat in the difh. Chop very fine a little parfley and thyme, a few dialots and mudirooms, and feafon with pep- per and fait. Cut middle-fized lards of bacon, and roll them in the herbs and feafoning. Lard the lean part of the neck, put it in a ftewpan with fome bacon, or the fhank of a ham, the chine bonedifferent methods of dressing veal. 31 bone and fcrag cut in pieces, with a little beaten mace, a head of celery, onions, and three or four carrots. Pour in as much water as will cover it, (hut the pan clofe, and flew it flowly two or thiee hours, till it be tender. Then ftrain half a pint of the liquor through a fieve, fet it over a ftove, let it boil, and keep ftirring it till it becomes thick, and is of a good brown. Then take the veal out of the ftewpan, wipe it clean, and put the larded fide down upon the glaze. Set it five or fix minutes over a gentle fire to take the glaze, and then lay it in the difh with the glazed fide upwards. Put into the fame ftewpan as much flour as will lie on a fixpence, ftir it well, and add fome of the braze powder, if any be left. Let it boil till it is of a proper thicknefs, and pour it into the difli. Squeeze in a little lemon juice, and ferve it up. Neck of Veal a la Braife. LARD the beft end of a neck of veal with ba- con rolled in parfley chopped, pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Put it into a ftewpan, and cover it with water. Put in the fcrag end, with a little lean bacon, or a bit of ham, an onion, two carrots, fome fhalots, a head or two of celery, and a little Madeira. Let thefe flew gently for two hours, or till tender. Strain the liquor, mix a little butter with fome flour, and ftir it in a ftewpan till it be brown. Lay in the veal, the upper fide to the bottom of the pan, and let it do a few minutes till it is coloured. Lav it in the difli, ftir in fome more liquor, boil it up, and fqueeze in orange or lemon juice. Neck of Veal Jleived with Celery, PUT the beft end of a neck of veal into a ftew- pan with fome beef broth, or boiling water, fome fait, whole pepper, and cloves, tied in a bit of muflin ;32 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. muflin ; with an onion, and a piece of lemon peel. Stew this till tender; then take out the fpice and peel, put in a little cream and flour mixed, with feme celery ready boiled and cut in lengths. Boil it up, difli it, and fend it to table. Neck of Veal ragooed. CUT a neck of veal into fteaks, and flatten them with a rolling pin, feafon them with fait, pep- per, cloves, and mace. Lard them with bacon, lemon peel, and thyme, and dip them in the yolks of eggs. Make a flieet of ftrong cap-paper up at the four corners, in the form of a dripping-pan. Pin up the corners, butter the paper and the grid- iron, and fet it over a charcoal fire. Put in your meat, let it do leifurely, keep it balling and turning to keep in the gravy, and have ready a pint of ftrong gravy againft it is enough. Seafon it high, put in mufhrooms and pickles, and force- meat balls dipped in the yolks of eggs, oyfters Hewed and fried to lay round and at the top of your difli, and then fend it to table. If it be for a brown ragoo, put in red wine; if for a white one, put in white wine, with the yolks of eggs beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream. Breaf of veal ragooed. ROAST half the beft end of a neck of veal, flour it, and ftew it gently with three pints of good gravy, an onion, a few cloves, whole pepper, and a bit of lemon peel. Turn it while it is ftewing, and when it is very tender, ftrain the fauce. If it be not thick enough, mix a little more flour fmooth, and add catchup, chyan, truffles, morels, and pickled mufhroorns. Boil it up, and put in hard yolks of eggs. The ~ \different methods of dressing veal. 33 The Grifles of a Breajl of Veal with a white Saucer THE half of a breaft of veal will do for this fmall difh. Take off all the upper part of it, and cut the griftles in fmall bits, blanch them, and put into a ftewpan a ladle of broth. Having Hewed it very tender, put to it a bit of butter mixed with flour, a bunch of parfley and onions, a blade of mace, pepper, and fait. For your fauce, you may procure either peas or afparagus. Add the juice of a lemon, and fend it up to table. Fillet of Veal fewed. STUFF it, and half bake it with a little water in the difh. Then flew it with the liquor and fome good gravy, and a little Madeira. When it is enough, thicken it with flour, and add catchup, chyan, a little fait, and juice of orange or lemon. Then boil it, difh it up, and fend it to table. r Leg of Veal marinated. MARINATE a nice leg of white veal, and roafl it with four flices of bacon over it, cover it with paper. Take four or five heads of endive* cut into bits about an inch in length ; blanch it a little, and flew it in a little gravy mixed with a ladle full of cullis. Put in a minced flialot and fome parfley, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, and fend it to table with the fauce under it. For the fake o( a change, you may make ufc of capers, olives, or any other fort of pickles. Leg of Veal in Difguife. T AK E a leg of veal, and lard it with flips of bacon, and a little lemon-peel cut very thin. Make a fluffing as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it ball a pint of oyfters chopped fmall. Put it into a veflel, cover it with Water, and let it flew very gently till quite tender. Then take it up, and U fkim34 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. fkim off the fat. Squeeze into it fome juiceof lemon, put to it fome mufhroom catchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine, and half a pint of oyfters, with a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Put the fauce on the fire to thicken, and having put the veal in the difh, pour the fauce over it. You may make ufe of oyfters dipped in butter and fried, and thin flices of toafted bacon, for a garnifh. Leg of Veal daubed. LARD and braze it with all forts of roots and fpices, and reduce the fauce to a jelly. You may ferve it up either hot or cold. To drefs Veal a la Bourgeoife. LAR D pretty thick flices of veal with bacon, and feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, cloves, nutmeg, and chopped parfley. Then cover the bottom of the ftewpan with flices of fat bacon, lay the veal upon them, cover it, and fet it over a very flow fire for eight or ten minutes, juft to be no more than hot. Then brifk up your fire, and brown your veal on both fides. Pour in a quart of good broth or gravy, cover it clofe, and let it ftew gently till it be enough. Take out the flices of bacon, fkim off all the fat clean, and beat up the yolks of three eggs with fome of the gravy- ! Mix all together, and keep it ftirring one way till it be fmooth and thick. Then take it up, lay the meat in your difh, pour the fauce over it, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. Loin of Veal in Epigram. ROAST a fine loin of veal, take it up, and carefully take off the (kin from the back part of it without breaking. Cut out all the lean meat; but be fure to leave the ends whole, in order to hold the IDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. 35 the following mince-meats: Mince all the meat very fine with the kidney part, moiften it with a little veal gravy, and the gravy that comes from the loin. Put in a little pepper and fait, fome lemon-peel Hired fine, the yolks of three eggs, a fpoonful of catchup, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour. Give it a {hake or two over the fire, put it into the loin, and then pull the lkin over. If the fkin fhould not quite cover it, give it a brown with a hot iron, or put it into an oven for a quarter of an hour. Garnifh with barber- ries and lemon, and fend it up to table. To roajl Sweetbreads with Afparagus. A couple of good fweetbreads will be fuffici- ent for this fmall difli. Blanch them, and lay them in a marinade. Spit them tight upon a lark- fpit, and tie them to each other, with a flice of ba- con upon each, and covered with paper. When the fweetbreads are nearly done, take off the pa- per, and pour a drop of butter upon them, with a few crumbs of bread, and roaft them of a nice co- lour. Take two bunches of afparagus, and boil them, but not quite fo much as when boiled to eat with butter. Difli up your fweetbreads, with your grafs between them. Take a little cullis and gravy* with a bit of flialot and minced parfley, and boil it a few minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon or orange, and fend it up to table. Sweetbreads are very ufeful in many diflies, as in pies, ragoos, fricaflees, &c. And to ufe alone, either fried, roafted, broiled, or otherwife. They muft be foaked in warm water an hour or two, then fcalded about an hour or two in warm water, which is com- monly called Jetting or blanching. This will make them keep longer, and prepare them for any ufe > you may have occafion to apply them to. D 2 . Sweetbreads3^ DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. Sweetbreads a la Daube. PUT three of the finch and largefl fweetbreads you can get into a faucepan of boiling water for five minutes. Then take them out, and, when they are cold, lard them in a row down the middle, with little pieces of bacon, and then a row on each fide with lemon-peel, cut the fize of wheat ftraw. Then a row on each fide of pickled cucumbers cut very fine. Put them in a tofiing-pan with good veal gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a fpoonful of browning. Stew them gently a quarter of an hour, and a little before they are ready thicken them with flour and butter. Difh them up, pour the gravy over them, and lay round them bunches of boiled celery, or oyfter patties. Garnifh with flewed fpinach, green-coloured parfley, and flick a bunch of barberries in the middle of each fweet- bread. This is a pretty corner difh for either din- ner or fupper. Srveetbreads a la Dauphine. LARD the finefl fweetbreads you can get, and open them in fuch a manner that you can fluff in forcemeat. Three will make a fine difh. Make your forcemeat with a large fowl or young cock ; fkin it, and pluck off all the flefh. Take half a pound of fat andlean bacon ; cut them very fine, and beat them in a mortar. Seafon it with an anchovy, fome nutmeg, a little lemon-peel, a very little thyme, and fome parfley. Mix them up with the yolks of two eggs, and fill your fweetbreads, and faflen them with fine wooden fkewers. Put layers of ba- con at the bottom of a flewpan, and feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, cloves, fweet herbs, and a large onion fliced. Upon that lay thin flices of veal, and then lay on your fweetbreads. Cover it clofe, let it fland eight or ten minutes over a {lowdifferent methods of dressing veal. 37 I flow fire, and then pour in a quart of boiling water or broth. Cover it clofe, and let it ftew two hours very foftly. Then take out the fweetbreads, keep them hot, {train the gravy, fkim off all the fat, boil it till it waftes to about half a pint, put in the fweet- breads, and give them two or three minutes ftew in the gravy. Then lay them in the difh, pour the gravy over them, garnifh with lemon, and fend them up to table. Sweetbreads ragooed. RUB them over with the yolk of an egg, ftrew them over with bread crumbs, and parfley, thyme, and fweet marjoram, all Aired fmall, and fome pepper and fait. Make a roll of forcemeat like a fweetbread, put it in a veal caul, and roaft them in a Dutch, oven. Take fome brown gravy, and put to it a little lemon pickle, fome mufhroom catchup, and the end of a lemon. Boil the gravy, and when the fweetbreads are enough, lay them in the difh, with the forcemeat in the middle. Take out the end of the lemon, pour the gravy into the difh, and fend it up to table. Sweetbreads as Hedge-Hogs. HAVING fcalded your fweetbreads, lard them with ham and truffles, cut in fmall pieces. Fry them a fliort time in butter, and let the pieces flick but a little to make the appearance of briftles. Simmer them in the fame butter, with broth and a little white wine, and a very little fait and pepper. When they are done, fkim and ftrain the fauce, add a little cullis, and ferve them up. You may ufe any other fauce that you like better. Sweet- breads being of a very infipid tafte of themfelvcs, make it a general rule to ferve a fharp relifhing fauce with them, fuch as cullis fauce, fricaffee, or fweet herbs. D 3 Sweetbreadj38 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. Sweetbreads forced. TAKE three fweetbreads, put them into boiL ing water for five minutes. Beat the yolk of an egg a little, and rub it over them with a feather. Strew on bread crumbs, lemon peel, and parfley fhred very fine, nutmeg, fait, and pepper, to your palate. Set them before the fire to brown, and add to them a little veal gravy. Put in a little mufhroom powder, caper liquor, or juice of lemon, and browning. Thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, and pour it into your difh. Lay in your fweetbreads, lay over them lemon-peels in rings, cut like ftraws, garnifh with pickles, and fend them up to table. Shoulder of Veal a la Piedmontoife. HAVING cut the fkin off a fhoulder of veal fo that it may hang at one end, lard the meat with, bacon and ham, and feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, fweet herbs, parfley, and lemon-peel. Cover it again with the fkin, flew it with gravy, and when it is juft tender enough take it up. Then take fome forrel, fome lettuce chopped final], and flew them in butter, with parfley, onions, and mufli- rooms. When the herbs are tender, put to them fome of the liquor, fome fweetbread, and fome bits of ham. Let all flew together a little while ; then lift up the fkin, lay the ftewed herbs over and under, cover it again with the fkin, wet it with melted butter, ftrew it over with crumbs of bread, and fend it to the oven to brown. Serve it up hot, with fome good gravy in the difh. To mince Veal. CUT your veal as fine as poffible, but do not chop it. Grate a little nutmeg over it, fhred a little lemon-peel very fine, dredge a little flour over it. and throw a very little fait on it. To a 1 largedifferent methods of dressing veal. 39 large plate of veal, take four or five fpoonfuls of water, let it boil, and then put in the veal, with a piece of butter as big as an egg. Stir it well toge- ther, and it will be done enough as foon as it is all thoroughly hot. Have ready a very thin piece of bread toafted brown, and cut into three-corner fippets. Lay it round the plate, and pour in the veal. Jull before you put it in, fqueeze in half a lemon, or put in half a fpoonful of vinegar. A Pillaw of Veal. HALF roaft either a neck or breaft of veal; then cut it into fix pieces, and feafon it with pep- per, fait and nutmeg. Put to a pound of rice a quart of broth, fome mace, and a little fait. Do it over a {love or very flow fire till it is thick ; but butter the bottom of the pan or difli you do it in. Beat up the yolks of fix eggs, and ftir them into it. Then take a little round deep difli, butter it, lay fome of the rice at the bottom, then lay the veal on a round heap, and cover it all over with rice. Wafli it over with the yolks of eggs, and bake it an hour and half. Then open the top, and pour in a pint of rich good gravy. Send it to table, garniflied with a Seville orange quartered. Veal Blanquets. HAVING roafted a piece of a fillet of veal, cut off the fkin and nervous parts, and cut it into little thin bits. Put fome butter into a ftewpan over the fire, with fome chopped onions, and fry them a little. Then add a dull of flour, ftir it to- gether, and put in fome good broth or gravy, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Seafon it with fpice, make it of a good tafte, and then put in your veal, the yolks of two eggs, beat up with cream and grated nutmeg, fome chopped parfley, a fhalot, fome lemon peel grated, and a little juice of lemon, D 4 Keep40 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. - Keep it ftirring one way, and when it is enough, difh it up, and fend it to table. Bombarded Veal. CUT five lean pieces off a fillet of veal, as thick as your hand. Round them up a little, and lard them very thick on the round fide with little narrow thin pieces of bacon, and lard five fheeps tongues, being firft boiled and blanched ; lard then here and there with very little bits of lemon peel, and make a well-feafoned forcemeat of veal, bacon, ham, beef fuet, and an anchovy beaten well. Make ano- ther tenderforcemeat of veal, beef fuet, mufhrooms, fpinach, parfley, thyme, fweet marjoram, winter fa- vory, and green onions. Seafon with pepper, fait, and mace. Beat it well, make a round ball of the other forcemeat, and fluff it in the middle of this; then roll it up in a veal caul, and bake it. What is left, tie up like a Bologna faufage, and boil it; but fir ft rub the caul with the yolk of an egg. Put the larded veal into a ftewpan with fome good gravy, and flew it gently till it be enough. Skim off the fat, put in fome truffles‘and morels, and fome mufhrooms. Your forcemeat being baked enough, lay it in the middle, the veal round it, and the tongues fried, and laid between. Cut the boiled into flices, fry them, and flrew them all over. Put on them the fauce, garnifh with lemon, and fend them up to table. You may add fweetbreads, cockfcombs, and ar- tichoke bottoms, if you think proper. A Harris of Veal. HALF roaft a neck or breaft of veal; if the neck, cut the bones fhort. Put it into a flewpan juft covered with brown gravy, and when it is nearly (lone, have ready a pint of boiled peas, fix cucum- bers pared, and two cabbage lettuces quartered, ftewed in brown gravy, with a few forcemeat balls j-e^dy fried. Put them to the veal, and let themdifferent methods of dressing veal. 41 juft fimmer. When the veal is put into the difh, pour the fauce and the peas over it, and lay the lettuce and balls round it. Veal Rolls. CUT ten or twelve little thin ftic.es of veal ; put on them fome forcemeat, according to your fancy, roll them up, and tie them juft acrofs the middle with coarfe thread. Put them on a bird- fpit, rub them over with the yolks of eggs, flour them, and bafte them with butter. Half an hour will do them. Lay them in a difh, and have ready fome good gravy, with a few truffles and mo- rels. Garnifh with lemon, and fend them up to table. To fry cold Veal. CUT your veal into pieces of about the thick- nefs of half a crown, and of what length you think proper. Dip them in the yolk of an egg, and then in crumbs of bread, with a few fweet herbs and fhred lemon-peel; grate a little nutmeg over them, and fry them in freftt butter. The butter muft be made juft hot enough to fry them. In the mean time, make a little gravy of the bone of the veal; and when the meat is fried, take it out with a fork, and lay it in a difh before the fire. Then fhake a little flour into the pan, and ftir it round. Then put in a little gravy, fqueeze in fome lemon, and pour it over the veal. Garnifh with lemon, and ferve it up. A Florentine of Veal. MINCE two kidnies of veal, fat and all, very fine. Chop a few herbs and put to it, and add a few currants. Seafon it with cloves, mace, nut- meg, and a little fait; four or five yolks of eggs chopped fine, and fome crumbs of bread ; a pip- pin or two chopped, fome candied lemon-peel cut fmall.42 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESLINC VEAL. fmall, a little fack, and orange-flower water. Lav a fheet of puff pafte at the bottom of your difli, and put in the ingredients, and cover it with another fheet of puff pafte. Bake it in a flack oven, and ferve it up hot, with fugar feraped on the top of it. To boil a Scrag oj Veal. PUT a ferag of veal into a faucepan, and to each pound of veal put a quart of water. Skim it very clean, then put in a large piece of upper cruft of bread, a blade of mace to each pound of meat, and a little parfley tied with thread. Cover it clofe, and let it boil very foftly two hours, when both broth and meat will be fit to eat. This is a very good dilh for a Tick perfon. To mince Veal for a fick or weak Perfon. MINCE fomeveal very fine, and take off the fkin. Juft boil as much water as will moiften it, with a very little fait; grate a very little nutmeg, throw a little flour over it, and when the water boils put in the meat. Keep fhaking it about a minute over the fire. Have ready two or three very thin fippets, toafted nicely brown; then put them in the plate, and pour the mince-meat over them. A chicken may be, done in the fame manner. To make Marble Veal. ■\ BOIL a neat’s tongue till it be tender; then peel it, cut it in flices, and beat it in a mortar with a pound of butter, and a little beaten mace and pepper, till it be like a pafte. Have ready fome veal ftewed and beaten in the fame manner. Put fome veal in a potting-pot, then fome tongue in lumps over the veal, then fome veal over that, tongue over that, and then veal again. Prefs it down hard, pour fome clarified butter over it, anddifferent methods of dressing veal. 43 keep it in 3. cold dry place. When you ufe it, cut it in dices, garnifh with parfiey, and lend it up to table. Calf's Head Surprife. WITH a diarp knife raife off the dvin of a calf’s head, with as much meat as you can poffibly get from the bones, fo that it may appear like a whole head when duffed. Make the following forcemeat. Take half a pound of veal, a pound of beef fuet, the crumb of a twopenny loaf, and half a pound of fat bacon. Beat them well in a mortar, with fome fweet herbs and pardey fhred line, fome cloves, mace, and nutmeg beat fine ; enough fait and chyan pepper to feafon it, the yolks of four eggs beat up, and mixed all together. Stuff the head with this forcemeat, and dcewer it tight at each end. Put it into a deep pot or pan, and put to it two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a blade or two of mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, an anchovy, two fpoonfuls' of walnut and mudi- room catchup, the fame quantity of lemon pickle, and a little fait and pepper. Lay a coarfepade over it to keep in the deam, and put it for two hours and an half into a fharp oven. When you take it out, lay the head in a foup didt, ddm off the fat from the gravy, and drain it through afieve into a dewpan. Thicken it in butter rolled in dour, and when it has boiled a few minutes, put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and mixed with half a pint of cream. Have ready boiled fome force- meat balls, half an ounce of trudles and morels; but do not put them into the gravy. Pour the gravy over the head, garnidi with forcemeat balls, truffles, morels, and mudirooms, and fend it up to table. The41 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. I ' The bejl Way to drefs a Calf's Head. SCALD off all the hair of a calf’s head, and clean it well. Cut it into two, take out the brains, and boil the head very white and tender. Take one part quite off the bone, and cut it into nice pieces with the tongue; dredge it with a little flour, and let it flew on a flow fire for half an hour, in rich white gravy made of veal, mutton, and a piece of bacon, feafoned with pepper, fait, onion, and a very little mace. It muff be {trained off be- fore the hafh is put in, and then thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour. The other part of the head muff be taken off in one whole piece. Stuff itwith nice forcemeat, roll it like a collar, and then flew it tender in gravy. Put it into the middle of adifh, and the hafh all round it. Garnifh itwith forcemeat balls, and the brains made into little cakes dipped in butter and fried. You may add wine, morels, truffles, or what elfe you pleafe, it you choofe to add to its richnefs. To hafh a Calf's Head. HAVING cleaned the head exceedingly well> boil it a quarter of an hour, and when it is cold cut the meat into thin broad flices. Put it into a toffing-pan with two quarts of gravy. When it has Hewed three quarters of an hour, add to it an an- chovy, a little beaten mace, chyan to your tafte, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, two meat fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, half an ounce of truffles and morels, afliceor two of lemon, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a glafs of white wine. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and put it in a few minutes before the head is enough. Put the brains into hot water, and beat them fine in a bafon. Add to them two eggs, one fpoonful of flour, a bit of lemon peel Aired fine, a little parfley chopped final l,different methods of dressing veal. 45 frnall, thyme, and fage. Beat them well together, and drew in a little pepper and fait. Then drop them in little cakes into a pan full of boiling hog’s lard, and fry them of a light brown. Lay thefe on a fieve to drain, take your hafh out of the pan with a fifh flice, lay it on your difh, and drain the gravy over it. Lay upon it a few mufhrooms, force- meat balls, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brain cakes. Garnilh with lemon and pickles, and fend it up to table. To grill a Calf’s Head. HAVING wafhed a calf’s head clean, and boiled it almod enough, take it up and ha Hi one half. Rub the other half over with the yolk of an egg, and a little pepper and fait; drew over it bread crumbs, parfley chopped final 1, and a little grated lemon peel. Set it before the fire, and keep bading it all the time to make the froth rife. When it is of a fine light brown, difii up your hafh, and lay the grilled fide upon it. Blanch your tongue, flit it down the middle, and lay it on a foup plate. Skin the brains, boil them with a little fage and parfiey, chop them fine, and mix them with fome melted butter, and a fpoonful of cream. Make them hot, and pour them over the tongue. Serve them up as fauce for the head. To roajl a Calf’s Head. FIRST wafh the head perfeftly clean, then take out the bones, and dry the head well with a cloth. Make a feafoning of pepper, fait, beaten mace, nutmeg, cloves, fome fat bacon cut very final], and fome grated bread. Strew this over it, roll it up, fkewerit with a final! fkewer, and tie it with tape. Road it, and bade it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy thickened with butter and rolled in flour. Some like mufhrooms and the fat part of46 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. \ of oyfters; but you may either ufe or omit thefe, as you pleafe. Calf's Head boiled. HAVING wafhed the head very clean, par- boil one half of it. Beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather. Then ftrew over it a feafoning of pepper, fait, thyme, parfley chopped fmall, fhred lemon peel, grated bread, and a little nutmeg. Stick bits of butter over it, and fend it to the oven. Boil the other half white in a cloth, and put them both into a difh. Boil the brains in a piece of cloth, with a little parfley and a leaf or two of fage. When they are boiled, chop them fmall, and warm them up in a faucepan, with a piece of butter, and a little pepper and fait. Lay the tongue, boiled and peeled, in the middle of a fmall difh, and the brains round it. Have in another difh bacon or pickled pork, and in another greens and carrots. Veal Palates. BOIL two palates about half an hour; then take off the {kins, and cut them into pieces, as you do ox palates. Put them into a flewpan with aglafs of white wine, a little minced green onion, parfiev, pepper, and fait. Tofs it often till the wine is gone, pour in a ladle of your cull is mixed with gravy, and flew them foftly till very tender. Put in a fmall glafs more of wine, add the juice of a lemon or orange, and fend it up. Scotch Collops xohitc. CUT your collops off the thick part of a leg of veal, of the fize and thicknefs of a crown-piece. Put a lump of butter into a toffing-pan, and fet it over a flow fire, for a brifk fire will difcolour your collops.different methods of dressing VEAL. 47 collops. Before the pan is hot, lay in the collops, and keep turning them over till you fee the butter is turned to,a thick white gravy. Put your col- lops and gravy into a pot, and fet them upon the hearth to keep warm. Put cold butter again into your pan every time you fill it, and fry them as above, and fo continue till you have finifhed. When you have fried them, pour your gravy from them into your pan, with a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, mufhroom catchup, caper liquor, beaten mace, chyan pepper, and fait. Thicken with flour and butter, and when it has well boiled, put in the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and mixed with a tea-fpoonful of rich cream. Keep fhaking your pan over the fire till your gravy looks of a fine thicknefs, and then put in your collops, and (hake them. When they are quite hot, put them on your difh with forcemeat balls, and ftrew over them pickled mufhrooms.'- Garnifli with barber- ries and pickled kidney-beans, and fend them up to table. Scotch Collops brown. FOR brown collops, cut them in the fame man- ner as you did for white collops; but brown your butter before you lay in your collops. Fry them over a brifk fire, fhake and turn them, and keep them on a fine froth. When they are of a light brown, put them into a pot, and fry them as the white ones. When you have fried them all brown, pour all the gravy from them into a clean tofling- pan, with half a pint of gravy made of the bones and bits you cut the collops off, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a large one of catchup, the fame of browning, half an ounce of morels, half a le- mon, a little anchovy, chyan, and fait to your tafte. Thicken it with flour and blitter, and let it boil five or fix minutes. Then put in your col-48 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL, lops, and (hake them over the fire; but take care that they do not boil, as that will make them hard. When they have fimmered a little, take them out with an egg fpoon, lay them on your difh, (train your gravy, and pour it hot on them. Lay over them forcemeat balls, and little dices of bacon curled round a ficewer and boiled. Serve them up with a few muflirooms over them, and garnifiied with lemon and barberries. Scotch Collops the French Way. CUT collops pretty thick, and five or fix inches long, from a leg of veal. Rub them over with the yolk of an egg, put pepper and fait, and grate a little nutmeg on them, and a little Aired pardey. Lay them on an earthen didi, and fet them before the fire. Bade them with butter, and let them be of a fine brown. Then turn them on the other fide, rub them as above, and brown them the fame way. When they are thoroughly enough, make a good brown gravy with trufiles and morels, didi up your collops, lay truffles and morels, and the yolks of hard eggs boiled, over them. .Gar- nidi with lemon and crifp pardey, and fend them lip to table. Veal Cutlets. YOUR cutlets mud be about the thicknefs of a half crown ; but the length of them is of no confe- quence. Dip them in the yolk of an egg, and drew over them crumbs of bread, a few fweet herbs, fome lemon peel, and a little grated nut- meg. Fry them in fredi butter. In the mean time make a little gravy, and when the meat is done, take it out, and lay it in a didi before the fire. Then diake a little dour into the pan, and dir it round. Put in a little gravy, fquceze in a littledifferent methods of dressing veal. 49 little lemon, and pour it over the veal. Garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. A Calf's Heart roafled. FILL the heart with the following forcemeat. Take the crumb of half a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet chopped (mail, a little parfley, fweet marjoram, and lemon peel, mixed up with a little pepper, fait, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Having filled the heart with this forcemeat, lay a veal caul on the Huffing, or a ffieet of writing pa- per, to keep it in its place. Put it into a Dutch oven, and keep turning it till it be thoroughly roafted. When you difh it up, lay flices of lemon round it, and pour good melted butter over it. To make a fine fweet Veal Pie. SEASON your veal with fait, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all beaten fine. Cut your meat into littLe pieces, and having made a good puff-pafte cruft, lay it into your diffi. Then lay in your meat, ftrew on it fome currants and ftoned raifins clean wafiied, and fome fugar. Then lay on it fome forcemeat balls made fweet, and in the fummer fome artichoke bottoms boiled, and fcalded grapes in the winter. Boil Spaniffi pota- toes cut in pieces, candied citron, candied orange, and lemon peel, and three or four blades of mace. Put butter on the top, clofe up your pie, and bake it. Have ready againft it comes out of the oven, a caudle thus made. Take a pint of white wine, and mix in it the yolks of three eggs; ftir it well together over the fire one way all the time, till it be thick. Then take it oflF, ftir in fugar enough to fweeten it, and fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. Pour it hot into your pie, and clofe it up again. E A Calf's r50 DIFFERENT METHODS OF D R E SSI N C V E A L. A Calf’s Head Pie. LET the head be firfl very well cleaned, and then boil it till it be tender. Take oft' the meat as whole as you can, takeout the eyes, and dice the tongue. Make a good puff-pafte cruft, cover your dilh with it, lay on your meat, throw over it the tongue, and lay the eyes cut in two at each corner, feafonitwith a very little pepper and fait, pour in half a pint of the liquor it was boiled in, lay on a thin top-cruft, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. In the mean time, boil the bones of the head in two quarts of liquor, with two or three blades of mace, half a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, a large onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Let it boil till reduced to about a pint ; then ftrain it off, and add two fpoonfuls of catchup, three of red wine, a piece of butter as big as a walnut rolled in flour, and half an ounce of truffles and morels. Seafon it with fait to your palate. Boil it, and have half the brains boiled with fome fage; beat them and twelve leaves of fage chopped fine. Then ftir all together, and give it a boil. Take the other part of the brains, and beat them with fome of the fase chopped fine, a little lemon peel minced fine, and half a fmall nutmeg grated. Beat it up with an egg, and fry it in little cakes of a fine light brown. Boil fix eggs hard, of which take only the yolks ; and when your pie comes out of the oven, take off the lid, lay the eggs and cakes over it, and pour the fauce all over. Send it hot to table without the lid. A Veal Suet Pudding. CU T the crumb of a three-penny loaf into flices. Boil and pour two quarts of milk on the bread, and then put to it one pound of melted veal fuet. Add to thefe one pound of currants, halfDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING VEAL. half a nutmeg, fix eggs well mixed together, and fugar to the tafte. This pudding may be either boiled or baked ; but take care to butter well the infi.de of the difh. Veal Hams. CUT a leg of veal like a ham_; then take a pint of bay-falt, two ounces of falt-petre, and a pound of common fait. Mix them well together with an ounce of juniper berries beaten. Rub the ham well, and lay it on a hollow tray, with the fldn fide downwards. Bafte it every day for a fortnight with the pickle, and then hang it in wood fmoke for a fortnight. You may boil it, or parboil it and roaft it. In this pickle you may put a piece of pork, or two or three tongues. To collar a Breajl of Veal. BONE the fineft breaft of veal you can pro- cure, and rub it over with the yolks of two eggs; ftrewoverit fome crumbs of bread, a little grated lemon peel, a little pepper and fait, and a handful of chopped parfley. Roll it up hard, and bind it tight with packthread. Wrap it in a cloth, boil it an hour and a half, and then take it up, and fet it to cool. As foon as it has cooled a little, take off the cloth, and cut off the packthread carefully, left you open the veal. Cut it into five flices, lay them on a difh with the fweet bread boiled, and cut in thin flices, and laid round them with ten or twelve forcemeat balls. Pour your white fauce over it, and garnifh with barberries or green pickles. Make your white fauce in the following i manner. Take a pint of good veal gravy, put to itafpoonful of lemon pickle, half an anchovy, a ' tea-fpoonful of mufhroom powder, or a few pick- ' led mufhrooms. Give it a gentle boil, and then | put in half a pint of cream, and the yolks of two £ eggs finely beaten. Shake it over the fire after ^ 2 the5* DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. the eggs and cream are in, but do not let it boil, as that will curdle it. To collar a Calf’s Head to eat like Brawn. ' SCALD the head till the hair comes clean off, then cut it into two, and take out the brains and the eyes. Wafh it very clean, put it into a pan of clean water, and then boil it till the bones will come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of fait over them, and roll it up quite clofe in a collar. Boil it near two hours, and when the head is cold, put it into brawn pickles. , To pot Veal. TAKE part of a fillet or knuckle of veal that has been ftewed, or you may bake it on purpofe for potting. Beat it to apafte with butter, pepper, fait, and mace pounded. Prefs it down in pots, and pour over it clarified butter. * CHAP. IV. The various Methods of Hr effing Mutton. Pieces in a Sheep. THE Head, and Pluck, which includes the liver, lights, heart, fweetbread, and melt. The Fore Quarter is the neck, breaft, and fhoulder. The Hind Quarter includes the leg and loin. The two loins together are called a faddle or chine of mutton. ToDIFFERENT methods of dressing mutton. 53 To roajl a Haunch of Mutton Venifon-Fajhion. CUT a hind quarter of mutton venifon-fafhion, and let it fteep in the fheep’s blood five or fix hours. Then let it hang, in cold dry weather, for three weeks, or as long as it will keep fweet. Rub it with a cloth, then rub it over with frefh butter, and drew fome fait and a little flour over it. Butter a fheet of paper, and lay over it, and another over that, or fome pafte, and tie it round. If it be a large joint, it will take two hours and a half roaft- ing. Before you take it up, take off the paper, or pafte, and bafte it well with butter and flour it. Let the jack go round quick, that it may have a good froth. Make ufe of gravy and currant jelly for your fauce. Another Method, TAKE the largeft and fatteft leg of mutton you can get, cut out like a haunch of venifon, as foon as it is killed, and whilft it is warm, as it will ea.t the tenderer. Lay it in a pan with the backfide downwards, and pour a bottle of red wine over it, and there let it lie twenty-four hours. Then fpit it and roaft it at a good quick fire, and keep ball- ing it all the time with the fame liquor and butter. It will require an hour and an half roafting; and, when it is done, fend it up with a little good gravy in one boat, and fome fweet fauce in another. A good fat neck of mutton, dreffed in this manner, eats exceedingly well. Gigot of Mutton with Spanifh Onions. TAKE a leg of mutton that is cut with part of the loin, that being called by the French a Gigot. Let it hang two or three days, and then put it into a pot juft big enough to hold it; pour in a little broth, and then cover it with water. Put in about a dozen of Spanifh onions, with the rinds on, three £ 3 pr54 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. or four carrots, a turnip or two, fome parfley, and any other herbs you like. Cover them down clofe, and ftew them for three or four hours ; but take your onions out after an hour’s ftewing, and take the firft and fecond rinds oft'. Put them into a ftewpan, with a ladle or two of your cullis, a mufhroom or two, or truffles minced, and a little parfley. Take out your mutton, and drain it clean from the fat and liquor. Then feafon your fauce and make it hot ; fqueeze in a lemon, pour the fauce over it, and fend it up to table with the oni- ons round it. Leg of Mutton Modina-EpJJiion» BONE a leg of mutton quite to the end, which you mull leave very fhort. Boil it in three parts water and one broth, and then take it out. Cut the upper part crofs-ways, into which ftuff butter and bread crumbs, feafoned with pepper, fait, and fweet herbs chopped. Then put it into a ftewpan with a little of the broth, and a little white wine. Add the juice of a Seville orange to the fauce, and when it is done, difli it, and ferve it up. Split Leg of Mutton and Onion Sauce. SPLIT the leg from the (hank to the end, and flick a fkewer in to keep the nitch open. Bafte it with red wine till it be half roafted ; then take the wine out of the dripping-pan, and put to it an an- chovy. Set it over the fire till the anchovy is dif- folved, rub the yolk of a hard egg in a little cold butter, mix it with the wine, and put it into your fauce-boat. Put good onion fauce over the leg when it is roafted, and fend it up to table. Leg of Mutton a la Daube. LARD a leg of mutton with bacon, half roaft it, and then put it into a pot that will juft hold it, o withdifferent methods of dressing mutton. 55 with a quart of mutton gravy, half a pint of vine- gar, fome whole fpice, fweet-marjoram, winter favory, and fome green onions. When it is ten- der, take it up, and make the fauce with fome of the liquor, mufhrooms, diced lemon, two ancho- vies, a fpoonful of colouring, and a piece of but- ter. Pour fome into a boat, and the reft over the mutton. Leg of Mutton a la Mode. LARD a leg of mutton quite through with large pieces of bacon rolled in chopped fweet herbs and fine fpiqes. Braze it on a pan of the fame fize with dices of lard, onions, and roots, and flop the fleam very clofe. When it is done, add a glafs of white wine, and drain the fauce. Leg of Mutton a la haut Gout. HANG up a leg of mutton for a fortnight, and then fluff every part of it with fome cloves of gar- lick ; rub it with pepper and fait, and then roaft it. When it is properly done, put fome good gravy and red wine into the didi, and fend it up to table. Leg of Mutton forced. RAISE the diin of a leg of mutton, take out the lean part of it, and chop it exceedingly dne, with an anchovy. Shred a bundle of fweet herbs, grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, fome nutmeg, pepper, and fait, to your tafte. Make them into a forcemeat, with three eggs, and a large glafs of red wine. Fill the diin with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and diank in their places, and it will appear like a whole leg. Lay it on an earth- en didi, with a pint of red wine under it, and fend it to the oven. It will take two hours and an half. When it comes out, take off the fat, drain the gravy over the mutton, lay round it hard yolks E 4 of56 PJFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON, gravy, of eggs, and pickled mufhrooms. Send it up to table, garnifhed with pickles. Leg of Mutton ragooed. I AKE all the {kin and fat off a leg of mutton* cut it very thin the right way of the grain, then butter your ftewpan, and {hake fome flour into it. Slice half a lemon and half an onion, cut them very final 1, a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, and a little blade of mace. Put all together with your meat into the pan, ftir it a minute or two, and then put in fix fpoonfuls of gravy. Mince an anchovy fmall, and mix it with fome butter and flour. Stir it all togcthpr for fix minutes, difh it up, and fend it to table. Leg of Mutton a la Roy ale. T A K E off the fat, Ikin, and {hank-bone of a leg of mutton. Lard the meat with bacon, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and a round piece, of about three or four pounds, of beef, or leg of veal, alfo larded. Have ready boiling fome hog’s lard, flour your meat, and give it a colour in the lard. Then take out the meat, and put it into a pot, with a bundle of fweet herbs, fome parfley, an onion {luck with cloves, two or three blades of mace, fome whole pepper, and three quarts of gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it boil foftly for two hours. In the mean time, get ready a fweetbread fplit, cut into quarters and broiled, a few truffles and morels Hewed in a quarter of a pint of llrong gravy, a glafs of red wine, a few mufhrooms, two fpoon- fuls of catchup, and fome afparagus tops. Boil all thefe together, and then lay the mutton in the middle of the difh. Cut the beef or veal into flices, make a rim round your mutton with the flices, and pour the ragoo over it. When you have taken the meat out of the pot, fkim all the fat off thedifferent methods of dressing mutton. 57 gravy, (train it, and add as much to the other as will fill the difh. Garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. Leg of Mutton roajled with Oyjlers. MAKE a forcemeat of beef fuet chopped finall, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, with three ancho- vies, a (mail bit of onion, thyme, favory, and about a dozen or fourteen oyders, all cut fine ; fome pepper, fait, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs. Stuff the mutton in the thicked part under the flap, and at the knuckle. You may make your fauce of fome oyf- ter liquor, an anchovy, a little red wine, and fome more oyfters dewed, and laid under the mutton. Shoulder of Mutton boiled, and Onion Sauce. PUT in your {boulder when the water is cold, and when it has boiled enough, cover it with onion fauce, made in the fame manner as for boiled ducks. You may drefs a fhoulder of veal the fame way ; but neither of thefe difhes are often ordered. Shoulder of Mutton in Epigram. HAVING roaded your fhoulder almod enough, take off the (kin, about the thicknefs of a crown- piece, very carefully, and with it the (hank-bone at the end. Seafon that (kin and (hank-bone with pepper and fait, a little lemon-peel cut fmall, and a few fweet herbs and crumbs of bread. Lay this on the gridiron, and let it be of a fine brown. In the mean time take the red of the meat, and cut it like a hafh about the bignefs of a fiiilling. Save the gravy, and put it to it, with a few fpoonfuls of drong gravy, half an onion cut fine, a little nut- meg, a little pepper and fait, a little bundle of fweet herbs, fome gerkins cut very fmall, a few mufhrooms.5& DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON* mufhrooms, two or three truffles cut final 1, two fpoonfuls of either red or white wine, and throw a little flour over the meat. Let all thefe (lew to- gether very foftly for five or fix minutes ; but take care not to let it boil. Take out the fweet herbs, and put the hafh into the difh; lay the broiled upon it, and ferve it up. Shoulder of Mutton fur prized. HALF boil a fhoulder of mutton, put it into a toffing-pan, with two quarts of veal gravy, four ounces of rice, a little beaten mace, and a tea- fpoonful of mufhroom powder. Stev it till the rice is enough, which it will be in about an hour, and then take up your mutton, and keep it hot. Put half a pint of cream to the rice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Shake it well, and boil it a few minutes. Lay your mutton in the difh, and pour your gravy over it. Garnifh with either pick- les or barberries, and fend it up to table. Brectf of Mutton collared. T A K E a bread of mutton, fkin and bone it, and roll it up in a coHarlike a breaft of veal. Put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and bafte the meat with it well while it is roafting. Put fome good gravy into the difh and into a boat, with fome currant jelly in another boat, and ferve it up. Breaft of Mutton dreffed another good Way. COLLAR a breaft of mutton as above dire&ed. Roaft it, and bafte it with half a pint of red wine. When that is all foaked in, bafte it well w;.h but- ter. Have ready a little good gravy, fet the mut- ton upright in the difh, pour- in the gravy, pre- pare fweet fauce as for venifon, and fend it up to table without any garnifh.different methods of dressing mutton. 59 Bread of Mutton grilled. TAKE abreaft of mutton, half boil it, fcore it, pep- per and fait it well, and rub it with the yolk of an egg; ftrew on chopped parfley and crumbs of bread, and broil it or roaft it in a Dutch oven. Serve it up with caper fauce. To drefs a Neck of Mutton. TAKE a neck of mutton, and lard it with le- mon peel cut in thin fmall lengths. Boil it in fait and water, with a bunch of fweet herbs, and an onion ftuck with cloves. While it is boiling, make a fauce of a pint of oyfters hewed in their own liquor, as much veal gravy, two anchovies diffolved and llrained into it, and the yolks of two eggs beat up in a little of the gravy. Mix thefe together till they come to a proper thicknefs, then pour it over the meht, and fend it up to table. Neck of Mutton larded with Ham and Anchovies. TAKE the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, firft rolled in chopped parfley* fhalots, fweet herbs, pepper, and fait. Then put it to braze or flew in a little broth, with a glafs of white wine. When done, fkim and ftrain the fauce, and add a little cullis to give it a proper confidence. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, pour it upon the meat, and fend it up to table. Neck of Mutton, called the Hafy Difh. PROVIDE yourfelf with a large pewter or fil- ver difh, made like a deep foup-difh, with an edge about an inch deep on the infide, with a lid made to fit it, and a handle at top, fixed fo faft, that you may lift it up full by that handle without any danger of its falling. This difh is called a Necro- mancer. Takea neck of muttonof about fix pounds, take60 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. take off the lkin, cut it into chops of a moderate thicknefs, (lice a French roll thin, peel and (lice a large onion, pare and (lice three or four turnips, lay a row of mutton in thedifh, on that a row of roll, than a row of turnips, and then onions; put a lit- tle fait, then the meat, and fo on. Put to it a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, and two or three blades of mace. Fill the difh with boiling water, and having covered it clofe, hang it on the back of two chairs by the rim. Take three fheets of brown paper, tear each fheet into five pieces, and draw them through your hand. Light one piece, and hold it under the bottom of the difh, moving the paper about as fall as it burns 5 light another, till all are burnt, and your meat will then be enough. Fifteen minutes will be fufhcient to do it. Send it to table hot in the difh. Neck oj Mutton drejfed like Venifon. CUT a large neck before the fhoulder is taken off, rather broader than ufual, and the flap of the fhoulder with it, to make it look handfome. Stick the neck all over in little holes with a fharp pen- knife, and pour a little red wine upon it. Let it iie in the wine four or five days, and turn and rub it three or four times a day. Then take it out, and hang it for three days in the open air out of the fun, and dry it often with a cloth to keep it from muffing. When you roaft it, bafle it with the wine it was fteeped in, if any be left; if not, ufe frefh wine. Put while paper three or four folds to keep in the fat, and roaft it thoroughly. Then take off the fkin, froth it nicely, and fend it up to table. Fillet of Mutton with Cucumbers. TAKE a neck of mutton of what fize you plcafe, and cut off great part of the fcrag, and the chinqTake I DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. 61 I chine and fpay-bones clofe to the ribs. Take off the fat from the great end, and flat it with your cleaver, fo that it may lie neatly in the difh. Soak it in a marinade, and roafl it wrapped up in paper well buttered. For your fpring and fummer fauce, nicely quarter fome cucumbers, and fry them in a piece of butter, after laying in the fame marinade. Stew them in a ladle or two of your cullis, a bit of fhalot or green onion, pepper and fait, a little minced parfley, the juice of a lemon, and then ferve it up. The only difference between this and the celery fauce is, that inftead of frying your ce- lery, boil it in a little water till it be tender, or you may flew it for a quarter of an hour in broth. Saddle of Mutton a St. Menehout. HAVING taken the (kin off the hind part of a chine of mutton, lard it with bacon, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, beaten cloves, nutmeg, young onions, fweet herbs, and parfley, all chopped fine. Put layers of bacon in a large oval or gravy pan, and then layers of beef, till the bottom is covered. Put in the mutton, then layers of bacon on that, and a layer of beef. Pour in a pint of wine, and as much good gravy as will ftew it. Put in two or three fha- lots, and cover it clofe. Put fire overand under it, if you have a clofe pan, and let it ftew for two hours. As foon as it is done, take it out, ftrew crumbs of bread all over it, and put it into the oven to brown, or brown it before the fire. Strain the gravy it was ftewed in, and boil it till there be only a fuffi- cient quantity for fauce. Lay the mutton in a difh, pour in the fauce, and fend it up to table. Saddle of Mutton frenched. TAKE the two chumps of the loins, cut off the rump, and carefully lift up the fkin with a knife. You may begin at the broad end, but muft be very careful neither to crack it nor take it quite off.62 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. Take fomc dices oF ham or bacon finely chopped, a few truffles, fome.young onions, fome parfley, a little thyme, fweet marjoram, winter favory, and a little lemon-peel, all finely chopped; a little mace, and two or three cloves finely beaten, half a nut- meg, and a little pepper and fait. Mix all thefe together, and ftrew them over the meat where you raifed the fkii>. Lay the fkin on again, and faf- ten it with two fine fkewers on each fide, and roll it in paper well buttered. It will take two hours roafting. Then take off the paper, balle the meat, and when it is of a fine brown, take it up. For fauce, take fix fhalots, cut them very fine, put them into a faucepan with two fpoonfuls of vine- gar, and two of white wine. Boil them for a miAute or two, pour the fauce into the difh, gar- nifii with horfe-radiffl, and fend it up to table. 1 . , Mutton kcbobbed. JOINT a loin of mutton between every bone, and take off all the fat of the infide, and the fkin off the top of the meat, and fome of the top fat, if there be too much. Seafon them moderately with pepper and fait, and grate a fmall nutmeg all over them. Dip them in the yolks of three eggs, and have ready crumbs of bread and fweet herbs. Dip them in, and put them together in the fame fhape again. Put them on a fmall fpit, and roaft them before a quick fire. Put under them a difh; bafte them firft with a piece of butter, and then with what comes from the meat, and throw fome crumbs of bread and fweet herbs all over them while roafting. When it is enough, take it up, lay it in the difh, and have ready a pint of good gravy and what comes from the meat; but before you put this into the gravy, take care to pour out all the fat. Take two fpoonfuls of catchup, mix with it a tea-fpoonful of flour, and put it to the gravy.different methods of dressing mutton. 63 gravy. Stir it together, give it a boil, and pour it over the mutton. « Mutton the Turkijh Way. / CUT the meat in dices, and wadi it with vine- gar. Put it into a pot with Tome whole pepper, rice, and two or three onions. Stew them very dowly, and ddm them frequently. • -As foon as it is tender, take out the onions, put dppets into the . didi under them, and ferve them up. Mutton a la Maintenon. TAKE a leg of mutton, and ,cut fome At ort fteaks from it. Make a forcemeat with crumbs of bread, a little chopped fuet, or a bit of butter,* lemon-peel grated, pardey Ihred fine, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, mixed up with the yolk of an egg.' Pepper and fait the fteaks, and lay on the force- meat. 'Butter fome half fheets off writing-paper, and in each wrap up a fteak, twilling, the paper neatly. Fry them, or do them in a Dutch oven. Put a little gravy into the difii, and fome in a boat; garnilh with pickles, and fend them up to table. . ' A Bafque of Mutton. TAKE a copper dilh of the fize of a final 1 punch-bowl, and lay the caul of a leg of veal into it. Chop exceedingly fmall the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week.. Then, take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumb of a penny loaf, the rind of half a lemon grated, half a pint of red wine, the yolks of four eggs, and two anchovies. Mix them well together, and lay them in the caul in the infide of the dilh. Fallen the caul, bake it in a quick oven, and when it comes out, lay your' dilh upfide down, and turn the whole out. Pour fome brown gravy over it, and64 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON* and put fome venifon fauce into the difh. Car- nifli with pickles, and fend it up to table. A Harrico of Mutton. CUT a neck or loin of mutton into thick chops, flour them, and fry them brown in a little butter. Then take them out, and put them on a fieve to drain. Put them into a ftewpan, and cover them with gravy. Put in a whole onion, with a turnip or two, and flew them tender. Then take out the chops, ftrain the liquor through a fieve, and fkim off all the fat. Put a little butter into the ftew- pan, and mix it with a fpoonful of flour. Stir it well till it is fmooth, then put in the liquor, and ftir it well all the time you are pouring it in, or it will get into lumps. Then put in your chops with a glafs of Lifbon. Have ready fome carrot, about three quarters of an inch long, and cut them round with an apple corer, fome turnips cut with a turnip fcoop, and a dozen fmall onions blanched. Put them to your meat, and feafon with pepper and fait. Stew them gently for a quarter of an hour, and then take out the chops with a fork. Lay them on the difh, and pour the fauce over them. Garnifh with beet root, and fend them to table. This is a very pretty difh for fupper. Chine of Mutton with Cucumber Sauce. TAKE two fore-quarters of mutton that are fmall and fat, cut it down the fides, and chop through thefhoulders and breaft fo as to make it lie even in the difh. Raife all the fkin; but take care that you neither cut nor tear it. Scrape a little fat bacon, take a little thyme, favory, fweet marjoram, parfley, three or four large onions, a mufhroom or two, and a flialot. Cut thefe a11 very fine, and fry them gently in the bacon. Put to it a little pepper, and when it is nearly cold, put itDIFFERENT methods of dressing mutton. 65 all over the back of your meat with a pafte-brulh. Then fallen the Ikin on with a fkewer, fpit it, and wrap fome well buttered paper over it. Roaft it gently till it be enough. In the mean time take fome cucumbers, quarter them, and nicely fry them in a piece of butter till they be brown. Put them for a minute or two on a fieve to drain, and then put them into a ladle or two of cullis, and boil them a little time, with fome minced parfley and the juice of a lemon. For your herb fauce, prepare juft fuch matters as are fried for the firft part of it, put them into a ftewpan, with as much cullis as is neceffary, and boil it about half an hour gently. Then take the paper and fkin off your chine, pour the fauce over it, fqueeze in the j uice of a lemon, and fend it to table. A Hodge-podge of Mutton. TAKE off the fat of a neck or loin of mutton, and cut it into {leaks. Put them into a pitcher, with fome lettuce, turnips, carrots, two cucum- bers quartered, four or five onions, and a* little pepper and fait. Stop the pitcher very clofe, but do not put any water into it. Then put the pit- cher into a pan of boiling water, and let it boil four hours, and keep the pan fupplied with frefli boiling water as it waftes. Take it out of the pit- cher, and ferve it up. Mutton Rimps a la Braife. TAKE fix mutton rumps, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Then take them out and cut them in two, and put them into a ftewpan, with half a pint of good gravy, a glafs of white wine, an onion ftuck with cloves, and a little chyan pep- per and fait. Cover them clofe, and ftew them till they be tender. Then take out the onion, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, F and1 66 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. and put in a fpoonful of browning, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it up till it be fmooth ; but take care not to make it too thick. Put in your rumps, give them a tofs or two, and difh them up hot. You may garnifh with horfe-radifh and beet- root. If you choofe, for variety fake, you may leave the rumps whole, and lard fix kidnies on one fide, and do them the lame as the rumps, only not boil them. Put the rumps in the middle of the difh, and the kidnies round them, (or the kid- nies will make a pretty fide-difh of themfelves) and pour the fauce over all. To ha/li Mutton. HAVING cut your mutton into fmall pieces, and as thin as you can, ftrew a little flour over it, and put it into fome gravy, in which fweet herbs, onion, pepper, and fait, have been boiled, and Brained. Put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, a little fait, a fhalot cut fine, a few capers and ger- kins finely chopped, and a glafs of red wine, or walnut pickles, if you like it. Tofs all together for a minute or two, and have ready fome bread toafted and cut into thin fippets ; lay thefe round the difh, and pour in your hafh. Garnifh with pickles and horfe-radifh, and fend it up to table. To hajh cold Mutton. WITH a fharp knife cut your mutton into little pieces, as thin as poflible, and then boil the bones with an onion, a little fweet herbs, a blade of mace, a very little whole pepper, a little fait, and a piece of cruft toafted very crifp. Let it boil till there be no more than juft lufticicnt for fauce. Then ftrain it, and put it into a faucepan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and as foon as the meat is hot, it will be enough. Seafon it with pepper and fait, and have ready lome thlnt b^1DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTOK’i 6j T 2 them loaded brown, and cut into any form you bed like. Lay thefe round the difh, and pour the hafli upon them. You may put in any kind of pickle you like, and garnifh with fome of them. Mutton Cutlets in Difguife. CUT fome chops off the loin, and fimmer them in fome broth, with a bundle of fweet herbs. Let the broth wade till there be no more than fuffici- ent for fauce. Put forcemeat round them for a garnifli, which you may make of fome fillet of veal, fuet, chopped parfley, flialots, pepper, fait, and bread crumbs foaked in cream, all well pounded. Add three yolks of eggs, and bade your cutlets with eggs and bread crumbs. Bake it in the oven till it is of a good colour, pour the fauce over it, and fend it to table. Mutton Cutlets Lover’s-FaJhion. LARD fome cutlets, cut pretty thick, with ham and bacon, and give them a few turns in a little butter, chopped parfley, and a little winter favory. Then put them into a dewpan* with fmall pieces of ham, fliced onions, carrots, and park* : nips, which you muff firft fry a little in oil or but- ter. Add a glafs of wine, and a little cullis. As foon as it is done, fkim the fauce, pour it over the meat, and ferve it up. To broil Mutton Steaks. CUT fome {teaks from the loin, about half an 1 inch thick, and take off the fkin, and part of the t fat. As (bon as your gridiron is hot, rub it with a little fuet, lay on your (teaks, and turn them jj frequently, led the fat that drops from them fhould occafion the (ire to blaze, which will fmoke and (poil them ; but. this may in fome meafure be pre- vented by putting your gridiron on a (lant. When they are enough, put them into a hot difh, rub68 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING MUTTON. them with a little butter, dice a fhalot very thin into a fpoonful of water, and pour it on them, with the like quantity of catchup. Garnifli with fcraped horfe-radifh and pickles, and fend them up hot to table. Mutton Steaks baked. CUT a loin of mutton into (leaks, as above di- refled, and feafon them with pepper and fait. Lay them in a difh well buttered, and put in a quart of milk, fix eggs well beaten, and four fpoonfuls of flour. Fil'd beat the flour and eggs together in a little milk, and then put the red to it. Put in a little beaten ginger and fait, and pour it over the deaks. About half an hour will bake them, and then ferve them up. A Mutton Pie. CUT a loin of mutton into deaks, as before di- refled. Seafon them well with pepper and fait. Then lay your crud on the didi, and dll it with your deaks. Then pour in as much water as will nearly dll it, put on your top-crud, and fend it to the oven. Sheep's Tongues drejfed in the French Fa/hion. SLICE fome onions, and fry them in butter. When they are about half done, put to them a little flour, chopped pardey, a clove of garlick, pepper, and fait, a little cullis, and a glafs of white wine. Let it dew till the onions be enough, then add as many fplit tongues, ready boiled, as you choofe. Stew thefe a quarter of an hour in the fauce, garnifh with fried bread, and ferve thewholc up all together. Sheep's Trotters Afpie. ASPIE means a diarp fauce or jelly, and is generally made with tarragon or elder vinegar, choppedDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING LAMB. e9 chopped parfley, flialots, tarragon leaves, pepper, fait, oil, milliard, and lemon, and may be made ufe of as a fauce for fheep’s trotters, or any fort of cold meat. Poultry or game may be feived up, eithet hot or cold, with this fauce. CUT a hind quarter of mutton like a ham, and take an ounce of faltpetre, a pound of coarfe fu- gar, and the like quantity of common fait. Mix them, and rub your mutton well with them. Then lay it in a hollow tray with the Ikin downwards, and bade it every day for a fortnight. Roll it in faw- duft, and hang it in wood fmoak for a fortnight. Then boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut rafh- ers off it as you want, which eat much better broiled than any other way. HE Head, and the Plucky which includes the liver, lights, heart, nut, and melt. There is alfo the fry, which is the fweetbreads, lambs Hones, and {kirts, with fome of the liver. The Fore-Quarter includes the fhoulder, neck, and bread together. The Hind Quarter includes the leg and loin. This is in high fcafon at Chridmas, but lads all 1- the year. Mutton Hams. CHAP. V. The various Methods of drejfing Lamb, Pieces in a Lamb. F 3 Grafs70 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING LAMB. Grafs Lamb comes in feafon in April or May, according to the feafon of the year, and holds good till the middle of AugulL To force a Quarter of Lamb. CUT along flit on the back fide of a large leg of lamb, and take out the meat; but be careful that you do not deface the other fide. Chop the meat fmall with fome marrow, half a pound of beef fuet, fome oyflers, an anchovy waffled, an onion, fome fweet herbs, a little lemon peel, and fome mace and nutmeg. Beat thefe all together in a mortar, and fluff up the leg in the fhape it was be- fore. Sew it up, and rub it all over with the yolks of eggs well beaten. Spit it, flour it all over, lay it to the fire, and bafte it with butter, and an hour will roaft it. In the mean time, cut the loin into fleaks, feafon them with pepper, fait, nut- meg, lemon peel cut fine, and a few herbs. Fry them in frefli butter till they are of a fine brown ; then pour out all the butter, put in a quarter of a pint of white wine, fliake it about, and then add half a pint of flrong gravy, in which has been boiled fome good fpice, a quarter of a pint of oyf- ters and their liquor, fome mufhrooms and a fpoon- ful of their pickle, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the yolk of an egg finely beaten. Stir all thefe together till they be properly thick, and then lay your leg of lamb in the difh, and the loin round it. Pour the fauce over them, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. Two Hind Quarters of Lamb with Spinach. TRUSS the knuckles of two quarters of lamb in nicely, and lay them to foak two or three hours in fome milk, a little fait, two or there onions, and fome parfley. Put them into boiling water, but do not let there be too much of it. Put in fome flourdifferent methods of dressing LAMB. 7 1 * 4 the and water well mixed, a lemon or two pared and diced, abit of fuet, and a fmall bunch of onions and parfley. Stir it well from the bottom, boil it gently, and thefe ingredients will make it exceedingly white. Prepare your fpinach, and put to it about a pint of cream, a bit of butter mixed wtth flour, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Then ftir it over a flow fire till it is of a nice confiftence, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, pour it into the difh, andput your lamb upon it; but take care firft to drain it from the fat and water, and take off any of the fea- foning that may hang to it. A Shoulder of Lamb Neighbour-Fajhion. MAKE a forcemeat of roafted fowls, calf’s udder or fuet, bread crumbs foaked in cream, chopped parfley, fhalots, pepper, fait, and four yolks of eggs finely beaten. Have ready a fhoul- der of lamb half roafted, fill the fhoulder with this forcemeat, and make it as round as poflible. Faf- ten it well, that the forcemeat may not get out; then lard it, and flew it in broth, with a bundle of fweet herbs. When done, ftrain the fauce through a fiev-e, reduce it to a glaze, and glaze the larded part. Put to it what other fauce you pleafe, and fend it up to table. To fry a Neele or Loin of Lamb. H AVI N G cut your neck or loin into fteaks, beat them with a rolling-pin, feafon them with a little fait, cover them clofe, and fry them in half a pint of ale. When they are done enough, take them out of the pan, lay them in a plate before the fire to keep hot, and pour all out of the pan into a bafon. Then put in half a pint of white wine, a few capers, the yolks of two eggs finely beaten, with a little nutmeg and fait. Add to this the liquor they were fried in, and keep ftirring it one way all72 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSINC LAMB, the time till it be thick. Then put in the lamb, keep fhaking the lamb for a minute or two, lay the fteaks in the difh, and pour the fauce over them. Garni fit with fome parfley crifped before the fire, and fend them up to table. To ragoo Lamb. CUT the knuckle bone off a fore quarter of lamb, lard it with little thin bits of bacon, flour it, fry it of a fine brown, and then put it into an earth- en pot or ftewpan, put to it a quart of broth or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it clofe, and let it flew pretty faff for half an hour. Pour the liquor all out, ftrain it, keep the lamb hot in the pot till the fauce be ready. Take half a pint of oyflers, flour them, fry them brown, drain out all the fat clear that you fried them in, and Ikim all the fat off the gravy. Then pour it to the oyfters, putin an anchovy, and two fpoonfuls of either red or white wine. Boil all together till there be only juft enough for fauce, add fome frefh mufhrooms, if you can get them, and fome pickled, with a fpoonful of the pickle, or the juice of half a lemon. Lay your lamb in the difh, pour the fauce over it, garnifh with lemon, and ferve it up. To force a Leg of Lamb. TAKE a leg of lamb, and with a fliarp knife cut out all the meat, but leave the fkin whole, and the fat on it. Make the meat you cut out into the following forcemeat. To two pounds of meat put two pounds of beef fuet finely chopped. Take away all the fkin and fuet from the meat, and mix it with four fpoonfuls of grated bread, eight or ten cloves, five or fix large blades of mace dried and finely beaten, half a large nutmeg grated, a little pepperDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING LAMB. 73 pepper and fait, fome lemon peel cut fine, a very- little thyme, fome parfley, and four eggs. Mix all together, and put it into the {kin, as nearlytas you can into the fame fhape it was before. Sew it up, roaft it, and bafle it with butter. Cut the loin into {leaks, and fry it nicely. Lay the leg on the difh, and the loin round it, with Hewed cauli- flowers, if you like them, all round upon the loin. Pour a pint of good gravy into the difh, and fend it up to table. To boil a Leg of Lamb. BOIL a leg of lamb an hour, which will be fuf- fieient to do it. Take the loin and cut it into {leaks, dip them into a few bread crumbs and egg, and fry them nice and brown. Boil a good deal of fpinach, and lay it in a difh. Put the lpg in the middle, lay the loin round it, and garnifh with an orange quartered. Put fome butter in a cup, and fend the difh up to table. To drefs a Lamb’s Head. HAVING boiled ahead and pluck tender, and having taken care not to do the liver too much, take out the head, and cut it in all directions with a knife. Then grate fome nutmeg over it, and lay it in a difh before a good fire. Grate fome crumbs of bread, and fome fweet herbs rubbed, a little lemon peel finely chopped, and a very little pepper and fait. Strew thefe over the head, and bafle it with a little butter. Then throw a little flour over it, and juft as it is done bafle it and dredge it. Take half the liver, the lights, the heart, and tongue, and chop them very fmall, with fix or eight fpoonfuls of gravy or water. Firft fhake fome flour over the meat, and ftir it toge- ther; then put into the gravy or water, a large piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and fait.74 different methods of dressing lamb. fait, and the gravy that runs from the head into the difh. Simmer them all together a few minutes, and add half a fpoonful of vinegar. Pour it into your difh, and lay the head in the middle of the mincemeat. Have ready the other half of the liver cut thin, with fome flices of broiled bacon, and lay them round the head. Garnifh with ‘lemon. To Jlew a Lamb's Iload. FIRST wafh it and pick it very clean, and then lay it in water for an hour. Take out the brains, and with a {harp knife carefully extract the tongue and the bones; but take particular care that you do not break the meat. Then take out the eyes. Take two pounds of veal, and two pounds of beef fuet, a very little thyme, a good piece of lemon peel finely minced, a nutmeg grated, and two anchovies. Chop all thefe well together, grate two (tale rolls, and mix all with the yolks of four eggs. Save enough of this meat to make about twenty balls. Take half a pint of frefh mufhrooms, clean peeled and waflied, or pickled cockles. Firft flew your oyfters, and put to them two quarts of gravy, with a blade or two of mace, and then mix all thefe together. Tie the head with packthread, cover it clofe, and let it flew two hours. In the mean time, beat up the brains with fome lemon peel finely minced, a little chopped parfley, half a grated nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Fry the brains in little cakes in boiling dripping, then fry the balls, and keep them both hot. Take half an ounce of truffles and mo- rels, and (train the gravy the head was ftewed in, put it to the truffles and morels, with a few mufh- rooms, and boil all together. Then put in the reft of the brains that are not fried, and flew them to- gether a minute or two. Pour this over the head, & layDIFFERENT methods of dressing lamb. 75 lay the fried brains and balls round it, garnifli with lemon, and fend it up to table. A Lamb's Head Conde-FaJJiion. DO a lamb’s head in a white braze, and ferve it up with a lauce made of verjuice, three yolks of eggs, pepper, fait, a piece of butter, chopped parlley fealded, and a little nutmeg. Serve thefe up with the head. Lamb's Head and Pluck. HAVING (binned and fplit a lamb’s head, take the black part out of the eyes, and wafh and clean the head perfectly well. Lay it in warm water till it looks white, and then wafh and elean the pluck, take off the gall, and lay them in water. Boil it half an hour, and then mince your heart, liver, and lights, very fmall. Put the mince- meat into a toffing-pan, with a quart of mutton gravy, a little catchup, pepper, and fait, and half a lemon. Thicken it with flour and butter, a fpoonful of good cream, and juft give it a boil. When your head is enough, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, flrew over it bread crumbs, a little fhred parfley, pepper, and fait. Thicken it well with butter, and brown it before the fire, or with a falamander. Put the mince-meat, into the difh, and lay the head over it. You may fend it up to table, with lemon or pickle for garnifli. To fry a Loin of Lamb. CUT a loin of lamb into chops, and rub them over on both fides with the yolks of eggs; fprinkle over them fome bread crumbs, a little parfley, thyme, marjoram, and winter favory, and lemon peel very finely chopped. Fry them in butter till they be of a nice brown, garnifli with plenty of crifpcd parfley, and fend them up to table. Lamb76 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING LAMB. Lamb baked with Rice. HALF roaft either a neck or loin of lamb, and then cut it into (leaks. Boil half a pound of rice ten minutes in water, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with a little nutmeg, and two or three blades of mace. Do it over a flow fire or flove till the rice begins to thicken. Then take it off, (la- in a pound of butter, and, when that is quite melted, (lir in the yolks of fix eggs finely beaten. Butter a difh all over, put a little pepper and fait to the (leaks, dip them into a little melted butter, and lay them into the difh. Pour over them the gravy that comes from them, and then the rice. Pour over all the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, fend it to the oven, and little more than half an hour will bake it. Grafs Lamb Steaks. CUT a loin of lamb into (leaks, pepper and fait, and fry them. When they are enough, put them into a difh, and pour out the butter. Shaki a lit- tle flour into theipan, pour in a little beef broth, a little catchup and walnut pickle. Boil this up, and keep (lirring it all the time. Put in the (teaks, give them a (hake round, garnifh with crifped parfley, and fend them up to table. Lamb Chops larded. TAKE the bed end of a neck of lamb, and cut it into chops. Lard one fide of them, and feafon them with beaten cloves, mace, nutmeg, and a little pepper and fait. Put them into a (lewpan, the larded fide uppermoft, and put in half a pint of gravy, a gill of white wine, an onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Stew them gently till they be tender. Take out the chops, (kirn the fat olF clean, and take out the onion and fweet herbs. Thickendifferent methods of dressing lamb. 77 Thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and add' a fpoonful of browning, a fpoonful of catchup, and one of lemon pickle. Boil it up till it be properly fmooth, put in the chops the larded fide downwards, give them a gentle ftew for a minute or two, and then take them out. Put them in the difh, with the larded fide uppermoft, and pour the fauce over them. You may garnifh with lemon, or pickles of any fort. Lamb Chops en Cafarole. PUT fome yolk of eggs on both fides fome chops cut off a loin of lamb, and drew bread' crumbs over them, with a little cloves and mace, pepper and fait mixed. Fry them of a nice light brown, and put them round a difh as clofe as you can ; but leave a hole in the middle to put in the following fauce. Take all forts of fweet herbs and parfley finely chopped, and ftew them a little in fome good thick gravy. Garnifh with crifped parfley. To drefs Lamb’s Bits. TAKE fome lambs ftones, and fkin and fplit them. Lay them on a dry cloth with the fweet- breads and liver, and dredge them well with flour. Fry them in boiling lard or butter till they be of a light brown, and then lay them on a fieve to drain. Fry a good quantity, of parfley, and lay your bits in the difh, and your parfley in lumps over it. Pour melted butter round them, and fend them up to table. Lamb’s Sweetbreads. HAVING blanched your fweetbreads, put them a little time into cold water. Then put them into a ftewpan with a ladle of broth, fome pepper, fait, a fmall bunch of green onions, and a blade of mace. 3 Stir\ 78 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING LAMB* Stir in a bit of butter with fome flour, and flew them all about half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parfley and nutmeg. Put in fome ready boiled tops of afparagus, and put them into your other articles ; but take great care that it does not curdle. Add fome lemon or orange juice, and fend it to table. You may make it a pretty difh by the addition of peas, young goofeberries, or kid- ney beans. Lamb Stones and Sweetbreads fmcajfeed. BLANCH, parboil, and dice fome lamb flones, and flour three or four fweetbreadsj but if they be very thick, cut them in two. Take the yolks of fix hard eggs whole, a few piflachio-nut kernels, and a few large oyfters. Fry all thefe till they are of a fine brown, then pour out all the butter, and add a pint of drawn gravy, the lamb flones, fome afparagus tops about an inch long, fome grated nutmeg, a litjle pepper and fait, two fhalots Hired finall, and a glafs of white wine. Stew all thefe together for ten minutes, and then add the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, with a little cream, and a little beaten mace. Stir all together till it is of a fine thicknefs, then garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. To fry Lamb's Rumps. BRAZE or boil your rumps, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little fait, white wine, and a little oil. Fry them of a good brown colour, and ferve them up with fried parfley round them. You may put to them any fauce you like bell. Lamb Cutlets fncajfced. TAKE a leg of lamb, and cut it into thin cut- lets crofs the grain, and put them into a flewpan. ■ Make( different methods of dressing lamb, 79 * Make fome good broth with the bones, (hank, See. enough to cover the cutlets. Put it into the (lew- pan, and cover it with a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, a little clove and mace tied in a muflin rag, . and (lew them gently for ten minutes. Then take out the cutlets, fkim off the fat, and take out the fweet herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, feafon it with fait and a little chyau pepper; put in a few mulhrooms, truffles, and morels, clean waflied ; fome forcemeat balls, three yolks of eggs beat up in half a pint of cream, and fome nutmeg grated. Keep ftirring it one way till it be thick and fmooth, and then put in your cutlets. Give them a tofs up, take them out with a fork, and lay them in a difli. Pour the fauce over them, garnifh with beet-root and lemon, and fend them up to table. Lambs Ears ’with Sorrel. IN London, fuch things as thefe, or calves ears, tails, or the ears of flheep, ready for ufe, as well as in fome other great market towns, are always to be had of the butchers or tripemen. About a dozen of lambs ears will make a fmall diffi, and thefe muff be ftewed tender in a braze. Take a large hand- ful of forrel, chop it a little and (tew it in a fpoon- ful of broth and a morfel of butter. Pour in a fmall ladle of cullis, grate fome nutmeg, and put in a little pepper and (alt. Stew it a few minutes, twill up the ears nicely, and dilh it up. A Lamb Pie. HAVING cut your lamb into fmall pieces, fca- fon it with pepper, fait, cloves, mace, and nut- meg, finely beaten. Make a good puff-paffe cruft, lay it into your difli, then put in your meat, and drew on it fome (toned raifins and currants clean w a (lied, and add fome fugar. Then lay on fome forcemeat80 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING LAMB. forcemeat balls made fweet, and, if in the fummer you may putin fomc artichoke bottoms boiled] but, in the wintertime, you may ufe fealded grapes! Add to thefe fomc Spanifh potatoes boiled, and cut into pieces; fome candied citron and orange, fome lemon peel, and three or four blades of mace! Put butter on the top, clofe up your pie, and bake it. Againft it is done, have ready the following. Mix the yolks of three eggs with a pint of wine, and dir them well together over the fire one way, till it is of a proper thicknefs. Then take it off, put in fugar enough to fweeten it, and fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. Raife the lid of your pie, put this hot into it, clofe it up again, and fend it to table. A Javoury Lamb Pie. CUT your meat into pieces, and feafon it to your palate with pepper, fait, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, finely beaten. Having made a goodpuff- pafte cruft, put your meat into it, with a few lamb- ftones and fweetbreads feafoned like your meat. Then put in fome oyfters and forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs, and the tops of afparagus two inches long, firft boiled green. Put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and fet it in a quick oven an hour and a half. In the mean time, take a. pint of gravy, the oyfter liquor, a gill of red wine, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix all together with the yolks of two or three eggs finely beaten, and keep ftirring it one way all the time. When it boils pour it into your pie, put on the lid again, and lend it up to table. C II A P.[ 8i ] CHAP. VI. The Various Methods of Dr effing Pork. Pieces in a Hog. THE Heady and Inwards, including the haflet, which are the liver, and crow, kidney, and fkirts. Alfo the chitterlins, and the guts, which are cleaned for faufages. The Fore Quarter is the fore loin and fpring. If it be a large hog, you may cut off a fpare rib. The Hind Quarter confills of only the leg and loin. A Bacon Hog is cut in a different manner, be- caufe of making hams, bacon and pickled pork. Here you have fine fpare-ribs, chines, and grif— kins, and fat for hog’s lard. The liver and crow are much admired fried with bacon; the feet and ears are both equally good foufed. Pork comes in feafon at Bartholomew-tide, and holds good till about Lady-day. To fuff a Chine of Pork. HANG up a chine of pork for four or five days, and then make four holes in the lean. Stuff it with a little of the fat leaf chopped very fmall, fome parfley, thyme, a little fage and fhalot cut very fine, and feafoned with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. You may fluff it as thick as you choofe. Put fome good gravy into the difh, for fauce ufe apple-fauce and potatoes, and fend it up to table. Chine of Pork \with Poivrade Sauce. LET a chine lie in fait about three days, then roafi it, and ferve it up with fauce poivrade, w'hich G is82 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING PORK. is made in the following manner. Take a little butter, diced onion, pieces of carrot, parfley root, two cloves of garlick, and two fpice cloves. Soak all together till it takes colour, and' then add fome cullis, a little vinegar and broth, fait and pepper. Boil it to the confidence of fauces, and fkim and drain it for ufe. To barbacue a Leg of Pork. ROAST a leg of pork before a good fire, put. into the dripping-pan two bottles of red wine, and bade your pork with it all the time it is roading. When it is enough, take up what is left in the pan, put to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs boiled hard and finely pounded, with a quarter of a pound of butter and half a lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, and a fpoon- ful of catchup. Boil thefe a few minutes, then take up your pork, and cut the fldn down from the bot- tom of the dank in rows an inch broad, raife every other row, and roll it to the drank. Strain your fauce, and pour it in boiling hot. Garnidi with oyder patties and green pardey, and fend it up to table. To boil pickled Pork. YOUR pickled pork mud be put in when the water boils, and if it be a middling piece, an hour will boil it; if it be a very large piece, it will re- quire an hour and a half, or two hours. If you boil pickled pork too long, it will go to a jelly; but you may eafily know when it is done by trying it with a fork. Pork in general diould be well boiled; a leg of fix pounds will take two hours; the hand mud be boiled till very tender. Peafe- pudding, favoys, or any forts of greens, may be ferved up with it. Todifferent methods of dressing pork. 83 To broil Pork Steaks. WHEN your pork (leaks are enough for they require more broiling than mutton chops, put in a little good gravy. Strew over them a little fage rubbed very fine, which gives them a very agreeable tafte. Remember not to cut them too thick. Other Methods of dreffing Pork Steaks. TAKE a neck of pork that has been kept fome time, cut it into (leaks, and pare them properly. You may drefs them, in every refpeft, as. veal cut- lets, and in as many different ways, ferving them up with any fort of dewed greens or fauces. Pork Cutlets drejfed another Way. HAVING (kinned a loin of pork, divide it into cutlets. Strew over them fome parfley and thyme cut fmall, with fome pepper, fait, and grated bread over them, and fry them of a fine brown. Take fome good gravy, a fpoonful of ready-made mudard, and two (halots fhred fine. Boil thefe together over the fire, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in dour, and a little vinegar, if agreeable. Put the cutlets into a hot difh, pour the fauce over them, and fend them up to table. To roajl a Pig. TAKE a fine young fit pig, and dick it jud above the bread bone ; but mind that your knife touches the heart of it, otherwife it will be a long time in dying. When it is dead, put it a few mi- nutes into cold water, and then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceedingly fine, or with its own blood. Put it for half a minute into a pail of fcald- ing water, and then take it out. Lay it on a clean table, and pull od the hair as quick as podible ; but if it does not come clean off, put it in again. When you have made it perfeaiy clear of the hair, wafh8f DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSINC PORK. it in warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, to prevent the rofin tailing. Cut off the fore feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, and take our all the entrails. Put the liver, heart, and lights, to the pettitoes, wafli it well with cold water, dry it exceedingly well with a cloth, and hang it up. When you roaft it, put in a little Hired fage, a tea-fpoonful of black pepper, two of fait, and a cruft of brown bread. Spit your pig, and few it up. Lay it down to a brifk clear fire, with a pig-plate hung in the middle of the fire. When your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, and rub your pig often with it while it is roafting. A large one will require an hour and a half roafting. When your pig is of a fine brown, and the ftcani draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, and it will help it to crifp. Take a fiiarp knife, cut off the head, take off the collar, and then take off the ears and jaw-bone, which fplit in two. When you have cut the pig down the back, which muft be done before you draw the fpit out, lay your pig back to back on thedifii, thejau' on each fide, the cars on each {boulder, and pour in your fauce, garnifh with a cruft of brown bread grated, and fend it up to table. To bake a. Pig. WHEN you cannot conveniently roaft a pig, but are obliged to bake it, lay it in a difh, flour it well all over, and rub it vrell with butter. But- ter the difh in which you intend to bake it, and put it into the oven. As foon as it is enough, take it out, rub it over with a buttered cloth, and put it into the oven again till it is dry. Then take it out, lay it in the difh, and cut it up. Carefully fkim off all the fat from the difh it was baked in, and take care of the good gravy that remains atdifferent methods of dressing pork. 85 the bottom. To this add a little veal gravy, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil it up. Put it into the difh, with the brains and fage in the belly, and ferve it up. To barhacue a Pig. HAVING managed a pig, of nine or ten weeks old, in every refpetl as for roafting, make a fluffing with a few fage leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, walked, and cut very finall. Put them into a mortar with fome crumbs of bread, a quarter of a pound of butter, a very little chyan pepper, and half a pint of Ma- diera wine. Beat them to a pafle, and few it up in the pig. Lay it down at a great diflance from a large brifk fire, and finge it well. Put into the dripping-pan two bottles of Madeira wine, and bade it well all the time it is roafting. As foon as it is half roafted, put into the dripping-pan two French rolls, and if there be not wine enough in the dripping-pan, put-in more. When the pig is nearly done, take out the rolls and fauce, and put them into a fauccpan, with an anchovy cut fmall, a bunch of fweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon. Take up the pig, put an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each fide. Strain the fauce over it, and fend it up to table. Another Method. LAKE a pig of ten weeks old, and treat it in the fame manner as for roafting. Make a force- meat of two anchovies, fix fage leaves, and the liver of the pig ; all chopped very fmall. Put them into a marble mortar, with the' crumb of a half- penny loaf, four ounces of butter, half a tea-fpoon- ful of chyan pepper, and half a pint of red wine. Beat them all together to a pafte, put it into the pig’s belly, and few it up. Put your pig down at G 3 a good86 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING PORK. a good diflance before a brifk fire, and it will take four hours roafting. Singe your pig well, and put into your dripping-pan three bottles of red wine, and bafte it with the wine all the time it is roaftin'r. When it is half roafled, put under your pig two penny loaves, and if there be not wine enough, put in more. When your pig is nearly enough, take the loaves and fauce out of the dripping-pan, and put to it an anchovy chopped fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, and half a lemon. Boil it a few minutes, draw your pig, put a fmall lemon in its mouth, and a leaf on each fide. Strain your fauce, and pour it boiling hot on the pig. Garnifh with barberries and flices of lemon, i Hind Quarter of a Pig dreffcd Lamb Faf ion. TAKE the hind quarter of a large roafting pig, at the time of the year when houfe-lamb is very dear. Take off the fkin and roaft it, and it will eat like lamb. Half an hour will roaft it. You may ferve up with it either a fallad or mint fauce. A Pig au Pere Duillet. HAVING cutoff the head, and quartered the pig, lard the quarters with bacon, and feafon them with mace, cloves, pepper, nutmeg, and fait. Put a layer of fat bacon at the bottom of a kettle, lay the head in the middle, and the quarters round. Then put in a bay leaf, an onion diced, lemon, carrots, parfnips, parfley, and chives. Cover it again with bacon, flew it for an hour, and then take it up. Put your pig into a ftewpan or kettle, pour in a bottle of white wine, cover it clofe, and let it flew an hour very foftly. If you intend to ferve it up cold, let it hand till it be cold, then drain it well, and wipe it to make it look white. Lay it in a difh with the head in the middle, and the quarters round, and throw fome green parfley all over it. Indeed, eitherdifferent methods of dressing pork. 8/ either of the quarters, laid in water-credes, is a pretty little difii. If you intend to ferve it up hot, while your pig is dewing in the wine, take the fird gravy it was dewed in, and drain it ; ddm od all the fat, take a fweetbread cut in five or fix dices, fome truffles, morels, and mufhrooms. Stew thefe all together till they are enough, then thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, or a piece of butter rolled in dour, and when your pig is enough, take it out, and lay it in the difh. Put the wine it was dewed in to the ragoo, then pour all over the pig, garnifli with lemon, and fend it to table. To drefs a Pig the French Method. HAVING fpitted your pig, lay it down to the fire, and let it road till it be thoroughly warm. Then cut it off the fpit, and divide it into twenty pieces. Set them to dew in half a pint of white wine and a pint of drong broth, feafoned with grated nutmeg, pepper, two onions cut fmall, and a little dripped thyme. When it has dewed about an hour, put to it half a pint of drong gravy, a piece of butter rolled in dour, fome anchovies, and a fpoonful of vinegar or mufhroom pickle. When it is enough, put it in your difh, pour the gravy over it, garnifh with orange and lemon, and ferve it up. A Pig Matelot. FIRST gut and fcald your pig, and cut off the head and pettitoes. Cut your pig into quarters, and put them with the head and toes into cold water. Cover the bottom of a dcwpan with dices of bacon, and put the quarter over them, with the peLtitoes, and the head cut into two. Seafon all with pepper, fait, thyme, and onion, and put in a bot- tle of white wine. Lay over it more dices of ba- con, put to it a quart of water, and let it boil. Skin and gut two large eels, and cut them into G 4 pieces88 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING PORK. pieces about five or fix inches long. When your pig is half done, put in your eels; then boil a dozen oflarge craw-fifh, cut off the claws, and take off the {hells of the tails. When the pig and eels are enough, lay your pig in the difli, and the pet- titoes round it; but do not put in the head, asthat will be a pretty difli of itfelf when cold. Then lay your eels and craw-fifli over them, and take the li- quor they were ftewed in. Skim off all the fat, and add to it half a pint of ftrong gravy; thicken it with a little piece of butter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of browning, and pour it over it. You may fry the brains, and lay them round and all over the difli. Garnifli with craw-fifli and lemon, and fend it up to table. A Pig in Jelly. QUARTER a pig, and put it into a flewpan, with a calf’s foot, the pig’s feet, a pint of Rhenifli wine, the juice of four lemons, a quart of water, three or four blades of mace, two or three cloves, fome fait, and a very little piece of lemon-peel. Do thefe for two hours over a ftove or very flow fire, and then take it up. Lay the pig in your difli, ftrain the liquor, and when the jelly is cold, fldm off the fat, and leave the fettling at the bottom. Beat up the whites of fix eggs, boil it with the jelly about ten minutes, and ftrain it perfectly clear. Pour the jelly over your pig, and ferve it up cold in the jelly. To collar a Pig. TAKE a fine young roafting pig, kill it as be- fore direfted, dreft off the hair, and draw it. Wafli it clean, rip it open from one end to the other, and take out all the bones. Rub it all over with pep- per and fait, a little cloves and mace finely beaten,different methods of dressing pork. 89 fix fagc leaves, and fweet herbs, chopped fmall. Roll up your pig tight, and bind it with a fillet. Fill the pot you intend to boil it in with foft water, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome pepper-corns, fome cloves, mace, a handful of fait, and a pint of vine- gar. When the liquor boils, put in your pig ; boil it till it is tender, and then take it up,. When it is almofl cold, bind it over again, put it into an earthen pan, pour over it the liquor your pig was boiled in, and always keep it covered. When vou want it for ufe, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, and then cut it into flices, and lay them in your difli. Garnifli with parfley, and fend it up to table. To boil Pig's Pettitoes. BOIL the heart, liver, and lights of one or more pigs ten minutes, and then hired them pretty fmall. Let the feet boil till they are pretty tender, and then take them out and fplit them. Thicken your gravy with hour and butter, put in your mince- meat, a flice* of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and let them boil a little. Beat the yolk of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, and a little grated nutmeg. Put in your pettitoes, fhake them over the fire, but do not let them boil. Lay fippets round your difh, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them, the fkin fide upwards, and fervc them up. Another Method to drefs Pig's Pettitoes^ PUT into a faucepan half a pint of water, a blade of mace, a little whole pepper, a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, and then put in your petti- toes. After they have boiled five minutes, take out the liver, lights, and heart; mince them very fine, grate a little nutmeg over them, and fhake a little flour on them. Let the feet do till they are tender,gO DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING PORK. tender, and then take them out and flrain the liquor. Put all together with a little fait, and a piece of butter as big as a walnut, into a fauce-pan. Shake it often, let them fimmer five or fix minutes, and then cut fome toafled fippets, and lay them round the difh. Lay the mincemeat and fauce in the middle, and the pettitoes fplit round it. Add the juce of half a lemon, or a very little vinegar, and ferve them up. Pig's Feet and Ears ragooed. BOIL the feet and ears, fplit the feet down the middle, and cut the ears into narrow flices. Dip them into butter, and fry them of a nice brown. Put a little beef gravy in a tolling-pan, with a tea- lpoonful of lemon-pickle, a large one of mufh- room catchup, the fame of browning, and a little fait. Thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and put in your feet and ears. Let them boil gently, and when they are enough, lay your feet in the middle of the difh, and the ears round them. Then flrain your gravy, pour it over them, garnifh with crifped parfley, and fend it up to table. Another Method. HAVING taken them out of the fauce, fplit them, dip them in egg, and then in crumbs of bread and chopped parfley. Fry them in hog’s lard, and drain them. Cut the ears in long narrow flips, flour them, and put them into fome good gravy. Add fome catchup, morels, and pickled miifh- rooms. Stew them, then pour them into the difh, and lay on the feet. They are very good dipped in butter and fried, and may be ferved up with melted butter and muftard. A Suck-different methods of dressing pork, 91 A Sucking Pig Pic. H A VIN G boned your pig thoroughly, lard the leg and fhoulders with bacon feafoned with fpic.es, andfweet herbs chopped. Put it in a raifed cruft of its own length, and feafon it with fpices, fweet herbs chopped, and a pound of butter. Covet it over with thin flices of bacon, then finifh the pie, and bake it about three hours. When it is nearly done, add to it two glalfes of white wine, and let it be ferved up cold. A Chejhire Pork Pie. SKIN a loin of pork, cut it into fteaks, and feafon it with fait, nutmeg, and pepper. Make a good cruft, put a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins pared and cored, and a little fugar, enough to fweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork. Put in half a pint of white wine, lay fome butter on the top, and clofe your pie. It will take a pint of wine, if your pie be a large one. Pork Pudding. HAVING made a good cruft with dripping or mutton fuet Aired fine, take a piece of fait pork, which has been twenty-four hours in foft water, and feafon it with a little pepper, Put it into the cruft, roll it up clofe, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. It will require five hours boiling, if it be about four or five pounds weight. You may make a mutton pudding in the fame manner, only cut it into thin fteaks, feafon them with pepper and fait, and boil it three hours, if it be large; but if it be final 1, two hours will do it. Indeed, the time of boiling jnuft be regulated by the fize of it. CHAP. I[ 9* ] C II A P. VII. Directions for truffing Poultry and Game. A S this work is intended for the ufe of the culi- TJL nary artid, as well in the country as in the town, it feems indifpenfably neceffary to give them fome inftru£tions relative to the properly truffing of poultry, as it is generally the cafe, that mod families in the country breed their own poul- try, where there is perhaps no poulterer at hand to perform the bufinefs of truffing, which mud be done before they can be dreffed ; and this is fo ef- fential a point, that no cook ought to be igno- rant of it. In order to prepare them for this bufi- nefs, we fhall previoufly fubmit to their attention the following general direftdons. Be particularly careful, that you clear the fowl of all the dubs; and when you draw any kind of poultry, by all means avoid breaking the gall, as fhould that hap- pen, it will be impoffible for you to remove that bitternefs the breaking of the gall will give to the fowl. Equal care mud be taken to avoid break- ing the gut joining to the gizzard, as that will make the infide gritty, and fpoil the whole. Hav- ing given thefe general perliminaries, we fliall now proceed to particulars. To trvfs Chickens. HAVING properly picked your chickens, cut off the neck clofe to the back ; then take out the crop, and with your middle finger loofen the liver . and other matters. Cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the bread-bone flat with a rolling-pin. If they are to be boiled, cut off the nails, give the finews a nick on each fide of the joint, put the feet intrussing poultry and game.. 93 in at the vent, and then peel the rump. Draw the fkin tight over the legs, put a fkewer in the fird joint of the pinion, and bring the middle of the leg clofe. Put the fkewer through the middle of the legs, and through the body, and do tl'le fame on the other fide. Clean the gizzard, and take out the gall in the liver; put them into the pinions, and turn the points on the back. If your chick- ens arc to be roaded, cut off the feet, put a fit ewer in the firfl joint of the pinions, and bring the middle of the leg clofe. Run the fkewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body, and do the fame on the other fide. Put another fkewer into the fidefman, put the legs be- tween the apron and the fidefman, and run the fkewer through. Having cleaned the liver and gizzard, put them in the pinions, turn the points on the back, and pull the bread fkin over the neck. To trufs Fowls. PICK, draw, and flatten the breads of your fowls in the fame manner as directed for trading chickens. If your fowl is for boiling, cut off the nails of the feet, and tuck them down clofe to the legs. Put your finger into the infide, and raife the fkin of the legs ; then cut a hole in-the top of the fkin, and put the legs under. Put a fit ewer in the fird joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg clofe to it, put the fkewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body ; and then do the fame on the other fide. Having opened the gizzard, take out the filth, and the gall out of the liver. Put the gizzard and the liver in the pinion, turn the points on the back, and tie a firing over the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper place. If your fowl is to be roafted, put a fkewer in the fird joint of the pinion, and bring the mid- dle of the leg clofe to it. Put the fkewer through . the94 Trussing poultry and game. the middle of the leg, and through the body, and do the fame on the other fide. Put another fkewer ‘ in the finall of the leg, and through the fidefman; do the fame on the other fide, and then put ano- ther through the (kin of the feet. Do not forget to cut off the nails of the feet. To trufs Turkies. FIRST nicely pick your turkey, break the leg bone clofe to the foot, and draw out the firings from the thigh, in order to do which you muft hang it on a hook fattened againft a wall. Cut off the neck clofe to the back; but be fure to leave the crop fkin fufficiently long to turn over the back. Then proceed to take out the crop, and loofen the liver and gut at the throat end with your middle finger. Then cut off the vent, and take out the gut. Pull out the gizzard with a crooked fharp- pointed iron, and the liver will foon follow; but be careful not to break the gall. Wipe the infide perfectly clean with a wet cloth; and then cut the breaft-bone through on each fide clofe to the back, and draw the legs clofe to the crops. Then put a cloth on the breaft, and beat the high bone down with a rolling-pin till it lies flat. If your turkey is to be truffed for boiling, cut the legs off; then put your middle finger into the infide, raife the fkin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the turkey. Put a fkewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard muft be put in the pinions; but be careful firft to open the gizzard and take out the filth, and the gall of the liver. Then turn the fmall end of the pinion on the back, and tie a packthread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. If the turkey is to be roafted, leave the legs on, put a fkewer in the joint of the 1 wing.TRUSSING POULTRY AND GAME. 95 wing, tuck the legs clofe up, and put the fkewer through the middle of the legs and body. On the other lide, put another fkewer in at the finall part of the leg. Put it clofe on the outfide of the fidefman, and put the fkewer through, and the fame on the other fide. Put the liver and gizzard : between the pinions, and turn the point of the pinion on the back. Then put, clofe above the pinions, another fkewer through the body of the i turkey. To trufs Turkey Polts. YOU muff trufs your turkey polts in the fol- lowing manner. Take the neck from the head and body, but do not remove the neck fkin. They i are to be drawn in the fame manner as a turkey. ; Put a fkewer through the joint of the pinion, tuck the legs clofe up, run the fkewer through the mid- ; die of the leg, through the body, and fo on the other fide. Cut off the under part of the bill, twill the fkin of the nqck round, and put the head on the point of the fkewer, with the bill-end for- f wards. Another fkewer mufl be put in the fidef- man, and the legs placed between the fidefman and apron on each fide. Pafs the fkewer through ' all, and cut off the toe nails. You may ufe or omit the gizzard and liver, as you like. It is very common to lard them on the bread. To trufs Geefe. PICK and flub your goofe clean, then cut the j feet off at the joint, and the pinion off the firft i joint. Cut off the neck almofl clofe to the back ; i but leave the fkin of the neck long enough to turn ever the back. Pull out the throat, and tie a knot at the end. With your middle finger loofen the liver and other matters at the bread end, and cut it open between the vent and the rump. Having done/ 96 TRUSSINC POULTRY AMD GAME. done this, draw out all the entrails, excepting the hoal. W ipe it clean with a wet cloth, and beat the bread-bone flat with a rolling-pin. Put a fit ewer into the wing, and draw the legs clofe up. Put the fkewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body, and the fame on the other fide. Put another fkewer in the fmall of the leg, tuck it clofe down to the fidefman, run it through, and do the fame on the other fide. Cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole large enough for the paffage of the rump, as by thefe means it will much better keep in the feafoning. Ducks are truffed in the fame manner, except that the feet mud be left on, arid turned clofe to the lests. O To trvjs a Hare. CUT off the four legs at the fird joint, raife the dun of the back, and draw it over the hind legs. Leave the tail whole, draw the dein over the back, and dip out the fore legs. Cut the fkin off the neck and head ; but take care to leave the ears on, and mind to dein them. Take out the liver and other entrails, and draw the gut out of the vent. Cut the finews that lie under the hind legs, bring them up to the fore legs, put a deewer through the hind leg, then through the fore leg under the joint, run it through the body, and do the fame on the other fide. Put another fkewer through the thick part of the hind legs and body, put the head between the dioulders, and run a fkewer through to keep it in its place. Put a fkewer in each ear to make them ftand ere£t, and tie a firing round the middle of the body, over the legs, to keep them in their place. A young fawn may be- truffed juft in the fame manner, except that the ears muft be cut off. Rabbits are cafcd much in the fame manner as hares, only obferving to cut off the ears clofe to the head. Cut open the vent.TRUSSING POULTRY AND GAME. 97 and flit the legs about an inch upon each Tide of the rump. Make the hind legs lie flat, and bring the ends to the fore legs. Put a fkewer into the hind leg then into the fore leg, and through the body. Bring the head round, and put it on the > fkewer. If you would roaft two together, trufs them at full length with fix fkewers run through them both, fo that they may be properly fattened ; on the fpit. To trufs Pheafants and Partridges. PICK them very clean, cut a flit at the back of the neck, and take out the crop. Loofen the liver and gut next the breaft with your fore finger, and then cut off the vent, and draw them. Cut ' off the pinion at the firft joint, and wipe the infide 1 with the pinion you have cut off. Beat the breaft bone flat with a rolling pin, put a fkewer in the pinion, and bring the middle of the legs clofe. Then run the fkewer through the legs, body, and i the other pinion ; twill the head, and put it on the ) end of the fkewer, with the bill fronting the breaft. Put another fkewer into the fidefman, put the legs clofe on each fide the apron, and then run the fkewer through all. If you wifh to make the pheafant, particularly if it be a cock, make a pleafing appearance on the table, leave the beau- m tiful feathers on the head, and cover them gently :with paper to prevent their being injured by the heat of the fire. You may alfo fave the long fea- thers in the tail to flick in the rump when roafted. If they are to be boiled, put the legs in the fame manner as truffmg a fowl. All forts of moor game are truffed in the fame way. To trufs Woodcocks and Snipes. GREAT care mull be taken in picking thefe birds, as they are exceedingly tender, efpecially PI when98 TRUSSING POULTRY AND GAME. when they happen not to be quite frefh, and yotl I mud therefore be very cautious how you handle them, as even the heat of your hand will fometimes take off the fkin, which will totally dedroy the beautiful appearance of the bird. Pick them clean, cut the pinions of the fil'd joint, and with the handle of a knife beat the bread-bone flat. Turn the legs clofe to the thighs, and tie them to- gether at the joints. Put the thighs clofe to the pinions, put a fkewer into the pinions, and run it • through the thighs, body, and the other pinion. Skin the head, turn it, take out the eyes, and put the head on the point of the fkewer, with the bill clofe to the bread. Do not forget, that thefe birds mud never be drawn. To trufs Wild Fozvl. PICK them clean, cut off the neck clofe to the back, and with your middle finger loofen the liver and guts next the bread. Cut off the pinion at the did joint, then cut a flit between the vent and the rump, and draw them clean. Clean them properly with the long feathers on the wing, cut off the nails and turn the feet clofe to the legs. Put a flcewei in the pinion, pull the legs clofe to the bread, and run the fltewer through the legs, body, and the other pinion. Cut off the vent, and put the rump through it. Wild fowls of any kind may- be truffed in the fame manner. To trufs Pigeons. I-IAV INC picked them clean, cut off the seel clofe to the back, take out the crop, cut off the vent, and draw out the guts and gizzard, but leave in the liver, for a pigeon has no gall. If they are to be rOaded, cut off the toes, cut a (lit in one of the legs, and put the other through it. Draw the leo- tight to the pinion, put a fkewer through the 0 0 pinions.different methods of dressing poultry. 99 pinions, legs, and body, and with the handle of a knife flatten the breaft. Clean the gizzard, put it in one of the pinions, and turn the points on the back. If you intend to make a pie of them, you mull cut the feet off at the joint, turn the legs, and flick them in the fides clofe to the pinions. If they are to be ftewed or boiled, you mufl do them in the fame manner. To trufs Larks. PICK them perfectly clean, cutoff their heads, and the pinions of the firfl joint. Beat the breafl- )one flat, then turn the feet clofe to the legs, and mt one into the other. Draw out the gizzard, md run a fkewer through the middle of the bodies. Tie the fkewer fafl to the fpit when you put them lown to roaft. In the fame manner you may treat wheat-ears, and other fmall birds. .CHAP. VIII. The various Methods of drejfing Poultry, Pullets a la St. Menehout. - " TRUSS the legs in the body, flit them all along the back, and fpread them open on a tablet Take out the thigh-bones, and beat them with a rolling-pin. Then feafon them with pepper, fait, •mace, nutmeg, and fweet herbs. Take a pound «ind a half of veal cut into thin dices, and put it into a flewpan of a convenient fize, to flew the Ipullets in. Cover it, and fet it over a (love or ^ 2 flow100 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY • flow fire ; and when it begins to flick to the pan, dir in a little flour, and fhake the pan about till it be a little brown. Then pour in as much broth as will Hew the pullets, flir it together, put in a little whole pepper, an onion, and a little piece of bacon or ham. Put in your pullets, cover them clofe, and let them flew half an hour. Then take them out, lay them on the gridiron to brown on the infide, flrew them over with the yolk of an egg, fome bread crumbs, and bade them with a little butter. Let them be of a fine brown, and boil the gravy till there is about enough for fauce; drain it, put in a few mufhrooms, and a fmall piece of butter rolled in dour. Lay the pullets in the difh, pour in the fauce, garnifh with lemon, and fend them to table. Chickens and Tongues. BOIL half a dozen fmall chickens very white, boil and peel as many hogs tongues, boil a cauli- flower whole in milk and water, and boil a good deal of fpinach green. Lay your cauliflour in the middle, the chickens clofe all round, the tongues round them with the roots outwards, and the fpinach in little heaps between the tongues. Garnifh with with little pieces of toaded bacon, and lay a fmall piece on each tongue. Chicken in Jelly. LET fome jelly dand in a bowl till it be cold, and then lay in a cold roaded chicken, with the bread downwards. Fill up the bowl with jelly that is a little warm, but as little warm as poflible fo as not to be fet. When it is quite cold, fet the bowl in warm water, jud to loofen the jelly, and then turn it out. Put the chicken into the jelly the day before it is wanted. Todifferent methods of dressing POULTRY. 101 To force Chickens. HAVING rather more than half roafted your chickens, take off the {kin, then the meat, and chop it fmall with fhrcd parfley and crumbs of bread, pepper, and fait., and a little cream. Then put in the meat, and clofe the fkin. You may brown it with a falamander, and ferve it up with white fauce. To fry cold Chickens. HAVING quartered your chicken, rub the quar- ters with the yolk of an egg, and ftrew on them bread crumbs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and chopped parfley. Fry them. Thicken fome gravy with a little flour, and add chyan, mufhroom powder, or catchup, with a little lemon juice. Pour it into the difh with the chickens. To broil Chickens. HAVING flit your chickens down the back, feafon them with pepper and fait, and lay them on the gridiron over a clear fire, and at a great dis- tance. Let the infide continue next the fire till it is nearly half done ; then turn them, taking care that the flefhy fides do not burn, and let them broil till they are of a fine brown. Take fome good gravy fauce, with fome mufhrooms, and gar- nifli with lemon, the liver broiled, and the gizzard cut, flafhed, and broiled, with pepper, and fait. Or you may broil your chicken in the following manner; cut it down the back, pepper and fait it, and broil it. Put over it white mufhroom fauce? or melted butter with pickled mufhrooms, Chicken pulled. A chicken that has been rather under roafted is bed; for this purpofe. Cut off the legs, rumps, and fidc-bones together, and pull all the white part in PI 3 little102 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. * little flakes, free from any fkin. Tofs it up with a little cream, thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour. Stir it till the butter is melted, and add to it mace finely pounded, fome whole pepper, fait, and a little lemon juice. Put this into a difh, lay the rump in the middle, the legs at each end, peppered, falted, and broiled, and fend them up to table. To drefs Chickens the Scotch Way. YOU muft firft finge your chickens, wafh, and then dry them in a clean cloth. Quarter them, and put them into a faucepan with juft water enough to cover them. Put in a little bunch of parfley, and fome chopped, and a blade or two of mace. Cover them clofe down. Beat up five or fix eggs with the Avhites, and pour them into the liquor as foon as it boils. As foon as they are enough, take out the bunch of parfley, and fend them to table with the liquor in a deep difh. While they are doing, take care to properly fkin them. Chickens in Afpic. TAKE two fmall chickens, and put into them the pinions, livers, and gizzards, with a piece of butter, and fome pepper and fait. Cover them with fat bacon, then with paper, run a long fkewer through them, tie them to a fpit, and roan them. When they are cold, cut them up, put them into the following fauce, fliake them round in it, and let them lie a few minutes before they are difhed. Take as much cullis as you fliall want for fauce, heat it with fmall green onions chopped, or fha- lot, a little tarragon and green mint, pepper and fait. Chickensdifferent methods of dressing poultry. 103, Chickens a la Cavalier. TAKE as many chickens as you want, and trufs them as for boiling. Marinade them two hgcurs in oil, with dices of peeled lemon, parfley, fhalot, a clove of garlic, thyme, fait, and {pices. Tie them up in dices of lard and paper, with as much of the marinade as you can, and broil them 911 a flow fire. As foon as they are done, take off the paper, lard, and herbs, and ferve them with any fauce you think the mod agreeable. To Jlew Chickens. HAVING half boiled two fine chickens, take them up in a pewter didi, and cut them up, fepa- rating every joint one from the other, and taking out the bread bones. If the liquor the chickens produce is not fufficient, add a few fpoonfuls of of the water inwhich they were boiled,and put in a blade of mace, and a little fait. Cover it clofe with another didi, and fet it over a dove or chafing- difli of coals. Let it dew till the chickens arc enough, and then fend them hot to table. This is a pretty didi for any fick perfon, or for a lady who lies in. In the fame manner you may drefs partridges, moor-game, or rabbits. Another Method. CUT a chicken into pieces, and alfo a carp with the roe, a dozen and a half of fmall onions, a dice of ham, a bundle of parflcy, fome thyme, bafil, and four cloves. Put all together in a dew- pan with a piece of butter, and fimmer it a little over a dow fire. Put in fome broth, a little white wine, flour, pepper, and fait. Let it dew till the chicken is done, and the fauce properly re- duced. Then .take out the herbs and ham, put in a chopped anchovy and a few capers, and place H 4 * the104 different methods of dressing poultry. the chicken on the difh. Skim the fauce, andfervc it with the meat, ufing fried bread for garnifh. Artificial Chickens. HAVING made a rich forcemeat with chickens, veal, or lamb, feafoned with pepper, fait, parfley, a fhalot, a piece of fat bacon, a little but- ter, and the yolk of an egg, work it up into the fhape of chickens, putting the foot of the bird you intend to imitate in the middle, fo as juft to appear at the bottom. Roll the forcemeat well in the yolk of an egg, then the crumbs of bread, fend them to the oven, and bake them of a light brown : but in order that they may not touch each other, put them on tin plates well buttered. You may either fend them to table dry, or with gravy in the difh. Pigeons may be imitated the fame way. Chickens Chiringrate. CUT off the feet of your chickens, and beat the breaft-bone flat with a rolling-pin, but take care not to break the fkin. Flour them, fry them in butter till they are of a fine brown, and then drain all the fat out of the pan, but leave in the chickens. Lay over your chickens a pound of gravy-beef cut very thin, a piece of beef alfo cut thin, a little mace, two or three cloves, fome whole pepper, an onion, a fmall bunch of fweet herbs, and a piece of carrot. Then pour in a quart of boiling water, cover it clofe, and let it fiew for a quarter of an hour. Take out the chickens, and keep them hot. Let the gravy boil till it is quite rich and good, and then ftrain it off, and put it into your pan again, with two fpoonfuls of red wine, and a few mufhrooms. Put in your chickens again, and as foon as they are warm, take them up, lay them in your difh, and pour your fauceDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY, lOg fauce over them. Garnifh with lemon and a few flices of ham broiled, and fend them to table. Chickens Feet with Forcemeat. PROCURE as many chickens feet as you want, and ftrjp off the fkin by Raiding them; then tie them up in a bundle, and flew them in a braze. Boil them till they be tender, with a little feafon- ing, and then dry them in a cloth. You may make any kind of forcemeat you pleafe, and fill up the claws with it. Dip them into fome beaten eggs, and drew over them crumbs of bread. Do it a fecond time, prefs it well on, and fry them with plenty of lard. Serve them up without any fauce in the difh, with a heap of fried parfley un- der them. Fowls or chickens feet make a pretty fecond difh, and may be done various ways, either in a little brown fauce, with afparagus tops, peas, artichoke bottoms, or in a fricaffec, or with any kind of white fauce. A Fowl with its own Gravy. HAVING truffed a fowl as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and parfley. Put it in a pan of its own fize, with a little butter, two or three flices of peeled lemon, a bundle of fweet herbs, three cloves, fliced onions, carrots, pepper, fait, a little broth, and a glafs of white wine. Stew them flowly till they be done, fkira, and drain the fauce, and ferve it with the fowl. You may omit the larding, if you have any ob- jection to it. Fowls fluffed. BONE your fowls, fill them with the follow- ing forcemeat, and roaft them. Take half a pound of beef fuet, the meat of a fowl cut very fmall, and beat them in a mortar, with a pound of veal, fome106 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. fome truffles, morels, and mufhrooms, cut fmall, a few fweet herbs, and parfley Aired fine, fome grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, and grated lemon- peel. Have ready for fauce, fome good gravy, with truffles and morels. You may lard the fowls, if you pleafe. A Fowl forced, with a Ragoo of Oyfcrs. STUFF the craw of a fowl with a forcemeat, in which are a dozen oyders. Cover the bread of the fowl with flices of bacon ; then put on a fheet of paper, and road it. Take fome cullis or good gravy, put in fome oyders with their li- quor drained, a little mufhroom powder or catch- up, lemon-juice, and thicken it with flour. Add fome chyan and fait, if neceffarv, and boil it up. When the fowl is done, take off the bacon, and fend it to table with the fauce in the difh. •• , To flew a Fozvl. FIAVING truffled a fowl as for boiling, put it into a dewpan with a piece of butter, chopped parfley, flialot, and mufhrooms. Stew it on a flowfire about a quarter of an hour, turning itoften. Then put it into another dewpan, with flices of veal and ham, and all the firfl feafoning. Cover it with flices of bacon, dew it gently for a quarter of an hour longer, and then add a little whole pepper, and fome fait, a little broth and white wine, and, having finifhed it on a flow fire, lkim and drain the braze. When it is quite ready, fqueeze in a lemon, wipe the fowl clean from the fat, anfl ferve it up. To force a Fowl. P I C K a large fowl clean, cut it down the back, take out the entrails, and take the fkin off whole. Cut the flefh from the bones, and chop it with half a pint of oyders, an ounce of beef mar-different methods of dressing poultry. 107 marrow, and a little pepper and fait, mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the fkin over it, and few up the back. Cut large thin dices of bacon, lay them over the bread; of your fowl, and tie the bacon on with a packthread. It will take one hour roafting before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy fauce, pour it into your difh, take the bacon off, lay in your fowl, and ferve it up, garnifhed with oylters, mufli- rooms, or pickles. A Fowl with Jharp Sauce. HAVING truffed a fowl as for roading, make a forcemeat with fcraped lard, or butter, a little tarragon, chervil, burnet, garden-crefs, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Stuff the fowl with it, and make the fauce with a little cullis, a few of the above herbs pounded, two anchovies, and a few capers. When it is done, drain it, add a little more cullis, and a little mudard, pepper, and fait. Warm it, but do not boil it, and fend it up with your r'oaded fowl. To marinade a Fozul. T AKE a large fowl, and with your finger raife the diin from the bread-bone. Cut a veal fweat- bread very fmall, a few oyders, a few mufiirooms, an anchovy, fome pepper, a little nutmeg, fome lemon-peel, and a little thyme. Chop all together fmall, and mix it with the yolk of an egg. Stud' it in between the fkin and flefli, but take care that you do not break the fkin, and then duff what oyders you pleafe into the body of the fowl. If you choofe it, you may lard the bread of your fowl with bacon. Paper the bread, and road it. Make a good gravy, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. A Fowl108 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY, A Foiul a la Braze. HAVING truffed your fowl as for boiling, put over it a layer of fat bacon, cut in pretty thin llices. Wrap it round in beet-leaves, then in a veal caul, and put it into a large faucepan with three pints of water, a glafs of Madeira wine, a bunch of fweet herbs, two or three blades of mace, and half a lemon. Stew it till it is quite tender, then take it up, and fkim off the fat. Thicken your gravy with flour and butter, and ftrain it through a hair fieve. Put to it a pint of oyfters, and a teacupful of thick cream. Keep fhaking your toffing-pan over the fire, and when it has fimmered a little, ferve up your fowl with the bacon, beet-leaves, and caul on, and pour your fauce hot upon it. Garnifh with barberries, or red beet-root. To hajli Fowls. . HAVING cut your fowl into pieces, put to it fome gravy, with a little cream, fome catchup, or mufhroom powder, grated lemon-peel, fome nut- meg, a few oyfters and their liquor, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Keep it ftirring till the butter is melted, and then lay fippets round the difli. s i ' • Another Method. CUT up your fowl as for eating, and put it into a tofling-pan, with half a pint of gravy, a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufhroom catchup, a flice of lemon, and thicken it with flour and butter. Juft before you difli it up, put in a fpoonful of good cream, lay fippets round your difli, and fend it up to table.DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. IO9 To ragoo Fowls. HAVING procured a large capon, or two pul- lets, cut off their pinions and feet, and tuck in the legs. Prepare your ragoo thus. Get a veal fweet- bread, or two of lambs, the fat liver of a turkey or fowls, fome cock’s Hones, three or four mufhrooms, and a thin flice or two of lemon. Blanch all well with eggs, cut them into fmall dice, and flew them in a ladle of cullis. You may add to it three or four gizzards, and a few coxcombs, boiled till they are tender. Fill up the bellies of your fowls or capon, and fow them up at both ends, but make a referve of fome of your ragoo to pour over them. Put them acrofs upon a lark-fpit, and tie them upon another. Lard them with bacon, cover them with paper, and roaft them gently, that they may be nice and white. Strew in a little minced parfley, and a little fhalot. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon or orange, and ferve them up, with the ragoo under them. A Fowl Scrvant-Fa/hion. HAVING truffed a fowl as for roafting, make a forcemeat with the liver, chopped parfley, fha- lots, batter, pepper, and fait. Stuff the fowl with it, cover it with buttered paper, and roaft it. When it is three parts done, take off the paper, bafte it with yolks of eggs beaten up with melted butter, and a good quantity of bread crumbs. Finifh the roafting, when it will be of a fine yellow colour. Make a fauce with a little butter, an an- chovy chopped, a few capers, a little flour, broth, pepper, fait, and a little nutmeg. Thicken the fauce, and ferve it up under the fowl. To drefs a cold Fowl. CUT your fowl into quarters, and beat up an egg or two. Grate in a little nutmeg, put in a littleHO DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. little fauce, fome chopped parfley, and a few crumbs of bread. Beat them well together, and dip your fowl into this batter. Then put them in- to a ftew-pan in hot dripping, and fry them of a fine light brown. Prepare a little good gravy, thickened with a little flour, and put in a fpoonful of catchup. Lay the fry in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. You may garnifh with lemon, or a few mufhrooms. Another Method. HAVIN G peeled off the flcin of the fowl, and pulled the flefh off the bones in as large pieces as you could, drudge it with a little flour, and fry it in butter of a nice brown. Tofs it up in rich gravy, well feafoned, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and fend it up to table. To roajl a Fowl with Chefnuts. ROAST fome chefnuts very carefully, fo that they may not be burnt, and then take off the fkins, and peel them. Cut about a dozen of them fmall, and bruife them in a mortar. Parboil the liver of the fowl, bruife it, and cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. Then mix them all together, with a good quantity of chopped parfley, fweet herbs, fome mace, pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Mix thefe together, put it into your fowl, and roaft it. The belt way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roaft with a firing, and then bafte it with butter. For fauce, you may take the reft of the chefnuts peeled and fkinned, put them into fome good gravy, with a little white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Then lav your fowl in the # y j % difh, pour in the fauce, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table, i ToDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. Ill To drcfs a Turkey. HAVING boned your turkey, make the folr lowing forcemeat. Cut the flefh of a fowl final], and beat a pound of veal in a mortar, with half a pound of beef fuet, as much crumbs of bread, fome mufhrooms, truffles, and morels, cut fmall; a few fweet herbs and parfley, with fome nutmeg, pepper, and fait, a little beaten mace, and fome lemon peel. Mix all thefe together with the yolks of two eggs, put it into your turkey, and roaft it. Make your fauce of good gravy, and put into it mufhrooms, truffles, and morels. You may lard your turkey, if you pleafe. To roaft- a Turkey. HAVING cut your turkey down the back* and boned it with a fharp knife, with a forcemeat, made as above directed, fill up the places where the bones came out, and fill the body, fo that it may look juft as it did before it was boned. Then few up the back, and roaft it. Be fure to leave the pinions on. Put good gravy into the difh, and garnifh with lemon. You may ufe oyfter fauce, celery fauce, or any other fauce you pleafe. A Turkey roajled zuith Cray-jijh. TRUSS a young turkey as for roafting, and make a forcemeat with fome fat bacon, fuet, and the white of a chicken, all cut as fine as poffible, with fome frefli mufhrooms, finely minced. Mix thefe ingredients well together, with fome pepper, (alt, the leaves of fweet herbs picked clean from the flalks, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix them and chop them well together. Then boil fome crumbs of bread in rich cream, and put it to the forcemeat. Take the yolks of two new-laid eggs, beat them well, and mix them in the forcemeat. Stuff112 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. Stuff the crop of the turkey, raife the fkin a little above the breaft, and put as much of the forcemeat as will go in without tearing it. If any be left, put it into the body. Wafh fome cray-fifh, boil them in water, and pick out the tails and bodies. Cut fome mufhrooms, but not fmall, fome truffles in thin flices, fome artichoke bottoms and afparagus tops, boiled and cut in pieces. Mix all thefe to- gether with the cray-fifh, put them into a faucepan, with a piece of butter, fome nutmeg cut in flices, pepper, fait, three or four flices of lemon, and a little onion cut fmall. Let all thefe fimmer over a flow fire, and when it is enough, put in fome cullis of cray-fifh to thicken it. Put fome of this ragoo into the body of the turkey, tie it up at both ends, and fkewer and fpit it for roafting. Strew fome fluffing over it, then fome flices of bacon, and cover all with buttered paper. Let it be thoroughly done before a good fire, and then take off the paper and bacon, pour the reft of the ra- goo over it, and fend it up to table. Turkey a la Daube. HAVING cut the turkey down the back juft enough to enable you to bone it, without fpoiling the look of it, fluff it with forcemeat made of oyflers chopped fine, crumbs of bread, pepper, fait, fhalots, a very little thyme, parfley, and but- ter. Fill it as full as you like, few it up, and tie it up in a clean cloth. Then boil it till it be white ; but be careful not to do it too much. "V ou may ferve it up with ovfter fauce, or make a rich gravy of the bones, with a piece of veal, mut- ton, and bacon, feafoned with pepper, lalt, fha- lots, and a little bit of mace. Strain it off through a fieve, and flew your turkey in it, after it is hall- boiled, juft half an hour. Difh it up with the gravy after it is well fkimmed, ftrained, and thick- 5 ; o enedDIFFERENT METHODS OF D R ESS IN G PO U LTR Y. 11J ened with a few mudirooms ftewed white, or ftewed palates, forcemeat balls, fried oyfters, or fweet- breads, and pieces of lemon. Turlies and, Chickens. TAKE a turkey, and as many chickens as you like, feafon them with fait, pepper, and cloves, and boil them ; and to every quart of broth, put a quarter of a pound of rice, or vermicelli. This is eaten with fugar and cinnamon, though thefe may both be omitted. This is a Dutch difli. A Turkey drejjed the Italian Way. HAVING minced the liver of a young turkey very fine, with fome chopped parfley and fome frefh mufhrooms, fome pepper, fait, and more than an ounce of butter, mix them well together, and put them into the body of the turkey. Put a piece of butter into a Itewpan, fome fhalots, and pepper and fait. When it is hot, put in the tur- key, turn it often, that it may be of a fine brown, and lay it to cool. Then lap over it fome dices of bacon, and cover it all over with paper; put it upon a fpit, and lay it down to road. In the mean time, cut fome large mufhrooms very fine, with twice the quantity of parfiey, and a few green onions cut final!. Put half a pint of white wine into a faucepan, and, as foon as it is hot, put in thefe ingredients; add fome pepper and fait, the juice of a lemon, and two cloves of garlic. Let them boil, and then put in a quarter of a pint -of rich gravy, and a fmall teacupful of oil. Let all boil up once or twice, then take out the garlic, and put in a piece of butter rolled in dour. Lay the turkey in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. I To \114 different methods of dressing poultry. To Jlczu a Turkey. BONE a {mail turkey, and fill it with the fol- lowing forcemeat. Take half a pound of veal, the meat of two pigeons, and a pickled tongue boiled and peeled. Chop thefe all together, and beat them in a mortar, with fomc marrow from a beef bone, or a pound of fuet from a loin of veal. Seafon them with two or three cloves, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg dried before the fire and pounded, and fome fait. Mix all thefe well together, fill the turkey, and fry it of a fine brown. Put it into a pot that will juft hold it, lay fome fkewers at the bottom of the pot to keep the turkey from (ticking, and put in a quart of good beef gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it ftew for half an hour very gently. Then put in a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of catchup, a large fpoonful of pickled mufhrooms, fome truffles, morels, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Cover it clofe, and let it ftew half an hour longer. Fry fome hol- low French rolls; then take fome oyfters, ftew them in a faucepan with their own liquor, a bit of mace, a little white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Let them ftew till pretty thick, and then fill the rolls with them. Lay the turkey in the difh, pour the fauce over it, lay the rolls on each fide, and fend it up to table. Another Method. MAKE a good white forcemeat of veal, and ftuff it into the craw of a large turkey. Having fkew- ered it for boiling, boil it in foit water till it be almoft enough. Then take up your turkey, and put it in a pot, with fome of the water it was boiled in, to keep it hot. Put feven or eight, heads of celery, well waflied and cleaned, into the water the turkey was boiled in. As foon asDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. II5 they are tender, take them up, and put in your turkey with the bread; downwards, and flew it a quarter of an hour. Then take it up, and thicken your fauce with butter and flour. Then put in your celery, pour the fauce and celery hot upon the turkey’s breaft, and ferve it up. A Turkey with pickled Pork and Onions. TAKE twenty-four fmall white onions, and boil them in broth, with half a pound of pickled pork cut into thin flices, a bundle of parfley, fome green fhalots, fome thyme, two cloves, and a.lit- tle whole pepper and fait. As foon as they be done, drain them, put them into the turkey, and wrap it in flices of bacon, and paper over it, and then roafl it. Make a fauce with a piece of but- ter, a flice of ham', two fhalots, and a few mufli- rooms. Let them foak a little, and then add two fpoonfuls of broth, and as much cullis. Sim- mer it about an hour, fkim it, and drain it. When the whole is ready, add a fmall fpoonful of muf- tard, a little pepper and fait, and ferve it up. A Turkey Jluffed. MINCE a pound of beef, and three quarters of a pound of fuet, very fmall. Seafon it with pepper, fait, cloves, mace, and fweet marjoram, and mix them with two or three eggs. Loofen the {kin all round the turkey, and fluff it. Then fpit it and roafl it. This is the Hambourg me- thod of drefftng a turkey. A Turkey in Jelly. II A\ I N (> boiled a turkey properly white, let it fland till it be cold, and in the mean time prepare the following jelly. Skin a fowl and take off all the fat; but do not cut it into pieces, nor break the bones. Take four pounds of a leg of I 2 vealIl6 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. i up. veal, without any fat or fkin, and put it into a well-tinned faucepan. Put to it three quarts of water, and fet it on a very clear fire till it begins to fimmer; but be fure to fkim it well, and take great care that it does not boil. When it is fkim- ed, keep it juft fimmering, and put to it two large blades of mace, half a nutmeg, twenty corns of white pepper, and a little piece of lemon-peel the fize of a fix-pence. This will require fix or feven hours doing. When you think the jelly is fliff enough, which you will know by taking a little out to cool, be fure to fkim off all the fat, if there be any, without difturbing the meat in the faucepan. A quarter of an hour before it is done, throw in a large teafpoonful of fait, and fqueeze in the juice of half a Seville orange or lemon. When you think it is enough, drain it through a fieve ; but do not pour it all quite off to the bot- tom, for fear of fettlings. Lay your turkey into the difh, in which you intend to fend it up to table, beat up the whites of fix eggs to a froth, and put the liquor to it. Then boil it five or fix minutes, run it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and then pour the liquor over the turkey. Let it hand till quite cold, and, having given dif- ferent colours to the jelly, with a fpoon fprinkle it over in what forms you pleafe, and fend it to table. If you can get a few naftertium flowers, and flick them in different parts, they will have a pretty effcft, but all thefe ornaments depend on tafle and fancy. To glaze a Turkey. PICK, dravg and finge a young turkey, but do not let it be too fmall. Lay it a little time over a clear charcoal fire, and turn it often. Prepare a ragoo of fwc.etbreads, take off the turkey, fplit it down the back, fill it with the ragoo, few itdifferent methods of dressing poultry. 117 l up, and lard it with bacon. At the bottom of a deep ftewpan put fome flices of ham, veal, and beef. Lay the turkey upon thefe, and ftrew over it fome fweet herbs, cover them clofe, and let them ftew over a flow fire. When they are enough, take off the ftewpan, take out the turkey, and then pour into the turkey a little good broth. Stir it about, ftrain off the liquor, and fkim off' the fat. Set it over the fire again, and boil it to a jelly. Then put in the turkey, and fet the pan over a gentle fire or ftove, and it will be foon well glazed. Pour fome effence of ham into the difh, and put in the turkey. x Turkey a la Hate. HAVING truffed a turkey with the legs in- wards, flatten it as much as you can, and put it into a ftewpan, with melted lard, chopped parfley, fhalots, mufhrooms, and a little garlic. Give it a few turns on the fire, and add the juice of half a lemon to keep it white. Then put it into another ftewpan, with flices of veal, a flice of ham, the melted lard, and every thing as ufed before, add- ing whole pepper and fait. Cover it over with flices of lard, and ftew it gently about half an hour over a flow fire. Then put to it a glafs of wine, and a little broth, and finifh the brazing. Skim and ftrain the fauce, add a little cullis to it, reduce it to a proper confidence, and then fend it up to table. To hajli a Turkey. STIR fome flour rolled in a piece of butter into fome cream and a little veal gravy, and give it a boil. Cut the turkey into pieces of a moderate fize, and put it into the fauce, with fome grated lemon-peel, white pepper, and mace pounded, a I 3 littleIl8 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. little mufhroom powder, or catchup. Simmer them up, and add to it home oyders, if you choofe. Another Method. FIRST take the legs of your turkey, and then cut the thighs into two pieces; cut off the pinions, and alfo the bread into pretty large pieces; but remember to take off the {kin, or it will give a greafy tade to the gravy. Put it into a dewpan with a pint of gravy, a teafpoonful of lemon- pickle, a dice of the end of a lemon, and a little beaten mace. Boil your turkey fix or feven mi- nutes ; but, if you boil it longer, it will make it hard. Put it on your difh, and thicken your gravy with dour and butter. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a fpoonful of thick cream, and put it into your gravy. Shake it over the fire till it is quite hot, but do not let it boil. Strain it, and pour it over your turkey. Lay fippets round it, garnifh with lemon or parfley, and fend it up to table. Ducks a la Braze. HAVING larded your duck, put a dice or two of beef at the bottom of your dewpan, then the duck, a piece of bacon, and lome more beef diced, a carrot, an onion, a dice of lemon, fome whole pepper, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Co- ver this clofe, and fet it a few minutes over the dre. Then diake in fome dour, pour in near a quart of beef broth or boiling water, and a little red wine heated. Stew it about half an hour, drain the fauce, fkim it, put to it chyan, and more wine, if neceffary, with a flialot, and a little le- mon juice. Some add artichoke bottoms boiled and quartered. Ducksdifferent methods of dressing poultry. 119 Ducks a la Mode. TAKE two ducks, flit them down the backs, and bone them carefully. Make a forcemeat of the crumb of a penny loaf, four ounces of fat bacon feraped, a little parfley, thyme, lemon-peel, two fhalots or onions fhred very fine, with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, to your tafte, and two eggs. Stuff your ducks with this, and few them up. Then lard them down each fide of the bread with bacon, dredge them well with flour, and put them into a Dutch oven to brown. Then put them into a ftewpan with three pints of gravy, a glafs of red wine, a teafpoonful of lemon-pickle, a large one of walnut and mufhroom catchup, one of'brown- ing, and an anchovy, with cliyan pepper to your tafte. Stew them' gently over a flow fire for an hour; and when they are enough, thicken your gravy, and put in a few truffles and morels. Strain your gravy and pour it upon them, A Duck with green Peas. PUT apiece of frefli butter into a deep ftewpan, and fet over the fire. Singe your duck, flour it, and put it into the pan. Turn it two or three minutes, and then pour out all the fat, but let the duck remain in the pan. Put to it a pint of gravy, a pint of peas, two lettuces cut final], a final 1 bun- dle of fweet herbs, and a little pepper and fait. Cover them clofe, and let them ftew for half an hour, now and then giving the pan a {hake. When they are nearly done, grate in a little nutmeg, put in a very little beaten mace, and thicken it either with a piece of butter rolled in flour, or the yolk of an egg beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream. Shake it all together for three or four minutes, take out the fweet herbs, lay the duck in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. I 4 Macedonian120 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. Macedonian Ducks. TAKE four artichoke bottoms, and cut them into pieces. Put them into boiling water, with about a pint of garden beans fird fcalded and hufked. Boil thefe together till almod done, and then drain them. Put the whole into the ftewpan, with a good piece of butter, chopped mufhrooms, a little winter favory, parfley, and fhalots, all finely chopped. Add a little flour, two fpoonfuls of veal gravy, and a glafs of white wine. Simmer them (lowly till all is well done, and the fauce re- duced to a proper confidence. Lad of all, add a little cullis, a fqueeze of a lemon, and a little pep- per and fait. Serve this ragoo under two ducks quartered, and brazed in a well-feafoned braze, with dices of veal and bacon. To hajh Ducks. H A VI N G roafted two ducks till they be nearly three parts done, take them up, and let them (land to cool. Then cut the bread into thin dices, and take care of the gravy. The legs will ferve for another didi, which you may drefs by wrap- ping them in a caul with a good forcemeat, and ferve them up with cullis fauce. For the fillets, cut cucumbers, and marinade them about an hour, with a little vinegar, fait, and an onion diced. Then take out the onion, fqueeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a dewpan with a bit of butter, a dice of ham, a little broth, dour, and veal gravy. Boil it flowly, fkim it well, take out the ham, and put the meat to it to warm, without boiling. You may do the fame with chopped truf- fies, or mudirooms, or any thing elie in feafon. You may hadi a cold roaded duck in this manner.different methods of dressing poultry. 121 ' To boil Ducks the French Way. TAKE two dozen of roafted chefnuts, and put them into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two fmall onions, a little whole pepper, and a race of ginger. Then take a fine tame duck, lard it, and half roaft it. Put it into the gravy, let it ftew ten minutes, and put in a quarter of a pint of red wine. When the duck is enough, take it out, and boil up the gravy to a proper thicknefs. Skim it very clean from fat, lay the duck in the difh, pour the fauce over it, gar- nifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. i Another French Method. HAVING larded your ducks, and half roafted them, take them off the fpit, and put them into a large earthen pipkin, with half a pint of red wine, a pint of good gravy, fome chefnuts roafted and peeled, half a pint of large oyfters, the liquor ftrained and the beards taken off', two or three little onions minced fmall, a very little ftripped thyme, mace, pepper, and a little ginger finely beaten, with the cruft of a French roll grated. Cover it clofe, and let it ftew half an hour over a flow fire. When they are enough, take them up, and pour the fauce over them. Ducklings rolled. CUT a pretty large duckling into two, bone it thoroughly, and lay on a forcemeat made with the breafts of roafted poultry. Roll it up, tie flices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little broth, with a glafs of white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, and two cloves. When it is done, gently fqueeze out the fat, and wipe the duck clean. Send it up to table with what fauce you like bcft. To i122 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. To clrefs Wild Ducks. HAVING half roafted your duck, lay it in a difh, and carve it, but leave the joints hanging to- gether. I hrow a little pepper and fait, and fqueeze the juice ol a lemon over it. Turn it on the bread, and prefs it hard with a plate, and add to its own gravy two or three fpoonfuls of good made gravy. Cover it clofe with another difh, and fet it over a dove ten minutes. Then fend it to table hot in the. difh it was done in, and garnifli with lemon. Goofe a la Mode. HAVING picked, cleaned, fkinned, and boned your goofe nicely, take off the fat, and boil and peel a dried tongue. Treat a fowl in the fame manner as the goofe, feafon it with pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and roll it round the tongue. Seafon the goofe in the fame manner, and put both tongue and fowl into the goofe. Put it into a lit- tle pot that will juft hold it, with two quarts of beef gravy, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion. Put Come dices of ham, or good bacon, between the fowl and goofe; then cover it clofe, and let it dew very dowly for an hour over the fire. Then take up your goofe, and fkim off all the fat. Strain it, and put in a glafs of red wine, two fpoonfuls of catchup, a veal fweetbread cut fmall, fome truffles, mufhrooms, and morels, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and, if wanted, fome pepper and fait. Put in the goofe again, cover it clofe, and let it Itew half an hour longer. Then take it up, pour the ragoo over it, and garnifli with lemon. You muft remember to lave the bones of the goofe and fowl, and put them into the gravy when it is firft fet on. It will be an improvement, if you roll fome beef marrow between the tongue and the fowl,different methods of dressing poultry. 123 fowl, and between the fowl and the goofe, as it will make them mellow, and eat the finer. It may not be improper here to obferve, that the belt method to bone a goofe or fowl of any fort is to begin at the breaft, and take out all the bones without cutting the back ; for when it is fewed up, and you come to flew it, it generally burfts in the back, whereby the fhape of it is fpoiled. To jmo he a Goofe. TAKE off all the fat of a large ftubble goofe, and dry it well infide and out with a cloth. Waff it all over with vinegar, and then rub it over with common fait, faltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of coarfe fugar. Rub the falts well in, and let it lie a fortnight, then drain it well, few it up in a cloth, and let it hang in the chimney for a month. You may then boil it, and ferve it up with onion fauce, greens, &c.' To ragoo a Goofe. HAVING beat the breaft down with a cleaver, prefs it down with your hand, {kin it, and dip it into fcalding water. As foon as it is cold, lard it with bacon, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and a little beaten mace. Then flour it all over, take a pound of good beef fuet cut fmall, and put it into .a deep ftewpan. As foon as it is melted put in your goofe, and let it be brown on both Tides. Then put in a quart of boiling gravy, an onion or two, a bundle of fweet herbs, fome whole pepper, and a' few cloves. Cover it clofe, and let it flew foftly till it is tender. An hour will do it, if it be fmall, and an hour and half, if large. In the mean time, boil fome turnips almoff enough, fome carrots and onions quite enough. Cut your turnips and car- rots the fame as for a harrico of mutton, and put them into a faucepan with half a pint of good beef gravy.124 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. gravy, a little pepper and fait, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and flew them all together a quar- ter of an hour. Take the goofe and well drain it, then lay it in the difh, and pour the ragoo over it. To marinade a Goofe. TAKE all the bones out of your goofe, and make the following forcemeat. Take ten or twelve fage leaves, two large onions, and two or three large fharp apples, fhred very fine. Mix thefewith the crumb of a penny loaf, four ounces of beef mar- row, a glafs of red wine, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, fait, and a little lemon-peel fhred fmall. Make this into a light fluffing, with the yolks of four eggs, about an hour before you want it, and then put it into the goofe. Fry the goofe of a good brown, then put it into a deep flewpan, with two quarts of good gravy, and cover it clofe. Having let it flew two hours, take it out, and fkim off the fat. Add to it a large fpoonful of lemon pickle, one of browning, one of red wine, an an- chovy fhred fine, beaten mace, pepper, and fait to your palate. Thicken it with flour and butter, give it a boil, difh up your goofe, drain your gra- vy, and pour it over it. To few Giblets. HAVING cut the neck into four pieces, and pinions in two, flice the gizzard, clean it well, and flew them in two quarts of water, or mutton broth, with a handful of fweet herbs, an anchovy, a few pepper corns, three or four cloves, a fpoonful of catchup, and an onion. As foon as the giblets are tender, put in a fpoonful of good cream, and thick- en it with flour and,butter. Lay fippets round a foup-difh, pour in the whole, after {training it, and fend them up to table. AnotherDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. 125 Another Method. SCALD and clean your giblets well, cut off the bill, divide the head, fkin the feet, and (tew all in juft water enough for fauce. Put in a fprig of thyme, fome whole black pepper, and an onion. Let them do till they are tender, and then ftrain the fauce. If the fauce is not thick enough, add a little catchup and flour. Lay flppets round the difli, pour in your giblets and fauce, and ferve them up. Giblets a la Turtle. CLEAN three pair of giblets well, and cut them as before directed. Put them into a ftewpan with four pounds of fcrag of veal, and two pounds of lean beef, covered with water. When they boil, fldm them very clean. Then put in fix cloves, four blades of mace, eight corns of allfpice, beat very fine ; fome bafil, fweet marjoram, win- ter favory, and a little thyme, chopped very fine ; three onions, two turnips, and one carrot. Stew them all tender, then ftrain them through a fieve, and wafh them clean out of the herbs in fome warm water. Put a piece of butter into your ftew- pan, melt it, and put in as much flour as will thicken it. Stir it till it is fmooth, then put in your liquor, and keep ftirring it all the time, other- wife it will go into lumps, and fhould that hap- pen, you muft ftrain it through a fieve. Then put in a pint of Madeira wine, fome pepper and fait, and a little chyan pepper. Stew it ten minutes, and then put in your giblets. Add the juice of a lemon, ftew them a quarter of an hour, and ferve them up in a tureen. Never put your livers in at firft, but boil them in a faucepan of water by themfelves. If you choofe it, you may put egg-balls into your difli, made thus. Beat the126 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY.' the yolks of fix eggs boiled hard, in a mortar; throw in a fpoonful of flour, and the yolk of a raw egg, and beat them together till they are fmooth. Then roll them in little balls, feald them in boil- ing water, and put them in juft before you ferve up the giblets. Pigeons en Compote. SKEWER fix young pigeons as for boiling. Grate the crumb of a penny loaf, take half a pound of fat bacon. Hired fome fweet herbs and parfiey fine, two fhalots or a little onion, a little lemon peel, and a little grated nutmeg ; feafon it with pepper and fait, and mix it up with the yolks of two eggs. Put this forcemeat into the craws and bellies of your pigeons, lard them down the breaft, and fry them brown with a little butter. Then put them into a ftewpan, with a pint of ftrong brown gravy, a gill of white wine, and flew them three quarters of an hour. Thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, feafon it with fait and chyan pepper, put the pigeons in the difh, and ftrain the gravy over them. Send them up hot to table, with fome forcemeat balls laid round them. Pigeons a la Soujfel. HAVING boned four pigeons, make a force- meat as above direfted. Stuff them, and put them into a ftewpan with a pint of veal gravy. Stew them very gently half an hour, and then take them out. Wrap them all round with a veal force- meat, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, and fry them in good dripping of a nice brown. Take the gravy they were flewed in, fkim off the fat, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, the yolk of an egg, and a gill of cream beat up. Sea- fon it with pepper and fait, mix all together, and keep it ftirring one way till it is fmooth. Strain it intoDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. I27 Pigeons into your difh, and put on the pigeons. Garnifh with plenty of crifped parfley. Pigeons a la Duxelle. TAKE four or five pigeons, cut off their feet and pinions, and fplit them down the bread; then take out the livers, and flatten them with a cleaver. Make a hot marinade of fome fcraped bacon, fea- foned with a mufhroom or two, green onions, pep- per, fait, thyme, parfley, and a little nutmeg. Fry all for a few minutes, and let the pigeons be heated through in it, and let them remain till you put them upon your gridiron. Take a thin flice of ham for each pigeon, and put them with the ham always at top ; that is, when you turn your pige- ons, turn your ham upon them. For your fauce, take a ladle of gravy, fome fweet bafil, a little thyme, parfley, and fhalot, minced very fine, and a few flices of mufhrooms, boiled all together a few minutes. Difh them up with their bread: down- wards, let your ham continue upon them, and pour your fauce over them, with the juice of an orange or lemon. Pigeons Surtout. FORCE your pigeons, lay a flice of bacon on their breafts, and a flice of veal beaten with the back of a knife, and feafoned with mace, pepper, and fait. Faften it on with two fmall {hewers, which will be better than tying it. Road them on a fine bird fpit, bade them with a piece of butter, then with the yolk of an egg, and afterwards with fome crumbs of bread, a little nutmeg, and fweet herbs. When they are enough, lay them in your dill], and pour on them fome good gravy, fea- foned with truffles, morels, and mufhrooms.128 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSINGPOULTRY. Pigeons Pigeons in Savoury Jelly. HAVING roaded your pigeons with the heads and feet on, put a fprig of myrtle in their bills. Make the fame kind of jelly as direded for chick- ens, and when it is fet, lay in the pigeons with their breads downwards. Fill up your bowl with the jelly, and turn it out. Pigeons a la Daube. STUFF the bellies of your pigeons with the following forcemeat. Take a pound of veal, a pound of beef fuet, and beat them in a mortar; take an equal quantity of bread crumbs, fome pepper, fait, nutmeg, beaten mace, a little lemon- peel cut fmall, fome parfley cut fmall, and a very little thyme dripped. Mix all together with the yolks of two eggs, fill the pigeons, and flat their breads down. Then dour them, and fry them a little brown in frefh butter. Then pour the fat clean out of the pan, and put the gravy to the pigeons. Cover them clofe, and let them dew a quarter of an hour, or till you think they are quite enough. In the mean time make the following fauce. Put a layer of bacon in a large faucepan, then a layer of veal, a layer of coarfe beef, and a pound of veal cut very thin, a piece of carrot, a bundle of fweet herbs, an onion, fome black and white pepper, a blade or two of mace, and four or five cloves. Cover the faucepan clofe, fet it over a flow fire, and draw it till it is brown, to make the gravy of a fine light brown. Then put in a quart of boiling water, and let it dew till the gravy is quite rich and good. Then drain it off, and fleim off all the fat. When your pigeons are enough, take them up, lay them in your difh, and pour this fauce over them. On each pigeon lay a bay-leaf, and a dice of bacon on each leaf.DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. 12g Pigeons a la Roy ale. TAKE any number of pigeons you pleafe that are of an equal fize, put a peeled truffle in each, and give them a fry in butter, with chopped mufh- rooms, parfley, a flice of ham, and fome pepper and fait. Put them into a faucepan to braze, with a few flices of veal fil'd fcalded, and the fird feafon- ing over the pigeons. Cover them with thin flices of bacon, and put a fheet of white paper over the whole. Stop the pan clofe, and let them fimmer over a flow fire till they are quite tender. Take out the pigeons, and clean them from the fat. Strain the braze, and boil it a moment, in order to fkim it very clean. When it is ready, fqueeze in a lemon, and pour the fauce over the pigeons. Pigeons in Difguife. HAVING drawn and truffed your pigeons, fea- fon them with pepper and fait. Make a nice puff pade, and roll each pigeon in a piece of it. Tie them in a cloth, and take care the pade does not break. Then boil them an hour and a half in plenty of water ; but take care, when you untie them, that they do not break. Put them into a difh, and pour to them a little good gravy. Pigeons in Pimlico. 1 AKE fome fat and lean ham or bacon, fome mufhrooms, truffles, parfley, and fweet herbs/ and the livers of the pigeons. Seafon with beaten mace, pepper, and fait; and beat all this together with two raw eggs, and put it into tkeir bellies. Roll them ail in a thin flice of veal, and put over them a thin flice of bacon. Wrap them up in whitepa- per, and road them on a fmall fpit. In the mean time make a ragoo of truffles and mufhrooms chop-t ped fmall, with fome-parfley alfo cut fmall. . Put to130 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY, it half a pint of good veal gravy, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Bafte your pigeons, and about an hour will do them. When they are enough, lay them in your difh, take off the paper, and pour your fauce over them. You may garnifh with patties, which may be thus made. Take veal and cold ham, and an equal quantity of beef fuet, fome mufhrooms, fweet herbs, and fpice. Chop them fmall, fet them on the fire, and moiften them with milk or cream. Then make a little puff-pafte, roll it, and make little patties about an inch deep, and two. inches long. Fill them with the above ingredients, cover them clofe, and bake them, and lay fix of them round the difh. Pigeons a la Charmante. HAVING fealded five or fix fmall pigeons, braze them with a few flices of lard and peeled le- mon, pepper, fait, a bundle of fweet herbs, and broth. Lard three or four fweetbreads, and put them into a ftewpan by themfelves, with fome broth, a few thin flices of veal fillet, a bundle of fweet herbs, and two cloves. Braze them flowly, and when they are done, ftrain and fkim the braze, and reduce it to a glaze, to rub over the larded fide of the fweetbreads. Strain it again through a fieve, and add a little more pepper and fait, if neceffary, and a good fqueeze of lemon. Put the pigeons and fweetbreads on the difh, and pour the fauce over the pigeons, but not over the fweetbreads, as that would fpoil the colour of the glaze. A Pupton of Pigeons. ROLL out a favoury forcemeat like a paflc, and put it into a butter-difh. Put a layer of very thin bacon, lquab pigeons, fl iced fweetbreads, af- paragus tops, mufhrooms, cokfcombs, a palate soiled tender and cut into pieces, and the yolks of hard \DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY; 131 hard eggs. Make another forcemeat, and lay it over like a pie. Bake it, and when it is enough, turn it into a difh, pour gravy round it, and fend it tip to table. To broil Pigeons. IN order to broil pigeons nicely, you mull take care that your fire is clear. Shred fome parfley fine, take apiece of butter as big as a walnut, with a little pepper and fait, and put it into their bel- lies. Tie them at both ends, and broil them. Or, having firft feafoned them with pepper and fait, you may fplit and broil them. Put a little parfley and butter into the difh, and fend them up to table. To Jlezu Pigeons. SEASON your pigeons with pepper and fait, a few cloves and mace, and fome fweet herbs. Wrap this feafoning up in a piece of butter, and put it into their bellies. Then tie up the neck and vent, and half roaft them. Put them into a ftewpan, with a quart of good gravy, a little white wine, a few pepper-corns, three or four blades of mace, a bit of lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a fmall onion. Stew them gently, till they are enough. Then take out the pigeons, and ftrain the liquor through a fieve. Skim it, and thicken it in your ftewpan, and put in the pigeons with fome pickled mufhrooms and oyfters. Stew it five minutes, put the pigeons in a difh, and pour the fauce over them. Pigeons in Fncandeau. HAVING picked, drawn, and wafhed your i pigeons very clean, fluff the craws, and lard them down the fides of the breaft. Fry them of a fine brown in butter, and then put them into a tofling- pan with a quart of gravy. Stew them till they are K 2 tender.132 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. tender, then take off the fat, and put in a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large fpoonful of browning, the fame of walnut catchup, a little chyan, and fait. Thicken your gravy, and add an ounce of morels, and four yolks of hard eggs. Lay the pigeons in your difh, put the morels and eggs round them, and Itrain your fauce over them. Send it up to'table, garnifhed with barberries and lemon peel. Pigeons a la Braize. TAKE as many large pigeons as you choofe, and pick, draw, and trufs them. Lay fome dices of bacon, veal, and onions, at the bottom of a ftewpan ; and feafon the pigeons with pepper, fait, fome fpice finely beaten, and fome fweet herbs. Lay them into the ftewpan, then lay upon them fome more flices of veal and bacon, and let' them ftew verv gently over a ftove, the top of the ftewpan being put down very clofe. When they are ftewed, make a ragoo with veal fweetbreads, truffles, morels, and champignons. The fweetbreads 11111ft be blanched, and put into a ftewpan with a ladle full of gravy, another of cullis, the truffles, morels, &c. Let them all ftew together with the pigeons, and when they are enough, put them into a difh, and pour the ragoo over them. To bake Pigeons. SEASON your pigeons with pepper and fait, put a piece of butter into each, and mix thiee eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, half a pint of milk, and a little fait. Pour this over them, and then fend them to the oven. \ Pigeons in a Hole. PI AVI NO picked, drawn, and wafhc.d fome , young pigeons, ftick their legs in their bellies as you Jo for boiling, and feafon them with pepper, {alt, ]different methods of dressing poultry. 133 fait, and beaten mace. Put a lump of butter, of the fize of a walnut, into the belly of each pigeon, and lay them in a pie difli. Pour over them a batter made of three eggs, two fpoonfuls of Hour, and half a pint of good milk. Bake them in a mo- derate oven, and fend them up in the fame dilh to table. Pigeons au Soleil. TAKE half a pound of veal, a quarter of a pound of mutton, and two ounces of beef. Beat them in a mortar with fome pepper, fait, and mace, till they are a pafte. Then take the yolks ol three or four eggs, beat them up well, and put them into a plate. Mix a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and two ounces of flour, and put them into ano- ther plate. Put on a ftewpan with a little rich beef gravy, tie up three or four cloves in a bit of muflin, and put them into the gravy. Put in the pigeons, let them flew till they are almoft enough, then take them up, and fet them before the fire to keep warm. Then put fome good beef dripping into a frying-pan, enough to cover them. When it boils, take the pigeons, one at a time, roll them in the meat that was beaten, and then in the yolks of eggs, till they are quite wet. Strew over them the bread and flour, put them into the boiling dripping, and when they are of a fine brown, take them out, and difli them up. Boiled Pigeons and Bacon. WASH and clean fix young pigeons, turn their legs under their wings, and boil them twenty mi- nutes in milk and water by themfelves. In the mean time boil a fquare piece of bacon, and take off the fkin and brown it. Lay the bacon in the middle ol the difli, and the pigeons round it with K 3 lumps134 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. lumps of flewed fpinach. Pour plain melted butter over them, put parfley and butter in a boat, and fend them up to table To boil Pigeons with Rice. HAVING fluffed fix pigeons with parfley, pepper, and fait, rolled in a very little piece of butter, put them into a quart of mutton broth, with a little beaten mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion. Cover them clofe, and let them boil full a quarter of an hour. Then take out the onion and fweet herbs, and take a good piece of butter rolled in flour; put it in, and give it a fhake, Seafon it with fait, if it wants it; and, in the mean time, boil half a pound of rice tender in milk. When it begins to be thick, taking great care that it does not burn, take the voiles of two or three eggs, beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little nutmeg. Stir it together till it is quite thick, and then take up the pigeons, and lay them in a difh. Pour the gravy to the rice, ftir it all together, and pour it over the pigeons. Garnifh with hard eggs cut into quarters, and ferve it up. Pigeons tranjmogrified. TAKE fix fmall young pigeons, and pick and clean them ; but do not cut off their heads. Take off the pinions, and boil thetn ten minutes in water. Then cut off'the ends of fix large cucumbers, and ficrape out the feeds. Put in your pigeons, and flick a bunch of barberries in their bills. Then put them into a toffing-pan with a pint of veal gravy, a little anchovy, a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of browning, a fmall flice of lemon, and chyan and fait to your tafle. Stew them feven piinutes, take them out, and thicken your gravyDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. I35 with a little butter rolled in flour. Boil it up, and {train it over your pigeons. To roajl a Rabbit Hare Fajhion. LARD your rabbit with bacon, and then roafl; it as you do a hare. Make a gravy fauce ; but, if you do not lard it, make the following white fauce. Take a little veal broth, boil it up with a little flour and butter to thicken it, and add a gill of cream. Keep it ftirring one way till it is fmooth, and then put it into a boat. \ ^ Rabbits pulled. HAVING half boiled your rabbits, with an onion, a little whole pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a lemon-peel, pull the flefh into flakes, and put to it a little of the liquor, a piece of butter mixed with flour, pepper, fait, nutmeg, chopped parfley, and the liver boiled and bruifed. Boil this up, and keep fliaking it round. To Jlorendine Rabbits. TAKE three young rabbits and fkin them, but leave on the ears. Wafh and dry them with a cloth. Take out the bones carefully, leaving the head whole, and then lay them flat. Make a forcemeat of a quarter of pound of bacon fcraped, which anfwers the purpofe much better than fuet, as it makes the rabbits look whiter, and eat ten- derer. Add to the bacon the crumb of a penny- loaf, a little lemon-thyme, or lemon-peel Aired fine, parfley chopped fmall, nutmeg, chyan, and fait, to your tafte. Mix them up together with an egg, and fpread it over the rabbits. Roll them up to the head, fkewer them ftraight, and dole the ends, to prevent the forcemeat coming out. Skewer the ears back, and tie them in feparate cloths, and boil them half an hour. When you K 4 difli136 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING POULTRY. difh them up, take out the jaw-bones, and dick them in the eyes for ears. Put round them force- meat balls and mufhrooms. In the mean time, prepare a white fauce made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a lemon, or a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle. Strain it, and take a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fo as to make the fauce pretty thick. Keep dirring it while the flour is diffolving, and beat the yolk of an egg. Put to it fome thick cream, nutmeg, and fait. Mix it with the gravy, and let it dimmer a little over the fire ; but do not let it boil, as that will curdle the cream. Pour it over the rabbits, and fend it up to table. Rabbits en Coffer ole. DIVIDE a couple of rabbits into quar- ters, flour them, if you do not lard them, anfcf fry them in butter. Put them into a ftewpan, with fome good gravy, and a glafs of white wine. Seafon them with pepper and fait, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Cover them down clofe, and let them flew till tender. Then take up the rabbits, drain the fauce, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the rabbits. Portuguefe Rabbits. TRUSS your rabbits chicken fafhion, the heads cut off, and the rabbit turned with the back upwards, two of the legs dripped to the claw-end, and fo truffed with two fkeweis. Lard them, and road them, and put what fauce you pleafe to them. To make a Chicken Pie. HAVING covered the bottom of your difh with a puffpade, upon that, round the Tides, lay a thin layer of forcemeat. Cut two fmall chickens J intoDIFFERENT methods of dressing poultry. 137 into pieces, and feafon them high with pepper and fait. Put fome of the pieces into the difh, then a fweetbread or two cut into pieces, and well feafoned ; a few truffles and morels, fome arti- choke bottoms quartered, yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped a little, and ftrewed over the top. Then put in a little water, and cover the pie. When it comes from the oven, pour in a rich gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. You may add frefli mufhrooms, afparagus tops, and cockfcombsjif youwilh to make your pie richer. Another Method. - • SEASON your chickens with pepper, fait, and mace. Put a piece of butter into each of them, and lay them in the difh with their breads upwards. Lay a thin (lice of bacon over them, which will give them an agreeable flavour. Then put in a pint of ftrong gravy, and make a good puff-pafte. Put on' the lid, and bake it in a mo- derately heated oven. Duck Pie. HAVING fcalded two ducks, and made them very clean, cut off the feet, pinions, necks, and heads. Take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts, pick all clean, and fcald them. Pick out the fat of the inlide, lay a good puff-pafte cruft all over the difh, feafon the ducks, both infide and out, with pepper and fait, and lay them in the difh, with the giblets at each end, properly feafoned. Put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crufl, and let it be well baked. A Goofe Pie. HAVING quartered your goofe, feafon it well with pepper and fait, and lay it in a raifed cruft. Cut half a pound of butter into pieces, and138 different methods of dressing poultry. and put it in different places on the top. Then lay on the cruft, and fend it to a moderately heated oven to bake. Another Method. BONE a goofe and a fowl, and feafon them well. Put forcemeat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goofe. Lay thefe in a raifcd cruft, and fill the corners with a little forcemeat. Put half a pound of butter cut into pieces on the top, cover it, fend it to the oven, and let it be well baked. This pie may be eaten either hot or cold. A Gihlet Pie. CLEAN two pair of giblets well, and put all but the livers into a faucepan, with two quarts of water, twenty corns of whole pepper, three blades of mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a large onion. Cover them clofe, and let them ftew very gently till they be tender. Cover your difli with a good cruft, lay at the bottom a fine rump fteak, feafoned with pepper and fait. Put in your giblets, with the livers, and ftrain the liquor they were ftewcd in. Then feafon it with fait, and pour it into your pie. Put on the lid, and bake it half an hour. A Pigeon Pie. HAVING picked and cleaned’your pigeons very nicely, and feafoned them with pepper and fait, put a large piece of butter, with pepper and fait, into each of their bellies. Then cover your difli with a puft-pafte cruft, lay in your pi- geons, and put between them the necks, gizzards, livers, pinions, and hearts, with the yolk of a hard egg, and a beef fteak in the middle. Put asdifferent methods of dressing poultry. 139 as much water as will nearly fill the difh, lay 011 the top-cruft, and bake it well. A Rabbit Pie. OUARTER a couple of young rabbits; take a quarter of a pound of bacon, and pound it in a marble mortar, with the livers, fome pepper, fait, a little mace, fome parfley cut fmall, fome chives, and a few leaves of fweet bafil. When thefe are all finely beaten, make the pafte, and cover the bottom of the pie with the feafoning. Then put in the rabbits, pound more bacon in a mor- tar, and with it fome frefli butter. Cover the rabbits with this, and lay over it fome thin flices of bacon. Put on the lid, and fend it to the oven. It will take two hours baking. When it is done, remove the lid, take out the bacon, and feum off the fat. If there is not gravy enough in the pie, pour in fome rich mutton or veal gravy boiling hot. Another Method. TAKE two rabbits, cut them into pieces, alfo cut fmall two pounds of fat pork, and feafon both with pepper and fait to your tafte. Then make a good puff-pafte cruft, cover your difh with it, and lay in your rabbits. Mix the pork with them ; but leave out the livers of the rabbits, parboil them, and beat them in a mortar, with the fame quantity of fat bacon, a little fweet herbs, and fome oyfters. Seafon with pepper, fait, and nut- mug, mix it up with the yolk of an egg, and make it into little balls. Scatter them about your pie, with fome artichoke bottoms cut in dice, and fome cockfcombs,if you have them. Grate a fmall nutmeg over the meat, then pour in half a pint of red wine, and half pint of wrater. Clofe your pie, and bake it an hour and half in a quick;140 different methods of dressing game. quick but not too fierce oven. This is the me- thod of making rabbit pies in the county of Salop. CHAP. IX. The different Methods of dreffing Game, fmail Birds, (3c. To roajl a Hare. HAVING cafed your hare, and properly truffed it for dreffing, make a fluffing of a large flice of bread crumbled very fine ; put to it a quarter of a pound of beef marrow, or fuet, the like quantity of butter, the liver boiled and fhred fine, a fprig or two of winter favory, a bit of le- mon-peel, an anchovy,a little chyan pepper,andhalf a nutmeg grated. Mix thefe well together with a glafs of red wine and two eggs, put it into the belly of the hare, and few it up. When you have fpitted, and put it down to roaft, put into your dripping-pan a quart of milk, and keep balling your hare with it till there is little left. When it is nearly done, dredge it with flour, and bafte it with butter till it is properly frothed. If it is a fmall hare, it will take about an hour and half; and, if a large one, two hours. When it is done, put it Into your difh, and ferve it up with plenty of good rich gravy, and fome currant jelly warmed in a cup. Or, you may take a pint, of red wine, and put into it a quarter of a pound of fugar; fet it over a flow fire, and let it fimmer for a quarter of an hour; then take it off, and pour it into a bafon or fauceboat. Ano-different methods of dressing game. 141 Another Method of drejfmg a Hare. CASE your hare, and cut it into two juft be- low the ribs. Cut the fore quarters into pieces, and put them into a ftewpan, with a blade or two of mace, an onion ftuck with cloves, fome whole pepper, an anchovy, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Cover them with water, and let them flew gently. Make a pudding, and put it into the belly of the other part; lard and roaft it, and flour, and bade it well with butter or fmall beer. When the flew is tender, take it out with a fork into a difh, and flrain off the liquor. Put into it a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of good catchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Shake all together over the fire till it is of a good thicknefs. Then take up the roafted hare, lay it in the middle of the difh, with tfie flew round, and fauce poured over it. Put fome good gravy into a boat, and fend it to table. To few a Hare. PAUNCH and cafe your hare, cut it as for eating, and put it into a large faucepan, with three pints of beef gravy, a pint of red wane, a large onion ftuck with cloves, a bundle of winter fa- vory, a flice of horfe-radifh, two blades of beaten mace, an anchovy, a fpoonful of walnut catchup, one of browning, half a lemon, and chyan and fait to your tafle. Put on a clofe cover, fet it over a gentle fire, and flew it for two hours. Then take it up into a foup difh, and thicken your gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Boil it a little, and {train it over your hare. Gar- nifli with lemon cut like ftraws. To hafh a Hare. CUT your hare into fmall pieces, and if you have any of the pudding left, rub it fmall, and put. 1 to v*42 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. to it a gill of red wine, the fame quantity of water, half an anehovy chopped fine, an anchovy ftuck with four cloves, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour. Put thefe all together in a faucepan, and fet it over a flow fire, fhaking it often, fo that the whole may be equally heated. When it is thoroughly hot, for you muff take care never to let a hafh boil, as that will harden the meat, take out the onion, lay fippets in the difh, and pour your harfh over them. Hare a la Daule. CUT a hare into fix pieces, and bone and lard them with bacon. Seafon them with pep- per, fait, and mace, chopped parfley, thyme, fha- lots, and a clove of garlic. Blaze it with flices of lard, the bones, a little broth, as much of the blood as you can fave, a glafs of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Stop the pan well, and flew it on a very flow fire, or in the oven, about four hours. Then take out the bones, put the hare in a tureen, and the flices of bacon upon it. Strain the fauce, and put it to the hare, and let it cool before you ufe it. To hodge-podge a Hare. CUT your hare into pieces, as if you intended it for flewing, and put it into a pitcher, with two or three onions, a little fait and pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a piece of butter. Stop the pitchervery clofe, to prevent the fleam from getting ont, fet it in a kettle full of boiling water, keep the kettle filled up as the water wafles, and let it flew four or five hours. You may, if you choofe it, when you put the hare into the kettle, put in a lettuce, cucumbers, turnips, and celery.DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. 143 To jug a Ilare. THIS is done in nearly the fame manner as the above, with this difference only, that fome people lard the hare, here and there, with bacon. A Hare Civet. HAVING boned your hare, and taken out all the finews, cut one half in .thin dices, and the other half in pieces an inch long. Flour them, and fry them with/a little butter. In the mean time, make fome gravy with the bones of the hare and a little beef. Put a pint of it into the pan to the hare, fome mudard, and a little elder vi- negar. Cover it clofe, and let it do foftly till it is as thick as cream, and then difh it up, with the head in the middle. To fcare a Hare. TAKE a hare and lard it, put a pudding into its belly, and put it into a pot or fifh-kettle. Put to it two quarts of drong drawn gravy, one of red wine, a whole lemon cut into dices, a bundle of fweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, fait, and fix cloves. Cover it clofe, and dew it over a dow fire till it is three parts done. Then take it up, put it into a difh, and drew it over wirh crumbs of bread, fweet herbs chopped fine, fome lemon-peel grated, and half a nutmeg. Set it before the fire, and bade it till it is of a fine light brown. In the mean time, take the fat off your gravy, and thicken it with the yolk of an egg. Take fix eggs boiled hard, and chopped fine, and fome pickled cu- cumbers cut very thin. Mix thefe with the fauce, pour it into the difh, and fend it up to table. Hare144 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME, Hare Cake in Jelly. BONE your hare, and pick out the finews. Put to it an equal quantity of beef, and chop and pound them together. Add fomc frefh mufh- rooms, fhalot, fweet herbs, pepper, fait, and two or three eggs. Mix thefe with bacon, pickled cucumbers cut like dice, and put it into a mould v fheeted with flices of bacon. Cover it, bake it in a moderate oven, and when cold, turn it out. In the mean time, take a pound and half of fcrag of veal, a flice of ham, two or three cloves, a lit- tle nutmeg', fome fweet herbs, a carrot or two, fome fhalot, an ounce of ifmglafs, and fome beef broth. Stew this till it comes to a jelly, then pafs it through a fine fieve, and then through a bag. Add to it fome lemon-juice. Then pour this jelly over your hare. To collar a Hare. HAVING boned your hare, lard it with thick pieces of bacon, and feafon it with fpices and fait. You may put into it a forcemeat, or not, juft as you like.- Roll it up very tight, and tie it faft together. Braze it with flices of veal, half a pint of white wine, a pint of broth, and cover it over with flices of bacon. You may put fuch meat and feafoning to make jelly of the braze afterwards as you like. Serve up the hare cold with it, either whole or in flices. To pot a Hare. CASE ypur hare, and wafh it perfectly clean. Then cut it up as you do for eating, put it into a pot, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and mace. Put on it a pound of butter, lie it down clofe, and bake it in a bread oven. When it comes out, pick the meat clean from the bones, and pounddifferent methods of dressing game. 145 it very fine in a mortar, with the fat from your gravy. Then put it clofe down in your pots, and pour clarified butter upon it. To drefs a Leveret Kid-Fajliion. PUT a large leveret, for about three hours, into a warm marinade, made of water, vinegar, butter, flour, pepper, chopped parfley, flialots, di- ced onions, thyme, bafil, lemon-peel, and cloves. Then roaft it, and bafte it with fome of the mari- nade. Strain the remainder, mix it with a little cullis, put it into a fauceboat, and ferve up the leveret. To roajl a Pheafant. HAVING fpitted and laid your pheafant down to roaft, duft it with flour, and bafte it often with frefh butter,keeping it at a good diftance from the fire, and about half an hour will roaft it. Make your gravy of a fcrag of mutton, and put into the faucepan with it, a tea-fpoonfu! of lemon- pickle, a large fpoonful of catchup, and the fame of browning. Strain it, and put a little into the difli with the bird. Serve it up with the remainder in one bafon, and bread fauce in another. You may put one of the principal feathers of the phea- fant in the tail, by way of ornament. Partridges are drefled in the fame manner. Pheafants a la Mangelas. CUT the pinions of a large pheafant as for roafting, make a good forcemeat, put it into your pheafant, and fpit it, with fome lards of bacon, and paper it. Having nicely roafted it, prepare the following fauce. Take fome fat livers of turkies or fowls, blanch them till they are tho- roughly done, and then pound them to a pafte. Put to it fome gravy and cullis, and mix it well L to-146 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. together. Cut off the flcfh of the pheafant, flice it very thin, and prefeve the carcafe hot. Put into your fauce, which you mud make of a pro- per thicknefs, a little pepper, fait, fome minced parfley, and the juice of two or three oranges. Pour this hafh over the bread, garnifh with oranges quartered, and fend it up to table. To boil a Pheafant. YOUR pheafant muft be boiled in plenty of water; and, if it is a fmall one, half an hour will do it, but if a large one, it will take three quar- ters. For fauce, dew fome heads of celery cut very fine, thickened with cream, and a fmall piece of butter rolled in dour. Seafon it with fait to your palate. When the bird is done, pour the fauce over it, garnifii with thin dices of lemon, and ferve it up. Pheafants a I’ltalienne. I F only one pheafant is to be dreffed, take only half a dozen oyders, parboil them, and put them into a dewpan, with the liver cut fmall, a piece of butter, fome green onions, fome pardey, pepper, fait, fweet herbs, and a little all— fpice. Let them dand a very little time over the fire, and then duff the pheafant with it. Put it into a dewpan, with fome oil, green onions, par- dey, fweet bafil, and lemon-juice, for a few mi- nutes. Then take them off, cover the pheafant with dices of bacon, put it on a fpit; and tie fome paper round it. In the mean time, dew fome oyf- ters in their own liquor. Put into a dewpan the yolks of fours eggs beaten up, half a lemon cut into fmall dice, a little beajten pepper, fcraped nutmeg, a little pardey cut fmall, an anchovy minced, a little oil, a glafs of white wine, a piece of butter, and a little ham cullis. Put the fauce o onDIFFERENT METHODS OE DRESSING GAME. 147 on the fire to thicken, but take care it does not burn, then put in the oyfters, and feafon it to your tafte. When your pheafant is done, lay it in the dilb, pour your fauce over it, and ferve it up. To Jlew Plieafants. PUT your pheafant into a ftewpan with as much veal broth as will cover it, and let it flew till there is juft enough liquor left for fauce. Then fkim it, and put in artichoke bottoms parboiled, a little beaten mace, a glafs of wine, and fome pepper and fait. If it is not thick enough, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and fqueeze in a little lemon-juice. Take up your pheafant, pour the fauce over it, and put forcemeat balls into the dilh. Pheafants a la Braze. COVER the bottom of your ftewpan with a layer of beef, a layer of veal, a fmall piece of bacon, part of a carrot, an onion ftuck with cloves, a blade or two of mace, a fpoonful of black and white pepper, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Then put in your pheafant, and cover it with a layer of beef and veal, and a fweetbread. Set it on the fire for five or fix minutes, and then pour in two quarts of boiling gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it flew an hour and a half very gently. Then take up your pheafant, and keep it hot. Let the gravy boil till it is reduced to about a pint, then ftrain it off, and put it in again. Put in the veal fweet- bread that was ftewed with the pheafant, fome truffles and morels, the livers of fowls, artichoke bottoms, and fome afparagus tops, if you have any. Let thefe fimmer in the gravy five or fix minutes, and then add two fpoonfuls of catchup, a fpoonful of browning, and a little piece of butter rolled in flour. Shake all together, then put in your phea- L 2 fant,I4S DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. fant, with a few mufhrooms, and let them flew about five or fix minutes more. Take up your pheafant, pour the ragoo over it, lay forcemeat balls round it, garnilh with lemon, and fcrve it up. Partridges in Panes. TAKE two roafted partridges, and the flcfh of a large fowl, a little parboiled bacon, fome mar- row or fuet finely chopped, a few mufhrooms and morels cut very fine, fome truffles, and artichoke bottoms. Seafon them with beaten mace, fait, pepper, a little nutmeg, fweet herbs chopped fine, and a crumb of a twopenny loaf foaked in hot gravy. Mix all well together, with the yolks of two eggs, and make your panes on paper, of a round figure, and the thicknefs of an egg, at a proper diftance from one another. Dip the point of a knife in the yolk of an egg, in order to fhape them, bread them neatly, and bake them a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. Obferve to boil the truffles and morels tender in the gravy you foak the bread in. Partridges a la Braze. TRUSS the legs into the bodies of two brace of partridges, lard them, and feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace. Lay flices of bacon at the bottom of a ftewpan, then flices of beef and veal, all cut thin, a piece of carrot, an onion cut fimall, a bundle of fweet herbs, and fome whole pepper. Put in the partridges with their breafts downwards, lay fome thin flices of beef and veal over them, and fome parfley finely chopped. Cover them, and let them flew eight or ten minutes over a flow fire ; then give your pan a fhake, and pour in a pint of boiling water. Cover it clofe again, and let it flew half an hourover alittle quicker fire. Then take out your birds, and keep them hot. , ' Pourdifferent methods of dressing game. 149 Pour into the panapintof thin gravy, let it boil till it is about half reduced, then {train it off, and (kim off all the fat. In the mean time, cut a veal fweet- bread fmall, take fome truffles and morels, and fowls livers ftewed in a pint of good gravy half an hour, fome artichoke bottoms and afparagus tops, both blanched in warm water, and a few mufti- rooms. Then add your other gravy to this, and put in the partridges to heat. If it is not thick enough, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. When thoroughly hot, put your partridges into the difh, pour the fauce over them, and ferve them up. s Partridges rolled. HAVING larded young partridges with ham or bacon, ftrew over them fome pepper and fait, fome beaten mace, fhred lemon-peel, and fweet herbs cut fmall. Take fome thin beef {leaks, but without holes in them, and ftrew over them fome of the feafoning. Then fqueeze on them fome lemon juice, lay a partridge upon each fteak, roll it up, and tie it round to keep it together. Set on a ftewpan with fome flices of bacon, and an onion cut into pieces. Lay the partridges care- fully in, put to them fome rich gravy, and let them ftew gently till they are done. Then take the par- tridges out of the beef, lay them in a difh, and pour over them fome rich effence of ham. To ragoo Partridges. TRUSS your partridges, and roaft them, with- out making ufe of any flour. Make a fauce of the livers pounded, and add two or three chickens livers. Put them into a ftewpan with a green onion or two, a mufhroom, fome parfley, pepper, and fait. Boil all in cullis a few minutes, and ftrain them. Cut the partridges as for a fricaffee, and put them to the fauce. Let it boil juft long L 3 enough.150 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. enough to heat the meat through. Put in a little orange peel, a bit of minced fhalot, and a little parfley. Squeeze in a good deal of orange juice, difh it up, and garnifli with oranges quartered. To boil Partridges. BOIL them quick in plenty of water, and fifteen minutes will do them. For fauce, take a quarter of a pint of cream, and a piece of frefh butter about the fize of a walnut. Stir it one way till it is melted, and then pour it over the birds. Partridges with Confbmmee Sauce. H AVING truffed your partridges as for boil- ing, put them into a ftewpan, with flices of veal and bacon above and below them, a flice of ham, a bundle of fweet herbs, three cloves, and fliced onions and carrots. Braze on a very flow fire, and, when it is done, ftrain and fkim the fauce, and pour it on the partridges. Partridges en Afpic. TAKE fome fhalots, parfley, tarragon, chives, garden crefles, a little bafil, a clove of garlic, and an anchovy, all well chopped. Mix thefe with muflard, oil, vinegar, pepper, and fait. If you ferve the partridges whole, ferve the fauce cold in fauceboat. If hot, cut the partridges as for a hafh, and warm them in a little broth. Then put them to the f^uce, and warm them together with- out boiling. You may alfo mix it in the fame manner cold. If cold, it will be better mixed an hour or more before uflng. ToJlew Partridges. F TRUSS your partridges in the fame manner as for roafting, fluff the craws, and lard them down each fide of the breaft. Then roll a piece of but- terdifferent methods of dressing game. 151 ter in pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies of the birds. Sew up the vents, dredge them well with flour, and fry them of a fine light brown. Put them into a ftewpan .with a quart of good gravy, a fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of catchup, a tea-fpoonful of lemon- pickle, half the quantity of mufhroom powder, an anchovy, half a lemon, and a fprig of fweet mar- joram. ' Cover the pan clofe, and flew them half an hour; then take them out, and thicken the gravy. Boil it a little, and pour it over the par- tridges. Lay round them artichoke bottoms boiled and quartered, and the yolks of four hard eggs. You may flew woodcocks in the fame way. Partridges broiled with fweet Herbs. H AVI N G trufiTed your partridges as for boil- ing, fplitthem down the back, and marinade them about an hour, in a little oil, pepper and fait, and all forts of fweet herbs chopped. Then roll them in paper, with all the feafoning, and broil them {lowly. When they are done, take off the paper, mix the herbs with a little good cullis, add the fqueeze of a lemon, and ferve it up with the birds. To roajl Woodcocks or Snipes. THESE birds are fo peculiar from all others, that they muff never be drawn for roading. Having fpitted them, <take the round of a three-penny loaf, and toad it nicely brown. Then lay it in a difli under the birds; and when you put them to the fire, bade them with a little butter, and let the trail, or gut, drop on the toad. When they are done, put the toad in the difh, and lay the birds on it. Pour about a quarter of a pint of gravy into the difh, and fet it over a lamp or chaling- difh for three or four minutes, and fend them up L 4 hot152 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DR ESS I NG GAME. hot to table. A woodcock will take about twenty minutes roafting, and a fnipe fifteen. To boil Woodcocks or Snipes. C U T a pound of lean beef into fmall pieces, and put them into two quarts of water, with an onion, a bundle of fweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, fix cloves, and fome whole pepper. Cover it clofe, and let it boil till it is half wafted. Then ftrain it off, and put the gravy into a faucepan, with fait enough to feafon it. Draw the birds clean ; but take particular care of the guts. Put the birds into the gravy, cover them clofe, and ten minutes will boil them. In the mean time, cut the guts and liver fmall, take a little of the gravy the birds are boiled in, and ftew the guts in it with a blade of mace. Take about as much crumb of bread as the infide of a roll, and rub or grate it very fmall into a clean cloth; then put it into a pan with fome butter, and fry it till it is crifp, and of a fine light brown. When your birds are ready, take about half a pint of the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the guts two fpoonfuls of red wine, and a piece of butter, about the fize of a walnut, rolled in flour. Set them on the fire, and brake your faucepan frequently till the butter is melted, but do not ftir it with a fpoon. Then put in the fried crumbs, give the faucepan another brake, take up your birds, lay them in the difh, and pour your fauce over them. Garnifh with biced lemon, and fend them up to table. To hajh a Woodcock. HAVING cut up your woodcock as for eating, work the entrails very fine with the back of a fpoon, and mix it with a fpoonful of red wine, the fame of water, and half a fpoonful of allegar. Cut an onion into flices, pull it into rings, and roll a little butterdifferent methods of dressing game. 153 in flour. Put them all into your toffing-pan, and fliake it over the fire till it boils. Then put in your bird, and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it in your difh, with fippets round it. Strain the fauce over the woodcock, and lay the onions in rings. A partridge may be hafhed the fame way. Woodcocks or Snipes en Surtout. MAKE a forcemeat of veal, as much beef fuet chopped and beaten in a mortar, with an equal quantity of crumbs of bread. Mix in a little beat- en mace, pepper and fait, fome parfley, a few fweet herbs, and the yolk of an egg. Lay fome of this meat round the difh, and then put in the birds, being firft drawn and half roafted. Take care of the trail, chop it, and fcatter it all over the difh. Take fome good gravy, according to the fize of your furtout, fome truffles and morels, a few mufh- rooms, a fweetbread cut into pieces, and artichoke bottoms cut fmall. Let all flew together, fliake them. Take the yolks of two or three eggs, beat them up with a fpoonful or two of white wine, and ftirall together one way. When it is thick, take it off, let it cool, and pour it into the furtout. Put in the yolks of a few hard eggs here and there, fea- fon with beaten mace, pepper, and fait, to your tafte. Cover it all over with the forcemeat, then rub on the yolks of eggs to colour it, and fend it to the oven. Half an hour will fufriciently do it. Snipes drejfed -with Purjlain Leaves. DRAW your fnipes, and make a forcemeat for the infide; but referve your ropes for your fauce. Put them acrofs upon a lark-fpit, covered with bacon and paper, and roafl them gently. For fauce, take fome prime thick leaves of purflain, blanch them well in water, put them into a ladle of culjis and gravy, a bit of fhalot, pepper, fait, nutmeg,154 different methods op dressing game. — \ nutmeg, and parfley, and flew all together for half an hour gently. Have the ropes ready blanched, and put them in, difh up your fnipes upon thin dices of bread fried, fqueeze the juice of an orange into your fauce, and fend them up to table. Snipes Duchefs-Fafhion. HAVING Jplit the fnipes at the back, make a forcemeat of the infide, with a few chopped capers, parfley, fhalots, mufhrooms, pepper, fait, two chopped anchovies, and a piece of butter. Stuff them with it, few them up clofe, and braze them. While brazing, add a little good cullis and red wine. When done, fkim and drain the fauce. If it is not thick enough, add a little butter rolled in flour, and ferve it up with the fnipes. Snipes in Salmy. TRUSS them, and half road them, without flour. Cut them in pieces as for a fricaffee, and take care to fecure all the indde, except the giz- zards and galls, which you mud be careful to take clean away ; but pound the ropes, livers, &c. to a pade, with a little fhalot, green onion and par- fley, pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Put in a ladle of your cullis, a glafs of red wine, pafs it through a fieve, and pour it into a dewpan to your meat. Let it dew very gently three quarters of an hour; throw in a little minced parfley, the juice of an orange, and ferve it up, garnifhed with fried bread, and l'ome bits in the difh. All forts of birds, that are not drawn, may be treated in the fame manner. To drefs Ruffs and Reifs. THESE birds, which are principally found in Lincolnfhire, may be fatted, like chickens, with bread, milk, and fugar. They fatten very fad, and will die with fat if not killed at the proper time. Drawdifferent methods of dressing game. 155 Draw and trufs them crofs-legged, like fnipes, and then roaft them. For fauce, have fome good gravy thickened with butter, and put a toaft under them. To drefs Plovers. ROAST green plovers like a woodcock, with- out drawing, and let the trail run upon a toaft. Have good gravy for fauce. Grey plovers mult be ftewed. Make a forcemeat for them with the yolks of two hard eggs bruifed, fome marrow cut fine, artichoke bottoms cut fmall, and fweet herbs, feafoned with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Stuff the birds, then put them into a faucepan with good gravy fufficient to cover them ; then put in a glafs of white wine, and a blade of mace. Cover them clofe, and let them ftew very gently till they are tender. Then take up the plovers, lay them in a difh, keep them hot, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken the fauce. Let it boil till it is fmooth, fqueeze into it a little lemon, fkim it clean, and pour it over the birds. Plovers drejfed Perigord-Fa/hion. H AVING truffed them as chickens or pigeons for ftewing, braze them in a good braze, and when it is done, (kim and (train the braze. You may alfo fluff and roaft them as partridges. Sec. Thrufhes and lapwings may be dreffed in the fame manner, and fent up to table with a cullis fauce. Quails and Ortolans. THESE birds may be fpitted fideways, and roaftedwith a vine leaf between them. Bafte them with butter, and when they are ready, ferve them up with fried crumbs of bread round the difh. Larks156 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSINC GAME. Larks a la Fran^oije. TRUSS your larks with the legs acrofs, and put afageleaf over their breads. Put tjhem upon a long thin fkewer, and between every lark put a piece of thin bacon. Then tie the fkewer to a ip it, and road them at a brifk clear fire. Bade them with butter, and drew over them fome crumbs of'bread mixed with flour. Fry fome bread crumbs of a fine brown in butter. Lay the larks round the difh, and the bread crumbs in the middle. To rag00 Larks. HAVING fried your larks with an onion duck with cloves, and a few truffles and muflirooms, pour off the fat, and fhake over them a little dour. Put to them fome good gravy, and dew them till they are enough. If there be any fat, fkim it off. Put to it fome lemon juice, and pepper and fait to your tade. Other fmall birds may be dreffed the fame way. Small Birds in favoury Jelly. TAKE eight fmall birds, with their heads and feet on, and put a good piece of butter into each of their bellies. Put them into a jug, and cover it clofewith a cloth, and fet in a kettle of boiling water till the birds are enough. Drain them, and make your jelly as before, and put a little into a bafon. When it is fet, lay in three birds with their breads downwards, and cover them with the jelly. When that is fet, put in the other five, with their heads in the middle, and proceed in the fame man- ner as direfted before for chickens. A Hare Pic. HAVING cut your hare into pieces, feafon it well with pepper, fait,, nutmeg, and mace. Then put.DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. i 57 To put it into a jug with half a pound of butter, clofe it up, and fet it into a copper of boiling water. Make a rich forcemeat with a quarter of a pound of fcraped bacon, two onions, a glafs of red wine, the crumb of a penny loaf, a little winter favory, the liver cut fmall, and a little nutmeg. Seafon it high with pepper and fait, and mix it well up with the yolks of three eggs. Raife the pie, and lay the forcemeat at the bottom of the difh. Then put in the hare, with the gravy that came out of it; put on the lid, and fend it to the oven. It will require an hour and a half baking. A Partridge Pie. TRUSS two brace of partridges in the fame manner as you do a fowl for boiling. Put fome fhalots into a marble mortar, with fome parfley cut fmall, the liver of the partridges, and twice the quantity of bacon. Beat thefe well together, and feafon them with pepper, fait, and a blade or two of mace. When thefe are all pounded to a pafte, add to them fome frefh mufhrooms. Raife the cruft for the pie, and cover the bottom of it with the feafoning. Then lay the partridges, without any ftuffing in them, and put the remainder of the feafoning about the fides, and between the par- tridges. Mix together fome pepper and fait, a little mace, fome fhalots fhred fine, frefh mufh- rooms, and a little bacon beat fine in a mortar. Strew this over the partridges, and lay on fome thin dices of bacon. Then put on the lid, fend it to the oven, and two hours will bake it. When it is done, remove the lid, take out the flices of bacon, and fkim off the fat. Pour in a pint of rich veal gravy, fqueeze in the juice of an orange, and fend it hot to table.358 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING GAME. To make a Venifon Pajly. BONE a neck and bread of venifon, and feafon them well with pepper and fait. Put them into a deep pan, with the belt part of a neck of mutton fliced and laid over them. Pour in a glafs of red wine, put a coarfe palte over it, and bake it two hours. Then lay the venifon in a difh, pour the gravy over it, and put on it a pound of butter. Make a good puff-palte, and lay it near half an inch thick round the edge of the difli. Roll out the lid, which mult be a little thicker than the palte on the edge of the difh, and lay it on. Then roll out another lid pretty thin, and cut it into flowers, leaves, or whatever form you pleafe, and lay it on the lid. It may be eaten either hot or cold. To roajl Venifon. AS foon as you have fpitted your venifon, lay over it a large flieet of paper, and then a thin common palte, with another paper over that. Tie it fait, that the palte may not drop off; and, if the haunch be a large one, it will take four hours roalting. As foon as it is done enough, take off * both paper and palte, dredge it well with flour, and balte it with butter. As foon as it becomes of a light brown, difli it up with brown gravy, or currant jelly fauce, and fend up fome in a boat. CHAP.[ >59 ] CHAP. X. The different Methods of dr effing Fijli, Salmon a la Braze. SLIT a large eel open, take out the bone, and the meat quite clean from it. Chop it fine with two anchovies, fome lemon-peel cut fine, a little ' pepper and grated nutmeg, with fome parfiey and thyme cut fmall, and the yolk of an egg boiled hard. Mix them all together, and roll them up in a piece of butter. Then take a large piece of fine falmon, or a falmon-trout, and put this force- meat into the belly of the fifh. Sew it up, and lay it in an oval ftewpan that will juft hold it. Then put half a pound of frefh butter into a ftew- pan, and when it is melted, fhake in a little flour. Stir it till it is a little brown, and then put to it a pint of fifh broth, and a pint of Madeira. Sea- fon it with pepper, fait, mace, and cloves, and put in an onion, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Stir it all together, and put it to the fifh. Cover it very clofe, and let it flew. When the fifh is al- moft done, put in fome frefli and pickled mufli- rooms, truffles, or morels, cut in pieces, and let them ftew till the fifh is quite done. Take up the falmon carefully, lay it in a difli, and put the fauce over it. To broil Salmon. » HAVING cut your falmon into thick pieces, flour and broil them. Lay them in your difh, and ferve them up with plain melted butter in a boat. Salmon with fweet Herbs. MIX a piece of butter with fome chopped parfley, flialots, fweet herbs, mufhrooms, pepper, andl6o DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. and fait. Put fome of this in the bottom of the difli you intend to fend to table, then fomc thin flices of falmon upon it, and the remainder of the butter and herbs upon the falmon. Strew it over with bread crumbs, then bafte it with butter, and bake it in the oven. When it is enough, drain the fat from it, and ferve it up with a clear relifh- ing fauce. To roll Salmon. TAKE a fide of falmon, when fplit, the bone taken out, and fcalded. Strew over the infide fome pepper, fait, nutmeg, mace, a few chopped oyfters, parflcy, and crumbs of bread. Roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick oven. Make the common fifh fauce, and pour over it. To drefs dried Salmon. LAY your dried falmon in foak two or three hours, then lay it on the gridiron, and Ikake a little pepper over it. Ufe what fauce you like. To Jlcw a Cod. Seafon fome dices of cod with grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, a bunch of fweet herbs, and an oni- on ftuck with cloves. Put them into a ftewpan, with half a pint of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water. Cover them clofe, and let them fimmer five or fix minutes. Then fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, put in a few oyfters, and their liquor (trained, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a blade or two of mace. Cover them clofe, and let them ftew foftly. Shake the pan of- ten, to prevent its burning. When the fifh is enough, take out the onions and fweet herbs, lay the cod in a warm difli, pour the fauce over it, and fend it up to table. Cod’sDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. l6l To M Cod’s Head and Shoulders. TAKE out the gills, and the blood clean from the bone. Wafh the head very clean, rub over it a little fait and a glafs of allegar, and then lay it on your fifh-plate. Throw a good handful of fait into your water when it boils, with a glafs of allegar; then put in your fifh, and let it boil gently for half an hour ; if it be a large one, it will take three quarters of an hour. Take it up very carefully, and (trip off the fkin very nice- ly. Set it before a brifk fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafte it well with butter. When the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white bread crumbs. You mull keep balling it all the time to make the froth rife well. When it is of a fine white brown, difh it up, and gar- nilh it with a lemon cut in dices, fcraped horfe- radifh, barberries, a few fmall fifh fried and laid round it, or fried oyfters. Cut the roe and liver into dices, and lay over it a little of the lobfter in lumps out of the fauce, and then fend it up to table. To crimp Cod. HAVING cut a frefli cod into dices, put it into pump water and fait. Almoft fill a fifli-kettle with fpring water, put in fait enough to make it tafte brackifli, and then fet it over a dove. Make it boil quick, then put in the dices of cod, and keep them boiling, and fltim them very clean. Having let them boil eight or ten minutes, take them out, and lay them on a fifli-plate. You may ferve them up either with fhrimp or oyfter* fauce.l62 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH* To broil Cod. CUT a cod into dices of about two inches thick, and dry them and flour them well. Make a good clear fire, rub the gridiron with a piece of chalk, and let it high from the fire. Turn them often till they are quite enough, and of a fine brown ; but take very great care that you do not break them. You may fend them up with lobfler or fhrimp fauce. FreJIi Cod with fweet Herbs. HAVING cut a fmall cod into five or fix pieces, bone it, and marinade it with melted butter, the juice of a lemon, chopped parfley, fhalots, and fweet herbs. Then lay it on the difh you intend for table, with all the marinade both under and over, and ftrew it over with bread crumbs. Bafte it with melted butter, bake it in the oven, and ferve it with any fauce you like belt. To drefs fait Cold. PUT your fifli all night into water to foak, and, if you put a glafs of vinegar to it, it will draw out the fait and make it eat frefli. Boil it the next day, and when it is enough, break it into flakes on the difh. Pour over it parfnips boiled and beat fine with butter and cream, though egg fauce is more generally ufed. To drefs Cod Sounds. STEEP them as you do the fait cod, and boil them in a large quantity of milk and water. When they are very tender and white, take them up, and drain the water out. Then pour the egg fauce boiling hot over them, and fend them up to table.different methods of dressing, fish, x6g M a To To fricajfee Cod Sounds. CLEAN them well, and cut them into little pieces. Then boil them tender in milk and wa- ter, and fet them to drain. Then put them into a clean faucepan, feafon them with a little beaten mace and grated nutmeg, and a very little fait. Pour to them juft cream enough for fauce, and a good piece of butter rolled in flour. Keep fhak- ing your faucepan round all the time, till it is thick enough ; then garniih with lemon, and fend it up to table. To drefs a Turbot -with Capers. HAVING wafhed and dried a fmall turbot well, put into a ftewpan fome thyme, parfley, fweet herbs, and an onion fliced. Then lay the turbot into the ftewpan, which fhould be juft large enough to hold it, and ftrew over the fifh the fame herbs that are under it, with fome chives and fweet bafil. Then pour in an equal quantity of white wine, and white wine vinegar, till the fifh is covered. Strew in a little bay fait, with fome whole pepper, and fet the ftewpan over a gentle ftove, encreafing the heat by degrees, till it is enough. Then take it off the fire, but do not take out the turbot. Set a faucepan on the fire with a pound of butter, two anchovies fplit, boned, and wafhed ; two large fpoonfuls of capers cut final], fome whole chives, a little pepper, fait, grated nutmeg, a little flour, a fpoonful of vine- garland a little water. Set the faucepan over the ftove, and keep fhaking it round for fome time. Having then put on the turbot to make it hot, put it into a difh, and pour fome of the fauce over it. Lay horfe-radifh round it, and pour what fauce remains into a boat. In the fame way you may drefs foies, flounders, large plaice or dabs.164 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. To bake a Turbot. RUB butter thick all over a difh about the fize of the turbot, and throw in a little fait, fome beaten pepper, half a large nutmeg, and fome parlley finely mixed. Pour in a pint of white wine, cut off the head and tail, lay the turbot in the difh, pour another pint of white wine over all, grate the other half of the nutmeg over it, and a little pepper, fome fait, and chopped parfley. Lay a piece of butter in different places, throw on a little flour, and then a good many crumbs of bread. Bake it till it is of a fine brown, then lay it in your difh. Stir the fauce all together, pour it into a faucepan, fliake in a little flour, and let it boil. Then flir in a piece of butter, and two fpoonfuls of catchup, and when it has boiled, pour it into your bafons, and l'erve it up. To fry Trout. HAVING fcaled, gutted, and wafhed them well, dry them, and lay them feparately on a board before the fire. Dull them well with flour a few minutes before you fry them, and do them of a fine brown in roafl dripping, or rendered fuet. Serve them up with melted butter and crifped parfley. Perch are fried in the fame manner. To few Trout. ' S T U F F a final 1 trout with grated bread, a piece of butter, chopped parfley, lemon-peel grated, pepper, fait, nutmeg, favoury herbs, and yolks of eggs, all mixed together. Put it into a flewpan, with a quart of good boiled gravy, fome Madeira, an onion, a little whole pepper, a fi‘w cloves, and a piece of lemon-peel. Stew it in this gently till it is enough, and then add a little 0 flour 1different methods of dressing fish 165 M 3 To flour mixed with fome cream, and a little catchup. Give it a boil, and fqueeze in fome lemon-juice. To marinade Trout. FRY your trout in oil fufficient to cover them, and put them in when the oil is boiling hot. When they are crifp, lay them to drain till they are cold, and then take fome white wine and vine- gar, of each an equal quantity, with fome fait, whole pepper, nutmeg, cloves, mace, diced ginger, fa- vory, fweet marjoram, thyme, rofemary, and two onions. Let thefe boil together a quarter of an ' hour. Then put the fifh into a ftewpan, pour the marianade hot to them, and put in as much oil as - white wine and vinegar, which mult be according to the quantity of your fidi, as the liquor mult cover them. Serve them up with oil and vinegar. They will keep a month done in this manner. To drefs Carp. S A V E the blood when you kill your carp, and fcale and clean them well. Have ready fome rich gravy made of beef and mutton, fea- foned with pepper, fait, mace, and onion. Strain it off before you ftew your fidi in it, and boil your carp before you dew it in the gravy ; but take care not to boil them too much before you put them into the gravy. Let it ftew on a dow lire about a quarter of an hour, and thicken the fauce with a good lump of butter rolled in dour. Gar- nidi your dilh with fried oyfters, fried toafts cut into angles, pieces of lemon, fcraped horfe-radidt, and the roes of the carp cut into pieces, fome fried, and others boiled. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the fauce juft before you fend it up to table.l66 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH, To fry Carp. HAVING fcaled, gutted, and cleaned a brace of carp, dry them well in a cloth, flour them, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and do them of a fine brown. Fry the roes, and fry fome thin flices of bread cut cornerwife. Lay the fifh on a coarfe cloth to drain, then put them into the difh, with the roes on each fide, and the toafl between. You may ferve them up with anchovy fauce. To few Carp. SCALE, gut, and wafh your carp. Put them into a ftewpan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, whole pepper, a little fait, two onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a flick of horfe-radifh. Cover the pan clofe, and let it fland an hour and a half over a flow fire. Then put a gill of white wine into a faucepan, with two anchovies chopped, an onion, a little lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, a lit- tle thick cream, and a large teacup of the liquor the carp was ftewed in. Boil them a few minutes, drain the carp, and add to the fauce the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream. When it boils up, fqueeze in the juice of half a lemon, difh up your carp, and pour your fauce hot on them. To fricaffee Carp Roes. PUT into a ftewpan a little butter, a dozen fmall mufhrooms, a flice of ham, the fqueeze of a lemon, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a flow fire, then add a little flour, and as many carp roes as you think proper, with a little good broth. Stew them about a quarter of an hour, and feafon them with pepper and fait when you put in the broth. When all is ready, thickendifferent methods of dressing fish. 167 thicken it with the yolks of two or three eggs, fome cream, and a little chopped parfley. To fry Tench. HAVING gutted, wafhed, and dried your tench well in a cloth, flit them down the back, fprinlde a little fait over them, dredge them with flour, and fry them of a fine brown in boiling lard. Make your fauce of an anchovy, mufhrooms, truffles, and capers, all chopped fmall, and ftewed in gravy, with the juice of a lemon, and a little fifh cullis. To fl.no Tench. TENCH are ftewed in the fame manner as before direfted to flew carp. To few Soals. TAKE the flefh from the bones of your foals, and cut each of them into eight pieces. Put a quart of boiled gravy into a ftewpan, a quarter of a pint of Madeira or white wine, fome white pepper pounded, grated nutmeg, and a piece of lemon-peel. Stew thefe together near an hour, and add fome cream, and a piece of butter mixed in flour. Keep the fauce ftirring till it boil, put in the fifh, and flew it a quarter of an hour. Take out the lemon-peel, and fqueeze in fome lemon-juice. The fifh may be ftewed whole in the fame fauce ; or they may be cut as before di- refted, and a little gravy made with the bones and head. To fry Soals, HAVING fealed and trimmed your foals pro- perly, fkin the black fide, and mix fome bread crumbs with a very little flour. Bafte the foals with beaten eggs, ftrew them over with the bread crumbs, and fry them of a good colour in hog’s M 4 lard.l68 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. lard. Serve them up with anchovy fauce, and garnifh with fried parfley. To marinade Soals. BOIL them in fait and water, bone and drain them, and lay them on a difh with their bellies upwards. Boil fome fpinach, and pound it in a mortar. Then boil four eggs hard, chop the yolks and whites feparate, and lay green, white, and yellow among the foals, and ferve them up with melted butter in a boat. Soals a la Franpife. SKIN and clean a pair of foals, and put them into an earthen difh, with a quart of water, and half a pint of vinegar. Let them lie two hours, and then take them out, and dry them with a cloth. Then put them into a ftewpan with a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of water, a very little thyme, a little fweet marjoram, winter favory, and an onion (luck with four cloves. Put in the foals, fprinkle in a very little bay-falt, cover them dole, and let them fimmer very gently till they are enough. Then take them out, and lay them in a warm difh before the fire. Strain the liquor, and put into it a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it boil till of a proper thicknefs. Lay the foals in a difh, and pour the fauce over them. In the fame manner you may drefs a fmall turbot, or any flat fifh. % * I To drefs Sturgeon. HAVING wafhed your fturgeon clean, lay it all night in fait and water, and the next, morning take it out, rub it well with allegar, and let it lie in it for two hours. Have ready a fifh kettle full of boiling water, with an ounce of bay fair, two large onions, and a few fprigs of fweet marjoram. Boildifferent methods of dressing fish. 169 the fturgeon till the bones will leave the fifli, then take it up, take the {kin olF, and flour it well. Set it before the fire, bafte it with frefh butter, and let it hand till it is of a fine brown. The/i difh it up, and pour into the difh. any fauce you like. To boil Sturgeon. PUT your fturgeon into as much liquid as will {few it, being half fifh-broth or water, and half white wine, with a little vinegar, flic.ed roots, oni- ons, fweet herbs, whole pepper, and fome fait. When it is done, garnifh with green parfley, and ferve it up with caper or anchovy fauce, or any other fauce you like better. To Jlew Flounders and Plaice. THESE fifli are ftewed in the fame manner as before dire6led to ftew foals. As to frying or boil- ing them, that bufinefs is too fimple to need any defcription here. To fricajfee Flounders and Plaice. EIAVING cleaned the fifh, and taken off the black fit in, but not the white, cut the flefh from the bones into long flices, and dip them into yolk of egg. Strew over them fome bread rafpings, and fry them in clarified butter. When they are enough, lay them upon a plate, and keep them hot. To make your fauce, take the bones of the fifli, and boil them in fome water. Then put in an anchovy, fome thyme, parfley, a little pepper, fait, cloves, and mace. Let thefe fimmer till the anchovy is diffolved, and then take the butter the fifli was fried in, and put it into a pan over the fire. Shake fome flour into it, and keep ftirring it while the flour isfhaking in. Then ftrain the liquor into it, and let it boil till it is thick. Squeeze fome lemon juice1JO DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. juice into it, put the fifh into a difli, and pour the fauce over them. To broil Mackarel. FIRST clean your mackarel well, then fplit them down the back, and feafon them with pepper, fait, fome mint, parfley, and fennel, all chopped very line. Flour them, and fry them of a fine light brown, and put them on a difh and flrainer. XJfe fennel and butter for fauce, and garnifh with parfley. Mackarel au Bouillon. PUT half a pint of white wine, fliced roots, onG ons, fweet herbs, pepper and fait, into a ftewpan. Boil them about half an hour, and then boil the fifh in it. Make a fauce with a piece of butter, a little flour, a flialot chopped very fine, fome fcalded fennel chopped, and a little of the boiling liquor. When it is ready to fend up to table, add the fqueeze of a lemon. To fry Whitings. HAVING waffled, gutted, and fkinned them, turn their tails into their mouths, dry them in a cloth, and flour them well all over. Fill the fry- ing-pan with lard enough to cover them, and when it boils, put them in, and fry them of a fine brown. Lay them on a coarfe cloth to drain, and then put them on a warm difh. Make fhrimp, oyfler, or anchovy fauce. To broil Whitings or Haddocks. GUT, wafh them, dry them well with a cloth, and rub a little vinegar over them, as it will keep on the fkin better. Dull them well with flour, rub your gridiron with butter, and let it be very hot when you lay on the fifh, otherwife they will flick. * »p 1 urnDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISII. I7I Turn them two or three times while doing. When they are enough, lay pickles round them, with plain melted butter, and fend them up to table. To Jlezv Pike. HAVING made a brown with butter and flour, add a pint of red wine, a bundle of herbs, four cloves, twenty-four fmall onions half boiled,pepper, and fait, and then the pike cut into pieces. Stew it (lowly till the fifh is done. Take out the bundle of herbs, and add a piece of butter.1 When it is ready to ferve, add two chopped anchovies, and a fpoonful of capers. Garnifh with fried bread, and pour the fauce over the fifh. You may add artichoke bottoms, mufhrooms, &c. if you pleafe. To fry Perch. SCALE, gut, and wafh your perch clean. Score them at fome diftance on the fides, but not very deep. Dry them well, flour them all over, and fry them in oiled butter. When they are of a fine brown, lay fome crifped parfley round the fifh, and fend them up to table with plain butter; or you may make for them the following fauce. To two ounces of browned butter put fome flour, a few chives chopped fmall, fome parfley, a few mufh- rooms cut fmall, and a little boiling water. Lay the perch in this liquor after they are fried, and let them flew gently for four or five minutes. Then lay them in a warm difii, add two large fpoonfuls of capers cut fmall, thicken it with butter and flour, and pour it over them. To drefs Perch in Water Souchy. SCALE, gut, and wafh your perch, and put fome fait into your water. When it boils, put in your fifh, with an onion cut in fliccs, and feparated into round rings, and a handful of parfley. Put in as£72 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISII. \ as much milk as will turn the water white. When the perfch is enough, put them in a foup-difh, and pour a little of the water over them, with the par- fley and the onions. Serve them up with parfley and butter in a boat. If you do not like the oni- ons, they may be omitted. Trout may be boiled in the fame manner. To Jlew Eels. HAVING fkinned, gutted, and wafhed your cels very clean in fix or eight waters, cut them in pieces about as long as your finger. Put juft water enough for fauce, and put in a fmall onion ftuck with cloves, a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, and fome whole pepper in a thin mufiin rag. Cover it clofe, and let them ftew very foftly. Put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little chopped parfley. When you find they are quite tender, and well done, take out the onion, fpice, and fweet herbs. Put in fait enough to fea- fon it, and then difh them up with the fauce. To JricaJfee Eds. SKIN three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end. Cut them into four or five pieces each, and lay them in fome fpring water for half an hour to crimp them. Dry them in a cloth, and tofs them over the fire a few minutes in a bit of frefh butter, a green onion or two, and a little par- fley minced ; but take care, that the colour of nei- ther is altered by burning your butter. Poui in about a pint of white wine, and as much good broth, fome pepper, fait, and a blade of mace. Stew all together about three quarters of an hour, and thicken it with a bit of butter and flour. Teat the yolks of four or five eggs fmooth, with two or three fpoonfuls of broth ; grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a little minced parfley. Juft before you r wantdifferent methods of dressing fisii. 173 want to ferve it up, let your eels be boiling hot, and then pour in your eggs, &c. but take care that you do not let it curdle, by keeping it too long 011 the fire after the eggs are in. Tofs it over the fire for a moment, add the juice of a lemon, and ferve it up. Tench cut in pieces may be done in the fame manner. To broil Eds. HAVING fkinned and cleanfed your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, ftrew over them bread crumbs, chopped parfley, fage, pepper, and fait. Bafte them well with butter, and fet them in a dripping-pan. Roaft or broil them, and ferve them up with parfley and butter. To fry Eds. CUT one or two eels into pieces, cut out the back-bone, and fcore it on both Tides. Marinade it about half an hour in vinegar, with parfley, fliced onions, fhalots, and four cloves. Then drain it, bafte it with eggs and bread crumbs, and fry it of a good colour. Garnifh with fried parfley, and ferve it up with a relifhing fauce. To pitdicodi Eds. HAVING fkinned, gutted, and wafhed your eels, dry them with a cloth. Sprinkle them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage, turn them backward and forward, and fkewer them. Rub your gridiron with beef fuet, broil them of a good brown, put them on your difh with melted butter, and garnilh with fried parfley. To fricajfee Skate or Thornbacks. CUT the meat from the bones, fins, &c. and make it very clean. Cut it into thin pieces about an inch broad, and two inches long, and lay them in174 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISII. in your ftcwpan. To a pound of flefh, put a quar- ter of a pint of water, a little beaten mace, grated nutmeg, a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, and a lit- tle fait. Cover it, and let it boil fifteen minutes. Then take out the fweet herbs, put in a quarter of a pint of good cream, a piece of butter the fize of a walnut, rolled in flour, and a glafs of red wine. Keep fhaking the pan all the time one way till it is thick and fmooth, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. To jricajfet Oyjlers. PUT a little butter into a ftewpan, a (lice of ham, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion ftuclc with two cloves. Stew it a little on a flow fire, then add a little flour, fome good broth, and a piece of lemon peel. Then put fcalded oyfters to it, and fimmer them a little. When it is ready, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, and a bit of good butter. Take out the ham, bundle of herbs, onion, and lemon peel, and fqueeze in a lemon. To drefs Herrings. THE general method of dreffing herrings is either to broil or fry them, and ferve them up with melted butter. Herrings with Mtijlard Sauce. HAVING gutted and wiped your herrings very clean, melt fome butter, and put to it chopped parfley, flialots, green onions, pepper, and fait. Dip the herrings in this, and roll them in bread crumbs. Then broil them, and ferve them with a fauce made of melted butter, flour, broth, a little vinegar, pepper, and fait. When done, put to them as much muftard as you think proper. Todifferent METHODS OF DRESSING riSH. 175. To fry Herrings. n- SCALE, -gut them, cut off their heads, wafli them clean, dry them in a cloth, flour them, and fry them in butter. Peel and cut thin a good many onions, and fry them of a light brown with the her- rings. Lay your herrings in the difh, and the oni- ons'*round them, and put butter and muftard in a cup. To bake Herrings. CLEAN your herrings well, lay them on a board, take a little black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, a good deal of fait, and mix them toge- ther. Rub it all over the fifli, lay them ftraight in a pot, cover them with allegar, tie ftrong paper over the pot, and bake them in a moderate oven. If your allegar is good, they will keep two or three months. They may be ferved up either hot or cold. To bake Sprats. HAVING rubbed your fprats with fait and pepper, to every two pints of vinegar put one pint of red wine. Diffolve a pennyworth of cochineal, and lay your fprats in a deep earthen difh. Pour in as much red wine, vinegar, and cochineal, as will cover them. Tie a paper over them, and fet them in an oven all night. They will keep fome time, and eat well. To make an Eel Pie. SKIN, gut, and wafh your eels very clean, and cut them into pieces about an inch and a half long. Seafon them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage rubbed fmall. Put them into a dilh with as much water as will juft; cover them. Make a good puffpafte, lay on the lid, and fend the pie to the 2 oven.Ij6 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. To oven, which muft be quick, but not fo quick as to burn the cruft. Salmon Pie. MAKE a good cruft, take a piece of frefh fal- mon, cleanfe it well, and feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg. Put a piece of butter at the bottom of your difh, and then lay in the falmon. Melt butter in proportion to the fize of your pie, and then take a lobfter, boil it, pick out all the flefh, chop it fmall, and mix it well with the butter. Pour it over your falmon, put on the lid, and bake it well. I Turbot Pie. PARBOIL your turbot, and then feafon it with a little pepper, fait, cloves, nutmeg, and fweet herbs cut fine. When you have made your pafte, lay the turbot in your difh, with fome yolks of eggs, and a whole onion, which laft muft be taken out when the pie is baked. Lay plenty of frefh butter on the top, put on the lid, and bake it. Lobjler Pie. HAYING boiled two or three lobfters, take the meat out of the tails, and cut it into different pieces. Then take out all the fpawn,and the meatof the clays; beat it well in a mortar, and feafon it with pepper, fait, two fpoonfuls of vinegar, and a little anchovy liquor. Melt half a pound of frefh but- ter, with the crumbs of a halfpenny roll rubbed through a fine cullender, and the yolks of ten eggs. Put a fine puff-pafte over the difh, lay in the tails firft, and then the reft of the meat on them. Put on the lid, and bake it in a flow oven.DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. 177 To drefs a Turtle. KILL your turtle, which we will fuppofe to be of about thirty pounds weight, the night before you intend to drefs it. Cut off the head, and let it bleed three or four hours. Then cut off the fins, and the callapee from the callapafh, and take care you do not burft the gall. Throw all the inwards into cold water; but keep the guts and tripe by themfelves, and flip them open with a penknife, wafh them very clean in fcalding water, and fcrape off all the inward (kin. As you do them, throw them into cold water, wafh them out of that, and put them into frefh water, and let them lie all night, fcalding the fins and edges of the callapafh and callapee. Cut the meat off the fhoulders, hack the bones, and fet them over the fire, with the fins, in about a quart of water. Put in a little mace, nutmeg, chyan, and fait. Let it flew about three hours, then ftrain it, and put the fins by for ufe. The next morning, take fome of the meat you cut off the fhoulders, and chop it fmall, as for faufages, with about a pound of beef or veal fuet. Seafon with mace, nutmeg, fweet marjoram, par- fley, chyan, and fait, to your tafle, three or four glaffes of Madeira wine, and fluff it under the two flefhy parts of the meat. If you have any left, lay it over, to prevent the meat from burning. Cut the remainder of the meat and fins in pieces, about the fize of an egg ; feafon it pretty high with chyan, fait, and a little nutmeg, and put it into the calla- pafh. Take care that it be fewed or fecured up at the end, to keep in the gravy. Then boil up the gravy, and add more wine, if required, and thicken it a lhtle with butter and flour. Put fome of it to the turtle, and fet it in the oven, with a well but- tered paper over it to keep it from burning; and when it is about half baked, fqueeze in the juice N ofI78 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. of one or two lemons, and flir it up. The calla- pafh, ^01 back, will take half an hour more bak-infr than the callapee, which two hours will do. The guts mull be cut in pie'ces two or three inches long, the tripes in lefs, and put into a mug of clear wa- ter, and let in the oven with the callapalh. When it is properly drained from the water, it is to be mixed with the other parts, and fent up very hot to table. . To drefs a Turtle the Wejl. India Way. HAVING taken the turtle out of the water the night before you drefs it, lay it on its back. In the morning, cut its head olf, and hang it up by its hind fins for it to bleed till the blood is all out. Then cut the callapee, which is the belly, round, \ and raife it up. Cut as much meat to it as you can, throw it into fpring water with a little fait, cut the fins olf, and feald them with the head. Take off all the feales, cut out all the white meat, and throw it into fpring water and fait. The guts and lungs mull be cut out. Wafh the lungs very clean from the blood ; then take the guts and maw, and . flit them open, wafh them very clean, and put them on to boil in a large pot of water till they be tender. Then take off the infide fkin, and cut them in pieces of two or three inches long. In the mean time, make the following good veal broth. Take one large or two fmall knuckles of veal, and put them on in three gallons of water. Let it boil, fkim it well, feafon with turnips, onions, car- rots, and celery, and a good large bundle of fweet / herbs. Boil it till it is half walled, and then llrain it off. Take the fins, and put them into a llewpan, cover them with veal broth, feafon with an onion chopped fine, all forts of fweet herbs chopped very fine, half an ounce of cloves and mace, and half a 2 nutmegDIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. 179' nutmeg beat vefy fine. Stew it very gently till tender, then take out the fins, put in a pint of Ma- deira wine, and flew it a quarter of an hour. Beat up the whites of fix eggs with the juice of two le- mons, put the liquor in, and boil it up ; run it through a flannel bag, make it very hot, wafh the fins very clean, and put them in. Put a piece of butter at the bottom of a flewpan, put your white rrteat in, and fweat it gently till it is almoft tender. Take the lungs and heart, and cover them with veal broth, an onion, herbs, and fpice. As for the fins, flew them till tender. Take out the lungs, flrain off the liquor, thicken it, put in a bottle of Madeira wine, and feafon with chyan pepper and fait pretty high. Put in the lungs and white meat, and flew them up gently for fifteen minutes. Have fome forcemeat balls made out of the white part, inftead of veal, as for Scotch collops. If any eggs, fcald them ; if not, take twelve hard yolks of eggs made into egg balls. Have your callapafh, or deep fhell, done round the edges with pafte, feafon it in the infide with pepper and fait, and a little Madeira wine. Bake it half an hour, then put in the lungs and white meat, forcemeat, and eggs over, and bake it half an hour. Take the bones, and three quarts of veal broth, feafon with an onion, a bun- dle of fweet herbs, and two blades of mace. Stew it an hour, flrain it through a fieve, thicken it with butter and flour, put in half a pint of Madeira wine, flew it half an hour, and feafon it with chyan and fait to your tafle. This is the foup. Take the callapee, run your knife between the meat and fhell, and fill it full of forcemeat. Seafon it all over with fweet herbs chopped fine, a fhalot chop- ped, chyan pepper and fait, and a little Madeira wine. Put a pafle round the edge, and bake it an hour and a half. Take the guts and maw, put them in a flewpan, with a little broth, a bundle of N 2 fweetl80 DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH, I fweet herbs, and two blades of mace finely beaten. Thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, flew them gently half an hour, and feafon with chyan pepper and fait. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in- half a pint of cream, put it in, and keep flirring it one way til) it boils up. Then difli them up, and put the callapee, foup, and callapafh, in the cen- ter ; the fricaffee on one fide, and the fins on the other. The fins eat fine, when cold, put by in. the liquor. To drejs a Mock Turtle. TAKE a calf’s head, fcald off the hair as from a pig, then clean it, and cut off the horny part in thin flices, with as little of the lean as poffible. Chop the brains, and have ready between a quart and three pints of ftrong mutton or veal gravy, with a quart of Madeira wine, a large fpoonful of chyan, a large onion cut very finall, half the peel of a large lemon fhrcd as fine as poffible, a little fait, the juice of four lemons, and fome fweet herbs cut fmall. Stew all thefe together till the head is very tender, which will require about an hour and a half. Then have ready the back {hell of a turtle, lined with a pafle made of flour and water, which muff firft be fet in the oven to har- den, then put in the ingredients, and fet it in the oven to brown. When that is done, lay the yolks of eggs boiled hard, and forcemeat balls, round the top. Some parboil the head the day before, take out the bones, and then cut it into flices. C II A P.[ i8i ] CHAP. XI. Sauces, Gravies, and Cullifes. Ham Sauce. BEAT fome thin flices of the lean part of a dreffed ham with a rolling-pin to a mafh, and put it into a faucepan, with a teacupful ol gravy. Set it over a flow fire, and keep ftirring it to pre- vent its flicking at the bottom. When it has been on fome time, put in a bunch of fweet. herbs, half a pint of beef gravy, and fome pepper. Cover it clofe, let it flew over a gentle lire, and when it is quite done ftrain it off. This is a very good fauce for any kind of veal. EJfence of Ham. CUT three or four pounds of lean ham into pieces about an inch thick, and lay them in the bottom of a ftewpan, with flices of carrots, parf- nips, and three or four onions cut thin. Let them flew till they flick to the pan; but take care that; they do not burn. Then, by degrees, pour off fome ftrong veal gravy, fome frefh mufhrooms cut in pieces, or mufhroom powder, truffles, morels, cloves, bafll, parfley, a cruft of bread, andajeek. Cover it down clofe, and when it has fimmered till it is of a good thicknefs and flavour, ftrain it oif. A Sauce for roaf Meat in general. WASH an anchovy clean, and put to it a glafs of red wine, fome gravy, a lhalot cut fmall, and a little lemon juice. Stew thefe together, ftrain it off, and mix it with the gravy that runs from the meat. N 3 Cafter182 sauces, gravies, and cullises. Caper Sauce. TAKE forae capers, chop half of them very fine, and put the reft in whole. Then chop fome parfley, with a little grated bread, and put to it fome fait. Put them into butter melted very fmooth, let them boil up, and then pour them into a fauce-boat. Anchovy Sauce. PUT an anchovy into half a pint of gravy, with a quarter of a pound of butter, rolled in a little flour, and ftir all together till it boils. If you chufe it, you may add a little lemon-juice, catchup, red wine, or walnut liquor. Shalot Sauce. PUT five or fix fhalots, chopped very fine, into a faucepan with a gill of gravy, a fpoonful of vine- gar, and fome pepper, and fait. Stew them for a minute, and then pour them into a difh or fauce boat. Egg Sauce. BOIL two eggs till they are hard. Firft chop the whites, then the yolks, but neither of them very fine, and put them together. Then put them into a quarter of a pound of good melted butter, and ftir them well together. Lemon Sauce. PARE the rind off a lemon, cut it into flices, take the kernels out, and cut it into fmall fquare bits. Blanch the liver of a fowl, and chop it fine. Mix the lemon and liver together in a boat, pour on fome hot melted butter, and ftir it up. BreadSAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CULLISES. 183 Bread Sauce. PUT a large piece of crumb from a {tale loaf into a faucepan, with half a pint of water, an onion, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns in a bit of cloth. Boil them a few minutes, then take out the onion and fpice, mafh the bread very fmooth, and add to it a piece of butter and a little fait. Fennel Sauce. BOIL a bunch of fennel and parfley, chop it very fmall, and ftir it into fome melted butter. Goofeberry Sauce. PUT fome fcalded goofeberries, a little juice of forrel, and a little ginger, into fome melted butter. Mint Sauce. WASH your mint perfe&ly clean from grit or dirt, then chop it very fine,’ and put to it vinegar and fugar. Shrimp Sauce. PUT half a pint of fhrimps wafhed very clean into a ftewpan, with a fpoonful of anchovy liquor, and half a pound of butter melted thick. Boil it up for five minutes, and fqueeze in half a lemon. Tofs it up, and pour it into a fauce-boat. Oyp.cr Sauce. P R E S E R V E the liquor of your oyflers as you open them, and (train it through a fine fieve. Wafli the oyfters very clean, and take off the beards. Put them into a ftewpan, and pour the liquor over them. Then add a large fpoonful of anchovy liquor, half a lemon, two blades of mace, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour. Then put in half a pound of butter, and boil it up till the N 4 butter184 SAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CULLISES. butter is melted. Then take out the mace arid lemon; and fqueeze the lemon-juice into the fauce. Give it a boil, ftirring it all the time, and pour it into your fauce-boat. Sauce for Wild Fowl. TAKE a proper quantity of veal gravy, with fome pepper and fait, fqueeze in the juice of two Seville oranges, and add a little red wine, and let the wine boil fome time in the gravy. This is a good fauce for wild ducks, teal, &c. A general Fijli Sauce. TAKE fome mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your ffh. Put it into a faucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a glafs of white wine. Thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of cream. If you have no cream, jnflead of white wine you muft ufe red. A relifhing Sauce. PUT two dices of ham, a clove of garlic, and two diced onions, into a ftewpan. Let them heat, and then add a little broth, two fpoonfuls of cullis, and a fpoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stew them an hour over a flow fire, and then drain it through a fieve. Pont iff Sauce. PUT two or three dices of lean veal, and the fame of ham, into a ftewpan, with fome diced oni- ons, carrots, pardey, and a head of celery. When it is brown, add a little white wine, fome good broth, a clove of garlic, four dialots, two cloves, and two dices of lemon peel. Boil it over a dow fire till the juices are extra&ed from the meat; then flum it, and drain it through a fieve. Juft before 3 yOUSAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CULI.ISES. 185 you ufe it, add a little cullis, with fame parflcy chopped very fine. A [pic Sauce. INFUSE chervil, tarragon, burnet, garden- crefs, and mint, into a little cullis for about an hour. Then {train it, .and add a fpoonful of gar- lic vinegar, with a little pepper and fait. Sicilian Sauce. BRUISE half a fpoonful of coriander feeds* and four cloves, in a mortar. Put three quarters of a pint of good gravy, and a quarter of a pint of effence of ham, into a ftewpan. Peel half a lemon, and cut it into very thin flices, and put it in with the coriander feeds and cloves. Let them boil up, and then add three cloves of garlic whole, a head of celery fliced, two bay leaves, and a little bafil. Let thefe boil till the liquor is reduced to half the quantity. Then putin a glafs of white wine, ftrain it off, and if not thick enough, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. This is good fauce-for roaft fowls. I To male a rich Gravy. CUT into fmall bits a piece of lean beef, apiece of veal, and a piece of mutton. Take a large faucepan with a cover, lay your beef at the bottom, then your mutton, a very little piece of bacon, a flice or two of carrot, fome mace, cloves, whole black and white pepper, a large onion cut in flic.es, a bundle of fweet herbs, and then lay on your veal. Cover it clofe, and fet it over a flow fire for fix orfeyen minutes, and fhakethe faucepan often. Then duff fome flour into it, and pour in boiling water till the meat is fomething more than covered. Cover your faucepan clofe, and let it flew till it is rich and good. Then fcafon it with fait to your lafte,1 86 SAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CU I. LISES. fade, and drain it off. This gravy will anfwer almoft every purpofe. To make a common Gravy. TAKE a piece of chuck or neck beef, and cut it into fmall pieces. Then drew fome flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into a faucepan, with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little all-fpice, a little pepper, and fome fait. Cover it dole, and when it boils fkim it. Then throw in a hard crud of bread, or fome rafp- ings, and let it dew till the gravy is rich and good, and then drain it off. Brown Gravy. PUT a piece of butter, about the dze of a hen’s egg, into a faucepan, and when it is melted diake in a little dour, and let it he brown. Then by degrees dir in the following ingredients. Half a pint of water, and the fame quantity of ale or fmall beer that is not bitter ; an onion, and a piece of lemon peel cut fmall, three cloves, a blade of mace, fome whole pepper, a fpoonful of mufh- room pickle, the fame quantity of catchup, and an anchovy. Let the whole boil together a quar- ter of an hour, then drain it off, and it will be a good fauce for various purpofes. To make Browning. BEAT fmall four ounces of triple-refined fu- gar, and put it into a frying-pan, with an ounce of butter. Put it over a clear fire, and mix it well together. When it begins to be frothy by the fu- gar diffolving, hold it hi'gher over the fire; and when the fugar and butter is of a deep brown, pour in a little red wine, and dir it well together. Then add more wine, about a pint in all, and keep dir- ing it ail the time. Put in half an ounce of Jamaica pepper,SAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CULLISES. 187 pepper, fix cloves, four fhalots peeled, two or three blades of mace, three fpoonfuls of catchup, a little fait, and. the rind of a lemon. Boil them {lowly about ten minutes, and then poiir it into a bafon. When it is cold, fkim it very clean, and bottle it up for ufe. Forcemeat Balls. CUT fine half a pound of veal and the fame quantity of fuet, and beat them in a mortar. Shred fine a few fweet herbs, a little dried mace, a fmall nutmeg grated, a little lemon-peel cut very fine, fome pepper and fait, and the yolks of two eggs, v Mix all thefe well together, then roll fome of it in fmall round balls, and fome in long pieces. Roll them in flour, and fry them of a nice brown. If they are for the ufe of white fauce, inftead of frying, put a little water into a faucepan, and when it boils put them in, and they will be done in a few minutes. To make Lemon Pickle. GRATE off the outward rinds of a fcore of lemons, and quarter them, but leave the bottoms whole. Rub on them equally half a pound of bay- falt, and fpread them on a large pewter difh. Either put them into a cool oven, or let them dry gradually by the fire, till all the juice is dried into the peels. Then put them into a well glazed pitcher, with an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves beat fine, an ounce of nutmeg cut into thin flices, four ounces of garlic peeled, half a pint of muflard feed a little bruifed, and tied in a muflin rag. Pour upon them two quarts of boil- ing white wine vinegar, clofe the pitcher well up, and let it Hand five or fix days by the fire. Shake it well up every day, then tie it clofe, and let it ftand three months to take off the bitter. When you3 8S SAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CUL LISES. you bottle it, put the pickle and lemon in a hair fieve, prefs them well to get out the liquor, and let it Hand another day. Then pour off the fine, and bottle it. Let the other ftand three or four days, and it will refine itfelf. Pour it off, and bottle it, let it ftand again, and bottle it, till the whole is refined. It may be put into any white fauce, without fear of hurting the colour; and is very good for fifh-fauce and made difhes. A tea- fpoonfuj is enough for white, and two for brown fauce for a fowl. It is a moft ufeful pickle, and gives an agreeable flavour. Always put it in be- fore you thicken the fauce, or put in any cream, left the fharpnefs fliould curdle it. To make a white Cullis. HAVING cut a piece of veal into fmall bits, put it into a ftewpan, with -two or three flices of lean ham, and two onions quartered. Put in fome broth, and feafon it with mufhrooms, parfley, green onions, and cloves. Let it ftew till the virtues of all are pretty well extrafted. Then take out all your meat and roots, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it ftew foftly. Take the white part of a young fowl, and pound it in a mortar till it is very fine. Put this into your cullis, but do not let it boil; and, if it does not appear properly white, you muft add to it two dozen of blanched almonds. When it has ftewed till of a good rich tafte, ftrain it off. A rich Cullis. PUT two pounds of leg of veal, and two flices of lean ham, into a ftewpan, with two or three cloves, a little nutmeg, a blade of mace, fdme parfley roots, two carrots cut in pieces, and fome fhalots. Put them over a flow fire, cover them clofe, and let them do gently for half an hour, tak- ing care that they do not burn. Then put in fomeSAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CULLISES. fome beef broth, let it {tew till it is as rich as re- quired, and then {train it off for tile. 1 his is a proper cullis for all forts of ragoos and rich iauecs. A Family Cullis. ROLL a piece of butter in flour, and Air it in your Aewpan till the flour is of a line yellow colour. Then put in fome thin broth, a little gra- vy, a glafs of white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mufli- rooms, and pepper and fait. Let it Hew an hour over a flow Are, then Ikim all the fat clean off, and A rain it through a fine fleve. A Cullis of Roots. CUT fome carrots, parfnips, parfley roots, and onions, into flices, and put them into a Aewpan over the fire, and fliake them round. Take two dozen of blanched almonds, and the crumbs of two French-rolls, foaked firA in good fifh broth. Pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all together. Seafon it with pepper and fait, Arain it off, and ufe it for herb or fifh foups. A Fifh Cullis. BROIL a jack, or pike, till it is properly done, then take off the fkin, and feparate the flefh from the bones. Boil fix eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a. pafie in a mortar, and then add the yolks of the eggs. Mix thefe well with butter, then put. in the fifh, and pound all together. Take half a dozen onions, and cut them into flices, two parfnips, and three carrots. Set on a Aewpan, and put into it a piece of butter to brown, and put in the roots when it boils. Turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little broth to moifien them. When it has boiled a few minutes, Arain it into another laucepan, and then put in a whole 1 leek.SOUPS AND BROTHS. 190 leek, fomc parfley, fweet bafil, half a dozen cloves, fomc muflirooms and truffles, and a few crumbs of bread. When it has dewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the fifh, &c. from the mortar. Let the whole dew fome time longer, but be care- ful that it does not boil. When it is fufficiently done, drain it through a coarfe fieve. This is a very proper fauce to thicken all made diffles. CHAP. XII. Soups and Broths. Gravy Soup or Soupe Sante. PUT at the bottom of a flewpan fix good rafhers of lean ham, then put over them three pounds of lean beef, and cover the beef with three pounds of lean veal, fix onions cut in flices, two carrots, and two turnips fiiced, two heads of ce- lery, a bundle of fweet herbs, fix cloves, and two blades of mace. Put a little water at the bottom, draw it very gently till it flicks, and then put in a gallon of boiling water. Let it flew two hours, feafori it with fait, and drain it off. Then have ready a carrot cut in fmall pieces of two inches long, and about ks thick as a goofe quill, a turnip, two heads of leeks, two heads of celery, two heads of endive, cut acrofs, two cabbage lettuces cut acrofs, a little forrel, and chervil. Put them into a dewpan, and fweat them gently.'a quarter of an hour. Then put them into your foiip, and boil it up gently for ten minutes. Put it into your tureen, with the crud of a French roll. Ver-*9l SOUPS AND BROTHS. Vermicelli Soup. HAVING put four ounces of butter into a large tofting-pan, cut a knuckle of veal and a fcrag of mutton into {mail pieces about the fize of wal- nuts. Slice in the meat of a {hank of ham, with three or four blades of mace, two or three carrots, two parfnips, two large onions, with a clove ftuck in at each end. Cut in four or five heads of cele- ry w allied clean, a bunch of fweet herbs, eight or ten morels, and an anchovy. Cover the pan clofe, and fet it over a flow fire, without any water, till the gravy is drawn out of the meat. Then pour the gravy into a pot or bafon, let the meat brown in the fame pan; but take care it does not burn. Then pour in four quarts of water, and let it boil gently till it is wafted to three pints. Then (train it, and put the gravy to it. Set it on the fire, add to it two ounces of vermicelli, cut the niceft part of a head of celery, put in chyan pep- per and fait to your tafte, and let it boil about four minutes. If it is not of a good colour, put in a little browning, lay a French roll in the foup- difh, pour in the foup upon it, and lay fome of the vermicelli over it. Soup Crejfy. CUT a pound of lean ham into fmall bits, and put it at the bottom of a ftewpan, with a French roll cut and put over it.' Cut two dozen heads of celery fmall, fix onions, two turnips, one car- rot, cut and waflied very clean, fix cloves, four blades of mace, and two handfuls of water-creffes. Put them all into a ftewpan, with a pint of good broth. Cover them clofe, and fweat them gently for twenty minutes; then fill it up with veal broth, and flew it four hours. Rub it through a fine fieve, put it in your pan again, and feafon it \yith lalt and a little chyan pepper. Give it a fimmer up.tgz SOUPS AND BROTHS* ■\ up, and fend it hot to table, with feme French roll toafted hard in it. Boil a handful of creftes in water till tender, and put it over the bread. Soup and Boiullie. PUT into a ftewpan five pounds of brifket of beef rolled tight with a tape, with four pounds of the leg of mutton piece of beef, and about feven or eight quarts, of water. Boil thefe up as quick as poftible, and fkim it very clean. Add a large onion, fix or feven cloves, fome whole pepper, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, a leek, and two heads of celery.. Cover it clofe, and ftew it gently fix or feven hours. About an hour before dinner, ftrain the foup through a piece of dimity that has been dipped in cold water, putting the rough fide upwards. Have ready boiled carrots, cut like little wheels, turnips cut in balls, fpinach, a little chervil and forrel, two heads of endive, and one or two of celery cut in pieces. Put thefe into a tureen, with a Dutch loaf, or a French roll dried, after the crumb is taken out. Pour the foup to thefe boiling hot, and add a little fait and chyan. Take the tape off the bouillie, and ferve it in a feparate difh ; mafhed turnips, and fiiced carrots, in two little difhes. The turnips and carrots fiiould be cut with an inftrument that may be bought for that purpofe. Macaroni Soup. TAKE three quarts of ftrong broth, and one of gravy, and mix them. Boil half a pound of fmall pipe macaroni in three quarts of water, with a little butter in it, till it is tender. Then ftrain it through a fieve. Cut it into pieces of about two inches in length, put it into your foup, and boil it up ten minutes. Send it to table in a tureen, with the cruft of a French roll toafted.*93 SOUPS AND BROTHS, Dauphin Soup. PUT a few dices of lard at the bottom of a faucepan, fome diced ham and veal, three onions diced, and a carrot and parfnip. Soak it over the lire till it catches, then add weak broth 01 boiling : water, and boil it on a dow fire till the meat is done. Pound the bread: of a roaded fowl, fix yolks of hard eggs, and as many fweet almonds. Strain your broth. Soak your bread in broth till it is tender, warm your cullis without boiling, and mix it with as much broth as will give it a pretty thick confidence. Soupe a la Reine. T O a knuckle of veal, and three or four pounds of lean beef, put fix quarts of water, with a little fait. Skim it well as foon as it boils, and then put in fix large onions, two carrots, a head or two of celery, a parlnip, one leek, and a little thyme. Boil them all together till the meat is boiled quite down, then drain it through a hair fieve, and let it dand about half an hour. Then fkim it well, and clear it off gently from the fet- tlings into a clean pan. Boil half a pint of cream, and pour it on the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, and let it foak well. Blanch and beat half a pound of almonds as fine as poffible, putting in now and then a little cream to prevent them oiling. Then take the yolks of fix hard eggs, and the roll that is foaked in the cream, and beat them all together quite fine. Then make your broth hot, and pour it to your almonds. Strain it through a fine hair fieve, rubbing it with a fpoon till all the goodnefs is gone through into a dewpan, and add more cream to make it white. Set it over the fire, keep dirring it till it boils, fkim off the froth as it rifes, and Ioak the tops of two French rolls in melted butter, in a dewpan, till they are crifp, but not O brown.SOUPS AND BROTHS. 194 brown. Then take them out of the butter, and lay them in a plate before the fire. A quarter of an hour before you fend it to table, take a little of the hot foup, and put it to the roll in the bottom of the tureen. Put your foup on the fire, keep ftir-, ring it till ready to boil, then put it into your tu- reen, and ferve it up hot. Be careful to take all the fat off the broth before you put it to the al-- monds, or it will fpoil it, and take care it does not curdle. Tranfparent Soup. TAKE a leg of veal, cut the meat from it into, fin all pieces, and break the bone into feveral bits.. ;j Put the meat into a large jug, and the bones at top, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce -, of mace, and half a pound of Jordan almonds finely blanched and beaten. Pour on it four quarts of boiling water, and let it ftand all night, cover- ed clofe, by the fire fide. The next day put it into a well-tinned faucepan, and let it boil (lowly till it is reduced to two quarts. Be careful, all 11| the time it is boiling, to fkim it, and take ofFF the fat as it rifes. Strain it into a punch-bowl,, i and, when it has fettled two hours, pour it into a® clean faucepan, clear from the fediments, if any, at the bottom. Add three ounces of rice or twof> ounces of vermicelli, boiled in water. Soup au Bourgeois. CUT four or five bunches of celery, and ten or a dozen heads of endive, into fmall bits. Wafh them, let them be well drained from the water, and put them into a large pan. Pour upon them! four quarts of boiling water. Then fet on three, quarts of beef gravy, made for foup, in a large faucepan. Strain the herbs very dry from the water, and, when the gravy boils, put them in* Cut off the cruft of two French rolls, break them, and put them into the reft. The foup wUje*95 SOUPS AND BROTHS. enough as foon as the herbs are tender. A boil- ed fowl may be put into the middle ; but it will be good enough without it. If you like white foup better, you may make ufe of veal gravy. Calf's Head Soup. HAVING wafhed a calf’s head clean, Hew it ■with a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion ftuck with cloves, mace, pearl barley, and Jamaica pepper. When it is very tender, put to it fome hewed ce- lery. Seafon it with pepper and fait, difh it up with the head in the middle, and fend it to table. Hare Soup. CUT a large old hare into fmall pieces, and put it into a mug, with three blades of mace, a little fait, two large onions, a red herring, fix morels, half a pint of red wine, and three quarts of water. Bake it three hours in a quick oven, and then ftrain it into a toffing-pan. Have ready, boiled in water, three ounces of French barley, or fago. Then put the liver of the hare two mi- nutes into fealding water, and rub it through a hair fieve with the back of a wooden fpoon. Put it into the foup with the barley or fago, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Set it over the fire, and keep it ftirring, but do not let it boil. Almond Soup. HAVING blanched a quart of almonds, beat them in a marble mortar, with the yolks of fix hard eggs, till they become a fine pafte. Mix them by degrees with two quarts of new milk, a quart of cream, and a quarter of a pound of dou- ble refined fugar beat fine. Stir all well together, and when it is well mixed, fet it over a flow fire* and keep it ftirring quick all the time, till you find it is thick enough ; but take great care that it • O ^ does196 SOUPS AND BROTHS. does not curdle. Then pour it into your difh, and ferve it up. Partridge Soup. TAKE two old partridges and fkin them. Cut them into fmall pieces, with three dices of ham, two or three onions diced, and dome celery. Fry them in butter till they are as brown as they can be made without burning, and then put them into three quarts of water with a few pepper corns. 13oil it dowly till a little more than a pint is con- fumed. Then drain it, and put in dome fried bread and dewed celery. G ib let Soup. PUT about two pounds of fcrag of mutton, the fame quantity of fcrag of veal, and four pounds of gravy beef, into two gallons of water, and let it dew Very foftly till it is a drong broth. Then let it dand till it is cold, and fkim off the fat. Scald and clean two pair of giblets, put them into the broth, and let them dimmer till they are very ten- der. Take out the giblets, and drain the foup. through a cloth. Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a dewpan, and make it of a light brown. Chop fmall dome parfley, chives, a little penny- royal, and a little fweet marjoram. Put the foup over a very flow dre. Put in the giblets, fried butter, herbs, a little Madeira wine, dome fait, and a little chyan pepper. Let them dimmer till the herbs are tender, put the giblets into the dilh, and fend them and the foup up to table. Green Peas Soup. SHELL a peck of peas, and boil them in fpring water till they are foft. Then work them . through a hair fieve/ Put into the water the peas were boiled in a knuckle of veal, three dices o 3 ham.SOUPS AND BROTHS. 197 ham, two carrots, a turnip, and a few beet-leaves cut (mail. Add a little more water to the meat, let it over the fire, and let it boil an hour and an half. Then {train the gravy into a bowl, mix it with the pulp, and put in a little juice of fpinach, which mult be beaten and fqueezed through a cloth. Put in as much as will make it look of a pretty colour, and then give it a gentle boil, which will take off the tafte of the fpinach. Slice in the whiteft part of a head of celery, put in a lump of fugar the fize of a walnut, cut a flice of bread into little fquare pieces, a little bacon in the fame manner, and fry them of a light brown in frefh buU ter. Cut a large cabbage lettuce into dices, fry it after the other, and put it into the tureen with the fried bread and bacon. Have ready boiled, as for eating, a pint of young peas, and put them into the foup, with a little chopped mint. Common Peas Soup. T O a quart of fplit peas put a gallon of foft water, and a little lean bacon, or road-beef bones. Wadi a head of celery, cut it, and put it in with a turnip. Boil it till it is reduced to two quarts, and then work it through a cullender with a wooden fpoon. Mix a little dour and water, boil it with the foup, and dice in another head of celery, chyan pepper, and fait to your tade. Cut a dice of bread into fmall dice, fry them of a light brown, put them into your difh, and pour the foup over them. Portable Soup. T A KE three large legs of veal, one of beef, and the lean part of half a ham, and cut them into fmall pieces. Put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large-cauldron, then lay in the meat and bones, with four ounces of anchovies, and two ounces of mace. Cut off the green leaves 3 of198 SOUPS AND BROTHS, of five or fix heads of celery, wafh them very clean, cut them fmall, and put them in, with three large carrots cut thin. Cover the cauldron clofe, and fet it over a moderate fire. When you find the gravy begins to draw, keep taking it up till you have got it all out, and then put in water fufficient to cover the meat. Set it on the fire again, and let it boil {lowly four hours. Then ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clean pan, and let it boil three parts away. Then {train the gravy that you drew from the meat, into the pan, and let it boil gently, obferving to {kim the fat oft' as it rifes, till it looks thick like glue. Great care mult be taken, when it is nearly enough, that it does not burn. Put in chyan pepper to your talte, then pour it on flat earthen difhes a quarter of an inch thick, and let it Hand till the next day. Cut it out with round tins a little larger than a crown piece ; lay the cakes on difhes, fet them in the fun to dry, and take care to turn them often. Frofty weather is the belt feafon for making this foup. When the cakes are dry, put them in a tin box, with writing-paper between every cake, and keep them in a dry place. Gentlemens families Ihould not be without this foup; for by pouring a pint of boiling water on one cake, and a little fait, it will make a good ba- fon of broth, and alfo gravy for turkies or fowls. As it will keep a great while, it is extremely ufe- ful to travellers. Afparagus Soup. CUT four or five pounds of beef into pieces, and fet it over a fire, with an onion or two, a few cloves, fome whole black pepper, a calf’s foot or two, a head or two of celery, and a fmall piece of butter. Let it draw at a diftance from the fire. Put in a quart of warm beer, and three quarts of warm beef broth, or water, and let them flew till enough. Strain it, take otf the fat very clean, put in fome afparagusSOUPS AND BROTHS. 1Q9 O 4 and afparagus heads cut (mail, and the cruft of a toafted French roll. You may add palates, boiled very tender, if you choofe them. Soupe Lorraine. BLANCH and beat a pound of fweet almonds in a mortar, with a very little water to keep them from oiling. Put to them all the white part of a large roaft fowl, the yolks of four poached eggs, and pound all together as fine as poftible. Take three quarts of ftrong veal broth, let it be very white, and fkim off the fat. Put it into a ftewpan with the other ingredients, mix them well together, and boil them foftly over a ftove, or on a clear fire. Mix the white part of another roaft fowl pounded very fine, and feafon with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and a little beaten mace. Put in a bit of butter as big as an egg, a fpoonful or two of the foup drained, and fet it over the ftove till it is quite hot. Cut two French rolls into thin ft ices, and fet them before the fire to crifp. Take one of the hollow rolls, which are made for oyfter loaves, and fill it with the mince. Lay on the top as clofe as poftible, and keep it hot. Strain the foup through a piece of dimity into a clean faucepan, and let it ftew till it is of thethick- nefs of cream. Put the crifped bread in the difh or tureen, pour the fauce over it, and put in the middle the minced meat and the roll. Soup Maigre. HAVING put half a pound of butter into a deep ftewpan, Ihake it about, and let it ftand till it has done making a noife. Peel and cut fmall fix middling-fized onions, throw them into the pan, and fliake them about. Take a bunch of celery, clean waftted and picked, and cut in pieces about two inches long ; pick and wafh clean a large hand-., fid ol fpinach, walh and cut fmall a good lettuce,200 SOUPS AND BROTHS. and chop fine a bundle of parfley. Shake all thefe well together in the pan for a quarter of an hour, and then fhake in a little flour. Stir all together, and pour two quarts of boiling water into the (lew- pan. Put in a handful of dry hard cruft, a tea- fpoonful of beaten pepper, three blades of mace beat fine ; ftir them all together, and let them boil foftly for half an hour. Then take it off the fire, beat up the yolks^ of two eggs, and ftir them in, with a fpoonful of vinegar. Pour it into the foup- difh, and ferve it up. Egg Soup. H A VIN G beat the yolks of two eggs in a difh, with a piece of butter the fize of a common egg, take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a fpoon in the other. Pour in, by degrees, about a quart of water, and keep flirring it well all the time, till the eggs are well mixed, and the butter melted. Then pour it into a faucepan, and keep flirring it till it begins to fimmer. Take it off the fire, and pour it out of one vcffel into another, till it is quite fmooth, and has a good froth. Then put it on the fire again, keep flirring it till it is quite hot, and then pour it into your foup-difh. Rice Soup. TO two quarts of water put a pound of rice and a little cinnamon ; then cover it clofe, and let it fimmer very foftly till the rice is quite tender. Then take out the cinnamon, and fweeten it to your palate, grate in half a nutmeg, and let it (land till it is cold. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with half a pint of white wine, mix them well, and flir them into the rice. Set them on a flow fire, and keep conflantly flirring them, to prevent their curdling. When it boils, and is of a good thicknefs, take it up, and fend it to table. Onion201 SOUPS AND BROTHS. Onion Soup. BROWN half a pound of butter with a little flour; but take care it does not burn. When it has done luffing, dice a dozen of large white oni- ons, fry them very gently till they are tender, and then pour to them, by degrees, two quarts of boil— ■ ing water, fhaking the pan well round as it is pour- ing in. Put in a cruft of bread, let it boil gently half an hour, and feafon it with pepper and fait. Take the top of a French roll, dry it at a fire, put it into a faucepan with fome of the foup to foak it, and then put it into the tureen. Let the foup boil fome time after the onions are tender, as it will add much to the richnefs of the foup. Strain it -off, and pour it on the French roll. Mujfel Soup. * HAVING wafhed an hundred of muffels very clean, put them into a faucepan till they open, and then take them from the fhells, beard them, and drain the liquor through a lawn fieve. -Beat a dozen craw-fidi very fine, with as many blanched almonds, in a mortar. Take a carrot and a fmall parfnip feraped, cut them into dices, and fry them in butter. Take the muffel liquor, with a fmall bunch of fweet herbs, a little parfiey and horfe- radifii, with the crawfifh and almonds, a little pep- per and fait, and half the muffels, with a quart of water, or more. Let it boil till all the goodnefs is cxtra&ed from the ingredients, and then drain it off to two quarts of white fifh-ftock. Put it into a faucepan, and put in the red of the muffels, a few truffles and mufhrooms, and a leek wafiied and cut fmall. Cut out the crumb of two French rolls, fry it brown, cut it into little pieces, and put it into the foup. Let it boil together a quarter of an hour, with the fried carrot and parfnip, and at the fameSOUPS AND BROTHS. 202 fame time, fry the cruft of the roll crifp. Take the other half of the muffels, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a fpoonful of water. Shake in a little flour, and fet them on the fire till the but- ter is melted. Seafon it with pepper and fait, then beat the yolks of three eggs, put them in, ftir’them conftantly to prevent their curdling, and grate in a little nutmeg. When it is thick and fine, fill the rolls, pour the foup into the tureen, and fet the rolls in the middle. Oyjler Soup. TAKE a proper quantity of fifh ftock, and two quarts of oyfters bearded. Beat the hard part in a mortar, with the yolks of ten hard eggs, put them to the fiflc ftock, and fet it over the fire. Seafon it with pepper, fait, and grated nutmeg. When it boils, put in the eggs, and let it boil till it is of a good thicknefs, and like a fine cream. Ed Soup. A pound of eels will make a pint of good foup ; or take any greater quantity of eels, in proportion to the quantity of foup you intend to make. To every’ pound of eels put a quart of water, a cruft of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Cover them clofe, and let them boil till half the liquor is wafted. Then ftrain it, toaft feme bread, cut it fmall, lay the bread into your difh, and pour in the foup. If you find your foup is not rich enough, you may let it boil till you think it is pro- perly thick. Scaic Soup. SKIN and wafli two pounds of fcatc, and boil it in fix quarts of water. When it is boiled, take the meat from the bones. Take two pounds of flounders,SOUPS AND BROTHS. 203 flounders, wafh them clean, put them into the water the fcate was boiled in, with fome lemon peel, a bunch of fweet herbs, a few blades of mace, fome horfe-radifh, the cruft of a penny loaf, a little parfley, and the bones of the fcate. Cover it very clofe, and let it fimmer till it is reduced to two quarts. Then {train it off, and put to it an ounce of vermicelli. Set it on the fire, and let it boil very foftly. Take one of the hollow rolls, which are made for oyfters, and fry it in butter. Take the meat of the fcate, pull it into little flices, and put it into a faucepan with two or three fpoon- fuls of the foup. Shake into it a little flour, and put in a piece of butter, and fome pepper and fait. Shake them together in a faucepan till it is thick, and then fill the roll with it. Pour the foup into the tureen, put the roll into it, and ferve it up. Milk Soup. PUT two fticks of cinnamon, two bay-leaves, a very little bafket fait, and a very little fugar, into two quarts of milk. Blanch half a pound of fweet almonds, beat them up to a pafte in a marble mortar, and mix fome milk with them by degrees. Grate the peel of a lemon with the almonds and a little of the juice. Then {train it through a coarfc fieve, mix it with the milk that is heating in the ftewpan, and let it boil up. Cut fome flices of French bread, and dry them before the fire. Soak them a little in the milk, lay them at the bottom of the tureen, and pour in the foup. Chicken Broth. FLAY an old cock, or a large fowl, pick off all the fat, and break it to pieces with a rolling pin. Put it into two quarts of water, with a good cruft of bread, and a blade of mace. Let it boil foftly till it is as good as you would have it, and it willsours AND BROTHS. 204 will take five or fix hours doing. Then pour it off, put a quart more boiling water to it, and cover it clofe. Let it boil foftly till it is good, and then {train it off. Seafon it with a very little Fait. When you boil the chicken, fave the liquor, and when the meat is eaten, take the bones, break them, and put them to the liquor in which you boiled the chicken, with a blade of mace, and a cruft of bread. Veal Broth. STEW a knuckle of veal in about a gallon of water, two ounces of rice, or vermicelli, a little fait, and a blade of mace. Strong Beef Broth to keep for Ufe. TAKE the ferag end of a neck of mutton, and part of a leg of beef, and break the bones in pieces. Put to it as much water as will cover it, and a little fait. When it boils, Ikim it clean, and put into it a whole onion (tuck with cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome pepper, and a nutmeg quartered. Let thefe boil till the meat is boiled in pieces, and the (Length boiled out of it. Strain it off, and keep it for ufe. Common Beef Broth. BREAK the bone of a leg of beef in two or three places, put it into a gallon of water, with two or three blades of mace, a little parfley, and a cruft of bread. Boil the beef very tender, (train the broth, and pour it into a tureen ; if you choofe it, the meat mav be put along with the broth. Put into a plate fome bread toafted, and cut into fquares. MuttonSOUPS AND BROTHS. 2 05 Mutton Broth. PUT afcrag of mutton into three or four quarts of water, and boil it. Skim it as foon as it boils, and put to it a carrot, a turnip, a. cruft of bread, an onion, and a fmall bundle of herbs, and let them ftew. Put in the other part of the neck, that it may be boiled tender, and when it is enough, take out the mutton, and ftrain the broth. Put in the mutton again, with a few dried marigolds, chives, or young onions, and a little chopped par- ley. Boil thefe about a quarter of an hour. The broth and mutton may be ferved together in a tu- reen, or the meat in a feparate difli. The broth may be thickened with either crumbs of bread, or oatmeal. Send up mafhed turnips in a little difh. Scotch Barley Broth. HAVING chopped a leg of beef to pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, with a piece of carrot, and a cruft of bread, till it is half boiled away. Then ftrain it oft, and put it into the pot again with half a pound of barley, four or five heads of celery wafhed clean and cut fmall, a large onion, a bundle of fweet herbs, a little parfley chopped fmall, and a few marigolds. Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock, or a large fowl, clean picked and wafhed, and put it into the pot. Boil it till the broth is quite good. Then feafon it with fait, take out the onion and fweet herbs, and ferve it up. C II A P.[ 206 ] CHAP. XIII To drefs Roots and Vegetables, To drefs Cabbages. HAVING cut your cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of water, with a handful of fait. When it is tender, drain it on a fieve, but never prefs it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the fame manner; but they fhould be always boiled by themfelves. To drefs Brocoli. STRIP off all the little branches till you come to the top one, and then carefully peel off the hard outfxde Ilcin that is on the flalks and little branches, and throw them into water. Throw a little fait into a flewpan, and put in your brocoli as foon as it boils. When the flalks are tender, it will then be enough. Put in a piece of toafled bread, dipped in the water the brocoli was boiled in, at the bottom of your difh, and put your brocoli on the top of it. Send it up to table laid in bunches, with butter in a boat. To drefs Cauliflowers. CUT off the flalks, but leave a little green on. Boil them in fpring water and fait, and about a quarter of an hour will do them; but take care that they do not boil too fall, as that will lpoil them. Some people boil them in milk and water, without fait. To }TO DRESS ROOTS AND VEGETABLES. 20J To drefs Spinach. SPINACH muft be clean picked, and wafhed in- feveral waters. Put it into a laucepan that will juft hold it, throw a little fait over it, and cover the pan dole,* but put no water in, and fliake the pan often. When the fpinach is fhrunk, and fallen to the bottom, and the liquor that comes out of it boils up> it is enough. Throw it into a clean fieve to drain, and give it a fqueeze between two plates. Put it on a plate, and ferve it up with butter in a boat, but never pour any over it. Sor- rel is ftewed in the fame manner. To drefs French Beans. IF your French beans are not very fmall, fplit and quarter them, and throw them into fait and water. Boil them in plenty of water, with fome fait, and take them up as foon as they are tender. All forts of greens fhould boil as quick as poffible, as it preferves their colour. To drefs Afparagns. HAVING fcraped your afparagus, tie them in bundles, cut them even, and throw them into water. Tie them up into little bundles, and put them into a ftewpan of boiling water with fome fait. Let the water keep boiling, and when they are a little tender, take them up ; for, if you boil them, too much, you will fpoil both their colour and fla- vour. Lay them on a toaft that has been dipped in the water the afparagus was boiled in. Pour over them melted butter, or put butter into a ba- fon, and fend them up to table. To drefs Peas. DO not fhell your peas till juft before you want them. Put them into boiling water with a 2 little208 to dress roots and vegetables. little fait, and a lump of loaf fugar, and when they begin to dentin the middle, they are enough. Strain them into a fieve, put a good lump of but- ter into your difih, and ftir them till the butter is melted. Boil a fprig of mint by itfelf, chop it fine, and lay it in lumps round the edge of your difh. To drefs Garden Beans. BEANS mud be boiled in plenty of water; and, like peas, fhould be fhelled only juft before they are wanted. Put a good quantity of fait into the water, and boil them till they are tender. Boil and chop fome parfiey, put it into good melted butter, and ferve them up with boiled bacon, and the butter and parfiey in a boat. The bacon muft not be boiled with the beans. To drefs Artichokes, HAVING twifted the ftalks ofFyour artichokes, put them into cold water, and wafli them well. Put them into boiling water with the top down- wards, in order that all the grit and fand may boil out. They will require an hour and a half, or two hours boiling. Put melted butter into little cups, and ferve them up. To fricajfee Artichoke Bottoms. TAKE either dried or pickled artichoke bot- toms; but, if you ufe dried, you muft put them in warm water three or four hours, fiiifting the water two or three times. Have ready a little cream, and a piece of frefii butter, {birred together one way till it is melted. Then put in the artichokes, and difli them up asfoon as they are hot. To drefs Turnips. PARE your turnips thick, and when they are boiled, fqueeze them, and mafii them fmootln Heat them with a little cream, and a piece of o butter.TO DRESS ROOTS AND VEGETABLES* 209 butter. Put to them fome pepper and fait, and ferve them up. It will be perhaps better to omit the pepper and fait, and leave ,the company to pleafe their own palates. To drefs Carrots. IF your carrots are young, you need only wipe them after they are boiled; but, if they are old, you muft fcrape them before they are boiled. I Slice them into a plate, and pour melted butter over them. Young fpring carrots will be boiled in half an hour, large ones in an hour, and old Sandwich carrots will take two hours. To drefs Potatoes. COVER the faucepan clofe, boil them in very little water, and when the fkin begins to crack, they will be enough. Drain out all the water, and let them Hand covered a little. To drefs Parfnips. THEY mull be boiled in plenty of water, and when you can run a fork into them eafily, they will be enough. They may be ferved up either whole with melted butter, or beat fmooth in a bowl, heated with a little cream, butter, and flour, and a little fait. To fricaffee Skirrets. WASH the roots well, and boil them till they are tender. Take the fkin off the roots, and cut them, into flices. Have ready a little cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, the yolk of an egg bea- ten, a little nutmeg grated, two or three fpoon- fuls of white wine, a very little fait, and ftir them all together. Put your roots into the difh, and pour the fauce over them. P To210 DISHES FOR SUPPERS OR LIGHT REPASTS. 7 o fricaffee Mii/hrooms. H A VI N G peeled your mufti rooms, and feraped the infide of them, throw them into fait and water. If they are buttons, rub them with flannel; take them out, and boil them with frefh fait and water. When they are tender, put in a little fhred parfley* and an onion ftuck with cloves, and tofs them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour. You may put in three fpoonfuls of thick cream, and a little nutmeg cut in pieces ; but be fure to take out the nutmeg and onion before you fend it to table. CHAP. XIV. v Elegant little Dijhes for Suppers or ligjd Repajls. To ragoo Afparagus. TAKE one hundred grafs, ferape and clean them, and throw them into cold water. Cut them as far as they are good and green, and pick and waft clean, and cut very fmall, two heads of endive; take a young lettuce clean wafted and cut fmall, and a large onion peeled and cut fmall. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a ftewpan, and when it is melted, throw in the above ingre- dients. Tofs them about, and fry them ten mi- nutes. Seafon them with a little pepper and fait, fhake in a little flour, tofs them about, and pour in half a pint of gravy. Let them flew till the fauce is very thick and good, and then pour all 3 intoDISHES FOR SUPPERS OR LIGHT REPASTS. 211 into your difh. You may make ufe of a few of the {mall tops of the grafs for garnifh. Eggs and Brocoli. WHEN you boil your brocoli, which will be enough as foon as it is tender, fave a large bunch for the middle, and fix or eight little fprigs to (lick round. Toaft a bit of bread, of what fize you pleafe, but proportion it to the fize of your difh. Take as many eggs as you have occafion for, beat them well, and put them into a faucepan with a good piece of butter, and a little fait. Keep beating them with a fpoon till they are thick enough, and then pour them on the toaft. Set the largeft bunch of brocoli in the middle, and the other little pieces round them, and garnifh the difh with fprigs of brocoli. To ragoo Cauliflowers. PICK a large cauliflower, or two fmall ones, in the fame manner as for pickling. Stew them in a brown cullis till they are enough, and feafon them with pepper and fait. Put them into a difh, and pour the cullis over them. Lay round them iome fprigs of the cauliflower boiled very white. To Jl.ew Peas with Lettuces. SHELL your peas, and boil them in hard water, with fome fait in it, and drain them in a fteve. Slice your lettuces, and fry them in frefli i butter. Then put your peas and lettuces into a ' tofling-pan, with a little good gravy, pepper, and fait. Thicken it with flour and butter, put in a little fhred mint, and ferve it up. To ragoo Cucumbers. SLICE two cucumbers and two onions, fry them in a little butter, and drain them in a fieve. P 2 Put212 DISHES FOR SUPPERS OR LICHT REPASTS. Put them into a faucepan, with fix fpoonfuls of gravy, two of white wine, and a blade of mace. Let them (lew five or fix minutes, and then take a piece of butter, as big as a walnut, rolled in flour, a little fait, and chyan pepper. Shake them toge- ther, and when it is thick difh them up. Artichoke Bottoms with Eggs. BOIL them in hard water, but, if dry bottoms, in foft water. Put a good lump of butter into the water, which will make them boil much fooner, and look more white and plump. When you ferve them up, put the yolk of a hard egg in every bottom. To ragoo Artichoke Bottoms. IF your artichoke bottoms are dry, let them lie in warm water two or three hours, changing the water. Put to them fome good gravy, mufhroom catchup or powder, chyan, and fait. Thicken with a little flour, and boil all together. To Jlew Mufh- .ms. PUT your mufhrooms i» -.j fait and ivater, then wipe them with a flannel, and put them in again. Put them into a faucepan by themfelves, and let them boil as quick as poffible. Then put in a lit- tle chyan pepper and mace, and let them flew in this a quarter of an hour. Put in a teafpoonful of cream, with a little flour and butter the fize of a -walnut, and when they are done, ferve them up. To ragoo Mujhrooms. HAVING procured fome large mufhrooms* fcrape the infides of them, and broil them. As foon as they are a little brown, put them into fome gravy thickened with a little flour, a very little Medeira, fait, and chyan, and a little lemon-juice. Give them a boil all together. 2 ToDISHES FOR SUPPERS OR LIGHT REPASTS. 213 To make Mujhroom Loaves. W ASH fome fmall buttons as for pickling, and boil them a few minutes in a little water. Put to them a little cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and fome fait and pepper. Boil thefe up, and fill fome fmall Dutch loaves, or French rolls, with the crumb taken out; but Dutch loaves are better, if they are to be had. Afparagus and Eggs. HAVING toafted a piece of bread of what fize you pleafe, butter it, and lay it in your difh. Take as many eggs as you want, beat them well, and put them into a faucepan, with a good piece of butter, and a little fait. Keep beating them with a fpoon till they are thick enough. In the mean time, boil fome grafs tender, cut it fmall, pour the eggs over the toaft, and lay the grafs upon it. * Spinach and Eggs. HAVING picked, and wafhed your fpinach very clean in feveral waters, put it into a fauce- pan with a little fait, cover it clofe, and fliake the pan often. When it is ftewed tender, and while it is green, throw it into a fieve to drain, and then lay it in your difh. Break as many eggs into cups as you intend to poach, and put them into boil- ing water. When they are done, take them out with an egg (lice, and lay them on the fpinach. Serve it up with melted butter in a cup, and gar- pifh with an orange quartered. To make an Amulet. T A K E fix eggs, beat them, (train them through a fieve, and put them into a frying-pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of hot butter. Put in a little boiled ham, feraped fine, fome Hired parfley, P 3 and ♦214 DISHES for suppers or light repasts. To and feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Fry it brown on the under fide, and lay it on your difh, but do not turn it. Hold a hot' falamander over it half a minute, to take off the raw look of the eggs, flick in it fome curled parfley, and fend it up to table. To force Eggs. HAVING fealded two cabbage lettuces with a few mufhrooms, parfley, forrel, and chervil, chop them very fmall, with the yolks of hard eggs, fea- foned with fait and nutmeg. Stew them in butter, and when they are enough, put in a little cream, and then pour them into the bottom of a difh. Chop the whites very fine, with parfley, nutmeg, and fait. Lay this round the rim of the difh, and brown it with a falamander. To ragoo Celery. CUT the white part of the celery into lengths, and boil it till it is tender. Then fry and drain it, . flour it, and put to it fome rich gravy, a very little red wine, fait, pepper, nutmeg, and catch- up. Give it a boil, and then fend it up to table. To fry Celery. FIRST boil it, then dip it into batter, and fry it of a light brown in hog’s lard. Put it on a plate, and pour melted butter over it. — . < To fry Chardoons. HAVING cut them about fix inches long, firing them, and boil them till tender. Then put them into a flewpan, in melted butter, flour them, and fry them brown. Send them up in a difh, with melted butter in a cup. You may, if you pleafe, drefs and difh them up like afparagus.TO MAKE FRUIT PIES. 215 To fcallop Potatoes. FIRST boil your potatoes, and then beat them in a bowl with Tome good cream, and a lump of butter and fait. Put them into fcollop fhells, make them fmooth on the top, fcore them with a knife, lay thin flices of butter upon the top of them, and put them in a Dutch oven to brown. To viajli Potatoes. BOIL and peel them, and put them into a faucepan. Mafh them well, and put a pint of milk to two pounds of potatoes. Add a little fait, ftir them well together, and take care that they do not (lick to the bottom. Then take a quarter of a pound of butter, ftir it in, and fend them up to table. To fry Potatoes. HAVING cut your potatoes into thin flices, as large as a crown piece, fry them brown, lay them in a plate or difh, and pour melted butter, and fack and fugar over them. CHAP. XV. To make Fruit Pies. To make Pajle for large Pies. T> E F O R E we enter on the making of pies, XJ it may not be improper to give fome inftruc- tions lor making the different forts of pafte. The method of making Meat, Poultry, Game, and P 4 Fife2l6 TO MAKE FRUIT PIES. Fifh Pies, will be found in the preceding chapters, under the heads of beef, mutton. Sec. Sec. To make a good pafte for large pies, put the yolks of three eggs to a peck of flour, pour in fome boiling water, then put in half a pound of fuet, and a pound and a half of butter. Skim off the butter and fuet, and as much of the liquor as will make it a light good cruft. Work it up well, and roll it out. To make a Puff-pajle. RUB a pound of butter into a quarter of a peck of flour, and make it up in a light pafte with cold water, juft ft iff enough to work it up. Then roll it out about as thick as a crown piece, and put a layer of butter all over. Sprinkle on a little flour, double it up, and roll it out again. Double it, and roll it out three times, and it will then be a good puff-pafte. To make a Jliort Crujl. PUT fix ounces of butter into eight of flour, and mix it up with as little water as poflible, fo as to have it a ftifhfh pafte. Beat it well, and roll it thin. This is the beft cruft for all tarts that are to be eaten cold, and for preferved fruit. Bake it in a moderate oven. To make a Pajle for Cujlards. PUT fix ounces of butter to half a pound of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and three fpoonfuls of cream. Mix them together, and let them ftand a quarter of an hour. Then work it up and down, and roll it very thin. To make a Pajle for Tarts. MIX three quarters of a pound of butter with one pound of flour, and beat it well with a rol- ling pin. 0 r ToTO MAKE FRUIT PIES. 217 To make a crifp Pajle for Tarts. BEAT the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, put in by degrees four ounces of double refined fugar, with about as much gum as will lie upon a fixpence, beaten and lifted fine. Beat it half an hour, and it will then be fit for ufe. • To make an Apple Tart. SCALD eight or ten large codlings, and fkin them as foon as they are cold. Beat the pulp very fine with a fpoon, and then mix the yolks of fix eggs, and the whites of four. Beat all together as fine as poflible, and put in grated nutmeg and fugar to your tafle. Melt fome frelh butter, and beat it till it is like a fine cream. Then make a fine puff-pafte, cover a tin patty-pan with it, and pour in the ingredients, but do not cover it with the pafte. Bake it a quarter of an hour, then flip it out of the patty-pan on a difh, and drew over it fome fugar finely beaten and fifted. To make an Apple Pie. HAVING laid a good puff-pafte round the fides of the difh, pare and quarter your apples, and take out the cores. Lay a row of apples thick, throw in half the fugar you intend to ufe, throw over it a little lemon-peel minced fine, and fqueeze over them a little lemon; fprinkle in a few cloves, and then put in the reft of your apples and your fugar. Sweeten to your palate, and fqueeze a lit- tle more lemon. Boil the peelings of the apples and the cores in water, with a blade of mace, till it is very good. Strain it, and boil the fyrup with a little fugar, till it is confiderably reduced in quantity. Pour it into your pie, put on the up- per cruft, and bake it. You may beat up the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint of cream, with2 1.8 TO MAKE FRUIT PIES. To a little nutmeg and fugar. Put it over a flow fire, and keep dining it till it is ready to boil. Then take off the lid, and pour in the cream. Cut the cruft into little three corner-pieces, ftick them about the pie, and fend it to table cold. You may, ii you think proper, when you make your pie, put in a little quince or marmalade. A pear pie may be made in the fame manner ; but you mud omit the quince. To make a Codling Pie. TAKE fome Email codlings, put them into a pan with fpring water, lay vine leaves on them, and cover them with a cloth, wrapped round the cover of the pan to keep in the fteam. As foon as they grow foft, peel them, and put them in the fame water as the vine leaves. Hang them high over the fire to green, and, when you fee them of a fine colour, take them out of the water, and put them into a deep difh, with as much powder or loaf fugar as will fweeten them. Make the lid of a rich puff-pafte, and bake it. When it comes from the oven, take off the lid, and cut it into lit- tle pieces, like fippets, and ftick them round the infide of the pie, with the points upwards. Then make a good cuftard, and pour it over your pie. Make your cuftard thus. Boil a pint of cream with a ftick of cinnamon, and fugar enough to make it a little fweet. As foon as it is cold, put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, fet it on the fire, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick ; but take care not to let it boil, as that will curdle it. Pour this into your pie, pair thin a little lemon, cut the peel like ftraws, and lay it on the top ol your pies.TO MAKE FRUIT PIES. 219 To To make a Cherry Pie. HAVING made a good cruft, lay a little of it round the Tides of the dilh, and throw fugar at the bottom. Then lay in your fruit, and fome fugar at the top. You may, if you pleafe, add fome red currants, which will give an additional flavo-ur to your pie. Then put on your lid, and bake it in a flack oven. You may make plumb or goofe- berry pies in the fame manner. Orange or Lemon Tarts. HAVING rubbed half a dozen large oranges or lemons with fait, put them into water, with a handful of fait in it, for two days. Then change them every day with frefh water, without fait, for a fortnight. Boil them till they are tender, and then cut them into half quarters corner-wife as thin as polfible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water. Let them boil till they break, then put the liquor to your oranges or lemons, half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of fugar. Boil thefe together a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pot, and fqueeze into it the juice of either an orange or a lemon, according to which of the tarts you intend to make. Two fpoonfuls will be fufficient to give a proper fla- vour to your tart. Put fine thin puff-pafte into your patty-pans, which muft be fmall and fhallowr. Before you put your tarts into the oven, take a feather or brufh, and rub them over with melted butter, and then fift fome double-refined fugar over them, which will form a pretty icing, and make them have a very agreeable appearance.TO MAKE FRUIT PIES. 220 To make a Tart de Moi. HAVING made a puff-pafte, lay it round your difh, and then put in a layer of bifcuit, a layer of butter and marrow, and then a layer of all forts of fweetmeats, or at leaft as many as you have, and continue to do fo till your difh is full. Boil a quart of cream, and thicken it with four eggs, and a fpoonful of orange-flower water. Sweeten it with fugar to your palate, and pour it over the reft, It will be fufficiently baked in half an hour. To make a Mince Pie. BOIL a neat’s tongue two hours, then fkin it, and chop it as fmall as poflible. Chop alfo very fmall three pounds of beef fueC, three pounds of good baking apples, four pounds of currants, clean wafhed,picked, and well driedbeforethe fire, a pound of jar-raifins ftoned and chopped fin all, and a pound of powder fugar. Mix them all to- gether with half a pound of mace, as much nut- meg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the fame quantity of cinnamon, and a pint of French brandy. Make a rich puff-pafte, and as you fill up the pie, put in a ltttle candied citron and orange cut into fmall pieces. Another Method. TAKE three pounds of fuet, and Hi red and chop it as fmall as poffible ; ftone and chop very fine three pounds of raifins, and the fame quantity of currants, nicely picked, wafhed, rub- bed, and dried at the fire. Pare half a hundred of fine pippins, core them, and chop them fmall; take half a pound of fine fugar, and pound it fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame quantity of cloves, and two large nutmegs, all finely beaten. Put all together into a large pan,TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. 2 21 A and mix it well together with half a pint-of brandy, and the like quantity of fack. Put it down clofe in a ftone pot, and it will keep good three or four months. When you make your pies, take a little difh, fomething larger than a foup plate, and lay a very thin cruft all over it. Lay a thin layer of meat, and then a thin layer of citron cut very thin, then a layer of mince meat, and a layer of orange-peel cut thinover that a little meat, fqueeze in the juice of half a fine Seville orange or a lemon, lay on your cruft, and bake it nicely. Thefe pies eat very fine cold. If you make them in little patties, mix your meat and fweetmeats accordingly. CHAP. XVI. To make all Sorts of Puddings. To make a Hunting Pudding. BEAT up the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of fix, with half a pint of cream, fix fpoon- fuls of flour, a pound of beef fuet chopped fmall, a pound of currants well waflied and picked, a pound of jar raifins ftoned and chopped fmall, two ounces of candied citron, orange and lemon, Hired fine, two ounces of fine fugar, a fpoonful of rofe- water, a glafs of brandy, and half a nutmeg gra- ted. Mix all well together, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it four hours. Remember to put it in when the water boils, and keep it boiling all the time.TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. 222 A A Cujlard Pudding. BOIL a pint of thick cream, with a bit of cin- namon in it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of fugar. When it is cold, put to it the yolks of five eggs well beaten, and ftir it over the fire till it is pretty thick ; but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold, butter a cloth well, dull it with flour, tie the cullard up in it very clofe, and boil it three quarters of an hour. When you take it up, put it into a bafon to cool a little, un- tie the cloth, lay the dilh on the bafon, and turn it up. You will break the pudding, if you do not take off the cloth carefully. Grate over it a little fugar, put melted butter and a little wine in a boat, and fend it up to table. A boiled Almond Pudding. TAKE a quart of cream, a penny loaf grated, one nutmeg, fix fpoonfuls of flour, half a pound of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a dozen bitter almonds, flrain into them two eggs well beaten, put in fugar to your tafle, and add a lit- tle brandy. Boil it half an hour, pour round it melted butter and wine, and flick it with flit and blanched almonds. An Almond Pudding baked. BOIL the (1-tins of two lemons till they are very tender, and then beat them very fine. Beat half a pound of almonds in rofe-water, and a pound of fugar, very fine. Then melt half a pound of butter, and let it Hand till it is quite cold. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four. Mix them, and beat them all together, with a little orange-flower water, and fend it to the oven to bake.TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. 2Z% A Rice Pudding. HAVING put a quarter of a pound of rice into a faucepan, with a quart of new milk, and a (lick of cinnamon, Itir it often to prevent it flick- ing to the pan. When it has boiled to a proper thicknefs, pour it into a pan, flir in a quarter of a pound of frefh butter, and fweeten it to your talle. Grate in half a nutmeg, add three or four fpoonfuls of role water, and flir them all well to- gether. When it is cold, beat all up eight eggs, with half the whites. Then butter a difh, pour it in, and bake it, with a puff-pafle all over the difh. I A plain cheap Rice Pudding. TIE in a cloth a quarter of a pound of rice, half a pound of raifins flon^d, and boil them two hours; but take care, when you tie it, that you give the rice a good deal of room to fwell. When it is enough, turn it into a difh, and pour over it melted butter and fugar, with a little nutmeg gra- ted in it. A ground Rice Pudding. HAVING boiled a quarter of a pound of ground rice in water till it is foft, beat the yolks of four eggs, and put to them a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Mix them all well together, and either boil or bake it. You may put in currants and fweetmeats, if you pleafe. An Apple Pudding baked. BOIL and pound well half a pound of apples and mix half a pound of butter well beaten with them before they are cold. Put to them fix eggs with their whites, well beaten and drained, half a pound ol fugar pounded and fiftcd, and the rinds of two lemons well boiled and beaten. Shift the peel224 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. peel into clean water twice in the boiling; then put a thin cruft at the bottom and rims of your difh, and bake it half an hour. A Bread Pudding. BOIL half a pint of milk with a little cinna- mon, four eggs well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound of fuet chopped fine, and as much bread as necelfary. Pour your milk on_the bread and fuet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, the eggs, a little fugar, and fome nutmeg grated fine. You may either boil or bake this pudding. . An Italian Pudding. SLICE fome French rolls into a pint of cream, and when you have put in as much roll as will make it thick enough, beat ten eggs fine, grate a nutmeg, butter the bottom of the difh, ftice a dozen pippins into it, throw over it fome orange- peel and fugar, and put in half a pint of red wine. Then pour your cream, bread, and eggs, over it, lay a puff-pafte at the bottom of the difh, and round the edges. Half an hour will bake it. A Plain Pudding. BEAT the yolks and whites of three eggs to- gether, with two large fpoonfuls of Hour, a little fait, and half a pint of milk or cream. Make it the thicknefs of a pancake batter, and beat all well together. Half an hour will boil it. A Batter Pudding. BEAT up the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of three, and mix them with a quarter of a pint o j milk. Put to it the remainder of a quart of milk, fix fpoonfuls of flour, a teafpoonful of fait, and one of beaten ginger. Mix them all together.TO MAKE ALL SORTS Of PUDDINGS. 22£ A Q boil them an hour and a quarter, and pour melted butter over the pudding. You may, if you pleafe, put in half a pound of prunes or currants, and two or three more eggs. A Marrow Pudding. HAVING grated a penny loaf into crumbs, pour on them a pint of boiling hot cream. Cut very thin a pound of beef marrow, beat four eggs well, and then put in a glafs of brandy, with fu- ; gar and nutmeg to your tafle. Mix them all well I together, and either boil or bake it. Three quar- i ters of an hour will do it. Cut two ounces of ci- tron very thin, and, when you ferve it up, flick ; them all over it. An Orange Pudding. BOIL the rind of a Seville orange very foft, and beat it in a marble mortar, with the juice. Put to it two Naples bifeuits grated wery fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of fix eggs. Mix them well toge- ther, lay a good puff-pafle round the edge of the difh, and bake it half an hour in a gentle oven. A lemon pudding is made in the fame manner, only ufing lemon inftead of orange. An Apricot Pudding. HAVING coddled fix large apricots very ten- der, break them very fmall, fweeten them to your tafle, and when they are cold add the yolks of ; fix eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten. Mix rthem all well together, with a pint of good cream, lay a puff-pafle all over your difh, and pour in four ingredients. Bake it half an hour in a mo- derate oven, and when it is enough, throw a little line fugar all over it.£26 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. A Goojtberry Pudding. SCALD a pint of green goofeberries, and rub them through a fieve. Put to them half a pound of fugar, an equal quantity of butter, two or three Naples bifeuits, and four eggs well beaten. Mix it well, and bake it half an hour. A green Codling Pudding. GREEN about a quart of codlings as for a pie, and rub them through a hair fieve, with as much of the juice of beets as will green your pudding. Put in the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, half a pound of butter, and three eggs well beaten. Beat them all together, with half a pound of fugar, and two fpoonfuls of cyder. Lay a good palle round the rim of the difli, and pour in the pud- ding. A Quaking Pudding. BOIL a quart of cream, and let it (land till almoft cold. Beat four eggs a full quarter of an hour, with a fpoonful and a half of flour, and then mix them with your cream. Add fugar and nut- meg to your palate, tie it clofe up in a cloth well buttered, let it boil an hour, and then turn it carefully out. A Spoonful Pudding. T O a fpoonful of flour, and a fpoonful of cream or milk, put an egg, a little nutmeg, ginger, and fait. Mix all. together, with a few currants, if you choofe, and boil it in a wooden difli half an hour. A York/hire Pudding. BEAT up five eggs in a quart of milk, and mix them with flour till it is of a good pancake batter, andTO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. 227 and very fmooth. Put in a little fait and fome grated nutmeg and ginger. Butter a dripping or frying-pan, and put it under a pie.ce of beel, mut- ton, or a loin of veal, that is roafting, and then putVn your batter. When the top-fide is brown, cut it in fquare pieces, turn it, and let the under fide be brown. Put it in a hot difh, as clear from fat as you can, and fend it hot to table. A Potatoe Pudding. HAVING boiled a quarter of a pound of po- tatoes till they are foft, peel them, and rnafh them with the back of a fpoon, and rub them through a fieve to have them fine and fmooth. Then take half a pound of butter melted, half a pound of fine fugar, and beat them well together till they are fmooth. Stir fix eggs, well beaten, into a glafs of fack or brandy ; and, if you think proper, you may put in half a pint of currants. Boil it half an hour. Pour over it melted butter, with a glafs of wine in it, and fweeten it with fugar. Apple Dumplings. PARE and take out the cores of your apples, fill the hole with quince, orange marmalade, or fugar, which you like beft. Then take a piece of cold pafte, and make a hole in it, as if you were going to make a pie. Lay in your apple, and put another piece of pafte in the fame form, and clofe it up round the fide of your apple. This is much preferable to the method of gathering it in a lump at one end. Tie it in a cloth, and boil it three quarters of an hour. Damafcene Dumplings. MAKE a good hot pafte cruft, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a bafon, -and put in as many dama- scenes as you pleafe. Wet the edge of the pafte, O 2, and228 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. and clofe it up. Boil it in a cloth an hour. Pour melted butter over it; grate fugar round the ed«e of the difh, and fend it up to table whole. Hard Dumplings. MAKE a little fait, flour, and water, into a pafle, and roll them in balls the lize of a turkey’s egg. Roll them in a little flour, throw them into boiling water, and half an hour will boil them. If you choofe it, you may put into them a few cur- rants. I hey are belt boiled with a good piece of beef. Norfolk Dumplings. MAKE half a pint of milk, two eggs, and a little fait, into a good thick batter with flour. Drop your batter into a faucepan of boiling water, and two or three minutes will boil them. Be par- ticularly careful that the water boils faff when you put the batter in. Then throw them into a fievc to drain, turn them into a difh, and flir a piece of frefh butter into them. A Millet Pied ding. SPREAD a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a difh, and lay into it fix ounces of millet, and a quarter of a pound of fugar. Pour over it three pints of milk, and fend it to the oven. A Plum Pudding. OF fuet, currants, and raifins floned, take one pound of each ; the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four ; the crumb of a penny loaf grated, one pound of flour, half a nutmeg, a teafpoonful of grated ginger, a little fait, and a fmall glafs of brandy. Firff beat the eggs, and then mix them with fome milk. Add the flour and other ingre- dients by degrees, and as much more milk as may beTO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. 229 be neceffary. It mull be very thick and well flir- rcd, and will take five hours boiling. A Suet Pudding. SHRED a pound of fuet fine, take a quart of milk, four eggs, two teafpoonfuls of grated ginger, a little fait, and flour enough to make it a thick batter. It muff be boiled two hours. They may- be alfo made into dumplings, when half an hour will be fufficient to boil them. Yeajl Dumplings. H A VI N G made a light dough, as for bread, with flour, water, yeaff, and fait, cover it with a cloth, and fet it half an. hour before the fire. Make the dough into little round balls, as big as a large hen’s egg, flatten them with your hand, put them into a faucepan of boiling water, and a few minutes will do them. Take care that they do not fall to the bottom of the pot or faucepan, as that will make them heavy, and be fare to keep the water boiling all the time. When they are enough, take them up, and lay them in your difh, with melted butter in a boat. The dough you get at the ba- ker’s will do as well, and fave you the trouble of making it yourfelf. Almond Hog’s Puddings. CHOP fine a pound of beef marrow, blanch and beat fine a pound of fweet almonds, with a little orange-flower or rofe-water ; grate fine half a pound of white bread, clean wafli and pick half a pound of currants ; take a quarter of a pound of lugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon together, of each an equal quanti- ty, and half a pint of fack or mountain. Mix all well together, with half a pint of good cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Fill "the guts half full, Q 3 tie23O TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. tie them up, and boil them a quarter of an hour, and prick them as they boil to keep the guts from breaking. If you choofe it, you may leave out the currants; but, in that cafe, a quarter of a pounds more of fugar mult be added. To make Black Puddings. B O I L a peck of groats half an hour in water, then drain them, and put them into a clean tub or large pan. Then kill your hog, and fave two quarts of the blood; and keep ftirring the blood till it is quite cold. Then mix it with your groats, and ftir them well together. Seafon with a large fpoonful of fait, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmeg together, an equal quantity of each. Dry them, beat them well, and mix all to- gether. Take a little winter favory, fweet marjo- ram, thyme, and penny royal, Itripped of the ftalks and chopped very fine ; juft enough to fea- fon them, and give them a flavour, but no more. The next day, take the leaf of the hog, and cut it into dice, waftt the guts very clean, then tie one end, and begin to fill them. Mix in the fat as you fill them, and be fure to put in plenty of fat. Fill the {kins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your pudding what length you pleafe. Prick them with a pin, and put them in a kettle of boiling water. Boil them foftly an hour, and then put them on clean ftraw to drain and dr^. A Carrot Pudding. SCRAPE and grate a raw carrot very clean; take half a pound of the grated carrot, and a pound of grated bread. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, and mix them with half a pint of cream. Stir in the bread and car- rot, half a pound of frefli butter melted, half a pint of fack, three fpoonfuls of orange-flower wa-TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. 20,1 8 4 half ter, and a nutmeg grated. Sweeten to your pa- late. Mix all well together, and if it be not thin enough, ftir in a little new milk or cream. Let it be of a moderate thicknefs, lay a puff-pafte all over the difh, and pour in the ingredients. It will take an hour’s baking ; but, if you boil it, you mud melt butter, with fugar and white wine. An Herb Pudding. WASH, feald, and Aired very fine, of fpinach, beet, parfiey, and leeks, each a handful. Have ready a quart of groats deeped in warm water half an hour, and a pound of hog’s lard cut in little bits, three large onions chopped fmall, and three fage leaves hacked fine. Put in a little fait, mix all well together, and tie it clofe up. While it is boiling, you mud take it up, and loofen the firing a little, in order to give it room to fwell. Peas Pudding. A S foon as the peas are boiled tender, take them up, untie them, and ftir in a good piece of butter, a little fait, and a good deal of beaten pepper. Then tie it up again, boil it an hour longer,' and it will be ready to ferve up. A Hajly Pudding. T O a pint of cream, and the fame quantity of milk, put a little fait, and fweeten it with loaf fugar. Make it boil, and then put in fome fine dour, and keep it continually dirring while you are putting in the flour, till it is thick enough, and diffidently boiled. Pour it out, and dick the top full of little bits of butter. An Oatmeal Pudding. HAVING boiled a pint of fine oatmeal in three pints of new milk, dirring it till it is as thick as a hady pudding, take it off, and dir in232 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PUDDINGS. half a pound of frefh butter, a little beaten mace and nutmeg, and a gill of facie. Then beat up the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four, and ftir all well together. Lay a puff-pafte all over the difh, pour in the pudding, and bake it half an hour. If you pleafe, you may put in a few currants, and boil it. A Sago Pudding. BOIL two ounces of fago with fome cinna- mon, and a bit of lemon-peel, till it is foft and thick. Grate the crumb of a halfpenny roll, put to it a glafs of red wine, four ounces of chop- ped marrow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and fugar to your tafte. When the fago is cold, put thefe ingredients to it, and mix it all well toge- ther. Bake it with a puff-pafte; and, when it comes from the oven, cut citron into pieces, and blanched almonds into flips, and flick them over the pudding. A Vermicelli Pudding. LI A VING boiled a quarter of a pound of ver- micelli in a pint of milk till it is foft, with a flick of cinnamon, take out the cinnamon, and put in half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of but- ter melted, and a quarter of a pound of fugar, with the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Bake it, with- out a pafte, in an earthen difh. A grateful Pudding. T O a pound of white bread grated, put a pound • of fine flour; take eight eggs with half the whites, beat them up, and mix them with a pint of milk. Then ftir in the bread and flour; a pound of raifins Honed, a pound of currants, half a pound of fugar, and a little beaten ginger. Mix all well to-TO MAKE PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 233 together, and either bake 01 boil it. It will take three quarters of an hour baking. A Tanfey Pudding. GRATE four Naples bifeuits, and put as much boiling cream to them as will wet them, and beat up the yolks of four eggs. Chop a few tanfey leaves, but not too many, with as much fpinach as will make it a pretty green. Mix all together when the cream is cold, with a little fugar, and thicken it over a How fire. When it is cold, put it into a cloth well buttered and floured, tie it up clofe, and let it boil three quarters of an honr. Serve it up with white wine fauce. CHAP XVII. To make Pancakes and Fritters. Pancakes. HAVING beat fix or eight eggs well toge- ther, leaving out half the whites, ftir them into a quart of milk. Mix your flour firft with a little ofthe milk, and then put in the reft by de- grees. Add two fpoonfuls of beaten ginger, a glafs of brandy, and a little fait, and ftir all well together, Put fome butter into a ftewpan, and then pour in a ladleful of batter, which will be fuf- ficient to make a pancake, and keep moving the pan round, that the batter may fpread properly. Shake the pan, and turn the pancake, as foon as you think one fide is done enough. When both fides are done, lay it in a difh before the fire, and pro-234 T0 make pancakes and fritters. proceed in the Tame manner till you have fried as many as you choofe. Strew a little fugar over them, and lend them up to table. Cream Pancakes. P U F the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with two ounces of fugar, and a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg. Proceed in every other refpeft, as above direfted. Clary Pancakes. T O three fpoonfuls of fine flour, put three eggs, and a little fait. Beat them well together in°a pint of milk. Fry them in lard, and pour in your batter as thin as poflible. Then lay in fome cla- ry leaves wafhed and dried, and pour a little more batter over them. Take care to fry them of a nice brown. Rice Pancakes. MIX three fpoonfuls of flour of rice with a quart of cream, fet it on a flow fire, and keep Air- ring it till it is as thick as pap. Pour into it half a pound of butter, and a nutmeg grated. Put it into an earthen pan, and as foon as it is cold, ftir in three or fouf fpoonfuls of flour, a little fait, fome fugar, and nine eggs well beaten. Mix all well together, and fry them nicely. New milk muft be ufed, when you cannot get cream ; but, in that cafe, a fpoonful more of rice mult be added. Pink-coloured Pancakes. FI A V I N G boiled a large beet-root till it is tender, bear it fine in a marble mortar. Put to it the yolks of four eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and three fpoonfuls of cream. Sweeten it to your tafte, grate in half a nutmeg, and add a glafs of brandy. Mix all well together, and fry them as before di- reacd.TO MAKE PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 235 refted. Garnifh with green fweetmeats, green {prigs of myrtle, or preferred apricots. To make Almond Fraze. BLANCH a pound of Jordan almonds, and fteep them in a pint of cream, ten yolks of e<TcrSj and four whites. Then take out the al- monds, and pound them fine in ar mortar. Mix them again in the cream and eggs, and add fome orated white bread and fugar. Stir them all well together, and fry them as before dnccfed. To make plain Fritters. PUT the crumb of a penny-loaf grated into a pint of milk, and mix it very fmooth. When it is cold, put in the yolks of five eggs, three ounces of fifted fugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Fry them in the fame manner as pancak'es, and ferve them up with melted butter, wine, and fugar. Apple Fritters. PARE and core fome of the larged apples you can get, and cut them into round dices. Take half a pint of ale, and two eggs, and beat in as much dour as will make it rather thicker than a common pudding, with nutmeg and fugar to your tade. Let it Hand three 'or four minutes to rife. Dip your dices of apple into the batter, fry them crifp, grate over them fome fugar, put wine fauce in a boat, and fend them up to table. Cujlard Fritters. H A V I N G beat up the yolks of eight eggs with a fpoonful of dour, half a nutmeg, a little fait, and a glaL of brandy, add a pint of cream, fweeten it, and bake if in a fmall didi. When it is cold, cut it into quarters, and dip them in bat- ter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint 123^ TO MAKE PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. pint of milk, four eggs, a little flour, and a little ginger grated. Fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done, ftrew grated fugar over them. Royal Fritters. > PUT a quart of new milk into a fauccpan, and pour in a pint of lack or wine as foon as it begins to boil. Then take it off, and let it hand five or fix minutes, fkim off the curd, and put it into a bafon. Beat it up well with fix eggs, and feafon it with nutmeg. Then beat it with a whifk, and add flour fufficicnt to give it the ufual thicknefs o( batter. Put in fome fugar, and fry them quick. Bibloquet Fritters. HAVING broken five eggs into a handful of fine flour, and put milk enough to make it work well together, then put in fome fait, and work it again. When it is well made, put in a teafpoon- ful of powder of cinnamon, the fame quantity of lemon-peel grated, and half an ounce of candied citron cut very fmall. Put on a ffewpan, rub it over with butter, and put in the pafle. Set it over a flow fire, and let it do gently, without flick- ing to the bottom or fides of the pan. "When it is in a manner baked, take it out, and lav it on a difh. Set on a ffewpan with a large quantity of lard ; when it boils, cut the pafle the fize of a finger, and then cut it acrofs at each end, which will rife and be hollow, and have a very good effect Put them into the boiling lard; but great care muff be taken in frying them, as they rife lo much. When they are done, fift fome fugar on a warm difh, lay on the fritters, and fift more fu-, gar over them. , German Fritters. PARE, quarter, and core, fome well-taftcd crifp apples ; take the core quite out, and cut them intoTO MAKE PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. 237 into round pieces. Put into a flewpan a quarter of a pint of French brandy, a table fpoonlul of line fugar pounded, and a little cinnamon. Put the apples into this liquor, and fet them over a gentle fire, ftirring them often; but take care not to break them. Set on a flewpan with fome lard, and when it boils, drain the apples, dip them in fome fine flour, and put them into the pan. Strew fome fugar over the difli, and fet it on the fire. Lay in the fritters, drew a little fugar over them, and glaze them over with a red hot falamander. Water Fritters. TO five or fix fpoonfuls of flour, put a little fait, eight eggs well beaten, and a glafs of brandy, and mix them all well together. The longer they are made before dreffing, the better. Juft before you do them, melt half a pound of butter, and beat it well in. Fry them in hog’s lard. Rice Fritters. HAVING boiled a quarter of a pound of rice in milk till it is pretty thick, mix it with a pint of cream, four eggs, fome fugar, cinnamon and nut- mug, fix ounces of currants wafhed and picked, a little fait, and as .much flour as will make it a thick batter. Fry them in little cakes in boiling lard, and ferve them up with white fugar and butter. White Fritters. WASH two ounces of rice clean in water, and dry it before the fire ; then beat it very fine in a mortar, and fift it through a lawn ficve. Put it into a faucepan, juft wet it with milk, and put to it another pint of milk as foon as it is thoroughly moiftened. Set the whole over a (love, or very flow fire, and take care to keep it always mov- ing. Put in a little ginger, and fome candied le- mon238 TO MAKE PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. mon-peel grated. Keep it over the fire, till it come almoft to the thicknefs of a fine pafle. When it is quite cold, fpread it out with a rolling-pin, and cut it into little pieces, taking care that they do not flick to each other. Flour your hands, roll up your fritters handfomely, and fry them. Strew on them fome fugar, and pour over them a little orange-flower water. Tanfy Fritters. FI A V I N G poured a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a penny loaf, let it Hand an hour, and then put in as much juice of tanfey to it as will give it a flavour. Add to it a little juice of fpinach, to give it a green colour. Put to it a fpoonful of ratafia-water, or brandy, fweeten it to your tafle, grate the rind of half a lemon, beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them all together. Put them in a ftewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and ftir it over a flow fire till it is quite thick. Take it off, and let it Hand two or three hours. Then drop a fpoonful at a time into boil- ing lard. When they are done, grate fugar over them, and put wine fauce in a boat, and fend them up to table. Rafpbcrry Fritters. GRATE two Naples bifeuits, or the crumb of a French roll, and put to it a pint of boiling cream. When it is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs well beaten up. Mix all well together with fome rafpberry juice, and drop them into a ^an of boil- ing lard in very fmall quantities. Stick them with blanched almonds fiiced, and ferve them up. Strawberry Fritters. HAVING made a batter with flour, a fpoonful of fweet oil, another of white wine, a little rafped lemon-TO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS. 239 lemon-peel, and the whites of two or three eggs, make it pretty foft, fo as juft to drop with a fpoon. Mix it with fome large ftrawberries, and drop them with a fpoon into the hot fritters. Vv hen they are of a good colour, take them out, and drain them on a (ieve. When they are done, ftrew fome fugar over them, and glaze diem. Currant Fritters. STIR into half a pint ale that is not bitter as much flour as will make . it pretty thick, and put in a few currants. Beat m.up quick, have the lard boiling, and put a large fpoonful at a time into the pan. Hajly Fritters. HEAT fome butter in a ftewpan ; take half a pint of good ale, and ftir a little flour into it by degrees. Put in a few currants, or chopped ap- ples, beat them up quick, and drop a large fpoon- ful at a time all over the pan. Take care they do not flick together, turn them with an egg flice, and when they are of a fine brown, lay them on a difh, ftrew fome fugar over them,, and fend them, up hot to table'. C H A P. XVIII. To make all Sorts^of Cakes> Puffs, and Bifcuits. To make a Plum Cake. TO three pounds of flour put an equal quantity of currants, three quarters of a pound of al- monds, blanched and a little beat, half an ounce of them bitter; a quarter of a pound of fugar, the yolks24° TO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS. yolks of feven eggs, and the whites of fix ; a pint of cream, two pounds of butter, and half a pint of good ale yeaft. Mix the eggs and the yeaft toge- ther, and llrain them. Set the cream on the fire, and melt the butter in it. Stir in the almonds, and half a pint pi lack, part of which mull be put to the almonds while beating. Mix together the currants, flour, and fugar, with nutmeg, cloves, and mace, to your palate. Stir thcfe to the cream, and put in the yeaft. Shrewjbury Cakes. H A V I N G beat half a pound of butter to a cream, put in half a pound of flour, an egg, fix ounces of loaf fugar beaten and lifted, half an ounce of carraway feeds, mixed into a paile, and roll them thin. Cut them round with little tins, or a fmall glafs, prick them, lay them on flreets of tin, and bake them in a flow oven. / A Bride Cake. T O four pounds of fine flour well dried, put the like quantity of frcfh butter, two pounds of loaf fugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the fame quantity of nutmeg, both finely pounded and lifted. To every pound of flour put eight eggs ; wafli and pick four pounds of entrants, and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of fweet al- monds, and cut them lengthways very thin; of ci- tron, candied orange, and candied lemon, a pound each, and half a pint of brandy. Firft work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your fugar a quarter of an hour, beat the whites of your eggs to a very ftrong froth, and mix them with your fugar and butter. Beat your yolks at leaft half an hour, and mix them with your cake. Then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg, and keep beating it till your oven is ready. Put in your 4TO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS. 241 your brandy, and beat in lightly your currants and almonds. Tic three fheets of paper round the Bottom of your hoop, to keep it from running out, and rub it well with butter. Put in your cake, and lav in your fweetmeats in three layers, with cake between every layer. After it is rifen and coloured, cover it with paper before your oven is flopped up, and bake it three hours. Portugal Cakes. BEAT and fift a pound of loaf fugar, and mix it with a pound of fine flour. Then rub it into a pound of good fweet butter, till it is as thick as grated white bread. Put to it two fpoonfuls of rofe- water, two of fack, and ten eggs. Whip them well with a whifk, then put into it eight ounces of currants, and mix all well together. Butter the tin pans, fill them half full, and bake them. If you do not put currants into them, they will keep half a year. Add a pound of almonds blanched, and beat with rofe-water, as above, and leave out the flour. Thefc are better than the fort firft men- tioned. A Pound Cake. BEAT a pound of butter, in an earthen pan, with your hand, one way, till it refembles a fine thick cream. Then beat up with the butter twelve eggs, with only half their whites ; and beat in alfo a pound of fugar, a pound of flour, and a few carraways. Beat all well together with your hand, or with a large wooden fpoon, for an hour. Then butter a pan, put it in, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. You may, if you think proper, put in a pound of clcan-wafhed and picked currants. R Little-242 . TO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS# Little Currant Cakes. DRY well a pound and an half of fine flour before the fire ; take a pound of butter, half a pound of fine loaffugar well beaten and fifted, four yolks of eggs, four fpoonfuls of rofe-water, the like quantity of fack, a little mace, and a nutmeg grated. Beat the eggs well, and put them to the rofe-water and fack. Then put to them the fugar and butter, work them all together, and ftrew in the currants and flour, having warmed them both together before. This will be fufficient to make fix or eight cakes. Bake them of a fine brown, and let them be pretty crifp. Little fine Cakes. BEAT a pound of butter to a cream; take a pound and a quarter of flour, a pound of fine fu- gar finely beaten, a pound of clean-wafhed and picked currants, fix eggs, ufing only two of the whites. Beat them fine, mix the flour, fugar, and eggs, by degrees into the batter, and beat it all well with both hands. This may be baked in one cake, or made into feveral little ones. Heart Cakes. WITH your hand work a pound of butter to a cream; then put to it twelve eggs, with only fix of the whites, well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound of fifted fugar, four fpoonfuls of good brandy, and a pound of currants wafhed, and dried before the fire. As the pans are filled, put in two ounces of candied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will be fufficient to fill three dozen of middling-fized pans. A. CommonTO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS. 243 A Common Seed Cake. TAKE a pound of butter beat to a cream with the hand, a pound and a quarter of flour, three quarters of a pound of lump fugar pounded, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of four. Mix thefe well together, and put to them an ounce of carraway feeds bruifed. Butter the pan or hoop, and lift fugar on the top. A rich Seed Cake. TAKE a pound of butter, a pound of flour well dried, a pound of loaf fugar beaten and fifted, eight eggs, two ounces of carraway feeds, one nut- meg grated, and its weight of cinnamon. Having beaten your butter to a cream, put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, and mix them with the fugar and butter. Then beat the yolks half an hour, and put to them the whites. Beat in your flour, fpices, and feeds, a little before it goes to the oven. Put it in the hoop, and bake it two hours in a quick oven. The ingredients will take two hours, in order to be beaten up pro- perly together. A good Family Cake. TAKE rice and wheat flour, of each fix oun- ces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump fugar pounded and fifted, and half an ounce of carraway-feeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the fame time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake; and is very proper for young people and delicate ftomachs. Royal Cakes. BEAT and fift a pound of fugar; then take a pound of well-dried flour, a pound of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of walhed and picked currants, grate a nutmeg, and the fame quantity of mace R 2 and244 T0 MAKE cakes, puffs and biscuits. and cinnamon. Having worked your butter to a cream, put in your fugar. Beat the whites of your eggs near half an hour, and mix them with your fugar and butter. Then beat your yolksnear half an hour, and put them to your butter. Thefe mull be well beaten together, and when it is ready for the oven ; put in your flour, fpices, and currants. Sift a little fugar over them, and bake them in tins. Orange or Lemon Cakes. QUARTER as many Seville oranges, or le- mons, as you pleafe, but they mull have good rinds, and boil them in two or three waters till they be tender, and have loft their bitternefs. Then fkin them, and lay them in a clean napkin to dry. With a knife take out all the fkins and feeds out of the pulp, hired the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine fugar into a tofting-pan, with juft as much water as will diffolve the fugar. Boil it till it becomes a perfect fugar, and then by degrees put in your peels and pulps. Stir them well before you fet them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, and then put them into flat-bottomed glaffes. Set them in a ftove, and keep them in a conftant and moderate heat, and turn them out upon glaffes, as foon as they are candied on the top. Almond Cakes. BLANCH and beat two ounces of bitter, and one pound of fweet almonds; take a little tofe or orange-flour water, and the white of an egg ; ha . a pound of loaf-fugar fifted, eight yolks and three whites of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and tie rind grated. Bake it in one large pan, or in feve- ral fmall ones. hTO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS. 24$ Bath Cakes. RUB half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and put to it a fpoonful of good barm, and, with fome warm cream, make it into a light pafte, and fet it to the fire to rife. When you make them up, take four ounces of carraway comfits, work part of them in, and ftrew the reft on the top. Make them into round cakes, about the fizeof a French roll, bake them onfheet tins, and fend them in hot for breakfaft. ' Icings for Cakes. POUND and ftft fine a pound of double-re- fined fugar, and mix with it, in an earthen pan, the whites of twenty-four eggs. Whifk them well for two or three hours, till it looks white and thick, and then, with a bunch of feathers, fpread it all over the top and Tides of the cake. Set it at a proper diftance before a clear fire, and keep turning it continually that it may not change colour; but a cool oven is beft, in which an hour will har- den it. You may alfo make your icing in the fol- lowing manner. Beat the whites of three eggs to a ftrong froth, beat a pound of Jordan almonds very fine with rofe-water, and mix your almonds and eggs lightly together. Then beat a pound of loaf fugar very fine, and put it in by degrees. When your cake is enough, take it out, lay on your icing, and proceed as above dire&cd. Almond Puff's. BLANCH and beat very fine two ounces of fweet almonds with orangc-llower water. Beat the whites of three eggs to a very high froth, and then ftrew in a little lifted fugar. Mix your almonds with your fugar and eggs, and then add more fugar R 3 till246 TO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUITS. till it is as thick as pafte. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on a paper in a cool oven. Lemon Puffs. HAVING beaten and lifted a pound of double- refined fugar, put it into a bowl, with the juice of two lemons, and beat them well together. Then, having beaten the white of an egg to a very high froth, put it alfo into your bowl, and beat it half an hour. Put in three eggs, and two rinds of le- mons grated. Mix it well up, duff fome fugar on your papers, drop on the puffs in fmall drops, and bake them in a moderately-heated oven. Sugar Puffs. BEAT the whites of ten eggs till they rife to a high froth ; put them into a flone mortaror wooden bowl, and add as much double-refined fugar as will make them thick. Putin a little ambergris to give them a flavour, rub them round the mortar for half an hour, and put in a few carraway feeds. Take a fheet of wafers, lay them on as broad as a fixpence, and as high as they can be laid. Put them into a moderately-heated oven forfix or feven minutes, and they will look of a beautiful white. To make Wafers. BEAT the yolks of two eggs in a pint of cream, and mix it as thick as a pudding with well-dried flour, and fugar and orange-flower water to your tafle. Put in a fufficient quantity of warm water to make it as thin as fine pancakes. Mix them very fmooth, and bake them over a flove. Butter the irons when they flick. To make common Bifcuits. BEAT eight eggs half an hour, and put to them a pound of fugar beaten and fiftcd, with the rind ofTO MAKE CAKES, PUFFS AND BISCUISTS. 247 of a lemon grated. Whifk it an hour, or till it looks light, and then put in a pound of flour, with a little rofe-water. Sugar them over, and bake them in tins, or on paper. , Drop Bifcuits. TAKE the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of fix, and beat them with a fpoonful of rofe- water half an hour. Then put in ten ounces of loaf fugar finely beaten and fifted. Whifk them well for half an "hour, and then add an ounce of carraway-feeds, bruifed, and fix ounces of fine flour. Whifk in your flour gently, drop them on wafer-paper, and bake them in an oven moderately heated, Naples Bifcuits. M I X a pound of foft fugar finely fifted with three quarters of a pound of very fine flour. Sift it three times, and then add fix eggs well beaten, and a fpoonful of rofe-water. When the oven is almofl hot, make them, but take care that they are not made up too wet. Savoy Bifcuits. El A V I N G beaten the whites of eight eggs till they bear a ftrong froth, put the yolks to them, with a pound of fugar, and beat them all together a quarter of an hour. When the oven is ready, k add a pound of fine flour to the other ingredients. Stir them till they be well mixed, lay the bifcuits upon the paper, and ice them. Bake them in a quick oven. French Bifcuits. TAKE three new laid eggs, and an equal weight* of dried flour. Mix the flour with an equal quan- tity of fine powdered fugar. Firlf beat the whites R 4 of248 CHEESECAKES, TARTS, AND CUSTARDS. of the eggs up well with a whifk, till they are of a fine froth. Then whip in half an ounce of can- died lemon-peel cut very thin and fine, beat them well up. Then, by degrees, whip in the flour and fugar; then put in the yolks, and with a fpoon temper it well together. Shape your bifeuits on fine white paper with your fpoon, and throw pow- dered fugar over them. Bake them in a moderately heated oven, and give them a fine colour at the top. When they are baked, cut them from the paper with a thin knife, and put them into boxes till wanted. To make Gingerbread. MIX three quarts of fine flour, two ounces of beaten ginger, a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, cloves, and mace, beat fine, then add three quar- ters of a pound of fine fugar, two pounds of trea- cle, and fet it over the fire, but do not let it boil. Melt three quarters of a pound of butter in the treacle, put in fome candied lemon and orange- peel cut fine. Mix thefe well together, and let it ftand in a quick oven one hour. CHAP. XIX. To make Cheefecakes, Tarts, and Cufards. To make common Cheefecakes. BEAT eight eggs well, while a quart of milk is on the fire, and when it boils, put in the eggs, and ffir them till they come to a curd. The 11 pour it out, and when it is cold, put in a little fait, two fpoonfuls of rofe-water, and three quarters of a pound of currants, well wafhed. Put it imo puff-pa lie, and bake it. If you ufe tin pattie^°CHEESECAKES, TARTS, AND CUSTARDS. 249 bake in, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in glafs or china, only an upper cruft will be neceffary, as you will not want to take them out when you fend them to table. Elegant Cheefecakes. WARM a pint of cream, and put to it five quarts of milk warm from the cow. Then put run- net to it, and ftir it well. As foon as it is curdled, put the curd in a linen bag or cloth, and let the whey properly drain from it, but do not fqueeze it much. Then put it into a mortar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Put to the curd half a pound of fweet almonds blanched, and half a pound of mackaroons, both finely' beaten. Put in nine eggs well beaten, a whole nutmeg grated, two per- fumed plums diffolved in rofe or orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine fugar. Mix all well together; then melt a pound and a quarter of butter, and ftir it well in. Make a puff-pafte as follows: Wet a pound of fine flour with cold wa- ter, and roll it out. Put into it by degrees a pound of frefli butter, and fliake a little flour over each coat as you roll it. Make it juft before you want to ufe it. If you choofe it, you may put in a lit- tle tin&ure of faffron to give them a high colour. Rice Cheefecakes. HAVING boiled a quarter of a pound of rice till it be tender, drain it, and put in four eggs well beaten, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, fix ounces of fugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glafs of ratafia-water or brandy. Beat them all together, and bake them in raifed crufts. Almond Cheefecakes. BLANC H four ounces of Jordan almonds, and put them into cold water. Beat them with rofe-25O CHEESECAKES, TARTS, AND CUSTARDS. rofe-water in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, with a wooden peftle : Put to it four ounces of fu- gar, and the yolks of four eggs finely beaten. Work it in the mortar or bowl till it becomes white and frothy. Then make the following rich puff- pafte : Take half a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter; rub a little of the butter into the flour, mix it ftiff with a little cold water, then roll your pafteftraight out, drew over it a little flour, lay over it, in thin bits, one third of your butter; throw a little more flour over the butter; do fo for three times ; then put your palte in your tins, fill them, and grate fugar over them. Bake them in a moderately-heated oven. . Citron Cheefecakes. HAVING boiled a quart of cream, let it (land till it is cold, and then mix it with the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Then fet it on the fire, and let it boil till it curds. Blanch fome almonds, beat them well with orange-flower water, put them into the cream, with a few Naples bifeuits and green citron fhred fine. Sweeten it to your tafte, and bake them in teacups. / Lemon and Orange Cheefecakes. BOIL the peel of two large lemons till they be quite tender, and then pound it well in a mor- tar with four or five ounces of loaf fugar, the yolks of fix eggs, half a pound of frefli butter, and a little curd beat fine. Pound and mix all toge- ther, lay a puff-pafte in your patty-pans, fill them half full, and bake them. Orange cheefecakes are made in the fame method, only with this dif- ference, that the bitternefs mult be taken out of the peel by boiling it in two or three waters. ACHEESECAKES, TARTS, AND CUSTARDS. 25I A Rafpberry Tart with Cream. LAY fome thin puff-pafte in a patty-pan, put in fome rafpberries, and ftrew over them fome very fine fugar. Put on the lid, and bake it. Then cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little fugar. Let it Hand to cool before you fend it to table. A Spinach Tart. SCALD fome fpinach in boiling water, drain it well and chop it. Then ftew it in butter and cream, with a little fait, fugar, a few pieces of fried comfit citron, and a few drops of orange- flower water. Make it into tarts. Rhubarb Tarts. CUT the {talks of the rhubarb that grows in the garden into pieces of the fize of a goofe- berry, and make it in the fame manner as a goofe- berry tart. To make apple tarts, lemon tarts, and tarts de moi, fee Chapter XV. A common Cujlard. SWEETEN a quart of new milk to yourtafte, grate in a fmall nutmeg, beat up eight eggs with only four whites, ftir them into the milk, and add a lit- tle rofe-water. Bake it in china bafons, or put them in a deep china difh. Prepare a kettle of boiling water, fet the cups into it, and let the water come above half way ; but do not let it boil too fall, for fear of its getting into the cups. Co- lour them at top with a hot iron. Cuflards to bake. HAVING boiled a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon, let it hand till it be cold. Then take*52 CHEESECAKES, TARTS, AND CUSTARDS.' take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rofe and orange-flower water and lack, with nutmeg and fugar to your palate. Mix them well together, and bake them in cups. Almond Cujlards. BOIL a pint of cream in a toffing-pan, with a flick of cinnamon, a blade or two of mace, and let it Hand to cool. Blanch two ounces of almonds, beat them fine in a marble mortar with fome rofe- water. If you like a ratafia tafle, put in a few apricot kernels, or bitter almonds. Mix them with your cream, fweeten it to your tafle, fet it on a flow fire, and keep flirring it till it is pretty thick. Bake it in cups. Orange Cujlards. BOIL half the rind of a Seville orange till it be tender, beat it very fine in a mortar, and put to it a fpoonful of brandy, a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar, the juice of a Seville orange, and the yolks of four eggs. Beat them all well together for ten minutes, and then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream. Keep beating them till they are cold, then put them into cuflard cups, and fet them in an earthen difh of hot water. Let them fland till they are fet, then take them out, and flick preferved orange on the top. They may be eaten either hot or cold. Lemon Cuflards. FIRST beat the yolks of ten eggs, and ftrain them, and then beat them with a pint of cream. Sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one, and flrain it. As foon as it has cool- ed, flir it to the cream and eggs; put it on the fire again, flir it till it nearly boils, grate over it 3TO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. 253 the rind of a lemon, and brown with a falaman- der. Rice Cvjlards. BOIL a blade of mace and a quartered nutmeg in a quart of cream, and (train it. 1 hen add to it fome whole rice boiled and a little brandy. Sweeten it, flir it over the fire till it thickens, and ferve it up in cups or a difh. It may be fent to table either hot or cold. CHAP. XX. To make Creams and Jams, Orange Cream. PARE the rind of a Seville orange very fine, and fqueeze the juice of four oranges. Put them into a ftewpan with half a pint of water, and eight ounces of fugar. Beat the whites of five eggs, mix them into it, and fet them on a flow fire. Stir it one way till it grows thick and white, (train it through a gauze, and flir it till it is cold. Then beat the yolks of five eggs very fine, and put them into your pan with the cream. Stir it over a gentle fire till it nearly boils, then put it into a bafon, and flir it till it is cold, when you may put it into your glades. Burnt Cream. B OI L a pint of cream with fugar and a little lemon-peel hired fine. Beat the yolks of fix, and the whites of four eggs feparately, and when the cream 1254 to MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. cream is cold, put in your eggs, with a fpoonful of orange-flower water, and one of fine flour. Set it over the fire, keep flirring it till it is thick, and then put it into a difh. When it is cold, fift a quarter of a pound of fugar all over it, and brown it with a hot falamander, till it looks like a glafs plate put over your cream. Spani/h Cream. TAKE three fpoonfuls of flour of rice fifted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three fpoonfuls of water, two of orange-flower water, and mix them well together. Put to them one pint of cream, and fet it upon a good fire, flirring it till it be of a proper thicknefs. Then pour it into cups, Pijlachio Cream. TAKE out the kernels of half a pound of Piffa- chio nuts, beat them in a mortar with a fpoonful of brandy, and put them into a toffing-pan, with a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs finely beaten. Stir it gently over a flow fire till it is thick, but do not let it boil. Put it into a China foup- plate, and when it is cold, flick fome kernels, cut longways, all over it, and fend it to table. , Whipt Cream. BEAT the whites of eight eggs well, and mix them with a quart of thick cream, and half a pint of fack. Sweeten it to your tafle with double-re- fined fugar. Whip it up with a whifk, and fome lemon-peel tied in the middle of the whifk. Take the froth with a fpoon, and lay it in your glaffes or bafons. This does well over a tart. Ice Creavi. PARE, ftone, and feald twelve ripe apricots, and beat them fine in a marble mortar. Put to them fix ounces of double refined fugar, and a pint a ofTO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. 255 of fcalding cream, and work it through a hair fieve. Put it into a tin that has a clofe cover, and fet it in a tub of ice broken fmall, and a large quantity of fait put among it. When you fee the cream grows thick round the edges of your tin, ftir it, and fet it again till it grows quite thick. When your cream is all frozen up, take it out of the tin, and put it into the mould you intend it to be turned out of. Then put on the lid, and have ready another tub, with ice and fait in it as before. Put your mould in the middle, and lay your ice under and over it. Let it (land four or five hours, and dip your tin in warm water when you turn it out ; but, if it be fummer time, do not turn it out till the very inftant you want it. If you have not apri- cots, any other fruit will anfwer the purpofe, pro- vided you take care to work them very fine in the mortar. Hartjhorn Cream. BOIL four ounces of hartfhorn fhavings in three pints of water till it is reduced to half a pint, and run it through a jelly-bag. Put to it a pint of cream and four ounces of loaf fugar, and juft boil it up. Put it into cups or glaffes, and let it ftand till it is cold. Dip your cups or glades in fcalding water, and turn them out into your dilh. Stick diced almonds on them. It is generally eaten with white wine and ftmar. O Pompadour Cream. BEAT the whites of Eve eggs into a ftrong froth, and put them into a toding-pan witl\ two ounces of fugar, and two fpoonfuls of orange- dower water. Stir it gently three or four minutes, and then pour it into a difh with melted butter over it. Send it up hot to table. Coffee256 TO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. Coffee Cream. PUT an ounce of coffee roafted hot into a pint and half of boiling cream. Boil thefe toge- ther a little ; then take it off, and put in two dried gizzards. Cover this clofe, let it hand one hour, and fweeten it with double refined fugar. Pafs it two or three times through a fieve with a wooden fpoon, put it into a difh with a tin on the top ; fet the difh on a gentle ftove, put fire over and under it, and when it has taken, fet it by. This muft be fent up cold to table. Goofeberry Cream. PUT two quarts of gofeberries into a faucepan, juft cover them with water, feald them till they are tender, and then rub them through a fieve with a fpoon to a quart of pulp. Have ready fix eggs well beaten, make your pulp hot, and put in one ounce of frefh butter. Sweeten it to your tafte, put it over a gentle fire till they are thick ; but take care that they do not boil. Then ftir- in a gill of the juice of fpinach, and when it is almoft cold, ftir in a fpoonful of orange-flower water or fack. Pour it into bafons, and ferve it up cold. Clouted Cream. IN the evening, take four quarts of milk from the cow, put it into a broad earthen pan, and let 1 it ftand till the next day. Then put the difh over a very flow fire, and another difh over it to keep out the duft. Make it fufficiently hot to fet the ; cream, and then fet it afidc to cool. Then take ; the cream off into a bowl, and beat it well with a fpoon. This is very proper to put over pics and tarts. SnowCANDYING AND DRYING. S73 for the quantity you intend to make, and cut it as thin as you can. Put a layer of that on the cream as lightly as poffible, then a layer of currant jelly, after that a very thin layer of roll, then hartfhorn jelly, and then French roll. Over that whip the froth you laved off the cream, very well milled up, and put on the top as high as you can heap it. As to the rim of the dilh, fet it round with fruit or fweetmeats, according to your tafte. This has a very pretty appearance in the middle of a table, with candles round it. You may make it of as many different colours as you pleafe, according to the jellies, jams, or fweetmeats, you may have at hand. CHAP. XXII. Candying and Drying. To prepare Sugar for candying. FRUIT intended for candying mult be firlt pre-* ferved, and dried in a (love, or before the fire, that none of thefyrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the ufe of candying mult be thus pre- pared. Put into a toffing-pan a pound of fugar with half a pint of water, and fet it over a very clear fire. Take off the fcum as it rifes, boil it till it looks fine and clear, and take out a little in a filver fpoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your fpoon, it is boiled high enough for any kind of fweetmeat. Then boil your fyrup, and when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great miftakc . to put any kind of fweetmeat into too thick a fyrup, T efpecially2 74 CANDYING AND DRYING. efpecially at the firft> as it withers the fruit, and the beauty and flavour are thereby both deftroyed. To candy Melons. H AVI NG quartered your melons, take out all the in fide, and put into it as much thin fyrup as will cover the coat. Let it boil in the fyrup till it is thoroughly tender, and then put it away in the fyrup for two or three days, but mind that the fyrup covers it, and that it may penetrate quite through. Then take it out, and boil your fyrup to a candy height; dip in your quarters, and lay them on a fieve to dry either before the fire, or in a flow oven. Lemon and Orange Peel candied. CUT your oranges or lemons lengthways, and and talce out all the pulp and infide fkins. Put the peels into hard water and ftrong fait for fix days, and then boil them in fpring water till they are tender. Take them out, and lay them on a fieve to drain. Make a thin fyrup with a pound of loaf fugar to a quart of water, and boil them in it for half an hour, or till they look clear. Make a thick fyrup of double-refined fugar, with as much water as will wet it. Put in your peels and boil them over a flow fire till you fee the fy- rup candy about the pan and the peels. Then take them out, and fprinkle fine fugar over them. Lay them on a fieve, and dry them before the fire, or in a cool oven., Cajfia candied. POUND a little mufk and ambergreafe with as much of the powder of caffia as will lie on two fhillings. Plaving pounded them well together, take a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height. ThenCANDYING AND DRYfNG. 275 Then put in your powder, and mix them well to- gether. Butter iome pewter faucers, and when it is cold turn it out. Angelica candied. • GATHER your angelica in April, cut it in lengths, and boil it in water till it becomes ten- der. Having put it on a fieve to drain, peel it, and dry it in a clean cloth, and to every pound of {talks take a pound of double-refined fugar finely pounded. Put your ftalks into an earthen pan, and ftrew the fugar over them. Cover them clofe, and let them hand two days. Then put it into a pre- ferving-pan, and boil it till it is clear. Then put it into a cullender to drain, ftrew it pretty thick over with fine powder fugar, lay it on plates, and dry it in a cool oven, or before the fire. Ginger candied. PUT into a tofling-pan an ounce of race gin- ger finely grated, with a pound of loaf fugar beat fine, and as much water as will diffolve it. Put them over a flow fire, and ftir them well till the fugar begins to boil. Then ftir in another pound of fine ffigar well beaten, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick. Then take it off the fire, and drop it in cakes upon earthen difhes. Set them to dry in a warm place, when they will become hard and brittle, and have a white appearance. To dry Plums green. PI A VI N G dipped the ftalks and leaves in boil- ing vinegar, put them on a fieve to dry. Give them a feald in a ftrong fyrup, and with a pin very carefully take off the {kin. Boil your fyrup to a candy height, and dip in your plums. Then take them out, and hang them by the ftalks to dry on any T 2 thing276 CANDYING AND DRYING. thing you conveniently can. Dry them in a cool oven, and they will look finely tranfparent. To dry Cherries. PUT a pound of loaf fugar to four pounds of cherries, and put as much water as will wet the fugar. When it is melted, make it boil. Stone your cherries* put them in, and make them boil. Having Hummed it two or three times* take them off, and let them Hand in the fyrup two or three days. Then take them out of the fyrup* boil it up, and pour it over the cherries; but do not boil the cherries any more. Let them (land three or four days longer* then take them out, lay them: on a fieve to drv, and put them in the fun, or in a flow oven. When they are dry, lay fome white paper at the bottom of a fmall box, then a row of cherries, then paper, till they are all in* and co- vered with paper. Another Method. TAKE a pound of fine powder fugar and eight pounds of cherries. Stone the cherries, and lay them one by one in rows in a deep bafon or glafs, and drew a little fugar over them. Proceed in this manner till your bafon or glafs is full, and let them hand till next day. Then put them into a preferving-pan, fet them over the fire, and let them boil fad for rather more than, a quarter of an hour. Then pour them into your bafon again, and let them dand two or three days. Then take them out of the fyrup, and lay them one by one 011 hair fieves, and fet them in the fun, or put them into the oven till they are dry, turning them every day on dry fieves. Put them into boxes with white, paper between them.CANDYING AND DRYING. 2 7 7 To dry Damfons. MAKE a thin fyrup, boil and fkim it well, and then put in fome of' the fined damfons you can get. Take out the {tones, and give them a boil, and let them hand in the fyrup till next day. Then make a rich fyrup with double-refined fugar, and as much water as will wet it. Boil it to a candy height. Then take your damfons out of the other fyrup, and put them into this. Give them a dim- mer, and put them away till the next day. Then put them one by one on a fieve, and dry them in a cool oven or ftove, or before the fire, and mind to turn them twice every day. When dry, put them in a box with white paper between them, and keep them in a place that is cool and dry. To dry Peaches. PARE fome of the cleared and riped peaches you can procure, and put them into pure water. Take their weight in double-refined fugar, and of one half make a very thin fyrup. Then put in your peaches, and boil them till they look clear. Then fplit and done them, boil them till they are very tender, and put them on a fieve to drains Boil the other half of the fugar almod to a candy, then put in your peaches, and let them lay all night. Then lay them in a glafs, and fct them in a dove till they are dry. If they be fugared too much, wipe them a little with a wet cloth, and pm them between paper into boxes. To dry Apricots. PARE fome fine ripe apricots very thin, and done them. Put them into a preferving-pan, and to every pound of apricots allow a pound of double-refined fugar pounded. Strew fome among them, and lay the red over them. Let them dand twenty-four hours, and turn them three or four T 3 times278 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. times in the fyrup. Then boil them pretty quick till they are clear, and put them away in the fyrup till they are cold. When they are cold, put them on glades, and dry them in a cool oven or Hove, turning them often. When they are properly dried] put them in boxes as before direHed. To dry Plums. TAKE fome fine and clear-coloured large pear plums, weigh them, flit them up the Tides, put them into a broad ftewpan, and fill it full of fpring wa- ter. Set them over alvery flow fire, and take care that the fleins do not come off. When they are tender, take them up, and to every pound of plums put a pound of powdered fugar. Strew a little at the bottom of a large bowl, then lay your plums in one by one, and ftrew the reft of the fugar over them. Set them into your ftove all night, and the next day, with a moderate fire, heat them, and fet them into your ftove again. Let them ftand two days more, turning them every day. Then take them out of the fyrup, lay them to dry, and treat them as above dire&ed. Any other fort of plums may be dried in the fame manner. \ CHAP XXIII. To make all Sorts of Preferves> Gc. To preferve Goofeierries whole. PICK off the black eyes, but not the ftalks, from the largeft preferving goofeberries you can procure. Set them over the fire in a pot of water to feald, cover them very clofe, but do not letf£Q MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. 2J9 let them either boil or break, and when they are tender, take them up, and put them into cold water. To a pound of goofeberries take a pound and a half of double-refined fugar. Clarify the fu- gar with water, a pint to a pound of fugar, and when the fyrup is cold, put the goofeberries fingle in your preferring pan, put the fyrup to them, and fet them on a gentle fire. Let them boil, but not fo fall as to break them; and when they have boiled, and you perceive that the fugar has entered them, take them off, cover them with white paper, and fet them by till the next day. Then take them out of the fyrup, and boil the fugar till it begins to be ropy. Skim it, and put it to them again. Then fet them on a gentle fire, and let them fim- mer gently till you perceive the fyrup will rope. Then take them off, and fet them by till they are cold. Cover them with paper; then boil fome goofeberries in fair water, and when the liquor is Itrong enough, ftrain it out. Let it Hand to fet- tle, and to every pint take a pound of double- refined fugar; then make a jelly of it, put the goofeberries in glaffes when they are cold, cover them with the jelly the next day, paper them wet, and then half dry the paper that goes in the infide, as it clofes down better, and then white, paper over the glafs.' Set it in a dry place, or a Hove. Currants prefervcd for Tarts. PUT any quantity of currants you pleafe into a preferving-pan,witha poundof fugar to every pound and a quarter of currants, and a fufficient quan- tity of currant juice to diffolve the fugar. Skim it as foon as it boils, put in your currants, and boil them till they are very clear. Put them into a jar, cover them with brandy-paper, and keep ' them iri a dry place. T i Red280 to make all sorts of preserves, See. To Red Currants preferved in Bunches. HAVING doned your currants, tie them in bunches to bits of dicks, fix or feven together. Allow the weight of currants in fugar, which make into a fyrup. Boil it high, put in the currants, give them a boil, fet them by, and the next day take them out. When the fyrup boils, put them in again, give them a boil or two, and then take them out. Boil the fyrup as much as is neceffary, and when cold, put it to the currants in glaffes. You mult take care that the currants be equally difperfed. Barberries preferved for Tarts ADD to any quantity of barberries their weight in fugar, put them into a jar, and fet them in a kettle of boiling water till the fugar is melted, and the barberries are become quite foft. The next day put them into a preferving-pan, and boil them a quarter of an hour. Then put them into the jars, and keep them in a cool and dry place. To preferve Golden Pippins. HAVING pared and diced your pippins, boil them in water to a madi, and run the liquor through a jelly-bag. Put two pounds of loaf fugar into a pan, with almoft one pint of water, boil and flffm it, put in twelve pippins pared and cored with a fcoop, and the peel of an orange cut thin. Let them boil fad till the fyrup is thick, taking them off when they appear to part, and putting them on the fire again when they have flood a little time. Then put in a pint of the pippin juice, boil them faff till they are clear, and then take them out. Boil the fyrup as much as is neceffary with the juice of a lemon. The orange-peel mud be fird put into water for a day, and then boiled, in order that all its bitternefs may be extra&cd.TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. 281 To preferve Codlings all the Year. FOR this purpofe, the cpdlings mull be ga- thered when they are about the fize of a walnut, with the {talk and a leaf or two remaining on each. Put fome vine leaves into a pan of fpring water, and ■cover them with a layer of codlings, then another of vine leaves, and thus proceed till the pan is full. Set it on a flow fire, having firft covered it to keep the {team in. As foon as they become foft, take off the fkins with a penknife, and then put them in the fame water with the vine leaves. Take care that the water is cold, otherwife it may crack them. Put in a little roach alum, and fet them over a flow fire till they look green, which will be the cafe in three or four hours. Then take them out, and lay them on a fieve to drain. Make a good fyrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days. Then put them into fmall jars, and cover them clofe with brandy paper. Apple Marmalade. PUT fome apples into water, fcald them till they are tender, and then drain them through a fieve. Put three quarters of a pound of fugar to a pound of apples; put them into a preferving- pan, let them fimmer over a gentle fire, {kimming them all the time. Put them into pots or glaffes, as foon as you find them of a proper thicknefs. Quince Marmalade. TAKE a pound of double-refined fugar, and a pound and a half of quinces. Make 'it into a fyrup, boil it high, and then pare and flice the fruit. When it begins to look clear, pour in half a pint of quince juice, or pippins, if quinces be fcarce. Boil it thick, and take olf the fcum. To make a juice, pare the quinces or pippins, cut them 1 from282 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, ScC. from the core, beat them in a done mortar, and drain the juice through a thin cloth. To every half pint, put more than a pound of fugar, and let it hand at lead four hours before it be ufed. To preferve green Apricots. APRICOTS for this purpofe mud be gather- ed before the dones are hard. Put them into a pan of hard water, with plenty of vine leaves, and fet them over a dow fire till they are quite yellow. Then take them out, and rub them in a flannel and fait, to take off the lint. Put them into the pan with the fame water and leaves, cover them clofe, fet them at a great didance from the fire till they are of a fine light green, and then take them carefully up. Pick out all that are bad-coloured and broken, boil the red gently two or three times in a thin fyrup, and let them be quite cold every tim^. When they look plump and clear, make a ' fyrup of double-refined fugar, but not too thick. Give your apricots a gentle boil in it, and then put them into pots or glades, dip paper into brandy, lay it over them, and keep them for ufe. Take out all the broken and bad-coloured ones, and boil them in the fir'd fyrup for tarts. Apricot Marmalade. BOIL fome ripe apricots in fyrup till they will mafh, and then beat them in a marble mortar. Add half their weight of fugar, and as much water as will diffolve it. Boil and fkim it well, boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup.like a fine jelly. ' Then put them into your fweetmeat glades. To preferve Almonds dry. TAKE half a pound of double-refined fugar, half a pound of Jordan almonds blanched, and half a pound not blanched. Beat the white of an eggTO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. 283 egg well, pour it on the almonds, and wet them well with it. Then boil the fugar, dip in the almonds, ftir them all together that the fugar may hang well on them, and then lay them on plates. Put them in the oven after the bread is drawn, let them hay all night, and they will keep good for twelve months. Transparent Marmalade. CUT into quarters fome very pale Seville oranges, take out the pulp, and put it into a ba- fon. Pick the (kins and feeds out, put the peels in a little fait and water, and let them hand all night. Then boil them in a good quantity of fpring water till they are tender, cut them in very thin flices, and put them to the pulp. To every pound of marmalade, put a pound and a half of double-refined fugar finely pounded, and boil them together gently for twenty minutes. If it be not clear and tranfparent, boil it five or fix minutes long- er, keep birring it gently all the time, and take care you do not break the dices. When it is cold, put it into jelly or fweetmeat glaffes, and tie them down clofe with brandy paper. To preferve Damfons. HAVING picked the ftalks from your dam- fons, prick them with a pin, put them into a deep pot, and with them half their weight of loaf fugar pounded. Set them in a moderate oven till they are foft, then take them off, give the fyrup a boil, and pour it upon them. Do this two or three times, then take them carefully out, and put them into the jars, in which you intend to keep them. Pour over them rendered mutton fuet, tie a bladder over them, and put them into a cool place to keep for ufe. \ To preferve Strawberries. YOUR ftrawberries, which for this purpofc mud be of the fined fcarlet fort, mud be gathered on284 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. on a dry day, with their ftalks on, before they are too ripe. Lay them feparatcly on a China difh, beat and fift twice their weight of double-refined fugar, and ftrew it over them. Then take a few ripe fcarlet ftrawberries, crufh them, and put them into a jar, with their weight of double-refined fu- gar finely pounded. Cover them clofe, and let them Band in a kettle of boiling water till they are foft, and the fyrup is come out of them. Then (train them through a mufiin rag into a tofiing-pan, boil and fkim it well, and when it is cold put in your whole ftrawberries, and fet them over the fire till they are milk warm. Then take them off, and let them ftand till they are quite cold. Then fet them on again, and make them a little hotter, and re- peat the fame till they look clear; but take care not to let them boil, as that will take off their ftalks. When the ftrawberries are cold, put them into jelly glades, with the ftalks downwards, and fill up your glades with the fyrup. Tie them down clofe, with brandy paper over them. Syrup of Quinces. HAVING grated your quinces, extraft their juice by preding their pulp in a cloth. Set the juice in the fun to fettle, or before the fire, in or- der to clarify it. Put a pound of fugar boiled brown to every four ounces of the juice. If the putting in the juice of the quinces fhould check the boiling of the fugar too much, give the fyrup fome boiling till it becomes pearled. Then take it od the fire, and when it is cold, put it into your bottles. To preferve Rafpberries. RASPBERRIES intended for this purpofe muft be gathered on a dry day, when they are juft turned red, with their ftalks on about an inch in length.TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, ScC. 285 To length. Lay them one by one on a difli, and drew over them their weight of double-refined (ugar pounded and fifted. Put a quart of red-currant jelly juice, with its weight of double-refined fu- gar, to every quart of rafpberries. Boil and fkim it well, then put in your rafpberries, and give them a feald. Then take them off, and let them ftand two hours. Set them on again, and make them a little hotter. Proceed in this manner two or three times till they look clear; but be careful that they do not boil, as that will take off the (talks. When they are tolerably cool, put them into jelly-glaffes, with the (talks downwards. White rafpberries are preferved in the fame manner, only that inftead of red you mult ufe white-currant jelly. To preferve Walnuts green. HAVING gathered your walnuts, which mud be done when they are not much larger than a common-fized nutmeg, wipe them very clean, and lay them for twenty-four hours in (trong fait and water. Then take them out, and wipe them very clean. Then throw them into a (tewpan of boil- ing water, and, having let them boil a minute, take them out, and lay them on a coarfe cloth. Take three pounds of loaf fugar, put it into your pre- ferving-pan, fet it over a charcoal fire, and put as much water as will juft wet the fugar. Let it boil, and then have ready ten or twelve whites of eggs drained and beat up to a froth. Cover your fu- gar with froth as it boils, and (kim it; then boil it and fkim it till it is as clear as cryftal. Then juft give your walnuts a feald in the fugar, take them up, and lay them to cool. Put them into your preferring pot, and pour your fyrup over them. \285 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, SCC. * To preferve Walnuts white. PARE your walnuts till the whites appear, throw them as fait as you do them into fall and water, and let them lie till your fugar is ready, which mull be prepared in the Came manner as di- rected in the preceding articles. Juft give them a boil in the fugar, till they are tender, then take them out, and lay them in a difh to cool. As foon as they are cool, put them in your preferving-pan, and when the fugar is as warm as milk, pour it over them. When quite cold, tie them down with brandy paper. To preferve Walnuts black. PUT your walnuts, which mult be of the fmall- er kind, into fait and water, and change the water every .day for nine days. Then put them into a lieve, and let them Hand in the air till they begin to turn black. Put them into a jug, pour boiling water upon them, and let them Hand till the next day. Then put them into a fieve to drain. Hick a clove into each end of them, put them into a pan of boiling water, and let them boil five mi- nutes. Then take them out, make a thin fyrup, and feald them in it three or four times a day, till your walnuts are black and bright. Make a thick fyrup, with a few cloves, and a little ginger cut in 11 ices. Skim it well, put in your walnuts, boil them five or fix minutes, and then put them into jars. Lay brandy-paper over them, and tie them down clofe with a bladder. As their bitternefs goes off with time, they will eat better the fecond year of keeping than in the firft. To preferve Eringo Roots. THEY muft be parboiled till they are tender; then peel and walh them, dry them with a cloth, 2 andTO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. 2$y To and cover them with clarified fugar. Boil them gently till they are clear, and the fyrup feems to be thickilh. Put them up when half cold. To preferve Cucumbers. TAKE fome fmall cucumbers, and large ones that will cut in quarters; but let them be as green and as free from feeds as you can get them. Put them into a narrow-mouthed jar in ftrong fait and water, with a cabbage leaf" to keep them from rif- ing. Tie a paper over them, and fet them in a warm place till they are yellow. Then wafh them out, and fet them over the fire 'in frefh water, with a little fait, and a frefh cabbage leaf over them. Cover the pan very clofe, but be fure that you do not let them boil. If they are not of a fine green, change your water, which will help them ; then make them hot, and cover them as before. When you find them of a good green, take them-off the fire, and let them hand till they are cold. Then cut the large ones into quarters, take out the feeds and foft parts, put them into cold water, and let them (land two days 5 but change the water twice a day to take out the fait. Put a pound of fingle refined fugar into a pint of water, and fet it over the fire. When you have fkimmed it clean, put in the rind of a lemon, and an ounce of ginger, with the outfide fcraped off. Take your fyrup off as foon as it is pretty thick, and as foon as it is cold, wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them into it. Boil the fyrup once in two or three days for three weeks, and ftrcngthen the fyrup, if required, for the greatelt danger of fpoiling them is at firft. When you put the fyrup to your cucumbers, take care that it be quite cold.288 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C* To preferve Fruit green. TAKE fome green pippins, pears, plums, apri- cots, or peaches, and put them into a preferving pan. Cover them with vine leaves, and then with clear fpring water. Put on the cover of the pan, and fet them over a very clear fire. Take them off" as foon as they begin to fimmer, and take them carefully out with a dice. Then peel and preferve them as other fruit. To preferve white Citrons. CUT fome white citrons into pieces, put them into fait and water, and let them remain there foun or five hours. Then take them out, and wafli them in clean water. Boil them till they be tender, drain them, and cover them with clarified fugar. Having let them Hand twenty-four hours, drain the fyrup, and boil it fmooth. When it is cold, put in the citrons, and let them Hand till the nextday. Then boil the fyrup quite fmooth, and pour it over the citrons. Boil all together the next day, and put them into a pot, either to be candied, or into jellies. To preferve Lemons. PARE very thin the fineft and cleared lemons you can procure, cut a finall round hole at the top, and take out the pulp and fkins. Rub them in fait, and lay them in fpring water as you do them, -which will prevent their turning black. Let them lie in it five or fix days, and then boil them a quarter of an hour in frelh fait and water. Having made a thin fyrup of a quart of water and a pound of loaf fugar, boil them in it five minutes for five or fix days, and then put them in a large jar. Let them ftand fix or eight weeks, when they will look clear and plump. Then take them out of that fyrup, or they will mould. Make a fyrup with fine powder fugar, put as much fpring water to it as will dil- folve"TO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. ^57 Goofcberry S Snow and Cream. I BOIL a quart of new milk with a dick of cin- namon, a little lemon peel, two or three laurel leaves, and fweeten it with fugar to your tade. Beat up the whites of four eggs, and the yolks of fix, very fine. Mix the milk and eggs well toge- ther, and drain all through a fine fieve into a dew- pan. Put it over a fiow fire, and dir it one way till it is thick. Then put it into a deep difh to cool, and, when cold, beat the whites of fix eggs to a high froth. Put fome milk and water into a broad Iftewpan, and when it boils, take the froth off the geggs, and put it on the milk and water. Boil it ■ up once, then with a dice take it carefully off, and lay it on your cudard. To make black Currant Jam. HAVING gathered your currants when they are full ripe, pick them clean from the dalks, bruife them well in a bowl, and to every pound of cur- rants put a pound and half of loaf fugar, finely bea- ten. Put them into a preferving pan, boil them Half an hour, fldm and dir them all the time, and hen put them into pots. Cherry Jam. TAKE fome cherries, boil and break them. Take them off the fire, and let the juice run from hem. To three pounds of cherries, boil together lalfapint of red currant -juice, and half a pound j»floaf fugar. Putin the cherries as they boil, ift in three quarters of a pound of fugar, and boil he cherries very fad-for more than half an hour. Put l>n brandy-paper when they arc properly cooled.288 TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, Toprejerve Fruit green. TAKE fome green pippins, pears, plums, apri- cots, or peaches, and put them into a preferving pan. Cover them with vine leaves, and then with clear fpring water. Put on the cover of the pan, and fet them over a very clear fire. Take them off as foon as they begin to fimmer, and take them carefully out with a (lice. Then peel and preferve them as other fruit. To prejerve white Citrons. CUT fome white citrons into pieces, put them into fait and water, and let them remain there four, or five hours. Then take them out, and wafh them in clean water. Boil them till they be tender, drain them, and cover them with clarified fugar. Having let them fland twenty-four hours, drain the fyrup, and boil it fmooth. When it is cold, put in the citrons, and let them fland till the nextday. Then boil the fyrup quite fmooth, and pour it over the citrons. Boil all together the next day, and put them into a pot, either to be candied, or into jellies. To prejerve Lemons. PARE very thin the fineft and cleared lemons you can procure, cut a finall round hole at the top, and take out the pulp and fkins. Rub them in fait, and lay them in fpring water as you do them, which will prevent their turning black. Let them lie in it five or fix days, and then boil them a quarter of an hour in frefh fait and water. Having made a thin fyrup of a quart of water and a pound of loaf fugar, boil them in it five minutes for five or fix days, and then put them in a large jar. Let them {land fix or eight weeks, when they will look clear and plump. Then take them out of that fyrup, or they will mould. Make a fyrup with fine powder fugar, put as much fpring water to it as will dif— folve-to make creams and jams. 257 Goofeberry S Snow and Cream. BOIL a quart of new milk with a flick of cin- namon, a little lemon peel, two or three laurel leaves, and fweeten it with fugar to your tafle. Beat up the whites of four eggs, and the yolks of fix, very fine. Mix the milk and eggs well toge- ther, and drain all through a fine fieve into a flew- pan. Put it over a flow fire, and flir it one way till it is thick. Then put it into a deep difh to cool, and, when cold, beat the whites of fix eggs to a high froth. Put fome milk and water into a broad flewpan, and when it boils, take the froth off the eggs, and put it on the milk and water. Boil it up once, then with a flice take it carefully off, and lay it on your cuflard. To make black Currant Jam. HAVING gathered your currants when they are full ripe, pick them clean from the ftalks, bruife them well in a bowl, and to every, pound of cur- rants put a pound and half of loaf fugar, finely bea- 1 ten. Put them into a preferving pan, boil them half an hour, fkim and flir them all the time, and then put them into pots. Cherry Jam. TAKE fome cherries, boil and break them. Take them off the fire, and let the juice run from them. To three pounds of cherries, boil together half a pint of red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf fugar. Putin the cherries as they boil, fift in three quarters of a pound of fugar, and boil the cherries very fafl.for more than half an hour. Put on brandy-paper when they arc properly cooled.TO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. 258 Goofeberry Jam. CUT into halves and take out the feeds of fome large full grown goofeberrics, but not too ripe. Put them into a pan of cold fpring water, lay fome vine leaves at the bottom, then fome goofeberrics, then vine leaves, till all the fruit is in the pan. Cover it very clofe that no (team can evaporate, and fet them on a very flow fire. When they are fcaldinghot, take them off, then fet them on again, and fo on. They muft be thus treated till they are of a good green. Then lay them on a fieve to drain, and beat them in a marble mortar with their weight in fugar. Take a quart of water, and a quart of goofeberries, boil them to a mafh, and fqueeze them. To every pint of this liquor put a pound of fine loaf fugar, and boil and fkim it. Then put in the green goofeberries, and let them boil till they be thick and clear, and of a good green. Apricot Jam. CUT fome fine rich apricots into thin pieces, and infufe them in an earthen pot till they are ten- der and dry. Put a pound of double refined fu- gar, and three fpoonfuls of water, to every pound and an half of apricots. Then boil your fugar to a candy height, as hereafter direfted in the chap- ter of candying, and put it upon your apricots. Set them over a flow fire, and ftir them till they appear clear and thick, but take care that they do not boil. Then put them into your glaffes. Red Rafpberry Jam. RASPBERRIES for this purpofe muft; be ga- thered wherj they are ripe and dry. Pick them very carefully from the ftalks and dead ones, and crufh them in a bowl with a filver or wooden fpoon, asTO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. 259 as pewter is apt to tarn them of a purple colour. Having crufhed them, drew in their own weight of loaf fugar, and half their weight of currant juice, baked and drained as for jelly. Then boil them half an hour over a clear dow fire, {kim them well, and keep dirring them all the time. Then put them into pots or glades, with brandy paper over them, and keep them for ufe. As foon as you have got your berries, remember to drew in your fugar; do not let them dand long before you boil them, and it will preferve their davour. CHAP. XXI. To male Blanc Mange, Flummery Ornaments, Jellies and Syllabubs. To make Blanc Mange. 1 PUT two ounces of ifinglafs, a dick of cinna- mon, a little lemon-peel, a few coriander feeds, and two or three laurel leaves, into a dew- pan, with a quart of new milk, and fweeten it to your palate. Add to it fix bitter almonds cut in dices. Boil it gently till the ifinglafs is didolved, and then drain it through a dne deve into a bowl. Let it dand till it is half cold, and then pour it off from the fettlings into another bowl. Let your moulds be ready, fill them, and let them dand to be cold. When they are thoroughly cold, raife them with your fingers from the fides, dip the bot- tom of the mould into warm water, and turn them out into a difh. Garnidi with jellies of different colours, or currant jelly, Seville oranges cut in quarters, dowers, or any thing elfe you fancy. S 2 WhenBLANC MANGE, JELLIES AND SYLLABUBS. When you want to colour your blanc mange green, juft when it is done, put in a little fpinach juice, but take care that it does not boil after it is^ put in, as that will curdle and fpoil the whole. If you wifh to have it red, put in a little bruifed cochineal; if yellow, a little faffron ; if violet colour, a little fyrup ol violets ; and thus you may have different colours in the difh, fuch as plain white, green, yel- low, red, and violet. Let your mould for the white be deeper than the reft ; put it in the middle of the difh, and the others round it. Another Method. CUT a calf’s foot into fmall pieces, and put it into a faucepan with a quart of water, an ounce of ifinglafs, a little lemon peel, and a ftick of cinna- mon. Boil it gently, and fkim it well, till it is of a very ftrong jelly, which you may know by putting a little into a fpoon to get cold. Then ftrain it off, put it into a ftewpan with a few coriander feeds, and two or three laurel leaves. Blanch and beat an ounce of fweet almonds very fine, and put them in, with two bitter almonds alfo beaten fine. Sweeten it with fugar to your tafte, and let it boil up. Then put in a pint of good thick cream, and boil it again. Strain it into a bowl, and proceed as before. Another Method. P U 7’ two ounces of ifinglafs, with a ftick of cinnamon, a little lemon-peel, a few coriander leeds, and two or three laurel leaves, into a ftew- pan, with a quart of fweet cream. Sweeten it with fugar to your palate, and boil it gently till the ifinglafs is diffolved. Blanch an ounce of fweet almonds, and two bitter almonds. Beat them fine in a mortar, and put them in. Stir it well about, then ftrain it through a fine fieve into a bowl, and proceed as before direfled. HartjhomBLANC MANGE, JELLIES AND SYLLABUBS. 26l - I Hartjliorn Flummery. PUT four ounces of hartfhorn (havings into a faucepan with two quarts of fpring water, and let it fimmer over the fire till it is reduced to a pint; or put it into a jug, and fet it in the oven with houfehold bread. Strain it through a fieve into a ftewpan, blanch and beat half a pound of fweet al- monds with a little orange-flower water, mix a lit- tle of your jelly in it, and fine fugar enough to fweeten it. Then drain it through a fieve to the other jelly, mix it well together, and when it is blood warm put it into moulds or half pint bafons. When it is cold, dip the moulds or bafons in warm water, and turn them into a difh. Mix fome white wine and fugar together, and pour them into the difh. If you pleafe, you may dick almonds in them. French Flummery. BEAT an ounce of ifinglafs fine, put it into a quart of cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, but keep dirring it all the time. Then take it off, fweeten it with fine powder fugar, put ina fpoonful of rofe and another of orange-flower water, drain it through a fieve, and dir it till half cold. Put it into a mould or bafon, and when cold, turn it into a difh, and garnifli with currant jedy. Eggs and Bacon in Flummery. PUT two ounces of ifinglafs and a quart of new milk into a dewpan. Boil it gently till the ifinglafs is diffolved, fweeten it with fugar, and drain it through a fieve. Colour a quarter of a pint of it red with cochineal, and have ready a tin mould about four inches long, two broad, and one deep. S 3 Put2^2 BLANC MANGE, JELLIES AND SYLLABl/BS. Put a little of the red at the bottom, and let it be cold ; then put on feme white, then red, and treble the thicknefs of white at the top, always obferving to let one be cold before you put on the other, and that only blood warm. Then take five tea-cups and fill them half full with white flummery, and let all Hand till the next morning. Turn them out, and cut that of the tin moulds into thin flices, and lay them in your difh. Then turn them out of the cups, and put them over the others. Cut a hole in the tops, and lay in half a preferved apricot, which will appear like the yolk of an egg. Gar- nifh the difh with currant jelly, or any thing elfe you think proper. Orange Butter. BEAT well the yolks of ten eggs, and put them into a ftewpan, with half a pint of Rhenifh, fix oun- ces of powder fugar, and the juice of three China oranges. Set them over a gentle fire, and ftir them oneway till they are thick. When you take it off, ftir in a piece of butter as big as a walnut, put it into a difh, and ferve it up when cold. Solomon's Temple in Flummery. TAKE a quart of ftiff flummery, and divide it into three parts. Make one part of a pretty thick colour, with a little cochineal hruifed fine, and fteeped in French brandy. Scrape an ounce of chocolate very fine, diffolve it in a little ftrong coffee, and mix it with another part of your flum- mery, which will make it of a light ftone colour. The laft part muft be white. Then wet your tem- ple mould, and fit it in fomething to make it ftand even. Fill the top of the temple with red flum- mery for the fteps, and the four points with white. Then fill it up with chocolate flummery, and let it ftand till the next day. Then loofen it round with aBLANC MANGE, JELLIES AND SYLLABUBS. 263 pin, and {hake it loofe very gently ; but do not dip your mould in warm water, as that will take off the glofs, and fpoil the colour. When you turn it out, ftick a {mail {prig of flowers down from the top>of every point, which will not only ftrengthen it, but alfo give it a pretty appearance. Lay round it rock candy fweetmeats. Jellies for Moulds, £?c. J E L LIE S for this purpofe requiring to be made much {Longer than thofe for glaffes, the materials neceffary muft in courfe be {Longer. Take two calves feet and.one neat’s foot, take out the large bones, and cut them in fmall pieces. You may ufe two ounces of ifinglafs, inftead of the neat’s foot, if you like it better. Put it into a large faucepan or pot, with a gallon of water, a lemon peel cut thin, and a ftick of cinnamon. Boil it gently till it is reduced to three pints or lefs. As it boils, fkim it well, try it with a fpoon, and if you find it {Long enough, {Lain it off, and let it fettle half an hour. Then fkim the top, and pour it from the fettlings into a ftewpan. Put in half a pint of white wine, fweeten it with loaf fugar, fqueeze fix lemons, {training the juice to keep out the feeds, and put in a little lemon peel. If you want it quite clear and bright, do not put in any faffron. If you want it an amber colour, put in a little faffron ; if a very high colour, put in a little cochineal bruifed. Boil it up ten minutes. Beat the whites of ten eggs up to a high froth, mix them with the jelly well together, and boil it up ten minutes. Then take it off the fire, cover it, and let it ftand for five minutes. Have your bag ready with a bowl under, pour your jelly in gently, and as it runs through pour it into the bag again, till it is as bright as you want it. When it is all run through, fill your moulds, and let them ftand till they are cold. Then S 4 loofen264 BLANC MANGE, JELLIES AND SYLLABUBS. loofen the Tides with your fingers, dip the mould into warm water, and turn it out on your difh. You may garnifh it according to your fancy. Calf’s Feet Jelly. TAKE out the large bones of two calves feet, cut the meat in fmall pieces, and put them into a faucepan with three quarts of water, a little lemon peel, and a flick of cinnamon. Boil it gently till it is reduced to a quart, and remember to try it with a fpoon, in order to fee when it is flrong enough. Strain it off, and let it fettle half an hour. Then fkim it very clean, and pour it from the fettling into a ftewpan. Put in half a pint of mountain or Lifbon wine, fweeten it to your tafle with loaf fu- gar, fqueeze four lemons, or two lemons and two Seville oranges, flrain the juice to keep out the feeds, and put it in with a lemon peel, and a very little faffron. Boil it up a few minutes, then beat up the whites of eight eggs to a high froth, and mix them well together with the jelly. Then boil it up for five minutes. Plave your bag ready with a bowl under it, pour your jelly gently in, that it may run pretty faft through at the firft, and as it runs pour it in again feveral times, till it is as clear as you would have it. When it is all run off, fill your glaffes with a fpoon. Hartjhorn Jelly. PUT three quarts of water and half a pound of hartfhorn fhavings into a faucepan, with a lemon peel, and a flick of cinnamon. Boil it gently till it is a flrong jelly, which you may know by taking a little out in a fpoon, and let it cool, as before di- rebled. Then flrain it through a fine fieve into a flewpan, put in a pint of Rhenifh wine, fweeten it with loaf fugar to your palate, fqueeze in the juice of four lemons, or two lemons and two Seville oranges, flrainBLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. 265 {train the juice to keep out the feeds, put them in, with a little faffron, and boil it up. Beat up the whites of eight eggs to a high froth, mix them well in the jelly and boil it up for five minutes. Then take it off the fire, and proceed in the fame man- ner as before direfled. Remember to put your fugar and lemon in, to make it palatable, before you put your eggs in; for by putting in fugar and lemon afterwards you will prevent its clearing pro- 0range Jelly. PUT two quarts of fpring water into a fauce- pan, with half a pound of hartfhorn (havings, or four ounces of ifinglafs, and boil it gently till it becomes aftrongjelly. Take the juice of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and fix China oranges, the rind of one Seville orange, and one le- mon, pared very thin. Put them to your jelly, fweeten with loaf fugar to your tafte, beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, mix them well in, and boil it for ten minutes. Then run it through a O jelly-bag till it is very clear, put it into your moulds, and let it Hand till it is thoroughly cold. Then dip your moulds in warm water, and turn them into a China difh, or flat glafs. You may make ufe of flowers for your garnilh. Fruit in Jelly. TAKE fome mould jelly, made as before di- re&ed, and procure a mould, either long or round, about three inches deep. Put fome jelly at the bottom of the mould, about a quarter of an inch thick. As foon as it is cold, put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any fort of ripe fruit, or preferved fruit, or China oranges cut in quarters, or in any fhape you fancy. Putin a little jelly blood warm, and let it (land till it is cold, to fallen your fruit in its266 BLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. its place, otherwife it will rife up. Then fill up your mould with blood-warm jelly, let it {land till it is thoroughly cold, then turn it into a difh, and gar- nifh it to your fancy. Thefe jellies look exceed- ingly well in a difh, if you take care to put in your fruit nicely, fo as to fhew it to advantage, and your jelly be very clear. Savowry Jelly. HAVING cut fix thin rafhers of lean ham, put them at the bottom of a foup-pot. Cut the fhank end of a knuckle of veal, with a pound of lean veal, in dices. Put them into the pot with half a pint of water, fix blades of mace, a few cloves, a carrot cut in dices, and cover the pot clofe. Set it over a dow fire, and fweat it gently for fifteen mi- nutes. Then pour in a gallon of boiling water, and as it boils up, fkim it well. Put in a fpoon- ful of fait, and dew it gently for dx hours. Then try with a fpoon, whether the jelly is flrong enough. As foon as it is fufficiently drong, drain it off into a pan, and let it fettle. Then dtim the fat clean off, pour it clean from the fettlings into a dewpan, and putin a gill of elder or common vinegar.- Beat up the whites of twelve eggs to a high froth, and mix it with the jelly well together. If you want it of a high colour, bruife a little cochineal, and put it in. Boil it up till the eggs become a fine white froth at the top, then take it off the fire, cover it up, and let it dand ten minutes. Pour it gently into your bag, and as it runs, put it into the bag again, till it is quite clear. When it has all run through, you may then proceed to ufe it as before direfled. Chicken in Jelly. BONE a nice chicken, and cut off the pini- ons ; make a forcemeat with the flefli of a fowl, fameBLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. 2Gj fome lean veal, beef marrow, beef fuet, fweet herbs, bread crumbs, &c. Fill your chicken with this, and trufs it as for boiling. Put it into a faucepan, cover it with veal broth, and put in a bundle of fweet herbs, a few clo ves, a little mace, and all-fpice. Boil it gently till it is tender, then take it out, and let it Hand to cool. Put fome favoury jelly, made as above directed, into an oval mould, and cover the bottom to the depth of a quarter of an inch. When it is cold, put in the chicken, breaft downwards. ' Then put in a little jelly blood warm, to fallen it, and when it is cold fill your mould with blood-warm jelly. Let it Hand all night, and the next day turn it into a dilh. You may make ufe of flices of Seville orange or le- mon for garnifh. Partridges, or any other final! birds, may be put into favoury jelly, but you need not bone them. Turkey in Jelly. TREAT a turkey in the fame manner as above directed for a chicken. As foon as it is cold, put it on the dilh, on which you intend to fend it to table, and pour over it fome favoury jelly blood- warm. Garnilh with flowers and curled parfley, and Hick a fprig of myrtle on the breaft, or orna- ment it with fome coloured jelly. Hen's Nejl. in Jelly. FILL fome egg moulds with blanc mange, and when they are cold, turn them out; but if you have no moulds, break holes in the thick ends of fix or feven eggs, and pour out the yolks and whites as clear as you can. Set them on one end in fait, and with a funnel fill them with ftrong blanc mange. When they are cold, very carefully break the Ihells, and take them off the blanc mange. Put a little jelly at the bottom of a round268 BLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. a round mould, or China bowl. Lay the eggs on it, and put on a little jelly to fix them to their places. When it is cold, put in more jelly blood- warm, till it is even with the eggs. Then lay fome vermicelli over and round them, to make it look like a neft. When it is cold, fill the mould or bowl quite full, let it afide all night, the next day turn it out into a dilh, and garnilh with flowers, fwcetmeats, or what you pleafe. Ribband Jelly. TAKE out the great bones of four calves feet, and cut the flelh final!. Put it into a pot with fix quarts of water, four ounces of ifinglafs, a little lemon-peel, and a flick of cinnamon. Boil it gently for fix hours, fkim it well, and try a little in a fpoon to fee if it be llrong enough. As foon as it is, llrain it off into a clean pan, and let it fettle an hour. If there be any fat at the top, fkim it off, and pour it from the fettlings into a ftewpan. Put in a pint of white wine, the juice of fix lemons, and fweeten it with fugar to your tafle. Beat up the whites of ten eggs, ftir them well in, and boil it up gently for ten minutes. Then take it off the fire, and let it Hand five minutes. Rim it through your bag till it is as clear as you would have it. Then colour fome of it red with cochi- neal, green with fpinach juice, yellow with faffron, blue with fyrup of violets, white with thick cream, and fome of its own colour. Then put your jelly into high glaffes, and run every colour a quarter of an inch thick. One colour mult be thoroughly cold before you put on the other, and that you put on mull be but blood-warm, for fear they fhould mix together. Or you may take a tin mould, fix inches long, one broad, and one deep. Fill it in the fame manner, and when cold turn it out*BLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. 269 out, cut it with a thin knife in flices, and lay it on a difh. Garnifh to fuit your fancy. Gold Fijli in Jelly. HAVING filled two or three fmall fifii moulds with very ftrong blanc mange, let them fiand till they be cold, and then turn them out. Gild the fifli with leaf gold, and let them Hand for an hour, that the gold may dry on. Then take a mould, put a little mould jelly at the bottom of it. When it is cold, lay in the gold fifii back downwards ; put in fome jelly blood-warm to faften them to their places. When it is cold, fill up the moulds with blood-warm jelly, and let them (land all night. The next day turn them out into a difh, and garnifh with any thing you like. Green Melon in Jelly. COLOUR a pint of blanc mange of a light green with the juice of fpinach. Put it into a melon mould, and when it is cold turn it out. Have a deep mould, with a little cold jelly at the bottom. Put your melon in, and put in fome jelly, blood-warm. Let it be cold, then fill up your mould with blood-warm jelly, let it fiand all night, and the next morning turn it into a difh. Gar- nifh it with fweetmeats, flowers, or any thing elfe you like. Black Currant Jelly. GATHER your currants when they are full ripe, on a dry day, and ftrip them of the ftallcs. Put them into an earthen pan, and to every ten quarts put in a quart of fpring water. Tie paper over them, and let them in the oven for two hours. Then fquecze out the juice through a fine cloth, and to every pint of juice put a pound of loaf fiigar broken to pieces. Stir it and boil it gently27° BLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. gently for half an hour, and (kirn it well all the time. While it is hot put it into gallipots, put brandy papers over it, tie another paper over that, and keep it in a cool dry place. Red Currant Jelly. GATHER your currants as above direUcd, and to every gallon of red put a quart of white. Put them into a preferving pan, cover them clofe, and fet them over a flow fire ; ftirring them to pre- vent their burning at the bottom, till the juice is out. Or you may put them into an earthen pan, tie a paper over them, and fet them in a warm oven for an hour. Then put them into a flannel bag, and when the juice is all run out, to every pint put a pound of loaf fugar broken into fmall pieces. Put it over a gentle fire, and ftir it till the fugar is melted, or it will burn at the bottom. Skim it well, and boil it gently half an hour. While it is hot, put it into your gallipots or glaffes, and when it is cold, put brandy papers over it, and tie ano- ther paper over that. Put them in a cool and dry place. A Trifle. PUT a gill of white wine into a quart of thick cream; put in alfo the juice of a lemon or Se- ville orange, grate in the rind of a lemon, fweeten it with powder fugar, whip it with a whifk, or mill it with a chocolate mill, and as the froth rifes take it off, and put it on a hair fieve to drain. Put a quarter of a pound of macaroon cakes, and rata- fia drops, into a deep difh, and juft wet them with fweet wine. Boil a pint of milk or cream, fweeten it with fugar, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with it. Put it over a flow fire, and ftir it till it is thick. Then put it on the cakes, and when cold put the froth on as high as you can, and llrewBLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. 27I ftrew it over with nonpareils of dilferent colours, which are to be bought of the confectioners. Gar- nifh according to your tafte. An Everlajiing Syllabub. PUT three pints of good thick cream into an earthen pan, with half a pint of Rhenifh, half a pint of fack, the juice of two large Seville oranges, the rind of three lemons grated, and a pound of double-refined fugar pounded and fifted. Put in a fpoonful of orange-flower water, beat it well to- gether with a whifk for half an hour, then with a fpoon take off the froth, and lay it on a fieve to drain, and then fill your glaffes. This will keep a week. The beft way to whip fyllabubs is to have a fine large chocolate mill, which you muff keep on purpofe, and a large deep bowl or pan to mill them in, it being done quicker and the froth ftrong- er. For the thin that is left at the bottom, have ready fome calves feet jelly thus made. Cut two calves feet into fmall pieces, put them into a fauce- pan, with two quarts of water, and a little lemon- peel. Boil it gently till it is reduced to a pint and a half, then flrain it off, and then let it hand half an hour to fettle. Skim it well, pour it into a flewpan from the fettlings, beat up the whites of fix eggs, and put them in, and boil it gently for ten minutes. Then run it through a flannel bag, and mix it with the clear that you faved from the fyllabubs. Sweeten it to your tafte, give it a boil, then pour it into your moulds, and when it is cold, turn it into a difh. A folid Syllabub. PUT a pint of mountain to a quart of rich cream, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one grated, and fweeten it with powder fugar to your tafte. Whip it well, take off the froth as it rifes, 3 lay272 BLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. lay it on a hair fieve, and put it in a cool place till next day. Then make your glaffes better than half full with the thin, and with a fpoon put on the froth as high as you can. It will look clear at the bottom, even after it has been kept feveral days. f A Lemon Syllabub. RUB a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar in one piece on the rind of two lemons till you have got all the elfence out of them. Then put the fugar into a pint of cream and a gill of mountain wine, fqueeze in the juice of both the lemons, and let it hand for two hours. Then whip it with a whifk, or mill it with a chocolate mill, and as the froth rifes take it off, and put it on a fieve to drain. Let it hand all night, then put the clear into the glaffes, and with a fpoon put on the froth as high as it will bear it. A Syllabub under the Cow. HAVING put a bottle of red or white wine, ale or cyder, into a China bowl, fweeten it with fugar, and grate in fome nutmeg. Then hold it under the cow, and milk into it till it has a fine froth on the top. Strew over it a handful of cur- rants cleaned, wafhed and picked, and plumped before the fire. A Floating IJland. SET a pretty deep glafs on a China difli, pro- portioned in fize to the quantity you intend to make. Make a quart of the thickelt cream you can get pretty fweet with fine fugar. Pour in a gill of fack, grate in the yellow rind of a lemon, and mill the cream till it is of a thick froth. Then carefully pour in the thin from the froth into a difh or glafs. Take a French roll, if one be fufficient 2 forTO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. 289 folve it, boil and fkim it well* then put in your lemons, and boil them gently till they are clear. Put them into a jar, cover them with brandy papery and tie them down clofe. To preserve Oranges. HAVING procured fome of the cleared and larged Seville oranges, cut out a fmall hole at the dalk end, fcoop out all the pulp very clean, tie them fingly in mudin, and lay them two days in fpring water, change the water twice a day, and boil them in the mudin till they be tender. Be careful to keep them covered with water. Before you fcoop the oranges, weigh them, and to every pound add two pounds of double redned fugar pounded, and a pint of fpring water. Boil the fu- gar and water with the orange juice to a fyrup, fkim it well, and let it dand till it be cold. Take the oranges out of the mudin, and put them into a fyrup. Put them over a dow fire, boil them till they are clear, and put them by till they are cold. Then pare and core fome green pippins, boil them in water till it is drong of the pippins. Do not dir them, but put them down gently with the back of a fpoon, and drain the liquor through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Put to every pint of liquor a pound of double-refined fugar pounded, and the juice of a lemon drained as clear as you can. Boil it to a drong jelly, drain the oranges out of their fyrup, and put them in glafs or white done jars of the fize of the orange, and pour the jelly over them. Cover them with brandy-paper, and tie them down clofe. Marmalade of Oranges. CHINA oranges mud be made ufe of for this purpofe. Cut them into quarters, and fqueeze out the juice. Take off the hard parts at both ends, and boil them in water till they are quite ten- U der.29O TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, &C. flci. Squeeze them to extraCl the water, ancl pound them in the water to a marmalade to fift. Mix it with an equal weight of raw fugar, and boil it till it turns to fyrup. One pound of marmalade will require two pounds of fugar. To preferve Morelia Cherries. HAVING gathered your cherries when they are full ripe, take off the ftalks, and prick them with a pin. Put a pound and a half of loaf fugar to every pound of cherries. Beat part of your fugar, ftrew it over them, and let them (land all night. Diffolve the reft of your fugar in half a pint of the juice of currants, fet it over a flow fire, and put in the cherries with the fugar. Having given them a gentle feald, take them carefully out, boil your fyrup till it is thick, and then pour it on your cherries. Cherries preferved with the Leaves and Stalks green. MAKE fome vinegar boiling hot, and dip into it the ftalks and leaves of your cherries, then ftick the fprigs upright in a fieve till they be dry. In the mean time, make a fyrup of fome double-re- fined fugar, and dip the cherries, ftalks, and leaves, into the fyrup, and juft let them feald. Lay them on a fieve, and boil the fugar to a candy height. Then dip in the cherries, ftalks, leaves, and all. Then ftick the branches in the fieves, and dry them like other fweetmeats. They make a very pretty appearance in a defert by candle-light. To preferve Green-gage Plums. PLUMS for this purpofe muft be of the fineft fort, and gathered juft before they are ripe. Put them into a pan with a layer of vine leaves under them and over them; then a layer of plums on that, and pro- ceed in this manner till your pan is almoft full. Then o - fillTO MAKE ALL SORTS bF PRESERVES, &C. 2gi fill it with water, and fet them on a flow fire. When they are hot, and the fkins begin to rife, take them off, take oft'the fkins carefully, and put them on a fieve as you do them. 1 ben piit them into the fame water, with a layer of leaves as be- fore. Cover them clofe, that no fleam may get out, and hang them a conftderable diftance from the fire till they appear green, which will require five or fix hours. Then take them up carefully, and lay them on a hair fieve to drain. Make a good fyrup, and boil them gently in it twice a day for two days. Then take them out, and put them in a fine clear fyrup. Cover and fecure them as you do other things of this nature. To preferve Pine Apples. MAKE a ftrong fait and water, and put into it fome fmall pine apples before they are ripe, and let them lie in it for five days. Then put a hand- ful of vine leaves in the bottom of a large faucepan, and put in your pine apples. Fill your pan with vine leaves, and then pour on the fait and water they were foaked in. Cover them up very clofe, fet them over a flow fire, and let them ftand till they are of a fine light green. Make a thin fyrup of a quart of fpring water and a pound of double-re- fined fugar. When it is almoft cold, put it into a deep jar, and putin the pine apples with their tops on. Let them ftand a week; but take care that they are well covered with the fyrup. When they have flood a week, boil your fyrup again, and pour it carefully into your jar, that you may not break off the tops of your pine apples. Let them Hand eight or ten weeks, and during that time give the fyrup two or three boilings to keep it from moulding. Let your fyrup ftand till it is nearly cold before you put it in, and when your pine apples look quite full and green, take them out of the U 2 fyrup.292 TO MAKE ALL SORTS Or PRESERVES, &C. fyrup, and make another thick fyrup of three pounds of double refined fugar, with as much water as will diflolve it. Boil and {kirn it well, and put into it a few flices of white ginger. When it it is nearly cold, put your pine apples into clean jars, and pour the fyrup over them. They will keep feveral years, if tied down clofe with a bladder. Conferve of Red Rofes, or any other Flowers. PICK your rofe buds, or any other flowers, of which you intend to make a conferve, cut off the white part from the red, and fift them in a fieve to take out the feeds. Then wreigh them, and to every pound of flowers take two pounds and a half of loaf fugar. Beat the flowers very fine in a marble mortar, then by degrees put the fugar to them, and beat it well till they are properly incor- porated together. Then put it into gallipots, properly fecure it from the air, and it will keep fome years. Conferve of Orange Peel. HAVING grated the rinds of fome Seville oranges as thin as you can, weigh them, and to every pound of orange rind add three pounds of loaf fugar. Pound the orange rind well in a mar- ble mortar, mix the fugar by degrees with them, and beat all well together. Put it into gallipots, and tie it down fo as properly to prevent the air getting to it. Syrup of Citron. TAKE fome citrons, pare and flice them, and lay them in a china bowl with layers of fine fugar. The next day pour off the liquor into a glafis, and clarify it over a gentle fire. Then bottle it up for ufe. SyrupTO MAKE ALL SORTS OF PRESERVES, SCZ. 293 Syrup of Peach BloJJoms. INFUSE peach bloffoms in as much hot water as will cover them. Cover them clofe, and let them Hand in a moderate heat for twenty-four hours. Then ftrain the liquor from the flowers, and put in frefh flowers. Let them Hand to infufe as before, then ftrain them out, and to the liquor put frefli peach bloffoms a third time, and, if you pleafe, a fourth time. Then to every pound of your infufion put two pounds of double-refined fugar, and fet it in a moderate heat. It may not be improper, before we quit this chapter of preferving, to give the young practiti- oner a few neceffary hints. When you make your fvrups for preferves, always pound your fugar, and let it diffolve in the fyrup before you put it on the fire, as that will occafion the fcum to rife, and make your fyrup of a better colour. You muft be careful not to boil any kind of jellies or fyrups too high, as that will make them dark and cloudy. Be fure not to keep green fweetmeats longer in the firft fyrup than directed, or they will lofe their colour. The fame care is required for oranges or lemons. When you preferve fruits with their ftones, render mutton fuet, and pour it over them, tie a bladder over the top, and thiekpaper over that, to keep out the air; for if the air get to them, it will turn them four, which you may know by the fyrup’s fretting and riling above the fuet. Wet or dry fweetmeats fhould be kept in a dry cool place, as a hot place will deprive them of their virtue, and a damp place will turn them mouldy. Be fure to let the fyrup be above the fruit, and cut writing paper in the fhape of your pot or glafs, notch it all round the edges, dip it into brandy, lay it clofe on U 3 thq294 TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. the top of your fweetmeats, then tie a thick paper over that, and take all the care you poffihly can to exclude the air. v CHAP. XXIV. To prepare Pickles of all Sorts. The Preparation of Vinegars. VINEGAR being an indifpenfable ingredient in the bufinefs of pickling, we lhall endea- vour to give the cleareft and concifeft directions for making it; but before we proceed to that bufi- nefs, it may not be improper to give a word or two of advice to the young practitioner. Pickles be- ing a very necelfary article in all families, it is proper that the houfekeeper fhould always make her own, in order to avoid buying them at Ihops, where they are often very improperly prepared, and ingredients made ufe of, which, though they may makd the pickles pleating to the eye, are often very deltru&ive to the conftitution. Well glazed Hone jars are bell to keep in all forts of pickles, and though they are more expenfive on the firlt purchafe, yet, from their ufefulnefs and dura- bility, they are in the end much cheaper than ear^ then velfels, it having been found from experience, that fait and vinegar will efcape through earthen velfels, and thereby leave the pickles dry. Never put in your lingers to take out any pickles, but make ufe of a wooden fpoon kept clean for that purpofe. Be careful that your pickles are at all times coveredTO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 295 with vinegar, and tie them clofe down after you take any out. White Wine Vinegar. THOUGH it fhould feem by the name given to this vinegar, that it is made from white wine only, yet the following direftions for preparing it will fhew the contrary. When you brew in the month 'of March or April, take as much fweet wort of the firft running as will be necelfary to ferve you the whole year. Boil it without hops for half an hour, and then put it into a cooler. Put fome good yeaft upon it, and work it well. When it is done working, break the yeaft into it, and put it into acafk; but be careful to fill the cafk, and fet it in a place where the fun has full power on it. Put no bung in the bung-hole, but put a tile over it at night, and when it rains. Let it hand till it is quite four, which will be in the be- ginning of September. Then draw it off from the fettlings into another cafk, let it hand till it is fine, and then draw it off for ufe. If you have any white wine that is tart, put it into a cafk, and treat it in the fame manner; or you may do cyder the fame way. A cafk of ale turned four, makes ale vinegar in the fame manner; but none of thefe are fit for pickles to keep long, except the white wine vinegar firft mentioned. Elder Vinegar. PUT two gallons of white wine vinegar, and the like weight of the pips of elder flowers, into a ftone jar. Let them fteep, and ftir them every day for a fortnight. Then ftrain the vinegar from the flowers, prefs them clofe, and let it ftand to fettle. Pour it from the fettlings, and put a piece of filter- ing paper in a funnel, and filter it through. Then put it in pint bottles, cork it clofe, andkeepitforufe. U 4 Tarragon2^6 TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. Tarragon Vinegar. TAKE fome green tarragon, and pick the leaves off the ftalks, juft before it goes into bloom. Put a pound weight to every gallon of white wine vinegar, and treat it in the fame manner as elder vinegar. s Sugar Vinegar. MAKE this vinegar in the month of March or April in the following manner. To every gallon of fpring water you ufe, add a pound of coarfe Lifbon fugar ; boil it, and keep {kimming it as long as the fcum will rife. Then pour it into a cooler, and when ir is as cold as beer to work, toalt a large piece of bread, rub it over with good yeaft, and let it work as long as it will. Then beat the yeaft into it, put it into a cafk, and fet it in a place where the rays of the fun have full power on it. Put a tile over the bung-hole when it rains, and alfo every night; but take it off in the day- time, and when it is fine weather. When you find it is four enough, which will be in the month of Auguft, (but if it is not four enough, let it ftand till it is) draw it off, put it into a clean cafk, and throw in a handful of ifinglafs. Let it ftand till it is fine, and then draw it oft’ for ufe. To pickle Cucumbers. • TAKE the fmalleft cucumbers you can get, but let them be as free from fpots as poffible. Put them into ftrong ale and water for nine or ten days, or till they become yellow, and ftir them at leaft twice a day, or they will grow foft. Should they become perfectly yellow, pour the water from them, and cover them with plenty of vine leaves. Set your water over the fire, and when it boils, pour it upon them. Proceed in this manner tillTO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 297 To you perceive they are of a fine green, which they will be in four or five times. Be careful to keep them well covered with vine leaves, with a cloth and difh over the top, to keep in the ftcam, which will help to green them the fooner. When they are greened, put them in a hair fieve to drain, and then prepare the following pickle. To every two quarts of white wine vinegar, put half an ounce of mace, ten or twelve cloves, an ounce of ginger cut into dices, an ounce of black pepper, and a handful of fait. Boil them together for five mi- nutes, pour it hot upon your pickles, and tie them down with a bladder for ufe. You may pickle them with ale vinegar, or diftilled vinegar, and three or four cloves of garlic or fhalots may be added. Cucumbers pickled i)i Slices. SLICE fome large cucumbers, before they are too ripe, of the thicknefs of crown pieces. Put them into a pewter difh, and to every twelve cucumbers dice two large onions thin, and fo on till you have filled your difh, with a handful of fait between each row. Then cover them with another pewter difh, and let them ftand twenty-four hours. Then put them into a cullender, and let them drain well. Put them into ajar, cover them over with white wine vinegar, and let them fiand four hours. Pour the vinegar from them into a fiiuce- pan, and boil it with a little fait. Put to the cu- cumbers a little mace, a little whole pepper, a large race of ginger diced, and then pour on the boiling vinegar. Cover them dole, and when they are cold, tic them down. In two or three days, they will be fit to eat.298 TO PREPARE PICKLES OP ALL SORTS. To pickle Walnuts white. T H E largeft nuts you can procure, juft before the (hell begins to turn, are the propcreft for this purpofe. Pare them very thin till the white ap- pears, and throw them into fpring water, with a handful of fait as you pare them. Let them lie in the fait and water fix hours, and lay on them a thin board to keep them down. Then fet a ftew- pan on a charcoal fire, with clean water. Take your nuts out of the other water, and put them into the ftewpan. Let them fimmer, but not boil, four or five minutes. Have ready a pan of fpring water, with a handful of white fait in it, and ftir it with your hand till the fait is melted. Then take your nuts out of the ftewpan with a wooden ladle, and put them into the cold water and fait. Let them ftand a quarter of an hour, and put the board on them, as before; for if they are not kept under the liquor they will turn black. Then lay them on a cloth, and cover them with another to dry. Carefully wipe them with a foft cloth, put them into your jar or glafs, with fome blades of mace, and nutmeg diced thin. Mix the fpice be- tween your nuts, and pour diftilled vinegar over them. When your glafs is full of nuts, pour mut- ton fat over them, and tie them down clofe with leather, that no air may get to them. To pickle Walnuts green. CHOOSE your walnuts in the fame manner as before direfted. Pare them as thin as you can, and as you pare them, throw them into a tub of fpring water. Put into the water a pound of bay fait, and let them lie in it twenty-four hours, when you muft take them out. Put them into a ftone jar, and between every layer of walnuts put a Uyer of vine leaves, as alfo at the bottom and top.TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 299 Fill it up ■with cold vinegar, and let them (land all night. Then pour that vinegar from them into a faucepan, put into it a pound ol bay fait, and let it on the fire. Let it boil, then pour it hot on your nuts tie them over with a woollen cloth, and let them {land a week. Then pour that pickle away, rub your nuts clean with a piece of flannel, and put them again into your jar, with vine leaves, as above, and boil frefh vinegar. To every gallon of vinegar put a nutmeg fliced, cut four large races of dinger, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of Cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of whole black pepper. Then pour your vinegar boiling hot on your walnuts, and cover them with a woollen cloth. Let them hand three or four days, and repeat the fame two or three times. When cold, put in half a pint of multard-feed, and a large flick of horfe radifh fliced. Tie them down clofe with a bladder, and then with a leather. They will be fit to eat in a fortnight. Stick a large onion with cloves, and lay it in the middle of the pot. If you pickle your walnuts for keeping, do not boil your vinegar ; but then they will not be fit to eat under fix months. After they have flood one year, you may boil the pickle, and they will keep good and firm two or three years. To pickle Walnuts black. TAKE large full-grown nuts before they are ' hard, lay them in fait and water, and let them continue in it two days. Thenfhift them into frefh water, and let them lie two days longer. Shift them again, and let them lie three days longer. Then take them out of the water, and put them into your pickling jar. When the jar is half full, put in a large onion fluck with cloves. To an hun- dred of walnuts, put in half a pint of muflard-feed, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of black300 TO PREPARE PICKLES OP ALL SORTS. black pepper, half an ounce of allfpice, and a flick of horfe-radifh. Then fill your jar, and pour boiling water over them, cover them with a plate, and when they are cold tie them down with a bladder and leather, and they will be fit to eat in two or three months. The next year, if any re- main, boil up your vinegar again, and fkim it. When cold, pour it over your walnuts. This is by much the bed pickle for ufe. If you pickle a great many walnuts, and eat them fad, make your pickle for an hundred or two ; keep what you do not at fird pickle, in a drong brine of fait and water, boiled till it will bear an egg, and as your pot empties, fill them up with thofe in the fait and water ; but take care that the pickle covers them. To pickle Onions. PEEL fome fmall onions, and put them into Lilt and water. Shift them once a day for three days, and then fet them over the fire in milk and water till they be ready to boil. Dry them, and pour over them the following pickle, when it has boned, and dood to be cold. Take double-dif- tilled vinegar, fait, mace, and one or two bay leaves. If you ufe any other vinegar, they will not'look white. Another Method. P U T a fufficient number of very fmall oni- ons into fait and water for nine days, obferving to change the water every day. Then put them into jars, and pour frefh boiling fait and water over them. Let them dand clofe covered till they are cold, then make fome more fait and water, and pour it boiling hot upon them. When it is cold, put your onions into a hair fievc to drain, then put them into wide-mouthed bottles.TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 3OI To and fill them up with diftilled vinegar. Put into every bottle a dice or two of ginger, a blade of mace, and a large teafpoonful of eating oil, which will keep the onions white. Secure them properly. To pickle Mangoes. YOU mull procure cucumbers of the largeft fort, and taken from the vines before they are too^ ripe, or yellow at the ends. Cut a piece out of the fide, and with an apple fcraper or teafpoon take out the feeds. Then put them into very ftrong fait and water for eight or nine days, or till they are very yellow. Stir them well two or three times each day, and put them into a pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both over and under them. Beat a little roach-alum very fine, and put it into the fait and water they came out of. Pour it on your cucumbers, and fet it upon a very flow fire for four or five hours, till they are pretty green. Then take them out, and drain them in a hair fieve, and when they are cold, put to them a little horfe-radifh, fome muftard feed, two or three heads of garlic, a few pepper corns, a few green cucum- bers diced in fmall pieces, then horfe-radifh, and the fame as before, till you have filled them. Then take the piece you cut out, and few it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the red; in the fame manner. Make the following pickle. To every gallon of allegar, put an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, two ounces of diced ginger, the fame of long pepper, Jamaica pepper, and black pepper, three ounces of muftard-feed tied up in a bag, four ounces of garlic, and a flick of horfe- radidi cut in dices. Boil them five minutes in the allegar, then pour it upon your pickles, and tie them down fo as to prevent the air getting to them.302 To PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. To pickle French Beans. G A 1 HER your beans of a middling fize, pour fome boiling-hot water over them, and cover them clofe. The next day drain them and dry them. Then pour over them a boiling-hot pickle of white wine vinegar, Jamaica pepper, black pep- per, a little mace, and ginger. Repeat this two or three days, or till the French beans look green. Then put them carefully by for ufe. To pickle Red Cabbage. H AVING diced your cabbage crofsways, put it on an earthen difh, and fprinkle a handful of fait over it. Cover it with another difh and let it ftand twenty-four hours. Then put it into a cul- lender to drain, and lay it in your jar. Take enough white wine vinegar to cover it, a little cloves, mace, and allfpice; put them in whole, with a little cochineal finely bruifed. Then boil it up, and pour it either hot or cold on your cab- bage. Cover it clofe with a cloth till it is cold, if you pour on the pickle hot, and tie it up clofe, fo that no air can get to it. To pickle Gerkins. TAKE five hundred gerkins, and have ready a large earthen pan of fpring water and fait. To every gallon of water put two pounds of fait; mix it well together, and throw in your gerkins. Wafh them out in two hours, put them to drain, let them be drained very dry, and put them into ajar. In the mean time, get a bell-metal pot, with a gallon of the bell white, wine vinegar, half an ounce of cloves and mace, one ounce of allfpice, one ounce of muftard-feed, a little (lick of horfe-radifh cut in dices, fix bay leaves, a little dill, two or three races of ginger cut in pieces, a nutmeg cut in pieces, and.a handful of fait. Boil it up in the pot all together, and put it over the gerkins. Co- verTO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 3^3 vcr them clofe down, and let them {land twenty- four hours. Then put them into your pot, and fimmer them over the dove till they are gicen ; but be careful not to let them boil, as that will fpoil them. Then put them into your jar, and cover them clofe down till they are cold. Then tie them over with a bladder, and leather over that, and put them in a cool dry place. To pickle Peaches. PEACHES for this purpofe mud be gather- ed when at their full growth, and jud before they begin to ripen ; but take great care that they are not bruifed. Take a quantity of fpring water, as much as you think will cover them, and put in an equal quantity of bay and common fait till it Ls drong enough to bear an egg. Then put in your peaches, and lay a thin board over them to keep them down. Having let them remain three days, take them out, wipe them very carefully with a fine foft cloth, and lay them in your glafs or jar. Take as much white wine vinegar as will fill # o your glafs or jar, and to every gallon put one pint of the bed well-made mudard, two or three heads of garlic, a good deal of ginger diced, half an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmeg. Mix your pickle well together, and pour it over your peach- es. Tie them up clofe, and they will be fit to eat in two months. You may, if you choofe it, cut them acrofs with a fine penknife, take out the doncs, fill them with mudard-feed, garlic, horfe- radifli, and ginger, and tie them together. In the fame manner you may pickle neflariqes and apricots. To pickle Afparagus. p HAVING procured fome of the larged and fined afparagus, cut off the white ends, and wadi the304 TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. the green ends in fpring water. Then put them into another clean water, and let them lie in it two or three hours. Take a large broad ftewpan full of fpring water, with a large handful of fait. Set it on the fire, and when it boils put in the grafs, not tied up, but loofe, and not too many at a time, for fear you fliould break the heads. Juft fcald them, and no more. Take them out with a broad fkimmer, and lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle, according to your quantity of afparagus, of a gallon, or more, of white wine vinegar, and one ounce of bay fait. Boil it, and put your af- paragus in your jar. To a gallon of pickle put two nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them. Cover them with a linen cloth three or four times double. Let them ftand a week, and then boil the pickle. Let them ftand a week longer, then boil the pickle again, and pour it on hot as before. Cover them clofe with a bladder and leather as foon as they are cold. To pickle Radi/h Pods. M A K E a pickle ftrong enough to bear an egg, with fpring water and bay fait. Put your pods into it, and lay a thin board on them to keep them under'the pickle. Let them ftand ten days, then drain them in a fieve, and lay them on a cloth to dry. Take as much white wine vinegar as you think will cover them, boil it, and put your pods in a jar, with ginger, mace, cloves, and Jamaica pepper. Pour your vinegar boiling-hot on them, cover them with a coarfe cloth three or four times double, that the fteam may come through a lit- tle, and let them ftand two days. Repeat this two or three times. When it is cold, put in a pint of muftard-feed, and fome horfc-radifli, and cover them as before dire&ed.TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 3°5 X To To pickle Mu/hrooms white. CUT off the {talks of fome fmall buttons, rub off the {kins with flannel dipped in fait, and throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and put them into a ftewpan, with a handful of fait over them. Cover them clofe, and put them over «. gentle ftove, for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarfe cloth to drain till they are cold. To pickle Mujhrooms hrown. CLEAN them with a flannel and cloth as above directed, throw them into milk and water, and lay them on a cloth to drain. When drained, put them into ajar. Boil enough of white wine vinegar to cover them, with fpicesinit, as directed for radifli pods. Pour it over them boiling hot; and when they are cold, tie down or cork the bottles tight. To make Mujhroom Pickle. PUT a gallon of the belt vinegar into a cold {fill, and to every gallon of vinegar put half a pound of bay fait, a quarter of a pound of mace, a quar- ter of an ounce of cloves, and a nutmeg cut into quarters. Keep the top of the (till covered with a white cloth, and as the cloth dries, put on a wet one ; but do not let the fire be too large, left you burn the bottom of the ftill. Draw it as long as it taftes acid, and no longer. When you fill your bottles, put in your mufhrooms, here and there put in a few blades of mace, and a flice of nutmeg. Then fill the bottles with pickle; melt fome mut- ton fat, {train it, and pour over it. You muft put your nutmeg over the fire in a little vinegar, and give it a boil. While it is hot, you may flice it as you pleafe ; when it is cold, it will crack to pieces inftead of dicing.30S TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. To To pickle Samphire. PUT fome green famphire into a clean pan, throw over it two or three handfuls of fait, and cover it with fpring water. Let it lie twenty-four hours, then put it into a faucepan, throw in a hand- ful of fait, and cover it with good vinegar. Cover the pan clofc, and fet it over a flow fire. Let it Hand till it is juft green and crifp, and then imme- diately take it off, for fhould it remain till it be foft, it will be fpoiled. Put it into your pickling pot, and cover it clofe. As foon as it is cold, tie it down with a bladder and leather, and keep it for ufc. To pickle Capers. THE tree that bears capers is called the caper fhrub or bufh, of which they are the flower-buds. They are common in the weftern parts of Europe, and we have them in fome of our gardens; but Toulon is the principal place for them. Some are fent us from Lyons; but they are flatter, and not fo firm. Some come from Majorca; but they are fait and difagreeable. They gather the buds from the bloffoms before they open, then fpread them upon the floor of a room, where no fun en- ters, and there let them lie till they begin to wither. They then throw them into a tub of fharp vinegar, and, after three days, they add a quan- tity of bay fait. When this is diffolved, they are fit for packing for fale, and are fent to all parts of Europe. The fineft capers are thofe of a mode- rate fize, firm, and dole, and fuch as have the pickle highly flavoured. Thofe are of little value, which are foft, flabby, and half open.TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 30/ To pickle Cauliflowers. THE larged and the clofed yoit can get mud be procured for this purpofe. Pull them into fprigs, put them in an earthen difh, and fprinkle fait over them. Let them dand twenty-four hours to draw out all the water. Then put them into ajar, and pour fait and boiling water over them. Cover them clofe, and let them dand till the next day. Then take them out, and lay them on a coarfe cloth to drain. Put them into glafs jars, and put in a nutmeg diced, and two or three blades of mace in each jar. Cover them with diddled vine- gar, and fecure them from the air as before directed. In a month’s time they will be fit for ufe. To pickle Beet Roots. THESE roots are generally ufed as a garnifh for made diflies, and are thus pickled. Having fird boiled them tender, peel them, and, if agree- able, cut them into diapes. Pour over them a hot pickle of white wine vinegar, a little pepper, gin- ger, and diced horfe-radifli. To pickle Codlings. CODLINGS ufed for this purpofe mud be about the fize of a large French walnut. Put a quantity of vine leaves at the bottom of a pan, and then put in your codlings. Cover them well with vine leaves and water, and fet them over a very dow fire till you can peel the fkins off. Then take them carefully up in a hair fieve, peel them with a penknife, and put them into the faucepan again, with the vine leaves and water as before. Cover them clofc, and fet them over a dow fire till they are of a fine green. Drain them through a hair fieve, and when they are cold, put them into dif- X 2 tilled308 to prepare pickles op all sorts. tilled vinegar. Secure them properly in jars from the air. To pickle Barberries. GATHER your barberries before they are too ripe. Take care to pick out the leaves and dead ftalks, and then put them into jars, with a large quantity of ftrong fait and water, and tie them down with a bladder. When you fee a fcum over your barberries, put them into frefh fait and water ; for they require no vinegar, their own natural fharpnefs being fufficient to preferve them. To make Mock Ginger. CUT off the flowers from the ftalks of the largeft cauliflowers you can get. Peel the ftalks, and throw them into ftrong fpring water and fait for three days. Then drain them in a fieve pretty dry, and put them into ajar. Boil white wine vinegar with cloves, mace, long pepper, and allfpice, each half an ounce ; forty blades of garlick, a flick of horfe-radifh cut in flices, a quarter of an ounce of chyan pepper, a quarter of a pound of yellow turmeric, and two ounces of bay fait. Pour it boiling over the ftalks, and cover it down clofe till the next day. Then boil it three times more, at different times, and when it is cold, tie it down clofe. To make Walnut Ketchup. GRIND half a bufhelof green walnuts, before the fhell is formed, in a crab-mill, or beat them in a marble mortar. Then fqueeze out the juice through a coarfe cloth, and wring the cloth well to get all the juice out. To every gallon of juice, put a quart of red wine, a quarter of a pound of anchovies, the fame of bay fait, one ounce of all- fpice, two of long and black pepper, half an ounceTO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 3O9 of cloves and mace, a little ginger, and horfe-radifh cut in flices. Boil all together till reduced to half the quantity, and then pour it into a pan. When it is cold, bottle it, cork it tight, and it will be fit for ufe in three months. If you have any pickle left in the jar after your walnuts are ufed, to every gallon of pickle putin two heads of garlic, a quart of red wine, and of cloves, mace, long, black, and Jamaica pepper, each an ounce. Boil them all together till it is reduced to half the quantity. Pour it into a pan, and the next day bottle it for ufe. To mala Mujhroom Ketchup. GATHER a bufhel of the large flaps of mufli- rooms when they are dry, and bruife them with your hands. Put fome at the bottom of an ear- then pan, ftrew fome fait over them, then mufli- rooms, then fait, till you have done. Put in half an ounce of beaten cloves and mace, the fame of allfpice, and let them hand five or fix days, re- membering to flir them up every day. Then tie a paper over them, and bake them four hours in a flow oven. When you have fo done, drain them through a cloth to get all the liquor out, and let the liquor Hand to fettle. Then pour it clear from the fettlings ; to every gallon of liquor add a quart of red wine, and, if not fait enough, a little fait, a race of ginger cut fmall, half an ounce of cloves and mace, and boil it till about one third is reduced. Then drain it through a fieve into a pan ; the next day pour it from the fettlings, and bottle it for ufe. To make Mujhroom Pozuder. CUT off the root end and peel fome of the larged and thicked button mufhrooms you can procure. Wipe them clean with a cloth, but do not wadi them. Spread them on pewter difhes, and X 3 put310 TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. put them in a flow oven to dry. Let the liquor dry up in the mufhrooms, as it will make the pow- der much ftronger. When they are dry enough to powder, beat them in a mortar, and Lift them through a fieve, with a little chyan pepper and pounded mace. Put the powder into fmall bottles for ufe. Be careful to cork them tight. To pickle Artichoke Bottoms. BOIL fome artichokes till you can pull off the leaves, then take off the chokes, and cut them from the (talk. Take great care that you do not let the knife touch the top. Throw them into fait and water for an hour, then take them out, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Put them into large wide-mouthed glaffes, and put a little mace and diced nutmeg between them. Fill them either with diftilled vinegar, or fugar vinegar and fpring-water. Cover them with mutton fat, and tie them down clofe. To pickle Najlurtium Buds. GATHER the little nobs as foon as the blof- foms are gone off, and put them into cold fait and water. Shift them once a day for three days fuccef- fively, then make a cold pickle of white wine vine- gar, a little white wine, fhalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg quartered, and horfe-radifh. Then put in your buds, and tie them up clofe. To make Peccadillo, or Indian Pickle. TAKE a cauliflower and a white cabbage, and quarter them. Take 'alfo cucumbers, melons, apples, French beans, plums, all or any of them, and lay them on a hair fieve: ftrew over them a large handful of fait, and let them in the fun for three or four days, or till they are very dry. Put them into a (lone jar with a pickle thus made. PutTo a pound oF race ginger into fait and water, the next day fcrape and flice it, fait it, and dry it in the fun. Slice, fait, and dry a pound of garlic. Put thefe into a gallon of vinegar, with two ounces of long pepper, half an ounce of turmeric, and four ounces of muftard feed bruifed. Stop the pickle clofe, then prepare the cabbage, See. If you make ufe of fruit, it muft be put in green. The jar need not be emptied, but add frefh vinegar, and put in things as they come into feafon. To make Caveach. THIS is made of mackarel, which you muft cut into round pieces, and divide into five or fix. To fix large mackarel, you may take one ounce of beaten pepper, three large nutmegs, a little mace, and a handful of fait. Mix your fait and beaten fpice together; then make two or three holes in each piece, and thruft the feafoning into the holes with your finger. Rub each piece" all over with the feafoning, fry them brown in fweet oil, and let them (land till they are cold. Put them into a jar, cover them with vinegar, and pour fweet oil over them. They are very delicious, and if well covered, they will keep a long time. To make Mock Anchovies. TAKE two pounds of common fait a qm of a pound of bay fait, one pound of faltpetre' rmnrpt tal nrunolL „ 1:..1 _ 1 1 V . 1 X 4312 TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. To pickle Salmon. SCALE, gut, and wafh your falmon very clean. Put your fifh into a kettle of fpring water boiling, with a handful of fait, a little allfpice, cloves and mace. If it be fmall, three quarters of an hour will boil it; but if it be large, it will take an hour. Then take out the falmon, and let it (land till it is cold. Strain the liquor through a ficve, and when it is cold, put your falmon very clofe in a tub or pan, and pour the liquor over it. When you want to ufe it, put it into a difh, with a little of the pickle, and ufe fennel for your garnifh. To pickle 0)Jlers. PUT into a pan one hundred of the fined and largeft rock oyfters you can procure, with all their liquor with them ; but take care that you do not fpoil their beauty by cutting them in opening. Wafh them clean out of the liquor feparately, put the liquor into a ftewpan, and give it a boil. Then flrain it through a fieve, and let it Hand half an hour to fettle. Then pour it from the fettlings into a ftewpan, and put in half a pint of white wine, half a pint of vinegar, a little fait, half an ounce of cloves and mace, a little allfpice and whole 'pepper, a nutmeg cut in thin flices, and a dozen bay leaves. Boil it up five minutes, then put in your oyfters, and give them a boil up for a minute or two. Put them into fmall jars, and when they are cold, put a little fweet oil at the top, and tie them down with a bladder and leather. Keep them in a cool dry place, and when you ufe them, untie them, fkim off the oil, put them in a difh with a little of the liquor, and garnifh them with green parfley. If you want oyfter fauce, take them out, and put them into good anchovy fauce, with a fpoonful of the pickle. For fifh, or poultry.TO PREPARE PICKLES OF ALL SORTS. 313 poultry, put them into a white fauce, having firft wafhed them in warm water. To pickle Smelts. BEAT very fine half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce of nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of faltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of common fait. Wafh and clean a hun- dred of fine fmelts, gut them, and lay them in rows in a jar, and between every layer of fmelts ftrew the feafoning, with four or five bay leaves. Then boil Tome red wine, and pour it over them. Cover them with a plate, and when they are cold, tie them down clofe. Anchovies are not near fo good as fmelts done in this manner. To pickle Sturgeon* CUT a fturgeon into handfome pieces, wafh it well, and tie it up with bafs. Make a pickle of half fpring water and half vinegar ; make it pretty fait, with fome cloves, mace, and allfpice in it. Let it boil, and then put in your fturgeon, and boil it till it is tender. Then take it up, and let it ftand till it is cold. Strain the liquor through a fieve, and then put your fturgeon into a pan or tub as clofe as you can. Pour the liquor over it, and cover it clofe. When you ufe it, put it into a difh, with a little of the. liquor, and garnifh it with green fennel or parfley. Take care that you fallen it down fo clofe, as not to let in any air. CHAP.[ 3*4 ] .CHAP. XXV. The Preparation of Hams, Tongues, Bacon, &c. To cure Pork Hams. HAVING killed your hog, cut the leg and part of the hind loin in fuch a manner as to appear a handfome ham. Rub it well with com- mon fait, and let it lie on a board twenty-four hours. For every ham take four ounces of bay fait, two ounces of faltpetre, and two ounces of fal prunella ; beat them fine, and mix them with half a pound of coarfe fugar, and two pounds of common fait. Rub the hams well with it, and lay them in a falting pan, or hollow tray. Rub them with the brine everyday for a fortnight, then take them out, and wipe them dry with & cloth. Smoke them with a faw-duft fire, mixed with three or four handfuls ofjuniper berries, till they are thoroughly dry. Then hang them in a cold dry place ; but take care not to let them touch the wall, nor each other. Neats tongues may be cured in the fame manner, and boiled out of the pickle, or dried and fmoked. To cure Beef Hams. THE leg of a fmall fat Scotch or Welfh ox is belt for this purpofe ; it mult be cut ham fafhion. Beat fine four ounces of bay-falt, two ounces of faltpetre, and two ounces o\ fal prunella. Mix them with half a pound of coarfe fugar, twopounds of common fait, and a handful of juniper berries bruifed. This quantity will be fufficient for about fifteeen pounds of beef; but if your joint be large, you muft increafe the quantity in proportion. Rub * A"PREPARATION OF HAMSj TONGUES, &C. 3*5 the ingredients well into it, and turn it every day for a month. Then take it out, and rub it with bran or fawduft. Dry it in the fame manner you do pork hams, and hang it in a cool dry place. You may either cut a piece off for boiling, or cut it into ralhcrs, as you have occaffon for it. To pickle Tongues. SCRAPE and dry your tongues clean with a cloth, and fait them well with common fait, and half an ounce of faltpetre, to every tongue. Lay them in a deep pan, and turn them every day for a week or ten days. Salt them again, and let them lie a week longer. Then take them out, dry them with a cloth. Hour them, and hang them up. To pickle Pork. CUT your pork into pieces of a fize propor- tioned to your powdering tub, and rub them all over with faltpetre. Then mix two thirds of com- mon fait with one third of bay fait, and rub every piece well with it. Lay the pieces in your tub as clofe as poflible, and throw over them a little com- mon fait. To make Hung Beef. H A N G up the navel piece of beef in your cel- lar as long as it will keep good, and till it begins to be a little fappy. Then take it down, and wafh it in fugar and water, one piece after another, for you mult divide it into three pieces. Dry and pound very finall a pound of faltpetre, and two pounds of bay fait. Mix with them two or three fpoonfuls of brown fugar, and rub it well into every part of your beef. Then drew a fufficient quan- tity of common fait all over it, and let the beef lie clofe till the fait is diffolved, which will be the cafe in about fix or feven days. Then turn it every other316 preparation of hams, tongues. Sic. other day for a fortnight, and after that hang it up in a warm, but not in a hot place. It may hang a fortnight in the kitchen, and when you want it, boil it in bay fait and pump water till it is tender. It will keep, when boiled, two or three months, rubbing it with a greafy cloth, or putting it two or three minutes into boiling water, to take off the mouldinefs. To make.York/hire Hung Beef. CUT a buttock or ribs of beef in two, and bruife fine half a pound of bay fait, four ounces of faltpetre, four ounces of fal prunella, and two handfuls of juniper berries. Mix them with a pound of coarfe fugar, and three pounds of com- mon fait, which will be a fufficient quantity for twenty pounds weight. Rub the beef well with thefe ingredients, lay it in a hollow tray or pan, and turn and rub it with the pickle every day for a fortnight. Then take it out, dry it with a cloth, and hang it up to the kitchen deling, or in a chim- ney where a moderate fire is kept, till it is properly dried. You may boil part of it when occafion requires, or you may cut it into rafhers and broil it; but remember to dip it firft into warm water, which will make it eat much better. To make Dutch Beef. RUB well with coarfe fugar the lean part of a fine buttock of beef, and let it lie in a pan or tray two or three hours, obferving to turn and rub it two or three times. Take half a pound of bay fait, two ounces of faltpetre, two of fal prunella, a handful of juniper berries bruifed fine, and a pound 6f common fait. Rub it well with them, and turn and rub it with the pickle for a fortnight. Then roll it tight in a coarfe cloth, put it in a cheefe-prefs for twenty-four hours, and then hangPREPARATION OF HAMS, TON GU ES, &C. 317 To it to dry in a wide chimney. \V hen you boil it, put it into a cloth. To make Bacon. HAVING rubbed the flitches well with com- mon fait, let them lie fo that the brine may run from them. In about a week, rub off all the fait, and put them into a tub. Rub the flitches with one pound of faltpetre, pounded and heated, and the next day rub them with fait, dry and hot. Having let them lie a week, often rubbing them, turn them, and let them lie three weeks or a month in all, rubbing them well. Then dry them, and hang them up for ufe. Another Method. HAVING taken off all the infide fat of a fide of pork, lay it in fuch a pofition that the blood may run away from it. Then rub it well with good fait on both fides, and let it lie in that ftate one day. Then take a pint of bay fait, and a quarter of a pound of faltpetre, and beat them fine. To thefe add two pounds of coarfe fugar, and a quarter of a peck of common fait. Obferve to wipe off all the old fait before you put it into the pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen, or in a room where the fun comes, as it will make them rufty. Lay your pork in fomething that will hold the pickle, and rub it well with the above ingredients. Lay the fkinny fide down- wards, and bafte it every day with the pickle for a fortnight. Then hang it in a wood fmoke, and afterwards hang it in a dry place, but not hot. Hams and bacon fhould not hang againfl a wall, but quite clear from every thing.31 8 PREPARATION OF HAMS, TONGUES, SzC. To make Weflphalia Bacon. TAKE a gallon of pump water, two pounds of bay fait, the lame quantity of white fait, a pound of faltpetre, a pound of coarfe fugar, and an ounce of focho tied in a rag. Boil thefe well together half an hour, and let it ftand till it is cold. Then put into it the fide of a fine hog, and let it lie in the pickle for a fortnight. Then take it out, rub it over with fawduft, and dry it in the fame manner as before direfled for hams. You may make Weflphalia hams the fame way, and you may prepare tongues in the fame pickle ; but re- member to put them in pump water for fix or eight hours; and before you put them into the pickle, wafli them well out, and dry them with a cloth. To make Fine Saufages. PICK part of a leg of pork or veal clean from fkin or fat, and to every pound, add two pounds of beef fuet. Shred both very fine, and mix them well with fage leaves finely chopped, pepper, fait, nutmeg, pounded cloves, and a little grated lemon- peel. Put this clofe down in a pot. When you want it for ufe, mix it with the yolk of an egg, a few bread crumbs, and roll it into lengths. To make Oxford Saufages. TAKE a pound of young pork, fat and lean, free from (kin or griflle, a pound of lean veal, and the fame quantity of beef fuet, all chopped fine to- gether, Put in half a pound of grated bread, half the peel of a lemon Aired fine, a nutmeg grated, fix fage leaves wafhed and chopped very fine, a tea-fpeonful of pepper, tw7o of fait, fome thyme, favory, and marjoram, Hired fine. Mix thefe well together, and put it. clofe down in a pan. When you ufe it, roll it out the fize of a common faufage, and fry them of a fine brown in frcfii buttci, or broil them over a clear fire.PREPARATION OF HAMS, TONGtlES, &C. 319 To make common Saufages. CHOP very fine three pounds of nice pork, fat and lean together, but free from fit in and grii- tles. Seafon it with two teafpoonfuls of fait, one of beaten pepper, fom fage Hired line, about three teafpoonfuls, and mix them well together. Clean fome guts very nicely, and fill them, or put them down in a pot. To make fham Brawn. RUB well with faltpetre the belly piece and head of a young porker. Let it lay three or four days, and then wafh it clean. Boil the head, take off all the meat, and cut it into pieces. Boil four neats feet tender, take out the bones, cut the flelli in thin flices, and mix it with the head. Lay it in the belly piece, roll it up tight, bind it round with a fheet of tin, and boil it four hours. Take it up, and fet it on one end, put a trencher on it, and within the tin, and a large weight upon the trencher, and let it hand all night. In the morning take it out, and bind ,it with a fillet. Put in fpring water and fait, and it will be fit for ufe. When you ufe it, cut it in flices like brawn, and garnifh with parfley. Take care to change the pickle every four or five days, and it will keep a great while. C H A P,[ 320 ] C II A P. XXVI. Directions for Carving* To cut up a Hare. HOUGH carving may not be confidered as the indifpenfable province of a cook, yet it is certainly of the houfekeeper, who is often obliged to take her place at the head of the table, where every eye is upon her, who never fail either to applaud or condemn her, according to the manner in which fhe difeharges that office. We ffiall therefore lay down a few general rules, accompanied with pra&ical obfervations, which we hope will not fail of making this difficult matter very eafy andfamiliar. The bell way of cutting up a hare, fee No. 1. is to put the point of the knife under the ffioulder at gy and cut through all the way down to the rump, on one fide of the back bone, in the line g, h. When you have done thus, cut it in the fame manner on the other fide, at an equal didance from the back bone, by which means the body will be nearly divided into three. You may now cut the back through the fpine or back bone, into feveral fmall pieces, more or lefs, in the lines i, k. The back is by far the tendered part, fulled of gravy, and confidered as the moft delicate. The deffi of the leg is next in edimation to the back, though the meat is firmer, clofer, and lefs juicy. The ffioulder mud be cut off in the circular dotted line e}f, g. Put the head on a clean pewter plate, fo as to have it under your hand, and turning the nofe to you, hold it deady with your fork, fo that it may not flip from under the knife. You mud then put the point of the knife into the fkull, andDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 321 thus the head may be eafily divided into two. Re- member, when you help a perfon to any part of a hare, to give with it a fpoonful of pudding. The method of cutting up a hare as above dire&ed, can only be done when the hare is young. If it be old, the bell method is, to put your knife pretty clofe to the back-bone, and cut off the leg ; but, as the hip-bone will be in your way, turn the back of the hare towards you, and endeavour to hit the joint between the hip and the thigh-bone. When you have feparated one, cut off the other, and then cut a long narrow {lice or two on each fide of the back-bone, in the dire&ion gt h. Then divide the back-bone into as many parts as you pleafe; all which may be eafily acquired by a little attention and pra£tice. A Goofe. See plate No. 2. PUT the neck end of the goofe before you, and begin by cutting two or three long dices, on each fide of the bread, in the lines a, bt quite to the bone. Then take off the leg, by turning the goofe up on one fide, putting the fork through the fmall end of the leg-bone, and preffing it clofe to the body, which, when the knife has entered at d, will eafily raife the joint. Then pafs the knife under the leg, in the dire&ion d} e. If the leg hangs to the carcafe at the joint et turn it back with the fork, and, if the goofe be young, it will eafily feparate. Having thus taken off the le°- proceed to take off the wing, by paffing the fork through the fmall end of the pinion, preffina it clofe to the body, and entering the knife at c, and paffing it under the wing in the direftion c d. This is a nice thing to hit, and can be acquired only by praftice. When you have taken off the leg and wing on one fide, do the fame on the other. Then cut off the apron in the line f,ctgi322 DIRECTIONS FOIl CARVING. having done which, take off the merry-thought in the line i, h. All the other parts are to be taken off in the fame manner as dire&ed for a fowl in the following article, which fee. A goofe is fcldom quite did'eCted, like a fowl, unlefs the com- pany be very large. The parts of a goofe molt edeemed are, dices from the bread; the flefhy part of the wing, which may be divided from the pinion ; the thigh-bone, ordrumdick, as it iscalled ; the pinions; and the fide-bones. If fage and onion be put into the body of the goofe, which is not now fo much in fafhion as formerly, when you have cut off the limbs, draw the duffing out with a fpoon from whence the apron is taken, and mix it with the gravy, which diould firft be poured hot into the body of the goofe. A Roajled Fowl. See Plate, No. 3. THE fowl is here reprefented as laying on its fide, with one of the legs, wings, and neck-bone taken off. A boiled fowl is cut up in the fame manner as one roaffed. In a boiled fowl, the legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly ; but previous to its being fent to table, the fkewers are withdrawn. The mod convenient method of cut- ting up a fowl, is to lay it on your plate, and, as you feparate the joints, in the lines a, b, d, put them into the difh. The legs, wings, and merry- thought, being removed in the fame manner as direfted for cutting up a goofe, the next thing is to cut off the neck-bones. This is done by put- ting in the knife at g, and palling it under the long broad part of the bone in the line g, by then lifting it up, and breaking off, the 'end of the fhorter part of the bone, which adheres to the bread-bone. All the parts being thus feparatcd from the carcafe, divide the bread from the back, by cutting through the tender ribs on each fide, fromDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 323 from the neck quite down to the vent or tail. Then lay the back upwards on your plate, fix your fork under the rump, and placing the edge of the knife in the line b, e, c, and prefling it down, lift up the tail, or lpwer part of the back,, and it will readily divide, with the help of your knife, in the line b, e, c. In the next place, lay the lower part of the back upwards in your plate, with the rump from you, and cut off the fide-bones, or fidefmen, as they are generally called, by forcing the knife through the rump-bone, in the line e, _/, when your fowl will be completely cut up. A Pig. See Plate, No. 4. I T is not the cuftom at prefent to fend a pig up to table whole, but is ufually cut up by the cook, who takes off the head, fplits the body down the back, and garniflies the difh with the chops and ears. Before you help any one at table, firft fe- parate the fhoulders from the carcafe, and then the legs, according to the dire&ion given by the dot- ted line c, d, e. The moft delicate part of the pig is that about the neck, which may be cut off in the liney, g. The next bell parts are the ribs, which may be divided in .the line a, b, i3c. and the others are pieces cut from the legs and fhoulders. A pig, indeed, produces fuch a variety of delicate bits, that the palate of almoft every one may be fuited. A Phcafant. See Plate, No. 5. THE bird appears, in the reprefentation here given, in a proper ftate for the fpit, with the head tucked under one of the wings. When laid in the difh, the fkewers drawn, and the bird carried to table, it mull be thus carved. Fix your fork in that part of the bread where the two dots are marked, by which means you will have a full com- Y 2 . mand324 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. mand of the bird, and can turn it as you think proper. Slice down the bread in the lines a, b, and then proceed to take off the leg on one fide, in the dirc&ion d, e, or in the circular dotted line by d. This done, cut off the wing on the fame fide, in the line c, d. When you have feparated the leg and wing on one fide, do the fame on the other, and then cut off, or feparate from the breaft-bone, on each fide of the bread, the parts you before diced or cut down. Be very attentive in taking off the wing. Cut it in the notch a; for if you cut too near the neck, as atg, you will find yourfelf interrupted by the neck-bone, from whence the wing mud be feparated. Having done this, cut off' the merry-thought, in the line fy g, by pading the knife under it towards the neck. With refpeft to the remaining parts, they are to be cut up in the fame manner as direfted for a road fowl. The bread, wings, and merry-thought, are the parts mod admired in a pheafant. A Partridge. See No. 6. T H I S is a reprefentation of a partridge as jud taken from the fpit; but before it be ferved up, the fkewers mud be drawn out of it. It is cut up in the fame manner as a fowl. The wings mud be taken off in the lines a, by and the merry- thought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, bread, and merry-thought. The wing is confidered the bed, and the tip of it reckoned the mod delicate morfel of the whole. Pigeons. See No. 7 and 8. THESE are the reprefentations of two pi- geons, the one with the back, the other with the bread uppermod. Pigeons are fometimes cut up in the fame manner as chickens; but as the low- er part, with the thigh, is in general mod prefer-DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 325 red, and as, from its fmall fize, half a one is not too much for molt appetites, they are feldom carved now, otherwife than by fixing the fork at the point a, entering the knife juft before it, and di- viding the pigeon into two, cutting away in the lines a, b, and a, c, No. 7, at the fame time bring- ing the knife out at the back, in the dire&ion a, b, and a, c} No. 8. A Fore Quarter of Lamb. See No. 9, AFORE quarter of lamb is always roafted, and when it comes to table, before you can help any one, you muft feparate the fhoulder from the bread and ribs, by palling the knife under, in the direction c, g> d, e. The fhoulder being then taken off', the juice of a lemon, or Seville orange, fhould be fqueezed upon the part it \yas taken from^ a little fait added, and the fhoulder replaced. The griflly part muff then be feparated from the ribs, in the line f g, and then all the preparatory bu- finefs to ferving will be done. The ribs are ge- nerally mod edeemed, and one, two, or more may be eafily feparated from the red, in the line a, b; but to thofe who prefer the gridly part, a piece or two may be cut off in the line A, i, Scc. If your quarter be grafs lamb, and rups large, you may put the fhoulder into another difh, and carve it in the fame manner as a fhoulder of mutton ufu- ally is. A Haunch of Venifon. See Plate, No. 10. CUT down to the bone, in the line b} c, a. Then turn the difh, with the end d towards you, put in the point of the knife at c, and cut it down as deep as you can, in the direftion c, d, fo that the two drokes will then form the refemblance of the letter T. Having cut it thus, you may cut as many flices as are neceffary, according to the num- Y 3 ber326 DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. her of the company, cutting them either on the right or left. As the fat lies deeper on the left, between d and a> to thofe who are fond of fat, as is the cafe with mod admirers of venifon, the heft flavoured and fatted flices will be found on the left of the line c, d, fuppoling the end d turned towards you. In cutting the dices, remember that they mull not be either too thick or too thin. With each (lice of lean, add a proportion of fat, and put a fufficient quantity of gravy into each plate. Currant jelly fhould always be ferved up with veni- fon, as mod people in general like it. We might enlarge this chapter confiderably, by defcribing the different methods of carving the various joints of butcher’s meat; but, as we fup- pofe every houfekeeper is well acquainted with that bufinefs, we fhall here omit it, and pafs on to matters of more confequence. CHAP. XXVII. Directions for Marketing. To choofe Tar kies. THE fhortnefs of the fpur, and the fmoothnefs and blacknefs of the legs, is the certain fign of a cock turkey being young. The feet will alio be limber and moift, and the eyes full and bright. It will however be very necefTary to obferve, that the fpurs are not cut or fcraped, in order to deceive you, which is an artifice too often made ufe of. If the turkey be dale, the eyes will be funk, and the *DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. 327 the feet dry. The fame rules will enable you to judge of a hen turkey, with this difference, that if fhe be old, her legs will be rough and red; if with egg, the vent will be foft and open ; but if fhe has no eggs, the vent will be hard and clofe. Cocks and Hens. , IF they be ftale, the vents will be open; but, if frefh, clofe and hard. The fpurs of a young- cock are fhort; but the fame precaution muff here be attended to as juft given in the choice of tur- kies. Hens are always belt when full of eggs, and juft before they begin to lay. The combs and legs of an old hen are rough, but fmooth in a young one. The comb of a good capon is very pale, its breaft remarkably fat, and has a large rump and a thick belly. To choofe Geefe. THE bill and feet of a young goofe are yellow* with very few hairs upon them ; but, if they be old, both will look red. The feet will be limber, if it be frefh, but ftiff and dry if ftale. Green geefe are in feafon from May or June, and till they are three months old. A ftubble goofe will be in good order till it is five or fix months old. Green geefe fhould be fealded before they are picked ; but ftubble geefe fhould be picked dry. To choofe Ducks. THE legs of a frefh-killed duck are limber, and if it be fat, the belly will be hard and thick ; but the feet of a ftale duck are dry and ftiff. The feet of a tame duck are inclining to a dufky yellow, and are thick ; but thofe of a wild-duck are fmaller than thofe of a tame one, and are of a reddifh colour. Ducklings fhould be fealded before they are picked, but ducks fhould be picked dry. Y 4 Phcafants.328 DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. Pheafants. PHEASANTS, as well as woodcocks and partridges, are not expofed to fale in the markets, fo that all choice is out of the quedion ; but, as many of them are fometimes fent as prefents to dif- ferent families in London, it may not here be im- proper to inform the cook, by what means they may didinguifh the better from the worfe. The cock pheafant has fpurs, but the hen has none. The fpurs of a young cock pheafant are fhort and blunt, or round; but they are long and fharp when he is old. If the vent of the hen be open and green, fhe is dale, and when rubbed hard with the finger, the Ikin will peel. The vent will be foft, if fhe be with egg. Partridges. THE legs of partridges will be yellowifh, and the bill of a dark colour, if the birds are young. The vent will be firm, if they be frefh ; but it will look greenifh, and the fkin will peel when rubbed with the finger, if they be dale. The bill will be white, and the legs blue, if they are old. Woodcocks. THESE, being birds of paffage, are to be pro- cured only in the winter. They are bed about a fortnight or three weeks after their fird appear- ance, when they have reded after their long flight over the ocean. If they feel firm and thick, it is a proof they are fat and in good condition. The vent will alfo be thick and hard, and a vein of fat will run by the fide of the bread ; but a lean one will feel thin in the vent. If the bird be newly killed, its feet will be limber, and the head and throat clean; but, if it be dale, every thing will have a contrary appearance. ToDIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. 329 To choofe Pigeons. PIGEONS, when new, are full and fat at the vent, and limber-looted ; but if the toes be harfli, the vent loofe, open, and green, it is a fure fign they are ftale; and the legs will be large and red, if old. The tame pigeon is generally preferred to the wild, and Ihould be large in the body, fat and tender; but the wild pigeon is not fo fat. Wood pigeons are much larger than either wild or tame ; but like them in other refpeCts. The fame rules will hold good in the choice of other fmall birds, fuch as plovers, field-fares, larks, &c. To choofe a Hare. I F the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the cleft wide and large, it is a fign that the hare is old ; but, if the claws be fmooth and fharp, the ears tear eafily, and the cleft in the lip is not much fpread, you may then prefume,that it is a young one. The body will be ftifF, and the flefh pale, if newly killed; but, if the flefli be turning black, and the body limber, it has every appearance of being ftale. Hares, however, are not always confidered the worfe for being kept till they begin to fmell. The chief diftinCtion between a hare and a leveret is, that the leveret fhould have a knob, or fmall bone, near the foot, on its fore leg, which a hare has not. A hare fhould be kept, before drefling, as long as it will remain fweet, and no longer; for no food can be whole- fome that is in a ftate of putrefaction. To choofe Rabbits. THE claws will be very rough and long, and gray hairs well be intermixed with the wool, if the rab- bit be old; but, in a young one, the wool and claws will be fmooth. The flefli will look blueifh, with33° DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. with a kind of flime upon it, and the body limber, if it be dale ; but, if the body be ft iff, and the flefh white and dry, you may conclude it is frelh. To choofc Beef. I F the meat of ox-beef be young, it will have a fine, fmooth, open grain, a pleafing carnation red colour, and will feel tender. The fat fhould look rather white then yellow; for the meat is feldom good, when the fat is of a deep yellow. The fuet fhould alfo be perfeftly white. In order properly to diftinguifh between ox, cow, and bull-beef, take the following rules. The grain of cow-beef is clofer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of fo bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is flill clofer, the fat hard and fkinny, the lean of a deep red, and gives a ftrong and rank fcent; but ox-beef is the reverfe of all this. To choofe Mutton. SQUEEZE the flefh with your finger and thumb, and if it be young, it will feel tender ; but, if it be old, it will feel hard, be wrinkled, and the fat will be fibrous and clammv. The flefh of ewe- J mutton is paler than that of the wether, and the grain clofer. The grain of ram-mutton is likewife clofer, the flefh of a deep red, and the fat fpongy. To choofe Lamb. THAT is good lamb, in which the eyes appear bright and full in the head; but if they be funk and wrinkled, it is a fign it is flale. Another method of judging is, if the rein in the neck of the fore-quarter appears of a fine blue colour, it is frefh ; but if green or yellow, it is undoubtedly dale. If you find a faint difagreeable fcent from the kidney in the hind quarter, or if the knuckle feelsDIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. 33* feels limber on your touching it with your fingers, you may conclude it is not good. To choofe Veal. THE fillet of a cow calf is generally preferred „ to that of a bull. The eyes will appear plump, if the head be frefh ; but they will be funk and wrink- led, if hale. If the vein in the fhoulder be not of a bright red, the meat is hale, and if there be any green or yellow fpots, you may then conclude it is very bad. A good neck and breaft will be white and dry ; but if they be clammy, and look green or yellow at the upper end, have nothing to do with them. The kidney in the loin is foonefl apt to be infefted, and if it be flale, it will be foft and flimy. If the leg be white and firm, you may conclude it is good; but you may be affured it is bad, if the flefh be flabby. To choofe Pork. THE lean of young pork, on being pinched with the finger and thumb, will break, and the fkin dent. If the rind be thick, rough, and can- not be eafily impreffed with the finger, it is old. When it is frefh, the flefh will be cool and frnooth ; but if it be clammy, it is tainted, and in this cafe, the knuckle is always the worfl. What is called meafly pork is very unwholefome to eat; but this may be eafily difcovered by the fat being full of little kernels, which in good pork is never the cafe. To choofe Bacon. T H E fat of good bacon will feel firm, and have a red tinge, and the lean will be of a good colour, and flick clofe to the bone; but if there be any332 DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. yellow ftreaks in the lean, it either is or will be very foon rufty. When bacon is young, the rind is thin, but thick when it is old. To choofe Hams. STICK a knife under the bone of the ham, and on fmelling at the knife, if the ham be good, it will have a pleafant flavour ; but rejeft it as a bad one, if it be daubed and fmeared, and has a difa- greeable feent. Hams fhort in the hock generally turn out the beft. To choofe Brawn, THE rind of young brawn will feel moderately tender ; but it will be thick and hard if old. The rind and fat of barrow and fow brawn are very tender. To choofe Venifon. THE fat of venifon mull generally direct your choice of it. If the fat be thick, bright, and clear, the cleft fmooth and clofe, it is young; but you may be afiured it is old, if the cleft is very wide and tough. The haunches and fhoulders are the places venifon will firft change at: therefore, in order to judge of its fweetnefs, run a knife into thofe parts, and the newnefs or ftalenefs will be difeovered by its fwcet or rank feent. You may be fure it is tainted, if it looks greenilh, oris inclined to have a very black appearance. Venifon, like hares, is often kept till it acquires a rank fmell, and has what the French call the haut gout; but it is not generally liked in that ftate, nor can it be wholefome. To t333 DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. To choofe Eggs. PUT the greater end of the egg to your tongue, and if it feels warm, it is new; but if cold, it is {tale; and according to the degree of heat or cold there is in the egg, you will judge of its ftalenefs or newnefs. Another method is, to hold it up againft the fun ora candle, and if the yolk appears round, and the white clear and fair, it is a mark of its goodnefs ; but if the yolk be broken, and the white cloudy or muddy, the egg is a bad one. Some people, in order to try the goodnefs of an egg, put it into a pan of cold water: in this cafe, the frelher the egg is, the fooner it will link to the bottom; but if it be addled or rotten, it will fwim on the furface of the water. The bell method to preferve eggs is to keep them in meal or bran; though fome place them in wood allies with their fmall ends downwards. When necedity obliges you to keep them for any confiderable time, the bell way is to bury them in fait, which will preferve them in almoll any climate ; but the fooner an egg is ufed, the better. To choofe Butter. GREAT precaution is necelfary in the pur- chafing of this article in order not to be deceived. Do not trull to the talle the feller gives you, as they will frequently give you to talle of one lump, and fell another of inferior quality. If you buy fait butter, put a knife into it, and apply it to your nofe, when the fmell will direct you much better than the talle. If the butter be in a calk, have it unhooped, and thruft in your knife, between the Haves, into the middle of it; for, by the artful mode of package, and the ingenuity of thofe who fend it from the country, the middle of the calk is frequently334 DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. frequently a different fort from that put at the top of it. To choofe Cheefe. IN the purchafing of this article, pay particular attention to the coat or rind. If the cheefe be old, and has a rough and ragged coat, or dry at top, you may expefi to find little worms or mites in it. Ifitbemoift, fpongy, or full of holes, it probably is maggoty. Wherever you fee any perifhed places on the outfide, obferve to probe the bottom of them ; for, though the hole in the coat may be but fmall, it may be of confiderable dimensions within the cheefe. To choofe Salmon. BEFORE we proceed to give direflions for choofing a falmon, it may not be improper to make a few obfervations on the choice of fifh in general. In order to know whether they be frefh or dale, take notice of the colour of the gills, which fhould be of a lively red; whether they are hard or eafily to be opened ; the projeflion or indention of their eyes, the ftiffnefs or limbernefs of their fins, and by the feent from their gills. We now proceed to the choice of the falmon. Its flefh, when new, is of a fine red, and particularly fo at the gills. The feales fhould be bright, and the fifh very ftiff. The fpring is the proper feafon for the falmon, which is of a fine, rich, and pleafant flavour. To choofe a Turbot. THIS fifh will be thick and plump, if good, and the belly of a yellowifh white ; but, if they appear thin and blueifh, they arc bad. This fifh is in fea- fon during the greateft part of the fummer, and is> in high eftimation. 6 To 3DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. 335 To choofe Trout. THE beft fort of this beautiful and excellent frefh-water fifh are red and yellow. The females, which are moft in efteem, are diftinguifh by hav- ing a fmaller head, and deeper body, than the male. They are in high perfection the latter end of June, and their frefhnefs may be afeertained by the ge- neral rules we have given in the article of falmon. To choofe Cod. A COD fhould be very thick at the neek, and, if it be perfectly fine and frefh, the flefh will be white and firm, and of a bright clear colour, with red gills. When they are {tale they will appear flabby, and will not retain their proper flavour. From Chriftmas to Lady-day is their proper feafon. To choofe Tench. TENCH fhould be drefied alive, in order to be eaten in perfection; but, if they be dead, ex- amine the gills, which fliould be red, and hard to open. If frefh, the eyes will be bright, and the body firm and ftiff. They are generally covered with a kind of flimy matter, which, if clear and bright, is a proof of their being good. Rubbing them with a little fait will eafily remove this flimy matter. To choofe Soles. WI-IE N foies are good, they are thick and firm, and the belly of a fine cream colour,- but if they are flabby, or incline to a blueifh white, they are not good. Midfummer is the proper feafon for this fifh.33$ DIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING. To choofe Flounders. WHEN thefe fifh are frefh and fine, they are ft iff, their eyes bright and full, and their bodies thick. They are inhabitants of both fait and frefh water, and fhould be dreffed as foon as poffible after they are dead. To choofe Eels. THE Thames filver eel is generally efteemed the belt, and the worft are brought by the Dutch, and fold at Billingfgate market. They fhould be dreffed alive, and are in feafon all the year, except- ing the very hot fummer months. To choofe Smelts. I F fmelts be frefii, they will be of a fine filver hue, very firm, and have a peculiarly ftrong fmell, greatly refembling that of a pared cucumber. To choofe Skate. WHEN this fifii is perfectly good and fweet, the flefh will look exceedingly white, and be thick and firm. This fifii has a peculiar inconvenience, which is, if it be too frefii, it will eat very tough ; and, if ftale, they have a ftrong and difagreeable feent. Some judgment is therefore neceffary to know the proper time of dreffing them. To choofe Sturgeon. THE flefh of this fifii is very white, and has a few blue veins, the grain even, the fkin tender, good-coloured, and foft. All the veins and griftles fhould be blue; for when they are brown or yel- low, the fit in harfh, tough, and dry, the fifii is not good. When in perfection it has aplcafant fmell, but a very difagreeable one when it is bad. It fhould alfo cut firm without crumbling. The females 2 areDIRECTIONS FOR MARKETING* 337 are as Full of row as a carp, which is taken out, and fpread upon a table, beat flat, and fprinkled with fait; it is then dried in the air and funi and after- wards in ovens. It fhould be of a reddilh-brown colour, and very dry. This is eaten with oil and vinegar, and is called Caviare. To choofe Oyjlers. OF the various fpecies of oyfters, thofe called the native Milton are the moil efteemed, they be- ing the fattefl and whiteft; but fome prefer the Colchefter, Pyfleet, and Milford oyfters. _ When they are alive, and in full vigour, they will clofe fall upon the knife on opening, and let go as foon as they are wounded in the body. To choofe Lob'Jlers. THE tail of a lobfter will be ftiff, and pull up with afpring, if it be frefh ; but, if it be ftale, the tail will be flabby, and have no fpring in it. This rule, however, concerns lobfters that are boiled; but it is more advifeable to buy them alive, and boil them yourfelf, taking care that they are not fpent by too long keeping. If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a quick and ftrong motion on fqueezing the eyes, and theheavieft are efteemed the beft. The cock lobfter is known by the narrow back part of his tail. The two upper- raoft fins within his tail are ftiff and hard ; but thofe of the hen are foft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally fmaller than the female, has the higher flavour, the flefh is firmer, and the body of a redder colour, when boiled. To choofe Prawns and Shrimps. WHEN thefe fifh are in perfe&ion, they afford an excellent fcent, are very firm, with the tails turning ftiffly inwards. They have a very bright £ colour33$ PREPARATION OF MADE WINES. colour when frcfii ; but when ftale their tails grow limber, the brightnefs of their colour goes off, and they become pale and clammy. To choofe Herrings. THE gills will be of a fine red, and the whole fifh ftiff and very bright, if they be frefh ; but if the gills be of a faint colour, and the fiffi limber and wrinkled, you may be allured they are ftale. Pickled herrings when good are fat, flefhy, and white ; and red herrings, if good, will be large, firm, and dry. The latter fhould be full of row or melt, and the outfides of a fine yellow. Thofe that have the {kin or feales wrinkled on the back, will turn out preferable to thofe whofe feales are very broad, the diltinftion between which is fuffi- eiently obvious. — CHAP XXVIII. The Preparation of Made Wines. To make Smyrna Raifin Wine. TO an hundred pounds of raifins put twenty- four gallons of water, let it Hand aboutfour- teen days, and then put it into youi calk. Aftei it has continued there fix months, put a gallon of brandy to it, and bottle it as foon as it is fine. Common Raifin Wine. PUT two hundred weight of raifins, ftalks and all into a liogfliead. Having filled the calk with wa’tcr, let the raifins fteep a fortnight; but obfervePREPARATION OF MADE WINES. 339 to flir them every day. Then pour off ad the liquor, and prefs the fruit. Put both liquors to- gether in a nice clean veffel, juft big enough to hold it; for it muft be full. Let it Land till it is done hiding, or making the leaft noife. Then ftop it clofe, and let it ftand fix months. You may then peg it, and if you find it quite clear, rack it oft into another veffel, ftop it clofe, and let it ftand three months longer. Then bottle it, and rack it off into a decanter when you ufe it. Red Currant Wine. YOU muft gather your currants when they are full ripe, and choofe a fine dry day for that purpofe. Strip them, put them into a large,pap, and bruife them with a wooden peftle. Let them ftand in a tub twenty-four hours to ferment, then run it through a hair fieve, but do not let your hand touch the liquor. To every gallon of this liqupr put two pounds and a half of white fugar, ftir it well together, and put it into your veffel. To every fix gallons, put in a quart of brandy, and let it ftand fix weeks. If it be then fine, bot- tle it; if it be not, draw it off’as clear as you can into another veffel, or large bottles, and put it into fmall bottles in a fortnight. Grape Wine. BRUISE the grapes, and to every gallon of ripe grapes put a gallon of foft water. Let them ftand a week without ftirring, and then draw the liquor off fine. To every gallon of wine, put three pounds of lump fugar. Put it into a veffel; but do not ftop it till it has done hiding. Then ftop it clofe, and it will be fit to bottle in fix months. Orange Wine. PUT into fix.gallons of fpring water twelve pounds of the belt powdered fugar, with the whites Z 2 of34° PREPARATION OF MADE WINES. of eight or ten eggs well beaten. Boil it three quarters of an hour; and when cold, put into it fix fpoonfuls ofyeaft, and the juice of twelve le- mons, which, being pared, mud ftand with two pounds of white fugar in a tankard. In the morn- ing, fkim off the top, and then put it into the water. Then add the juice and rinds of fifty oranges, but not the white part of the rinds, and let it work all together two days and two nights- Then put to it two quarts of Rhenifh or white wine, and put it into your calk. Orange Wine with Raifins. PICK and chop fmall thirty pounds of good Malaga raifins. Then take twenty large Seville oranges, ten of which you mud pare as thin as for preferving. Boil about eight gallons of foft water till a third be wafted, let it cool a little, and then put five gallons of it hot upon your raifins and orange peel. Stir it well together, cover it up, and when it is cold, let it ftand five days, ftirring it once or twice a day. Then pafs it through a hair ficve, and with a fpoon prefs it as dry as you can. Put it in a cafk that will juft hold it, and put to it the rind of the other ten oranges, cut as thin as the firft. Then make a fyrup of the juice of twenty oranges, with a pound of white fugar, ftir it well together, and flop it clofe. This mud be done the day before you tun it up. Let it ftand two months to clear, and then bottle it up, and it will keep good three years. Elder Wine. THESE berries muft be picked when they are full ripe, and on a dry day. Put them into a ftone jar, and let them in the oven, or in a ket- tle of boiling water, till the jar is hot through. Then take them out, and ftrain them through a coarfcPREPARATION OF MADE WINES. 34I coarfe cloth, wringing the berries. Put the juice into a clean kettle, and to every quart of juice put a pound of fine Lifbon fugar. Let it boil, and fkim it well. When it is clear and fine, pour it into ajar. As foon as it is cold, cover it clofe, and keep it till you make raifin wine. Then, when you tun your wine, to every gallon of wine, put half a pint of the elder fyrup. Elder Flower Wine, in Imitation of Frontiniac. PUT twelve pounds of white fugar, and fix pounds of raifins of the fun chopped, to fix gal- lons of fpring water, and let them boil one hour. Then take the flower of elders that are falling, and rub them off to the quantity of half a peck. When the liquor is cold, put them in ; and, the next day, put in the juice of three lemons, and four fpoonfuls of good ale yeaft. Let it Hand covered two days, then ftrain it off, and put it in a veffel fit for it. To every gallon of wine put a pint of Rhenifh, and put your bung lightly on for a fortnight: then Hop it down clofe, let it Hand fix months, and bottle it off, if it be then fine. Mead Wines. THERE being feveral forts of mead wines, it will be neceffary to mention three of them fe- parately. White or Sack Mead is made in the fol- lowing manner. Put a gallon of the belt honey to every five gallons of water. Set it on the fire, and boil it well one hour, remembering to fkim it well. Then take it off the fire, and let it by to cool. Take two or three races of ginger, a flick of cinnamon, and two nutmegs. Bruife thefe a little, put them into a Holland bag, and let them Hand in the hot liquor till it is nearly cold. Then put as much ale yeaft to it as will make it work, keep it in a warm place, as they do ale, and when Z 3 it342 PREPARATION OF MADE WINES. it has worked well, put it into a calk that will juft hold it. In two or three months you may bottle it off: cork it well, and keep it for ufe. Walnut Mead. P U T feven pounds of honey to every two gallons of water, and boil it three quarters of an hour. To every gallon of liquor put about twenty- four walnut leaves, pour your liquor boiling hot over them, and let it ftand all night. Then take out the leaves, and pour in a cupful of ycaft. Let it work two or three days, and then make it up. Af- ter it has flood three months, bottle it, cork it tight, and keep it for ufe. Cowjlip Mead. PUT twenty-four pounds of the bcft honey to ten gallons of water, and boil it till near one gal- lon is wafted, obferving to fkim it well. Cut ten lemons in halves, and put them to three quarts of the hot liquor. Put the reft of the liquor into a tub, with five pecks of cowfiips, and let them ftand all night. Then put in the liquor, with the lemons, fix large fpoonfuls of good ale yeaft, and a handful of fweetbrier. Stir them all well toge- ther, and let them work three or four days. Then ftrain the liquor from the ingredients, and put it into a cafk. Let it ftand fix months, and then bottle it for ufe. Goofcberry Wine. GOOSEBERRIES for this purpofe muft be gathered when they are half ripe, and in dry weather. Pick the fineft, and bruife a peck in a tub with a wooden mallet. Then take a horfe-hair cloth, and prefs them as much as poftible, without breaking the feeds. When you have prefted out all the juice, to every gallon of goofeberries put • * threePREPARATION OF MADE WINES. 34$ three pounds of line dry powder fugar, and ftir it all together till the fugar is difiblved. Then put it into a veffel juft big enough to hold it. It it be ten or twelve gallons, let it ftand a fortnight; if a twenty-gallon cafk, five weeks. Set it. in a cool place, then draw it off from the lees, clear the veffel of the lees, and pour in the liquor clear again. If it be a ten-gallon cad?, let it ftand three months ; and if a twenty-gallon, four months. Then bot- tle off, as before direfled. Mountain Wine. PICK all the (talks out of fomc fine Malaga raifins, chop them very fmall, and put ten pounds of them to every two gallons of fpring water. Let them deep three weeks, ftirring them frequently during that time. Then fqueeze 6ut the liquor, and put it into a veffel that will juft hold it, but do not (top it till it has done hiding. Then bung it up clofe, and it will be fit for ufe in about fix months. Cherry Wine. GATHER your cherries when they are full ripe, pull them oft' the (talks, and prefs them through a hair-fieve. Put two pounds of lump fugar finely beaten to every gallon of liquor. Stir u together, and put it into a veffel juft big enough to hold it. When it has done working and making a noife, (top it clofe for three months and then bottle it off for ufe. Black Cherry Brandy. PROCURE eight pounds of the fined black moroon cherries and eight pounds of fmall black berries. 1 lek them, and bruife them in a mor- tar, or you may ufe them whole, if you pleafe Put them into a calk, and pour fix gallons of ^ 4 brandy344 PREPARATION OF MADE WINES, brandy over them. Put in two pounds of loaf fugar broken to pieces, a quart of fack, ftir all well together, and let it (land two months. Then draw it off into pint bottles, cork it tight, and keep it for ufe. It is much finer when made with Morelia cherries, Birch Wine. THE proper feafon for extrafling the liquor from the birch tree is the beginning of March, while the fap is rifing, and before the leaves fhoot out; for when the fap is come forward, and the leaves appear, the juice being long digefted in the bark, grows thick and coloured, which before was thin and clear. The method of extrafling the juice is by boring holes in the body of the tree, and putting in foffets, which are commonly made of the branches of elder, the pith being taken out. You may, without hurting the tree, if it be large, tap it in feveral places, four or five at a time ; and by thofe means procure from different trees feveral gallons every day. If you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops mud be corked clofe, and rofined or waxed. At any rate, however, make ufe of it as foon as you can. Take the fap and boil it as long as any fcum rifes, Hum- ming it all the time. To every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good fugar, and the thin peel of a lemon. Boil it afterwards half an hour, flamming it well. Then pour it into a clean tub, and when it is almoft cold, fet it to work with yeafl fpread upon a toafl. Let it Hand five or fix days, ftirring it often. Then take a calk juft big enough to hold the liquor. Fire a large match .dipped in brimftone, throw it into the calk, and ftop it clofe till the match is extinguifhed. Tun youf wipe^ and lay the bung on lightly, till youPREPARATION OF MADE WINES. 345 find it has done working. Stop it clofe, keep it three months, and then bottle it for ufe. Apricot Wine. HAVING boiled fix pounds of loaf fugar in fix quarts of water, and fkimmed it well, put in twelve pounds of apricots pared and ftoned, and boil them till they are tender. Then ftrain the liquor from the apricots, put it into a Hone bot- tle, and bottle it as foon as it is fine. Cork it well, and keep it in a cool cellar for ufe. Balm Wine. BOIL twenty pounds of lump fugar in four gallons and a half of water one hour gently, and put it into a tub to cool. Bruife two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeaft, and when the liquor is nearly cold pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it Hand twenty-four hours, ftirring it frequently. Then bung it up, and let it (land fix weeks. Then bottle it off, put a lump of fugar into each bottle, cork it tight, and the longer it is kept, the better it will be. Quince Wine. OUINCES for this purpofe muft be gathered when dry and full ripe. Wipe twenty large quin- ces clean with a coarfe cloth, and grate them with a large grater or rafp as near the-core as you can, but none of the core. Boil a gallon of fpring water; throw in your quinces, and let them boil foftly a quarter of an hour. Then ftrain them well into an earthen pan, on two pounds of double- refined fugar. Pare two large lemons, throw in the peel, and fqueeze the juice through a fieve, and ftir it about till it be quite cool. Then toaft g very thin piece of bread very brown, rub a lit— * tie34^ PREPARATION OF MADE WINES. tie yeafl on it, and let it Hand clofe covered twenty-four hours. Then take out the toad and lemon-peel, put the liquor up in a keg, keep it three months, and then bottle it. If you make a twenty-gallon cafk, let it Hand fix months before you bottle it. When you drain your quinces, you mud wring them hard in a coarfe cloth. Rafpberry Wine. BRUISE fome fine rafpberries with the back of a fpoon, then drain them through a flannel bag into a done jar. To each quart of juice put a pound of double-refined fugar, dir it well together, and cover it clofe. Let it dand three days, and then pour it off clear. To a quart of juice, put two quarts of white wine ; then bottle it off, and it will be fit to drink in a week. Rafpherry Brandy. PICK two gallons of rafpberries clean from the dalles, bruife them with your hands, and put them into a cafk. Put to them eight gallons of good brandy, two pounds of loaf fugar finely beaten, and a quart of fack. Stir all well up together, and let it dand a month. Then draw it off clear into another cade, and when it is fine, bottle it: cork the bottles well, and keep it for ufe. Orange Shrub. TAKE twenty gallons of water, and break into it, in fmall pieces, one hundred pounds of loaf fugar. Boil it till the fugar be melted, fkim it well, and put it in a tub to cool. When cold, put it into a cafk, with thirty gallons of good Jamaica rum, and fif- teen gallons of orange juice; but mind to drain all the feeds out of the juice. Mix them well toge- ther, then beat up the whites of fix eggs very well, dir them well.in, let it dand a week to fine, and thenPREPARATION OF MADE WINES. 347 then draw it off for life. The fame rules will hold good for the making of any quantity you pleale. Damfon Wine. H AVI N G gathered your damfons on a fine day, and when they are ripe, weigh them, and bruife them. Put them into a done ftein that has a cock' in it, and to fixteen pounds of fruit boil two gal- lons of water. Skim it, pour it over the fruit fcalding hot, and let it ftand two days. Then draw it off, and put it into a veffel, and to every two gallons of liquor put five pounds of fine fugar. Fill up the veffel, and flop it clofe. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months, then bottle it, and put a fmall lump of fugar into each bottle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for ufe in two months after. Cowflip, or Clary Wine. PUT twelve pounds of fugar, the juice of fix lemons, and the whites of four eggs well beaten, into fix gallons of water. Let it boil half an hour, and fkim it well. Take a peck of cowflips, (if they be dry, half a peck will do) and put them into "a tub with the thin peelings of fix lemons. Then pour on the boiling liquor, and ftir them about. When almoft cold, put in a thin toaft, baked dry, and rubbed with yeaft, and let it Hand two. or’ three days to work. If you put in, before you tun it, fix ounces of fyrup of citron, or lemons, with a quart of Renifii wine, it will be a great addition. The third day drain it off, and fqueeze the cow- flips through a coarfe cloth; then drain it through a flannel bag, and tun it up. Lay the bung loofe two 01 three days, to fee if it works; and, if it does not, bung it down tight, let it ftand • three months, and then bottle it for ufe.34$ PREPARATION Or MADE WINES. Turnip Wine. P A R E, flicc, and puta good many turnips into a cyder prefs, and prefs out all the juice. Put three pounds of lump fugar to every gallon of juice, put your juice into a veflel juft big enough to hold it, with half a pint of brandy to every gallon of juice. Lay fomething over the bung for a week, to fee if it works. As foon as it has done working, ftop it clofe for three months, and draw it off into another veflel. When it is fine, bottle it off. Blackberry Wine. PUT your berries when full ripe into a veflel of wood or {tone, with a fpicket in it, and pour upon them as much boiling water as will juft appear upon the top of them. As foon as it is cool enough to permit you to put your hand in, bruife them till all the berries are broken. Let them ftand, clofe covered, till the berries are well wrought up to the top, which is ufually in three or four days. Then draw off the clear juice into another veflel, and add to every ten quarts of the liquor one pound of moift fugar. Stir it well in, and let it ftand to work in another veflel, like the firft, a week or ten days. Then draw it off at the fpicket, through a jelly bag, into a large veflel. Take four ounces of ifinglafs, fteep it twelve hours in a pint of white wine, and then boil it till it is diffolved over a flow fire. Then take a gallon of your blackberry juice, put in the ifinglafs, give it a boil, and put it hot to the reft. Put it into a veflel, ftop it up clofe till jt has purged and fettled; then bottle it, cork it tight, put it into a cool cellar, and it will be fit to drink in three months. C II A P.[ 349 ] C H A P. XXIX. The Preparation of Cordial Waters. Cordial Poppy Water. BEFORE we proceed to the preparation of cor- dial waters, it may not be amifs to premife a few particulars. If you make ufe of a limbec, be careful to fill the top with cold water, when you fet it on, make a pafte of flour and cold water, and clofe the bottom of your ftill with it. Be particu- larly careful not to let your fire be fo hot as to en- danger its boiling over, as that will weaken the fpirit of your water. The water on the top of your ftill fhould be frequently changed, and never fuf- fered to be fcalding hot, which will prevent your ftill dropping gradually. If you ufe a hot ftill, when you put on the top, dip a cloth in white lead and oil mixed together, and lay it well over the edges of your ftill, and a coarfe cloth over the top. Make a flow fire under it, but mind and keep it very clear; and when your cloth is dry, dip it in cold water, and lay it on again. If your ftill be very hot, wet another cloth, and lay it round the top. Whenyouufea worm-ftill, keep your tub full to the top with water, and change it often, to prevent its growing hot. When the young prac- titioner has ftrongly fixed thefe preliminaries in his mind, he may then proceed to the preparation of Cordial Poppy Water, and the other articles men- tioned in this chapter. Put a peck of poppies, and two gallons of very good brandy, into a wide- mouthed glafs, and let themftand forty-eight hours. Then ftrain out the poppies, take a pound of rai- fins350 PREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS. fins of the fun {toned, an ounce of coriander feeds, and an ounce of liquorice fliced. Bruife them all together, and put them into the brandy, with a pound of good powder fugar. Let them {land four or eight weeks, {hiking it every day, and then {train it off and bottle it clofe for ufe. To make Milk Water. TAKE of rue, carduus, and wormwood, each two large handfuls; four handfuls of mint, as much balm, and as much angelica. Cut thefe a little, and put them into a cold {till, and put to them three quarts of milk. Let your fire be quick till your {till drops, and then flacken it. You may draw off two quarts : the firft quart will keep all ^he year. Another Method. ' . t TAKE of each of the following herbs three handfuls: fumitory, endive, agrimony, water cref- fes, white nettles, elder-flowers, balm, bank-cref- fes, and fage ; of eyebright, brook-lime, and celen- dine, each two handfuls; of the rofes of yellow dock, red madder, fennel, horfe-radifli, and liquorice, each three ounces ; one pound of {toned raifins ; nutmeg fliced, winter-bark, turmc- rick, galingal, of each two drams; carraway and fennel feed three ounces ; and one gallon of milk. Diltil all with a gentle fire in one day. To make Walnut Water. BRUISE a peck of fine green walnuts in a large mortar, put them into a pan with a handful of balm bruifed, put to them two quarts of good French brandy, cover them clofe, and let them lie three days. The next day diltil them in a cold {till. You may, in the courfe of one day, draw three quarts from this quantity. ToPREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS. 35-I To make Aqua Mirabilis. TAKE cloves, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, ga- lingal, cubebs, and cardamums, of each four drams ; put to them two pints of the juice of celen- dine, one pint of the juice of fpearmint; the juice of balm, flowers of melilot, cowflip, rofemary, borrage, buglofs, and marygolds, of each fix drams ; feeds of carraway, coriander, and fennel, of each four drams; four quarts of the bed fack, and two quarts of white wine ; the dronged brandy, ange- lica water, and rofe-water, of each a quart. Bruife the fpices and feeds, and deep them with the herbs and flowers in their juice$, waters, fack, white wine and brandy, all night. In the morning, dif- til it in a common dill pafled up; and from this quantity you may draw off two gallons at lead. Sweeten it to your tade with fugar-candy, bottle it up, and keep it in a cool place. To make Treacle Water. TAKE four pounds of the juice of green wal- nuts ; balm, marygold, rue, and carduus, of each three pounds; half a pound of roots of butter bur ; one pound of roots of burdock ; angelica and maf- tic. wort, of each half a pound ; leaves of fcordium fix handfuls.; Venice treacle and mithridates, of each half a pound ; old Canary wine two pounds ; white wine vinegar, fix pounds; and juice of lemon, the fame quantity. Didil this in an alembic. Lady Monmouth's, Treacle Water. TAKE three ounces of hartfhorn fhaved, and boiled in borrage water, or fuccory, wood-forrel, or rcfpice water, or three pints of any of thefe waters boiled to a jelly. Put the jelly and hartf- horn both into the dill, and add a pint more of thefe waters.- When you put it into the dill, take the 4 roots352 PREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS. roots of elecampane, gentian, cyprefs, tuninfal, of each an ounce ; forrel roots two ounces, bleffed thiltle, called carduus, and angelica, each one ounce; balm, fweet marjoram, and burnet, half a handful of each; lily-comvally flowers, borrage, buglos, rofemary, and marygold flowers, of each two ounces; citron rinds, carduus feeds, alker- mes berries, and cochineal, of each an ounce. Prepare all thefe fimples thus : Gather the flowers as they come in feafon, and put them in glaffes with a large mouth. Put with them as much fack as will cover them, and tie up the glaffes clofe with bladders wet in the fack, with a cork and leather upon that, adding more flowers and fack till you have a proper quantity. Put cochineal into a pint bottle, with half a pint of fack, and tie it up clofe with a bladder under the cork, and another on the top, wet with fack. iThen cover it up clofe with leather, and bury it. Handing upright in a bed of hot horfe- dung, nine or ten days. Then look at it, and, if it be diffolved, take it out of the dung ; but do not open it till you diftil. Slice all the roots, beat the feeds and berries, and put them into another glafs. Put no more fack among them than neceffary ; and when you intend to diftil, take a pound of the belt Venice treacle, and diffolve it in fix pints of the belt white wine, and three of red rofe water. Put all the ingredients together, ftir them, and diftil them in a glafs ft ill. To make Angelica Water. WASH eight handfuls of the leaves of ange- lica, cut them, and lay them on a table to dry. As foon as they are dry, put them into an earthen pot, and put to them four quarts of ftrong wine lees. Let it (land twenty-four hours, but ftir it twice in that time. Then put it into a warm ftill, or alem- bic, and draw it off. Cover your bottles with a paper, and prick holes in them, and let them (landPREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS. 353 thus two or three days. Then mix all together, and fweeten it; and when it is fettled^ bottle it up, and flop it clofe. , • To make Fever Water. TAKE ten green walnuts, two oun cesofcarduus feeds and marygold flowers, and three ounces of Virginia fnake-root; carduus water and poppy water, one quart of each, and one ounce of hartf- horn. Slice the walnuts, and fteep all in the waters a fortnight. Then add to it half an ounce of Lon- don treacle, and diftil the whole in an alembic palled up. Piedmont Water. BEAT up a pound of all-fpice in a mortar, and put it to two gallons of brandy, and the fame quantity of water. Let it Hand all night, and then draw it off in a worm-ftill. Red Rofe-bud Water. TAKE four gallons of rofes, and wet them in near two gallons of water. Then diftil them in a cold ftill. Take the fame Hilled water, and put into it as many frelh rofes as it will wet. Then diftil them again. In the fame manner you may diftil mint, balm, parfley, and pennyroyal waters. Black Cherry Water. BRUISE fix pounds of black cherries, and put to them the tops of rofemary, fweet marjorum, fpearmint, angelica, balm, and marygold flowers, of each a handful; dried violets an ounce; anife- feeds and fweet fennel-feeds, of each half an ounce. Bruife the feeds well, and cut the herbs fmall. Mix all together, and diftil them off in a cold llill.354 PREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS* Stag's Heart Water. TAKE ro fern ary flowers, clove gilliflowcrs dried, rofe-buds dried, and borrage flowers, of each an ounce; four handfuls of balm, and one of fweet marjorum ; marygold flowers half an ounce; le- mon-peel, two ounces; mace and cardamum, of each thirty grains; of cinnamon, fixty grains; or yellow and white fanders, of each a quarter of an ounce ; (havings of hartfhorn an ounce. Take nine oranges, and put in the peels; then cut them in fmall pieces, and pour upon thefe two quarts of the befl Rhenifh, or the beft white wine. Let it infufe three or four days, clofe flopped in a cellar or cool place • but it will not be the worfe for infufing nine or ten days. Take a flag’s heart, and cut off the fat, cut it very fmall, and cover it with Rhenifh or white wine. Let it (land all night clofe covered in a cool place, and the next day add to it all the before mentioned ingredients, mixing them very well together, and adding to it a pint of the befl rofe-water, and a pint of the juice of celandine. If you pleafe you may put in ten grains of faffron. Put it in a glafs flill, diflil- ing in water, raifing it well to keep in the fleam both of the flill and receiver. Peppermint Water CUT your peppermint which mufl be gathered when it is full grown, and before it feeds, into fhort lengths. Fill your flill with it, and cover it with water. Then make a good fire under it, and when it is near boiling, and the flill begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw a little from under it, to keep it from boiling over, or your water will be muddy. The flower your flill drops, the clearer and flronger your water will be; but do not reduce it too low. Bottle it the next day.PREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS. 355 let it ftand three or four days to take off the fiery tafte of the ftill, then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. Orange or Lemon Water. TAKE the outer rinds of fifty oranges or le- mons, put them into fix quarts of brandy and one quart of fack, and let them fteep in it one night. The next day diftil them in a cold ftill, and draw it off till it begins to tafte four. Sweeten it to your tafte with double-refined fugar, and mix the firft, fecond, and third runnings together. If it be lemon water, it fhould be perfumed with two grains of ambergris, and one of mufk. Grind them fine, tie them in a rag, and let it hang five or fix days in each bottle, or you may put to them three or four drops of the tinflure of ambergris. Take care that you cork it well, and it will re- main good a great while. Nutmeg Water. PUT one pound of nutmegs beat up in a mor- tar to two gallons of brandy, and the fame quan- tity of water. Let it ftand all night, and then draw it off in a warm ftill. Hyjlerical Water. TAKE feeds of wild parfnip, betony, and roots of lovage, of each two ounces; roots of fingle piony four ounces ,• of mifletoe of the oak three ounces; myrrh a quarter of an ounce, and caftor half an ounce. Beat all thefe together, and add to them a quarter of a pound of dried millepedes. Pour on thefe three quarts of mugwort water, and two quarts of brandy. Let them ftand in a clofe velfel eight days, and then ftill it in a cold ftill pafted up. You may draw off nine pints of water, and fweeten it to your tafte. Mix all together, and bottle it up. A a 2 Surfeit35^ PREPARATION 01 CORDIAL WATERS, Surfeit Wqter. TAKE chives, fage, balm, mint, rue, Roman wormwood, fcurvy-grafs, brook-lime, and water creffes, of each one handful ; green merery two handfuls; poppies, if frefh, half a peck; but, if they be dry, ufe only half the quantity; cochi- neal and faffron, fixpenny worth of each ; anifefeeds, carraway-feeds, coriander and cardamum-feeds, of each, an ounce; two ounces of fcraped liquorice ; a pound of fplit figs, the fame quantity of raifins of the fun doned, an ounce of juniper berries bruifed, an ounce of beaten nutmeg, an ounce of mace bruifed, and the fame of fweet fennel-feeds alfo bruifed, with a few flowers of rofemary, mari- gold, and fage. Put all thefe into a large flone jar, put to them three gallons of French brandy. Cover it clofe, and let it fiand near the fire for three weeks. Stir it three times a week, and be fure to keep it clofe flopped, and then drain it off. Bottle your liquor, and pour on the ingre- dients a bottle more French brandy. Let it Hand a week, ftirring it once a day, then diflil it in a cold dill, and you will have a fine white furfeit water. Though this is bed made in dimmer, yet you may make it at any time of the year, if you live in London, where the ingredients are always to be had either in a green or dry date. Rofe Water. ROSES for this purpofe mud be gathered on a fine day, when they are full blown. Pick off the leaves, and to a peck put a quart of water. Then put them into a cold dill, make a dow fire under it, and the flower you diftil it the better it will be. Then bottle it, and you may cork it af- ter two or three days. Lavender.DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. 357 Lavender Water. TAKE two pounds of lavender pips, and put them into two quarts of water. Put them into a cold Hill, and put a flow fire under it. Diftil it off very flowly, and put it into a pot till you have diftilled all your water. Then clean your ftill well out, put your lavender water into it, and diftil it off again flowly. Put it into your bottlesj and cork it well. C PI A P. XXX. Directions for brewing Malt Liquors. THOUGH the Houfekeepers in London are very feldom troubled with the bufinefs of brewing, yet it is a very neceffary article to be properly underftood by thofe who refide much in the country. We {hall therefore be very particu- lar in this bufinefs, and proceed to lay down fuch plain and concife rules, as may enable every one . to become a good brewer of malt liquors. And, firft, we lhall defcribe On xuhat Principles the Copper Jhould be built. THE various implements neceffary for this bu- finefs muft be properly made, and kept clean and in good order. The proper pofition of the cop- per, and the manner of its being fet, require very attentive confidcration. The beft method to be adopted is to divide the heat of the fire by a flop ; and, if the door and,draft be in a direft line, the ftop muft, be erefted from the middle of each out- A a 3 line353 DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. line of the grating, and parallel with the centre Tides of the copper. By this method, the middle of the fire will be direftly under the bottom of the copper. The flop is compofed of a thin wall in the centre of the right and left Tides of the copper, which is to afcend half the height of it. On the top muft be left a cavity, from four to five inches, for a draught for that half part of the fire which is next the door of the copper ; and then the build- ing muft clofe all round to the finifhing at the top. By this method the heat will communicate from the outward part of the fire round the outward half of your copper, through the cavity, as will the farthefl part of the flue, which alfo contrafls a conjunction of the whole, and caufes the flame to glide gently and equally round the bottom of the copper. Very great are the advantages arifing from a copper being fet in this manner, and among thefe confiderations, the faving of fuel is not the leaft. It has a confiderable advantage over wheel- draughts ; for with them, if there be not particular attendance given to the hops, by ftirring them down, they are apt to flick to the fides, and fcorch, which will deprive the liquor of its fweet and pro- per flavour. By the method above advifed, the copper will laft many years longer than it will by the wheel-draught; for that draws with fo much violence, that fhould your liquor be beneath the communication of the fire, your copper will there- by be liable to injury ; whereas, by the other me- thod, you may boil half a copper full, without any bad confequences enfuing. The proper Management of Veffelsfor Brewing. THE day before you intend to brew, very at- tentively examine all your veffels, and fee that they be thoroughly clean, and in a ftate proper forDIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. 359 for ufe. Brewing utenfils fhould never be con- verted to any other ufe, unlefs for wines; and even then, as foon as they are done with, they fhould be thoroughly cleanfed, and kept in a clean place. Calks mud be well cleaned with boiling water ; and, if the bung-hole be large enough, fcrub them well with a fmall birch broom or brufti. If you find them bad, and have a mufty fcent, take out the heads, and let them be fcrubbed clean with a hand-brufh, land, and fullers earth. When you have done this, put on the head again, and fcald it well; then throw in a piece of unflacked lime, and flop the bung clofe. When they have flood fome time, rince them well with cold water, and they will then be in a condition proper to be ufed. Your coolers alfo require equal attention, they being implements of much confequence in brewing; for, if they be not properly kept in order, your liquor will contract a difagreeable flavour, of which nothing can cure it. This often proceeds from wet having infufed itfelf into the wood, it being fometimes apt to lodge in the crevices of old coolers, and even infefl them to fuch a degree, that it cannot be removed even after feveral wafh- ings and fcaldings. One caufe incidental to this evil is, fuffering women to wafh in a brewhoufe, which ought never to be permitted, where any other convenience can be had ; for nothing can be more hurtful than the remains of dirty foap left in veffels intended for brewing only. Never let the water Hand too long in the cool- ers while you are preparing them, as the water will foak into them, and foon turn putrid, when the flench will enter the wood, and make them almoft incurable. To prevent thefe ill effe&s, as well as to anfwer good purpofes, it has been re- A a 4 commended.360 DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. commended, where fixed brewhoufes are intended, that all coolers fhould be leaded. It mull be al- lowed, in the firft inftance, that fueh are exceed- ingly cleanly; and, fecondly, that it expedites the cooling of part of your liquor \yorts, which is very neceffary to forward it for working, as well as afterwards for cooling the whole; for evaporation caufes confiderably more wade than proper boil- ing. Your coolers mud alfo be well fcoured two or three times with cold water, which is more proper than hot water to effeQ a perfect cleaning, efpeci- ally if they be in a bad condition, from the undif- covered filth that may be in the crevices. The application of warm water will drive the infe&ion further; fo that, if your liquor be let into the coolers, and any remain in the crevices, the heat will colleft the foulnefs, and the whole will thereby be rendered unwholefome and difagreeable. Another material point is to keep the mafh-tub clean ; the grains mud not be left in the tub any longer than the day after brewing, left the tub fhould be thereby loured; for if there be a four fcent in the brewhoufe before your beer be tunned, it will be apt to infeft your liquor and worts. Cleanlinefs in brewing is fo indifpenfable an article, that every attention fhould be paid to it. The Management ojthe Maft-tub and other Utenjils. I N order to make your mafh-tub more lading and complete, you mud have a circular piece of brafs or copper, to inlay and line the hole where the penftaff enters, to let the wort run off into the underback. The penftaff fhould be alfo ftrongly ferelled with the fame metal, and both well and taperly finifhed, fo that you may place it properly. By this method you have it run from thefinenefs of a thread to the fulnefs of an inch tube, &c. firft dreflingdirections for brewing malt liquors. 361 drefling your muck-bafket with ftraw, fern, or fmall bufhy furze without ftems, fix or eight inches in from the bottom of your bafket, and let quite per- pendicularly over the whole with the penftaff, through the center of the bafket, and the middle of the furze or fern, and fattened into the hole of the tub. To fteady it properly, you mutt have a piece of iron let into a ftaple fattened to.the tub, at the neareft part oppolite to the bafket, and to reach nearly to it; and from that piece another added on ajointed fwivel, or any other contrivance, fo as to be at liberty to let round the bafket like a dog’s collar, and to enter into the ttaple formed in the fame to pin it fall, and by adding a half-cir- cular turn in the collar, in which you have room to drive in a wedge, which will keep it fafe down to the bottom, where there can be no danger of its being difturbed by ttirring the mafh, which will otherwife fometimes be the cafe. When you let go, you will raife the pen-ftaff to your own degree of running, and then fatten the ftaff, by the help of two wedges tightened between the ttaff and the bafket. The copper-work, like every thing elfe, mutt give way to time, and become defective. When this is the cafe, you may repair the imperfe&ion by the following fimple method. Work the penttatt' in the brafs focket with emery and water, or oil, which will perhaps make it more perfed than when new. The like method is fometimes taken even with cocks juft purchafed, in order to prevent their decaying fo foon as they otherwife would. Underbacks may be made to receive a very ma- terial addition, by having a piece of copper to line the hole in the bottom, which may be flopped with a cloth put fingly round a large cock, which will prevent its flying up by the heat. When the liquor is pumped clean out of the back, the cloth round 2 the ( . 1$62 DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MAI.T LIQUORS. the cock will enable you to take out the cock with eafe ; and there fhould be a drain below the under- back to carry off the water, which will enable you to wafh it very clean without much trouble. This drain fhould be made with a clear defcent, fo that no damp may remain under the back. With the conveyance of water running into your copper, you may be enabled to work that water in a double quantity, your underback being filled by the means of letting it in at your leifure, out of your copper, through a flioot to the mafh-tub, and fo to the underback. Thus you will have a referve againft the time you wifh to fill your copper, which may be complete in a few minutes, by pumping while the under cock is running. We cannot conclude this article of uteris, without again recommending cleanlinefs as a moft effential point to be attended to in brewing. The proper Seafon for Brewing. MARCH is generally confidered as one of the principal months for brewing malt liquors for long keeping. The reafon of this is, becaufe the air, at that time of the year, is in general temperate, and contributes to the good working or fermenta- tion of the liquor, which principally promotes its prefervation and good keeping. 1 he extremes of heat or cold weather are equally pernicious to the fermentation or working of liquors. Hence, if you brew in very cold weather, unlefs you ufe fome means to warm the cellar while new drink is work- ing, it will never clear itfelf in the manner you would wifh ; and the fame misfortune will arile, if in very hot weather, the cellar is not put into a temperate ftatc. The confequence of all which will be, that fuch drink will be muddy and four, and in fuch a degree, as to be perhaps paft feco- verv. Thefe accidents frequently happen, even • • i ndirections for brewing malt liquors. 363 to in the proper feafon for brewing, and that owing to the badnefs of the cellar; for, if they be dug in fpring grounds, or are fubjefl to damps in the winter, the liquor will chill, and become vapid or flat. When cellars are in this fltuation, it will be much better to brew in March than in Oftober, as you may keep fuch cellars temperate in fummer, which cannot be done in winter. Thus your beer brewed in March, before the cold can any ways materially affect it, will have due time to adjuft and fettle itfelf. Every cellar, defigned for the keeping of liquors, fliould be formed on fuch a plan, that no external air can get into it; for the variation of the exter- nal air, were the free admiflion of it into the cellar, would caufe as many alterations in the li- quors, and confequently would keep them in fuch an unfettled ftate, as totally to fpoil them. A re- gular and temperate air digefts and foftens malt liquors, which makes them agreeable to the tafte ; but in cellars, where the heats and colds are irregu- lar, very little good liquor can be expebted out of them. The mo ftproper Water for Brewing. REPEATED experiments have proved, that river-water is the molt proper for brewing, as fuch is generally foft, and has received thofe benefits, which are naturally derived from the air and fun, and which permit it eafily to penetrate into the malt, and extrad its virtues. Hard waters, on the contrary, aftringe and bind the power of the malt, fo that its virtues are not freely communicated to the liquor. Some people hold it as a maxim, that all watei that will mix with foap is fit for brewing, which is the cafe with the generality of river water; and it has been frequently found from experience, that when the fame quantity of malt has been ufed364 DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. to a barrel of river-water, as to a barrel of fpring- water, the brewing from the former has exceeded the other in ftrength above five degrees in the courfe of twelve months keeping. It has all'o been obfcrved, that the malt was not only the fame in quantity for one barrel as for the other, but was the lame in quality, having been all meafuredfrom the fame heap. The hops were alfo the fame, both in quality and quantity, and the time of boiling equal in each. They were worked in the fame manner, and tunned and kept in the fame cellar. This is a proof beyond all contradiction, that the water only could be the caufe of this difference. The ableft brewers have been much puzzled with one circumftance, which is, that feveral country gentlemen in the fame town have employed the fame brewer, have had the fame malt, the fame hops and water, have brewed in the fame month, and broached their drink at the fame time, yet one has had exceedingly fine, ftrong, and well-tafted beer, while the other has had nothing worth drink- ing. Three reafons may be adduced, in order to account for this very Angular difference. Firft, it might arife from the difference, of weather, which might happen at the different brewings in this month, and make an alteration in the working of the liquors. Secondly, the yeaft, or barm, might be of different forts, or in different ftates, where- with thefe liquors were worked ; and, thirdly, the cellars might not be equally adapted for the pur- pofe. The goodnefs of fuch drink as is brewed for keeping, depends, in fome meafure, on the proper form and temperature of the cellars in which it is kept. Dorcheffer beer, which is generally in much effeem, is chiefly brewed with chalky water, which is plenty in almoft every part of that county; arid as the foil is moftly chalk, the cellars, being dugDIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. 3°5 hi that dry foil, contribute much to the good keep- ing of their drink, it being of a clofe texture, and of a dry quality, fo as to diffipate damps; foi it has been found by experience, that damp cellars are equally injurious to the cafks and the good keeping of liquor. Where water is naturally of a hard quality, it may, in fome meafure, be foftened by expofing it to the air and fun, and putting into it fome pieces of foft chalk to infufe ; or, when, the water is fet on to boil, in order to be poured on the malt, put into it a quantity of bran, and it will have a very good eflfeH. The Quality of the Malt and Hops mojl proper for Brewing. MALT is generally diftingui died by two names, high-dried malt, and low-dried malt. Of thefe, the former, when brewed, produces a liquor of a deep-brown colour; and the other, which is the low-dried, produces a liquor of a pale colour. The firft is dried in fuch a manner as to be rather fcorched than dried, and is not fo wholefome as the pale malt. It has alfo been found from experience, that brown malt, although it may be well brewed, will fooner turn fharp than the pale; fo that the pale malt is generally in moft efteem. A gentleman, who has made the art of brewing his ftudy for many years, gives his opinion in thefe words. Brown malt makes the beft drink when it is brewed with a coarfe river-water, fuch as that of the Thames about London ; and that being brewed with fuch water it makes very good ale ; but that it will not keep above fix months without turning (tale, even though he allows fourteen bufliels to the hogfhead. He adds, that he has tried the high-dried malt to brew beer with for keeping, and hopped it accordingly; and yet he could never brew366 DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. brew it fo as to drink foft and mellow, like that brewed with pale malt. There is, he fays, an acid quality in the high-dried malt, which occafions thofe who drink it to be greatly troubled with that diforder called the heart burn. We have been here l'peaking only of malt made of barley; for as to wheat malt, pea-malt, or thofe mixed with barley malt, though they produce a high-coloured liquor, will keep fome years, and drink foft and fmooth, yet they are fubjeft to have the flavour of mum. High-dried malt fhould not be brewed till it has been ground ten days or a fortnight, as it will then yield much ftronger drink than from the fame quantity ground but a fhort time before it is ufed. On the contrary, pale malt, which has not re- ceived much of the fire, muft not remain unufed above a week after it is ground. The neweft hops are by far the beft. Though hops will keep two years, yet after that they begin to decay, and lofe their flavour, unlefs great quan- tities are kept together, in which cafe they will keep good much longer than in fmall quantities. They fhould, with a view to preferve them the better, be kept in a very dry place ; whereas thofe who deal in them, with a view to encreafe their weight, keep them as damp as they can. It is hence evident, that every article for the brewery fhould be judicioufly chofen before you commence brewing, otherwise you will fuftain a lofs, which will be aggravated by your labour being in vain. Be particularly careful to be provided with every neceffary article before you commence brewing ; for bad confequences muft enfue when you wait for any thing that fhould be immediate- ly ready. TheDIRECTIONS for brewing malt liquors. 367 The practical Part of Brewing. HAVING properly cleanfed and fealded all your utenfils, your malt ground, your watei boil- ing in the copper, and your penftaff well fet, you muft then proceed to mafh, by putting a fufficient quantity of boiling water into your tub, in which it muft ft and until the greater part of the fteam is gone off, or till you fee your own fhadow in it. It will then be neceffary, that one perfon fhould pour the malt gently in, while another is careful- ly ftirring it, for it is equally as effential, that the fame care fhould be obferved when the mafh is thin as when thick. This being properly done, and having a fufficient referve of malt to cover the mafh, to prevent evaporation, you may cover your tubs with facks, &c. and leave your malt three hours to fteep, by which time its virtues will be properly extracted. Be careful, before you let the mafh run, to be prepared with a pail to catch the firft flufh, as that is generally thickifh, and another pail to be ap- plied while you return the firft on the mafh, and fo on for two or three times, at leaft, till it runs fine. By this time your copper fhould be boiling, and a convenient tub placed clofe to your mafh-tub. Let into it, through your fpout, half the quantity of boiling water you mean to ufe for drawing off your belt wort; after which you muft inftantly turn the cock to fill up again, which, with a proper attention to the fire, will boil in due time. During fuch time, you muft flop the mafh with this hot water out of the convenient tub, in moderate quantities, every eight or ten minutes, till the whole is con- fumed ; and then let off the remaining quantity, which will be boiling hot, to the finifhing procefs for ftrong beer. Having368 directions for brewing malt liquors. to Having filled your copper, let it boil as quick as poffible for the fecond malh, whether you intend it either for ale or fmall beer. Being thus far pre- pared, let oil the remaining quantity of water into your tub, as you did for the ftrong beer; but if you would have Imall beer befides, you mult aft accordingly, by boiling a proper quantity off in due time, and letting it into the tub as before direfted. As to the quantity of malt, twenty-four bufhels will make two hogfheads of as good ftrong beer as any perfon would wifii to drink, as alfo two hog- fheads of very decent ale. The ftrong beer made from this quantity of malt fhould be kept two or three years before it is tapped, and the ale never lefs than one. If your mafli be only for one hogf- head, it fhould be two hours in running off; if two hogfheads, two hours and a half; and three hours for any greater quantity. Great attention muft be paid to the time of fteepingyour mafhes. Strong beer muft be allowed three hours; ale, one hour ; and, if you draw fmall beer afterwards, half an hour. By this mode of proceeding your boilings will regularly take place of each other, which will greatly expediate the bufinefs. In the courfe of malhing, be careful that it is thoroughly ftirred from the bottom, and efpecially round the muck,bafket; for, being well fhaken, it prevents a ftagnation of the whole body of the mafh. The greateft care muft be taken, in the prepara- tion for boiling, to put the hops in with the firft wort, or it will char in a few minutes. As foon as the copper is full enough, make a good fire under it; but be careful in filling it to leave room enough for boiling. Ouick boiling is a part of the bufinefs that requires very particular attention. Great caution muft be obferved when the liquor beginsdirections for brewing mai.t liquors. 369 to fwell in waves in the copper. If you have no affiftant, be particularly attentive to its motions; and being provided with an iron rod of a proper length, crooked at one end, and jagged at the other, then with the crook you are enabled to open the furnace, or copper door, and with the other end pufh in the damper, and thus proportion your fire, as you mull take care not to have it too fierce. To afeertain the proper time the liquor fhould boil, proceed as follows. Take a clean copper bowl-difh, dip out fome of the liquor, and when you difeover a working, and the hops finking, you may then conclude it to be fufficiently boiled. Long and flow boiling both hurts and waftes the liquor. As foon as your liquor is properly boiled, tra- verfe a fmall quantity of it over all the coolers, fo as to get a proper quantity cold immediately to fet to work ; but if the airinefs of your brewhoufe is not fufficient to expedite a quantity foon, you mult traverfe a fecond quantity over the coolers, and then let it into (hallow tubs. Put thefe into any paffage where there is a thorough draft of air, but where no rain or other wet can get to it. Then let off the quantity of two baring-tubs full from the firft one, the fecond and third coolers, which may be foon got cold, to be ready for a fpeedy work- ing, and then the remaining part that is in your copper may be quite let out into the fir ft cooler. In the mean time, mend the fire, and alfo attend to the hops, to make a clear paffage through the ftrainer. As foon as the liquor is done running, return to your bufinefs of pumping; but remember, that when you have got four or five pailfuls, you return all the hops into the copper for ale. By this time, the fmall quantity of liquor tra- verfed over your coolers, being fufficiemly cooled, B b you37° DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. you mud proceed as follows to fet your liquor to work. Take four quarts of barm, and divide half of it into fmall veffels, fuch as clean bowls, bafons or mugs, adding thereto an equal quantity of wort* which fhould be almoft cold. As foon as it fer- ments to the top of the veffels, put it into two pails, and when that works to the top, put one into a bar- ing-tub, and the other into another. When you have half a baring-tub full together, you may put the like quantity to each of them, and then cover them over, until it comes to a fine white head. This may be perfe£tly completed in three hours, and then put thofe two quantities into the working guile. You may now add as much wort as you have got ready ; for, if the weather be open, you cannot work it too cold. If you brew in cold frofty weather, keep the brewhoufe warm; but never add hot wort to keep the liquor to a blood heat, that being a bad praftice. Take care that your barm be not from foxed beer, that is, beer heated by ill management in its working; for, in that cafe, it is likely to carry with it the contagion. If your barm be flat, and you cannot procure that which is new, put to it a pint of warm fweet wort, of your firfl: letting off, the heat to be about half the degree of milk-warm. Then give the veflel that contains it a (hake, and it will foon gather ftrength, and be fit for ufe. As to the quantity of hops neceflary to beufed, remem- ber, that half a pound of good hops is fufficient for a bufliel of malt. Tunning is the laft and moll fimple operation in the bufinefs of brewing, the general methods of doing which are, cither by having it carried into the cellar on mens flioulders, or conveying it thither by means of leathern pipes ufed for that purpofe. Your calks being perfectly clean, fweet, and dry, and placed on the Hand ready to receiveDIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. 371 the liquor, fir ft fkim off the top barm, then proceed to fill your cafks quite full, and immediately bung and peg them clofe. Bore a hole with a tap-borer near the fummit of the Have, at the fame diftance from the top as the lower tap-hole is from the bot- tom, for working through that upper-hole, which is a more clean and effe&ual method than working it over the cafk; for, by the above method, being fo clofely confined, it foon fets itfelf into a convul- five motion of working, and forces itfelf fine, pro- vided you attend to the filling of your cafks five or fix times a day. New caflts are apt to give liquor a bad tafte, if they be not well fcalded and feafoned feveral days fucceflively before they are ufed ; and old cafks are apt to grow mufty, if they Hand any time out of ufe. The proper Management of Malt Liquors. TO keep ftrong beer in a ftate of perfe£lion, having once broached the veffel, attention muft be paid to the time in which it may be expended; for, if there happen to be a quick draught for it, it will in that cafe laft good to the bottom ; but, if there is likely to be but a flow draught, then do not draw off quite half before you bottle it; otherwife it will grow flat, dead, or four. The time requifite for beer to ripen, depends on the quantity of liquor contained in the cafk. A veffel that contains two hogfheads of beer, will require twice as much time to perfect itfelf as one of a hogfhead ; and it is found by experience, that no veffel fliould be ufed for ftrong beer intended for keeping, lefs than a hogfhead. Small beer fliould be made tolerably good in quality; for, if it be not good, fervants, for whom it is principally calculated, will be feeble in fum- mer-time, incapable.of ftrong work, andfubjcftto various diforders. Befides, when the beer is bad, B b 2 a great372 directions for brewing malt liquors, a great deal will be thrown away ; whereas, on the contrary, good wholefome drink will be valued, and confequently taken care of. It is ad- vifeahle, therefore, where there is good cellaring, to brew a flock of fmall beer in March or October* or in both months, to be kept, ifpoffible, in hog- flieads. The beer brewed in March fhould not be tapped till October, nor that brewed in Oftober till the March following. Some people, who brew with high-dried barley malt, in order to fine their beer, put a bag, con- taining about three pints of wheat, into every hogfhead of liquor, which has had the defired ef- fe£l, and made the beer drink foft and mellow. Others have put about three pints of wheat malt into a hogfhead, which has produced the fame effe£l. Malt liquors may be fpoiled by bad cellaring, be fubjefl to ferment in the call':, and confequent- ly turn thick and four. When this happens, the befl way of bringing the liquor to itfelf is, to open the bung-hole of the calk for two or three days ; and, if that does not flop the fermentation, then put in about two or three pounds of oyflcr-fhells, wafhed, dried well in an oven, and then finely pounded. After you have put it in, flir it a little, and it will foon fettle the liquor, make it fine, and take off the fharp tafle. -When you find this effefted, draw it off into another veffel, and put a fmall bag of wheat, or wheat malt, into it, in proportion to the fize of the veffel. In fome country places remote from principal towns, it is a praftice-to dip whifks into yeafl, then beat it well, and hang up the whifks, with the yeafl in them, to dry; and if there be no brewing till near two months afterwards, the flirring and beating one of thefe whifks in new wort, will foon raife a working or fermentation. It is a rule.' DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING MALT LIQUORS. 373 that all liquor (hould be well worked in the tun, before it is put into the veffel, otherwife it will not cafily grow fine. The propercjl Method to bottle Malt Liquors. THE firft attention to be paid is to your bot- tles, which muff be well cleaned and dried ; for wet bottles will fpoil your liquor by making it turn mouldy. Though the bottles may be clean and dry, yet, if the corks be not new and found, the liquor will be liable to be damaged; for, if the air can penetrate the bottles, the liquor will grow flat, and never rife. Many, who have flat- tered themfelves of a faving knowledge, by ufing old corks on this occafion, have fpoiled as much liquor as flood them in four or five pounds, in or- der to fave three or four fhillings. If bottles - be corked properly, it will be difficult to draw the cork without a fcrew ; and to fecure the drawing of the cork without breaking, the fcrew ought to go through the cork, and then the air mufl neccf- farily End a paffage where the fcrew haspaffied. If a cork has once been in a bottle, though it has not been drawn with a fcrew, yet that cork will turn mufly as foon as expofed to the air, and will communicate its ill flavour to the bottle into which it is next put, and thereby fpoil the liquor. In the choice of corks, take thofe that are foft and clean from fpecks. You may alfo obferve, in the bottling of liquor, that the top and middle of the hogffiead are the flrongeft, and will fooner rife in the bottles than the bottom. When you begin to bottle a veffel of any liquor, do not go about any thing elfe till the whole of that bufi- nefs is completed. As foon as a veffel of liquor begins to grow flat whilft it is on tap, bottle it, and into every bottle put a piece of loaf fugar about the fize of a wal- b 3 nut.374 DIRECTIONS for brewing malt liquors. nut, which will make it rife and come to itfelf; and to forward its ripening, you may fet fome bottles in hay in a warm place ; but ftraw will do nothing towards its ripening. If you fhould have the opportunity of brewing a good ftock of fmall beer in March and O&ober, fome of it may be bottled at the end of fix months, putting into every bottle a lump of loaf fugar, which, in the fummer, will make a very pleafant and refrefhing drink. Or, if you happen to brew in fummer, and are defirous of having brilk fmall beer, as foon as it has done working, bottle it as before directed. Should your cellars not happen to be properly calculated for the prefervation of your beer, you may ufe the following expedient. Sink holes in the ground, put into them large oil jars, and fill up the earth clofe about the fides. One of thefe jars will hold about two dozen bottles, and will keep the liquor in proper order; but great care muff be taken, that the tops of the jars are kept * clofe covered. In winter time, when the weather is frofly, fliut up all the lights or windows of your cellars, and cover them clofe with horfe-dung, which will keep your beer in a proper and tem- perate Hate. To keep Yeajl good for feveral Months. I N order to preferve a large flock of yeafl, which will keep and be of ufe for feveral months, either for brewing, or to make bread or cakes, proceed as follows. When you have plenty of yeafl, and are apprehenfive of a future fcarcity, take a quantity of it, flir and work it well with a whifk until it becomes liquid and thin. Then get a large wooden platter, cooler, or tub, clean and dry, and with a foft brufli lay a thin layer of yeafl on the tub, and turn the mouth downwards, that noDIRECTIONS FOR BAKING BREAD. 375 no duft may fall upon it, but fo that the air may get under to dry it. When that coat is very dry, then lay on another, and fo on till you have a fuf- ficient quantity, even two or three inches thick, always taking care that the yeaft is very dry in the tub before you lay any more on, and this will keep good for feveral months. When you have occafion to ule this yeaft, cut a piece off, and lay it into warm water ; then flir it together, and it will be fit for ufe. If it be for brewing, take a large handful of birch tied together, dip it into the yeaft, and hang it up to dry. In this manner you may do as many as you pleafe; but take care that no duft comes to it. When your beer is fit to fet to work, throw in one of thefe, and it will make it work as well as if frefh yeaft had been ufed. CHAP. XXXI. Directions for baking Bread. The proper Form of an Oven. EVERY new oven fhould be built round, and not lower from the roof than twenty inches, nor higher than twenty-four inches. The mouth fhould be fmall, with an iron door to fhut quite clofe ; by which means it will require lefs fire, and keep in the heat much better than a long' and Jugh-roofcd oven, and in courfc bake every thing better. ^ B b 4 The376 DIRECTIONS FOR BAKING BREAD. The London Method of making Bread. PUT a bufhel of good flour, which has been ground about five or fix weeks, in one end of your trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm water, which the bakers call liquor, and mix it with one quart of good yeaft. Put it into the flour, and ftir it well with your hands. Let it lie till it rifes as high as it will go, which will be in about an hour and twenty minutes. Mind and watch it when it is at the height, and do not let it fall. Then make up your dough with eight quarts more of warm liquor, and one pound of fait. Work it well with your hands, and then cover it over with a coarfe cloth or a fack. Put your fire into the oven, heat it well, and by the time your oven is hot, the dough will be ready. Then make your dough into loaves of about five pounds each, fweep out your oven clean, and put in your loaves. Shut it up clofe, and two hours and a half will bake them. Then open your oven, and draw them out. In fummer, let your liquor be juft blood- warm, in winter a litte warmer, and in hard frofty weather as hot as you can bear your hand in it; but not fo hot as to fcald the yeaft, for that will fpoil the whole batch of bread. A larger or fmall- er quantity may be made in the fame proportion. To make French Bread. LAY half a bufhel of the beft Hertfordfhire white flour at one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Mix a pint of good fmall-beer yeaft with three quarts of warm liquor, put it in, and mix it up well till it is tough. Put a flannel over it, and let it rife as high as it will; but mind and watch it that it does not fall. When it is at the height, take fix quarts of flam- medDIRECTIONS FOR BAKING BREAD. 377 rred milk blood-warm, the bluer the better, pro- vided it is fweet, and a pound of fait; but be lure not to put any milk with the yealt at fir ft, as that will prevent the yeaft from rifing, as any thing greafy will. Then, inltead of working it with your hands, as y' U would dough for Englifh bread, put the ends of our fingers together, and work it over vour hands till it is quite weak and ropey, and then cover it over with a flannel. Put your fire into the oven, and make it very hot, by which time your dough will be ready. Lay your dough on the drefler, and, inltead of a common knife, have one made like a chopping knife to cut it with. Then make it up into bricks, or rolls, as you choofe. The bricks will take an hour and a half baking, and rolls half an hour. Then draw them out, and either rafp them with a rafp, or chip them with a knife, as you pleafe. You may, if you think proper, break in two ounces of butter, when you work it up with the fecond li- quor. To make Bread without Yeajl, by the Means of a Leaven. TAKE about two pounds of dough of your lalt making, which has been made with yealt ; keep it in a wooden veffel, and cover it well with flour. This is your leaven. The night before you intend to bake, put the leaven to a peck of flour, and work them well together with warm liquor. Let it lie in a dry wooden velfel, well covered with a dry linen cloth, alfo a blanket over the cloth, and keep it in a warm place. This dough kept warm will rife again the next morn- ing, and will be fufficient to mix with two or three bulhels of flour, being worked up with warm li- qour, and a pound of fait to each bufhel of flour. When it is well worked up, and thoroughly mixed with all the flour, let it be well covered with37^ DIRECTIONS FOR BAKING BREAD. wtih the linen and blanket, until you find it rife. Then knead it well, and work it up into loaves and bricks, making the loaves broad, and not fo thick and high as is done for bread made with yeaft. J hen put it into your oven, and bake it as before direfted. Always keep by you two pounds of the dough of your laft baking, well covered with flour, to make leaven to ferve from one baking day to another. The more leaven is put to the flour, the lighter and fpongy the bread will be ; and the frefher the leaven, the lefs four will be the bread. To make Muffins and Oat-Cakes. P U T a bufhel of Hertfordfhire white flour into your trough, three gallons of milk-warm liquor, and mix in a quart of mild ale, or good fmall-beer yeaft, and half a pound of fait. Stir it well about a quarter of an hour, then ftrain it into the flour, mix your dough as high as you can, and let it lie one hour to rife. Then with your hand roll it up, and pull it into little pieces as big as a large walnut. Roll them with your hand like a ball, lay them on a table, and as faft as you do them lay a flannel over them, and be fure to keep your dough covered with flannel. When you have rolled out all your dough, begin to bake the firft, and by that time they will be fpread out in the right form. Lay them on your plate, and as the bottom begins to change colour, turn them on the other fide. Take great care that they do not burn. If the middle of your plate be too hot, put a brick or two into the middle of the fire to flacken the heat. The plate you bake on muft be thus fixed. Build a place, as if you were going to build a copper, of a piece of caft iron, all over the top, fixed in form juft the fame as the bottom of a cop- per, or iron pot, and make your fire under with coal, as under a copper. Oat-cakes are madeTHE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. 379 the fame way, only life fine lifted oatmeal inftead of flour, and two gallons of water inftead of three. When you pull them to pieces, roll them out with a rolling-pin with a good deal of flour, cover them with a piece of flannel, and they will rife to a proper thicknefs ; and, if you find them either too big or too little, you mud roll your dough ac- cordingly. Before you eat either muffins or oat- cakes, toaft them crifp on both fides, but do not burn them. Then pull them open with your fin- gers, and they will be like a honey-comb. Lay in as much butter as you choofe, then clap them together again, and put them before the fire ; but ufe a knife only when you cut them into pieces. Some flour will take a quart more liquor than other flour; but pratlice will make thefe things familiar. C PI A P. XXXII. The Breeding, Rearing, and Management of Poultry. TH E bufinefs of this chapter is certainly fuch as is neceffary to be known by every houfe-1 keeper. Many families refide in the country only for a limited time, while others make it their con- ftant abode, and prefer the peace and tranquility of a country life to the noife and bufile of the me- tropolis and other capital cities. The firft confideration is the proper choice of fuch fowls as are the beft calculated for breeding. Thofe of a midoling age are the more proper for fitting, and the younger for laying. Six hens to a cock is the uiual proportion ; and, in order to make •3^0 THE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. make them familiar, feed them always at one place, and at a particular hour. From two years old to five is the belt age to fet a hen, and the belt month February, though any month will anfwer the purpofe between that and Michaelmas. A hen fits twenty days, and ducks and turkies thirty days. In the mixture of fowls for breeding, the nature of the hen fhould be as nearly equal as pofiible with that of the cock, and file fhould be vigilant and induftrious both for herfelf and her chickens. Thofe of the large!! fize are the bef!, and they muf! be in every refpeft proportioned to the cock, only, inftead of a comb, fhe fhould have upon her crown a high tuft of feathers. Hens that crow are neither good breeders nor good layers. Never choofe a hen that is fat, as fhe will not anfwer the purpofe of either fitting or laying. If you fet a fat hen, fhe will forfake her nefl; the eggs fhe lays will be without fhells, and fhe will grow floth- ful and indolent. A hen lays the bef! eggs when fhe is about a year and a half or two years old, at which time, if you would have large eggs, give them plenty of victuals, and fometimes oats. To prevent your hens eating their own eggs, which they fometimes will, lay a piece of chalk fhaped like an egg in their way, at which they will often be pecking, and thus finding themfelves difappointed, they will not after- wards attempt it. When you find your hens in- clinable to fet, which you will know by their cluck- ing, do not difappoint them, nor put more than ten eggs under each. It is a vulgar notion, and founded only in caprice, that a hen fhould always be fet with an odd egg, as nine, eleven, or thirteen. The bef! time for fetting a hen is in the month of February, when the moon has turned the full, that fheTHE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. 381 fhe may difclofe the chickens in the increafe of the next new moon; for a brood of this month is preferable to that of any other. Hens may, how- ever, fet from this time to Oflober, and have good chickens till then, but not afterwards. If you fet a hen upon the eggs of ducks, geefe, or turkies, you mull fet them nine days before you put her own eggs to her. Before you put the eggs under the hen, it will be neceffary to make fome particular mark on one fide of them, and to obferve whether fhe turns them from that to the other; if fhe does not, you mull take the opportunity, when fhe is off her neft, to turn them yourfelf. Be care- ful that the eggs you fet her with are new, which may be known by their being heavy, full, and clear. Do not choofe the largeft, as they fometimes have two yolks, and in that cafe they will difappoint you, as fuch eggs cannot be good for any thing. The hen mud not be diflurbed while fhe is fit- ting, as that will make her entirely forfake her neft. In order to prevent this, put her meat and water near her during the time fhe is fitting, that her eggs may not cool while file is gone in queft of food. If at any time fhe is abfent from the neft, ftir up the ftraw gently, make it foft, and lay the eggs in the fame order you found them. Your hen-houfe muft be large and fpacious, with a high roof, and ftrong walls. There fhould be windows on the eaft fide, that they may enjoy the benefit of the rifing fun, and thefe muft be ftrongly lathed and clofe fhut. Round about the infide of the walls, upon the ground, fhould be made large pens, three feet high, for geefe, ducks, and large fowls, to fet in, and near the roof of the houfe fhould be long perches, reaching from one fide to the other. At one fide of the houfe, at the darkeft part, over the ground pens, fhould be placed feve- 1 ral3§2 THE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. ral fmall hampers of draw, not only for the ufe of the fowls to make their nefts, butlikewife for them to lay their eggs in ; but when they fit to hatch chickens, let them fit on the ground. There mud be pins duck in different parts of the walls, for the convenience of the fowls getting up to their perches. '■ -fhe floor of the hen-houfe mud not be paved, but made of earth quite fmooth. A hole fhould be made at one end for the fmaller fowls to go in and come out at when they pleafe, otherwife they will feek out rood in other places; but, for the larger fowls, you may open the door every night and morning. One elfential point is to keep your hen-houfe free from vermin, and contrive your perches fo as not to be over each other. Wherever poultry is kept, various kinds of vermin will naturally come; for which reafon it will be proper to fow wormwood and rice about your hen-houfe. You may alfo boil wormwood, and fprinkle the floor with the liquor, which will not only contribute to keep away vermin, but alfo adid much to keep your poultry in health. When your chickens are hatched, if any are weaker then the red, wrap them in wool, and let them receive the benefit of the fire. The chickens fird hatched may be kept in a deepifh fieve till the red are difclofed, for they will not eat for two days. Some fliells being harder than others, they will re- quire fo much more time in opening ; but unlefs the chickens are weak, or the hen unkind, it will not be improper to let them continue under her, as they will thereby receive the greater nourifh- ment. When the chickens have been hatched two days, give them veyy fmall oatmeal, fome dry, and fome deeped in milk, or elfe crumbs of white bread. WhenTHE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. 383 When they have gained ftrength, you may give them curds, cheefe parings, white bread, crufts foaked in milk, or the like foft meat that is {mail, and will be eafily digefted. They rnuft be kept in the houfe a fortnight, before they are fuffered to go abroad with the hen. Take care that their water is quite clean, for if it be dirty it will per- haps give them the pip. In order .to fatten your chickens, confine them in coops, and feed them with barley meal. Put a fmall quantity of brick-duft with their water, which will not only give them an appetite to their meat, but will facilitate their fattening. All fowls, and other birds, have two ftomachs : the one is their crop, which foftens their food, and the other their gizzard, which macerates it. In the laft are gene- rally found fmall ftones and fharp bits of fand, which help to do that office, and without them, or fomething of that kind, a fowl will be wanting of its appetite ; for the gizzard cannot macerate or grind the food faft enough to difeharge it from the crop without fuc.h affiftance, and therefore, in this cafe, the brick-duft thrown into the water is of great fervice. Sitting hens are fometimes troubled with lice and vermin, for the cure of which, waffi them with a decoflion of wild lupines. Fowls in gene- ral are fubjeft to a diforder.called the pip, which arifes from a white thin fcale growing on the tip of the tongue, and will prevent their feeding. This is eafily difeerned, and generally proceeds from drinking puddle water, or want of water, or eating filthy food. This, however, may be cured, by pulling off the fcale with your nail, and then rub- bing the tongue with fait. •* Ducks.384 THE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. Ducks. FEBRUARY is the month in which ducks begin to lay ; and if your gardener be diligent in picking up fnails, grubs, caterpillers, worms, and other infefts, and lay them in one place, it will make your ducks familiar, and is the bed food they can have for a change. If parfley be fown about the ponds they frequent, it will give their flefh an agreeable tade; and be fure always to have one certain place for them to retire to 'at night. Par- tition off their nefls, and make them as near the water as poffible. Always feed them there, as it will make them love home ; for ducks are very apt to ramble. You muff every day take away their eggs till you find them inclined to fit, and then leave them in the place where they have laid them. Little at- tendance is required while they fit, except to let them have fome barley or offal corn and water near them, that they may not hurt their eggs by drag- gling from the ned. It is much better, in winter time, to fet a hen upon the duck eggs, than any kind of duck what- ever ; becaufe the latter will lead them, when hatched, too foon to the water, where, if the wea- ther be cold, fome of them will very likely be lod. The number of eggs to fet a duck on is about twelve or thirteen. The hen will cover as many of thefe as of her own, and will bring them up as carefully. If the weather be tolerably moderate at the time the ducklings be hatched, they will require very little attendance; but if they happen to be produced in a wet feafon, it will be neceffary to take them under cover, efpecially during night; for though a duck naturally loves water, it requires thcaffidance /THE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. 385 of its feathers, and is eafily hurt by the wet till it is llrengthened by age. Ducks are fattened in the fame manner, let their age be what it will. They mull be put into a retired place, and kept in a pen, where they mull have plenty of corn and water. Any fort of corn will anfwer the purpofe, and by this treat- ment alone, in a fortnight or three weeks, they will fufficiently fatten themfelves. Geefe. GEESE require very little attendance or ex- pence, as they will live upon commons, or any fort of palture, provided they have plenty of water. The large ft geefe are the molt efteemed, and they fhould be either of a white or grey colour, as the pyed are not fo profitable, and the darker coloured are the leaft in efteem. A goofe generally fits thirty days; but, if the weather be fair and warm, flue will hatch three or four days fooner. She muft be carefully fupplied with food, fuch as fhag oats and bran fcalded. yVhen the goflings are hatched, you muft keep them in the houfe ten or twelve days, and feed them with curds, barley meal, bran, and fuch like food. One gander is a proper proportion for four or five geefe. In order to fatten green geefe, you muft fhut them up when they are about a month old, and they will be fat in about a month more. Older geefe are fattened when they are about fix months old, in or after harveft, when they have been in the ftubble fields, from which food fome kill them ; but thofe who are defirous of having them very fat, fhut them up for a fortnight or three weeks, and feed them upon oats, fplit beans, barley meal, or ground malt mixed with milk. C c Turkies.386 THE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. Turkies. THESE birds are of a very tender conftitu- tion, and, while young, mull be carefully watched and kept warm ; for the hens are fo negligent, that while they have one to follow them, they will never take any care of the reft. Turkies are great feeders on corn, and, if kept on it, will confume a prodi- gious quantity ; but, if left to their own liberty when grown up, they will get their own living, by feeding on herbs, feeds, and what they can pick up. As they are very apt to wander, they will often lay their eggs in fecret places, and in courfe mull be well watched, and compelled to lay at home. They begin to lay in March, and will fit in April ; but they mull not have more than twelve eggs put under them. Having hatched their brood, which will be in twenty-five or thirty days, you muft take great care to keep the young ones warm, as the leaft cold will kill them. They muft be fed either with curds, or green frefli cheefe cut in fmall pieces, and their drink muft be new milk, or milk and water. They muft be often fed,, for the hen will not take much care of them, and when they have got fome ftrength, feed them in the open air in a clofe-walled place, from whence they cannot wander. You muft not let them out till the dew be off the grafs, taking care to have them in again before night, the dew being very prejudicial to their health. When you intend to fatten turkies, give them fodden barley or fodden oats for the firft fortnight, and for another fortnight cram them with the fol- lowing. Take a quantity of barley meal properly fifted, and mix it with new milk. Make it into a good ftiff' dough pafte; then make it into long crams or rolls, big in the middle, and fmall at bothTHE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. 387 both ends. Then wet them in lukewarm milk* give the turkey a full gorge three times a day, morning, noon, and night, and in a fortnight it will be fufficiently fattened. Pigeons. MAY or Auguft are the bell months to provide yourfelf with pigeons, as at thofe times they are young and in good condition. Tame pigeons ge- nerally produce but two young ones at a brood; but they make fome amends for the fmallnefs of the number by the frequency of their hatching : if they be well fed, and properly looked after, they will have young ones twelve or thirteen times in a year. Though they make a great deal of dirt, yet they are not fond of it, and mull therefore be keptclean. Their bell food is tares, or white peas, and they fhould have fome gravel fcattered about their houfe, and clean water fet in different places. They muft be carefully preferved from vermin, and their nefts from the ftarlings and other birds, as the latter will fuck their eggs, and the former entirely deftroy them. The common, or dove- cote pigeon, has the advantage of many other kinds, as they are very hardy, and will live in the fevereft weather. If the breed fhould be too fmall, it may be mended by putting in a few tame pigeons of the moll common kind, and the leafl confpicuous in their colours, that the reft may the better take to them from their being more like themfelves. Good management is required in proportioning the fexes among pigeons ; for there is nothing fo hurtful as having too many cocks, ef- pecially if you keep the larger or tame kind. An abundance of cocks will thin the dovecote; for they will grow quarrelfome, and beat others away, fo that a good dovecote may be thereby fpoiled. C c 2 The388 THE MANAGEMENT OF POULTRY. The heft and mod eafy method of making a dovecote, is to build the walls with clay mixed with ft raw. They may be made four feet or more in thickncfs, and while they are wet it is eafy to cut holes in them with a chiftel or other inftrument. But of whatever materials the cote is erefted, it fhould be frequently whitc-wafhcd on the outfide, which will make the building more confpicuous. As pigeons are very fond of fait, they ftiould have a large heap of clay laid near the dovecote, and let the brine done with in the family be fre- quently beaten among it. It is belt to make it thin, and keep it fo by often mixing brine with it. The ufe of fait is of much more advantage to pige- ons than merely the pleafing them, for nothing will recover them fo readily from ficknefs, a mixture of bay fait and cummin-feed beingwiththem an uni- verfal remedy for moft difeafes they are fubje&to. Pigeons are fometimes apt to be Tcabby on the backs and breafts, which will kill the young, and make the old ones fo faint, that they cannot take their flights. In order to remove this diforder, take a quartern of bay-falt, and as much common fait, a pound of fennel feed, a pound of dill-feed, as much cummin-feed, and an ounce or two of afla- faetida; mix all thefe together with a little wheat flour, and fome fine worked clay. When it is well beaten together, put it into two pots, and bake them in an oven. When they are cbld, lay them longways on the ftand or table in the dovehoufe, and the pigeons will foon be cured by pecking it. Rabbits. FEW animals are more fertile than tame rab- bits, bringing forth young every month. As foon as the doe has kindled, (he muft be put to the buck, otherwife flic will deftroy her young. The belt .food for them is the fweeteft hay, oats and bran, fowthiftle.MANAGEMENT OF THE DAIRY, 389 C c 3 To fowthidle, parfley, cabbage leaves, and fuch like, always frefh. They mull be carefully kept clean, otherwife they will not only poifon themfelves, but every one who comes near them. CHAP. XXXIII. The Management of the Dairy. H E dairy requires a great fhare of care and attention, of which cleanlinefs is not the lead. As its produ&ions are effentially neceffary in a family, the houfekeeper fliould entrud the care of it to one, who is well converfant in thofe matters; and that the houfekeeper may judge when things are done properly, we fhall proceed to defcribe the mod edential points. Next to obferving that every thing is perfectly clean and neat, the cows mud be milked at a regu- lar hour ; for the detention of the milk will not only contribute to fpoil the cows, but keep the animals in great pain. They fhould not be milked later than five in the evening, that they may have time to fill their bags by the next morning, and their udders fhould always be properly emptied every time they are milked. As foon as the milk is brought into the dairy, it fliould be well drained, and emptied into clean pans. White ware pans are the bed, as they are of a fuperior cleanlinefs, the brown fort being very porous, and fcarcely any fcalding will be dif- fident properly to cleanfe them.390 MANAGEMENT OF THE DAIRY. To make. Butter. i BUTTER cannot be wholefome unlefs it be very frefh, and free from rancidity, otherwife it will hurt digeftion, render it difficult and painful, and introduce much acrimony into the blood. As foon as you have churned your butter, open the churn, and with both hands gather it well toge- ther, take it out of the butter-milk, and lay it in a very clean bowl, or earthen pan. If the butter is defigned to be ufed frefli, fill the pan with clear water, and work the butter in it to and fro, till it is brought to a firm confidence of itfelf, without any moifture. When you have done this, fcotch and flice it over with the point of a knife, every way as thick as poffible, in order to draw out the fmalleft hair, bit of rag, drainer, or any thing that may have happened to fall into it. Then fpread it thin in a bowl, and work it well together with fuch a quantity of fait as you think fit, and then make it up in what form you like beft. If the milk of any cow fliould happen to be foul and corrupt, owing to the teats being injured by fome accident, it mud by no means be mixed with the fweet milk, but given to the pigs. In the hot fummer months, the cream fliould be flcimmed from the milk before the dairy gets warm.from the influence of the fun; nor fliould the milk at that feafoh ftand longer in the pans than twenty-four hours, nor be fkimmed in the evening till after fun- fet. In winter, milk may remain unfkimmed for thirty-fix or forty-eight hours. The cream fliould be depofited in a deep pan, which fliould be kept, during the fummer, in the cooled part of the dairy, or in a cool cellar, where a free air is admitted, which is much better. You mud not omit to churn at lead twice a week in the hot weather, and this bufinefs fliould be done very earlyMANAGEMENT OF THE DAIRY. 39I early in the morning, taking care to fix the churn in a free draught of air. More labour will be required to churn butter in winter than in fummer. The butter-milk, which remains after the butter is churned, is efteemed excellent food in fpring for thofe who are inclin- ed to be confumptive. To make Cheefe. CHEESE differs in quality according to the manner in which it is made. It may be made from new or fkimmed milk, from the curd which feparates of itfelf upon handing, or that which is more fpeedily produced by the addition of rennet. In making cheefe, as foon as the milk is turned, ftrain the whey carefully from the curd. Break the curd well with your hands, and when it is equally broken, put it by degrees into the vat, carefully breaking it as you put it in. The vat fhould be filled an inch or more above the brim, that when the whey is preffed out, it may not fhrink below the brim; for, in that cafe, the cheefe will be fpoiled. But before the curd be put in, a cheefe-cloth or ftrainer fhould be laid at the bottom of the vat; and this fhould be fo large, that when the vat is filled with the curd, the end of the cloth may turn again over the top of it. When this' is done, it fhould be taken to the prefs, and there remain for the fpace of two hours. It fhould then be turned, and have a clean cloth put under it, and turned over as before. It muff then be preffed again, and remain in the prefs fix or eight hours, when it fhould again be turned, and rubbed on each fide with fait. After this it muff be preffed again for the fpace of twelve or fourteen hours more, when, if any of the edgesv1 projeft, they fhould be pared off. It may then be C c 4 put392 MANAGEMENT OF THE DAIRY. evcrv put on a dry board, and regularly turned day. The bed method of preparing the rennet is as follows. Take the maw or rennet-bag of a calf and take care that it be perfeftly fweet; for if it be the lead tainted, the cheefc can never be good. Take three pints or two quarts of foft water, clean and fweet, put into it fome fait, fomc fweet-briar, rofe-leaves, cinnamon, mace, cloves, and almod every fort of fpice and aromatic that can be pro- cured. Boil thefe gently in two quarts of water till the liquor is reduced to three pints, and be careful it is not fmoaked. Strain the liquor clear from the fpices, &c. and when it has dood till it is no warmer than milk from the cow, pour it upon the calf’s maw. You may then dice a le- mon in it, and let it dand a day or two; after which it mud be again drained, and then put into a bottle. Cork it quite clofe, and it will keep good a twelvemonth. It will fmell like perfume, and a fmall quantity of it will turn the milk, and give the cheefe a pleading davour. To make Cream Cheefe. PUT twelve quarts of new milk and a quart of cream together, with rennet jud fufficient to turn it, and let the milk and cream be jud warm. When it has dood till the curd has come, lay a cloth in the vat, which mud be made of a fize proportion- ate to the cheefe. Cut out the curd with a fldm- ming-difh, and put it into the vat till it is full, turning the cheefe-cloth over it, and as the curd fettles, lay more on, till you have laid on as much as will make one cheefe. When the whey is drained out, turn the cheefe into a dry cloth, and then lay upon it a pound weight. At night turn it out into another cloth, and the next morning fait it a little. Then having made a bed of nettles or adi-leaves \MANAGEMENT OF THE DAIRY. 393 To afh-leaves to lay it on, cover it with the fame, lliifting it twice a day, lor about ten days, when it may be brought to table. To make Sage Cheefc. TAKE the tops of young red fage, and bruife them in a mortar, till you can prefs the juice out of them. Bruife likewife forne leaves of fpinach, and having fqueezed out the juice, mix it with that of the fage, in order to give it an agreeable oreen colour, which the juice of the fage alone will not accomplifh, and this will alfo contri- bute to deprive the fage of its bitter tade. The juice being thus prepared, put the rennet to the milk, and at the fame time mix it with as much of the fage and fpinach juice as will give the milk the green colour you defire, putting in more or lefs, according as you would have the cheefe tade Wronger or weaker of the fage. When the curd is come, break it gently, and when it is all equally broken, put it into the cheefe vat or mote, and prefs it gentlv, which will make it, eat tender and mellow. When it has flood in the prefs about eight hours, it mud be falted, turned every day, and in about a month it will be fit for ufe. To make Marygold Cheefe. POUND in a mortar fome of the frefheft and bed coloured marygold leaves you can procure, and drain out the juice. Put this into your milk at the fame time you put in the rennet, and dir them together. The milk being fet, and the curd come, break it as gently and as equally as you polfibly can, put it into the cheefe vat, and prefs it with a gentle weight, there being at the bottom of the vat. a number of holes fufficient eafily uy let out the whey. The management afterwards mud be die fame as with other checfes.394 MANAGEMENT Of the kitchen garden. To imitate Chejhire Cheefe. THE milk being fet, and the curd being come, do not break it with a difh, as is cuftomary in making other cheefes, but draw it togetherwith your hands to one fide of the veffel, breaking it gently and regularly ; for if it be prefl'ed roughly, a great deal of the richnefs of the milk will go into the whey. Put the curd into the cheefe vat or mote as you gather it, and when it is full, fait it at different times, and prefs it and turn it often. The thicknefs of thefe cheefes mull be about feven or eight inches, and they will be fit to cut in about twelve months. You muff turn and fhift them frequently upon a fhelf, and rub them with a dry coarfe cloth. At the year’s end, you may bore a hole in the middle, and pour in a quarter of a pint of fack, then flop the hole clofe with fome of the fame cheefe, and fet it in a wine cel- lar for fix months to mellow ; at the expiration of which you will find the fack all loft, and the hole in a manner clofed up. If this cheefe be pro- perly managed, its flavour will be pleafant and grateful, and it will eat exceedingly fine and rich. C II A P. XXXIV. The Management of the Kitchen Garden. THOUGH the bufinefs to be done in the Kitchen and Fruit Gardens do not fall to die lot of the houfekeeper, yet it is abfolutely decenary that fhe fhould know what is to be ex- pended from the gardener, that the family may be regularlymanagement of the kitchen garden. 395 regularly fupplied with thofe vegetables and fiuits the different months of the year produce. We will venture to affirm, that, by the affiftance of the few following pages, the houfekeeper will be ena- bled to give fuch dire&ions, as will fully anfwer her purpofe, in fupplying the kitchen, every month of the year, with every neceffary fpecies of the vegetable creation. To thofe fmall families, where the garden is made a principal amufement, as well from faving principles, as for the promotion and prefervation of health, the following remarks will be of lingular utility. We fhall treat the bufinefs of every month feparately,. with all the fimplicity and perfpicuity the nature of the fubjeft, and the limits of this work, will admit of. January. VEGETATION makes very little progrefs in the garden during this month ; but there are now many things neceffary to be attended to for the pro- du&ionofvegetablesinthefucceedingmonths. Sow- ing and planting may now be moderately perform- ed, fome in natural grounds, and fome in hot- beds. Radifhes, fpinach, lettuce, carrots, peas*' beans, parfley, cauliflowers, cabbages, muflirooms, kidney-beans, afparagus, fmall fallading, &c. Thefe may be fown in natural grounds, but muff be in the warmeft corners, and gently covered every night with warm mats, and, when the weather is fevere, they muff likewife be covered in the day. Cucumbers may be fown in a hot-bed any time this month, to produce early fruit in March, April, and May. For this purpofe be well pre- pared with hot dung. Make the hot-bed a yard high, for one or two light frames, and earth it fix/ inches thick with rich mould. Sow fome early prickly cucumber-feed half an inch deep, and when the plants have come up, and the feed leaves396 MANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. leaves are half an inch broad, prick them in fmall pots, four in each, and put them into the earth of the hot-bed, obferving from the beginning to have proper air by tilting the lights at top, one or two fingers breadth. Cover the glalfes every night with mats, give them occafionally watering, and, when you find the heat of the bed decreafed, line the fides of it with hot dung. When your cu- cumbers are advanced in growth, with the rough or proper leaves, one or two inches broad, tranf- plant them to a larger hot-bed, there to remain for fruiting. Earth up your full-grown crops of celery, and tie up fome of your endive every week to blanch. Towards the latter end of the month, fow a little carrot-feed, and plant horfe-radifli, by cuttings from the olfi-fet roots of the old ones. Set them in rows two feet diftant, and about fifteen inches deep, that they may obtain long ftrait Ihoots. Artichokes mud now be earthed up, digging between them, and laying the earth along the rows clofe about the plants. Radilhes, and other tender plants, fown in bor- ders, mult be conftantly covered with ftraw till they come up, and afterwards every night, efpeci- ally if the weather be frofty. February. MUCH attention mull be paid to the kitchen garden this month, it being the commencement of the early efforts of vegetation. All the vacant ground mull now be dunged, digged, and trenched, and made ready for fowing and planting. On fouth borders, fow early crops, and fome .main crops in the open quarters, fuch as radiflies, peas, beans, fpinach, lettuce, onions, leeks, cab- bages, carrots, parfnips, beets, coleworts, favoys, brocoli, fmall fallading, parfley, chervil, borrage, fennel,MANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. 397 fennel, dill, marygolds, burnet, clary, crefles, milliard, rape, &c. Sow full crops of peas at the beginning, and to- wards the latter end of the month, of the belt bearers, or fuch as are molt efteemed. Alfo beans, of different forts, in rows, a yard diltant from each other. Sow cauliflower-feeds in a hot-bed, or in a warm border, or under a frame, to plant out in April or May, to fucceed the winter plants. If the weather be mild, begin fowing the firlt. main crop of carrots, in an open filiation, in light rich ground trenched two fpades deep, fcat- ter the feed moderately thin, and rake it in regu- larly. SowT alfo parfnips, onions, leeks, fpinach, and beet. Tranfplant fome of the ftrongeft cabbage plants into an open quarter of good ground, in rows, one, two, and three feet diftant, to cut young, and at half and full growth. Plant cabbage plants of the fugar-loaf and early kinds, in rows a foot diftant. Sow parfley for a main crop, both of the plain leaved and curled forts, either in a Angle drill, along the edge of borders or quarters, or°in continued drills eight or nine inches afunder. Give air to plants in hot-beds, as alfo thole un- der frames and glafles, by either tilting the glaftes two or three inches, or, on mild and dry days, drawing them up ‘or down half way,- but cover them up again towards night. March. .THIS is a bufy month, in which all dunging, dlgging> and trenching, fliould be completed* Now prepare for the main crops of onions, leeks, carrots, parfnips, red beet, green beet, white beet* fpinach, lettuce, cabbage, favoys, cauliflowers, brocoh, borecole, colewort, afparagus, beans, peas* kidney- 4398 MANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. kidney-beans, turnips, parfley, celery, turnip- cabbage, turnip radifh ; and of fallads and fweet herbs, creffes, muftard, rape, radifh, marjorum, nafturtium, borrage, marygolds, chervil, thyme* favory, coriander, corn fallad, clary, fennel, an- gelica, dill, and fome others. Great care fhould be taken that the feeds are quite frefh, which is a matter of great importance, and for want of which many are difappointed in their principal crops, when too late to fow again. When you fow your different crops, let it be in dry weather, and while the ground is frefh dug, or levelled down, or when it will admit of rak- ing freely without clogging. Cauliflower plants, that have flood the winter in frames or borders, fhould now be planted out, if the weather be mild, in well-dunged ground, two feet and a half diftant, and draw earth to thofe remaining under the glaffes. Give air to thefe, and your melon and cucumber plants; but cover the glaffes every night with mats. Towards the end of this month, plant potatoes for a full crop, in lightifh good ground, fome of the early kind for a forward crop in fummer, and a large portion of the common forts for the general autumn and winter crops. Plant your main crop of flialot by off-fets, or the fmall or full roots, fet in beds fix inches apart. Sow a fuccef- fional and full crop of fpinach twice this month, of the round-leaved kind, in an open fituation; or it may be fown occafionally between two rows of beans, cabbages, cauliflowers, horferadifh, arti- chokes, &c. As this month the weeds will begin to fpring up apace, you muff be careful to deftroy them either by hand or hoe, or they will ruin all your crops. April.management of the kitchen garden. 399 April. I F you omitted to finifli your planting or low- ing at the latter end of laft month, do it at the be- ginning of this. Sow the main crop of the red and green borecole, in an open fituation, to plant out in May and June, for autumn, winter, and the fupply of the following fpring. Sow likewife fome of the purple and cauliflower forts of brocoli, to plant out in fummer, for the firft general autumn crop. Kidney beans of the early dwarf kinds fhould now be fown in a warm border, as alfo fome fpeck- led dwarfs, and a large fupply in the open quar- ters, in drills two feet, or two and a half diftant. Sow different kinds of lettuce two or three times this month, for fucceeding crops. Great care muff now be taken of your melons in hot beds. Train the vine regular, give them air daily, with occafional moderate waterings. , Cover the glaffes every night, and keep up a good heat in the beds, by linings of hot dung. Sow full crops of peas for a fucceffion of mar- rowfats once a fortnight, and alfo of other large kinds. Sow the feed for all forts of pot-herbs, and plant aromatic herbs, fuch as mint, fage, balm, rue, rofemary, lavender, and fuch like, either by young or full plants. Continue fowing fucceffjonal crops of radifhes every fortnight, in open fituations, in order to have an eligible variety, young and plentiful. Sow a principal crop of favoys in an open fituation, de- tached from walls, hedges, or any other impedi- ment, that the plants may be ftrong and robufl for planting out in fummer, to furnifh a full crop well cabbaged in autumn, and for the general winter fupply, till next fpring, this being a mod valuable cabbage in autumn and winter. 2 I May.400 MANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN- May. TO fow and plant feveral fucceffion crops of plants that are of fliort duration, and others of a more durable date, is the principal bufinefs of this month. Weeding, hoeing, and watering, mult now be properly attended to. Top your early beans that are in bloom ; alfo the fucceeding crops as they come in flower, to make the pods fet foon and fine. Thin your carrots, and cleanfe them from weeds, either by hand-weeding or fmall hoeing, leaving thofe intended to draw young in fummer four or five inches apart, but the main crops mult be thinned fix or eight inches. Likewife hoe between your cauliflowers, and draw the earth to their Items. Alfo between rows of beans, peas, kidney- beans, and oil other plants in rows. Thin the fpring-fowed crop of lettuces, and plant out proper fupplies of the different forts at a foot diftance. Weed the fpring-fowed crop of onions, and thin them where too thick. Continue fowing once a fortnight marrowfats, and other large kinds of peas; alfo fome of the belt hotfpurs, or other forts in efteem, to furnifh a regular fucceffion of the different kinds. You may likewife con- tinue to fow radiflies in open fituations, once a week or fortnight, in moderate quantities, for fucceffion crops this and the following month. Sow fallading of the different forts, as lettuce, creffes, muftard, radifli, rape, and purflane, to have a proper fucceffion to cut while young. Plant out fome of the ftrongeft early favoy plants, in an open fituation, two feet and a half afunder, for autumn and winter. Continue to fow fome round- leaved fpinach in open fituations. Molt new-planted crops will now require fre- quent watering, both at planting, and occa- o fionallyMANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. 4^1 fionally afterwards in dry weather, till they have taken root. Alfo water the feed-beds of fmall crops lately fowed, or young plants, in very dry weather. Your weeding muft be very diligently attended to both by hand and hoe ; for as weeds will be advancing numeroufly among all crops, it will become a principal bufinefs to eradicate them before they fpread too far. Nothing is a greater difcredit to a gardener than to have his ground over-run with weeds. June. MANY fucceffional and main crops muft ftill be fown or planted for autumn and winter ; and as to the crops now advancing, or in perfe&ion, the bufinefs of hoeing, weeding, and occafional water- ing, will demand no fmall fhare of attention. In the open ground plant cabbage, brocoli, borecole, favoys, coleworts, celery, endive, let- tuce, cauliflowers, leeks, beans, kidney-beans, and various aromatic and pot herbs, by flips, cut- tings, or young plants. Showery weather is by far the belt either for fowing or planting; and when it occurs, lofe no time in putting in the ne- ceflary crops wanting. Hoe your artichokes, and keep your afparagus beds very clean from weeds. Plant fucceffional crops of beans in the beginning, middle, and latter end of this month, fome Windfors, long pods, white bloflom, and Mumford kinds. The firft main crops of celery muft now be planted in trenches to blanch. The trenches to be three feet diflance, a foot wide, and dig the earth out a fpade deep, laying it equally to each fide in a level order. Then dig the bottom, and if poor, add rotten dung, and dig it in. Draw up fome of the ftrongefl: plants, trim the long roots and tops, plant a row along the bottom of each D d trench402 MANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. trench four or five inches diftance, and finifli with a good watering. Every day give plenty of air to the cucumbers in hot beds, and water them two or three times a week, or oftener, if the weather be hot; but ftill continue the glaffes over them all this month. Shade them from the mid-day fun, and ftill cover them on nights with mats. In the beginning of the month, fow a full crop of them in the natural ground to produce picklers, and for other late purpofes in autumn. Sow the main crops of the green curled endive, alfo a fmall fupply of the white curled, and large Batavia endive ; each thin in open ground, to plant out for autumn and winter. Sow more marrowfat peas, and fome hotfpurs or rouncivals, and other large kinds. Hoe your potatoes, loofen the ground, and draw the earth to the bottom of the plants. Thin all clofe crops now remaining to tranfplant at proper diftances. Many forts will now require it, as carrots, parfnips,. onions, and fuch like; all which may be done by hand or fmall hoeing. July- THE buftnefs of fowing and planting this month will be more fuccefsful if done in moift or fhowery weather ; or on the approach of rain, or immedi- ately after, efpecially for fmall feeds, and young feedling plants. Several fucceffional crops are re- quired to be fown this month for the fupply of autumn, and fome main crops for winter confump- tion. Many principal crops will now be arrived to full perfection, and fome mature crops all gathered. When the latter is the cafe, the ground fhould be cleared for fucceeding crops, or for fome general autumn and winter crops, as turnips, cabbages, favoys, brocoli, celery, and feveral other articles of that clafs. Thismanagement of the kitchen oarden. 403 This is the time to gather aromatic herbs, for drying and diftilling, as fpearmint, peppermint, balm, pennyroyal, and fuch like, moft of which, when juft coming into flower, are in beft perfec- tion for gathering. The fennel, dill, and angelica, fliould remain till they are in feed. Plant the laft crop of beans, for the late pro- duction in autumn. Let them be of the fmaller kind, as they are moft fuccefsful in late planting, fuch as white bloffom, green nonpareils, fmall long pods, Sec. putting in a few at two or three differ- ent times in the month ; and alfo fome largerkinds, to have the greater chance of fuccefs and variety. If it be dry weather, foak the beans in foft water fix or eight hours, plant them thin, and water the ground along the rows. Plant a main crop of the purple and white bro- coli, in good ground, two feet and a half afunder, to produce full heads the end of autumn and the following fpring. Cauliflowers, that were fown in May, mull be now planted out in rich ground, two feet and a half diltant from each other for the Michaelmas or autumn and winter crop. Earth up celery plants to blanch ; alfo the Items of young cabbages, favoys, brocoli, borecole, beans, peas, kidney beans, Sec. to (Lengthen their growth. Sow the principal late crops of kidney beans, of the dwarf kind, for autumn fupply, and more for later fucceflional production in September, Sec. Sow them all in drills at two feet or two feet and a half diftance. If the weather be very hot and dry, either foak the beans, or water the drills well be- fore you fow them. Continue to plant out differ- ent forts of lettuces at a foot or fifteen inches dif- tance from each other. Plant them in fmall (hallow drills, to preferve the moifture longer, and water them well at the time you plant them. D d 2 Dig404 MANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. Dig up feme of the early crops of potatoes for ufe, but take no more at a time than is wanted ; for, as they are not at their full growth, they will keep but a few days. Radi flies may be fown for an autumn crop to draw next month. Augujl. IN the courfe of this month you mull fow the winter and the next fpring and early fummer crops, as cabbages, cauliflowers, onions, carrots, fpinach, and fome principal crops planted for late autumn and winter fupplies. All new planted articles mud be watered, and due attention paid to the de- finition of the weeds before they grow large or come to feed. Artichokes will now be in full perfection. Earth up the former planted crops of celery, repeating it every week according as the plants advance in growth. Cucumbers in frames may now be fully expofed by removing the glafles. Picklers, or thofe in the open ground, will now be in full per- fection. Gather thofe for pickling while young two or three times a week. Daily water the plants, while the weather continues hot; and in dry wea- ther, hoe various crops in rows, to kill weeds, loofening the earth about, and drawing fome to the ftems of the plants to encourage their growth. Onions being now full bulbed, and come to their mature growth, fliould be pulled up in dry weather, and fpread in the full fun to dry and har- den, for a week or fortnight, frequently turning them to ripen and harden for keeping. Then clear them from the grofs part of the {talks and leaves, bottom fibres, any loofe (kins, earth, &c. and then houfe them on a dry day. Sow winter onions both of the common bulbing and Welch kinds, for the main crops to {land the winter, to draw young and green, fome for ufe in thatMANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. 4O.5 that feafon, but principally for fpring fupply ; and fome of the common onions alfo to Hand for early bulbing in fummer. The common onion is mildelt to eat, but more liable to be cut off by the froft than the Welch onion. This never bulbs, and is of a ftronger hot tafte than the other, but is lo hardy as to Hand the fevereft weather. Sow an autumn crop of radifhes, both of the common fhort top and falmon kinds. Likewife turnip-radifhes, both of the fmall white, and the red, for autumn, and the principal crop of black Spanilh for winter. The prickly-feeded, or triangular leaved fpinach, mull now be fown, for the main winter crop, and for next fpring, that fort being the hardieft to Hand the winter. Sow fome in the beginning, but none towards the latter end of the month, in dry-lying rich ground expofed to the winter fun. Gather ripe feeds in dry weather, when at full maturity, and beginning to harden. Cut up or detach the ftalks with the feeds thereon, and place them on a fpot, where the fun has the greateft power, for a week or two. Then beat or rub out the fmall feeds on cloths, fpread them in the fun to harden, then cleanfe them, and put them by for ufe. September. WITH this month muft end all the principal fowing and planting neceffary this year, fome for fucceffional fupply the prefent autumn and begin- ning of winter, others for general winter fervice, and fome to Hand the winter for next fummer. Artichokes require no particular culture now, but only to break down the fruit Hem clofe, ac- cording as the fruit is gathered, and hoe down the weeds among them. Afparagus now requires D d 3 only406 management of the kitchen garden. only the large weeds cleared out till next month, when the ftalks muft be cut down, and the beds winter dreffed. Cauliflowers of laft month’s flow- ing, intended for next year’s early and main fum- mer crops, fliould now be pricked out in beds, three or four inches diftance, watered, and to re- main to October, then fome of them to be planted out under hand-glafies, See. Plant out more celery in trenches, and earth up all former planted crops, repeating it once a week, two, three, or four inches high or more. Plant out likewife full crops of the two laft months flow- ing of coleworts, a foot diftance, for winter and fpring fupply. Alfo endive for fucceflional crops, in a dry warm fituation, a foot diftance. Potatoes will now be advanced to tolerable per- fection for taking up in larger fupplies than here- tofore, but not any general quantity for keeping ; for they will continue improving in growth till the latter end of next month. Mufhroom beds muft now be made for the prin- cipal fupply at the end of autumn and winter, this being a proper feafon for obtaining plenty of good fpawn, which is found in all places where horfe dung and litter has been of any long continuance, and moderately dry, as in horfe-rides, under co- ver in livery liable yards, in horfe-mill tracks, where horfes are employed in manufactories, Sec. in working machines and mills under cover, and un- der old hay-ftacks; in all which places the fpawn is found in cakes or lumps, abounding with fmall vdiite fibres, which is the fpawn. The bed muft be thus formed and fituated: Mole it in a dry fhel— tered fituation in the full heat of the fun. Let it be four or five feet wide at bottom, in length from ten, twenty, or thirty, to forty or fifty feet or more, and four or five feet high, narrowing on eachmanagement of the kitchen garden. 407 each fide gradually till they meet at top in form of the root of a houfe, that it may more readily (hoot off the falling wet, and keep it in a dryifli temperature. In a fortnight or three weeks, more or lefs, when the great heft of the bed is reduced, and become of a very moderate warmth, the fpawn is then to be planted, in fmall lumps, inferted into both Tides of the bed juft within the dung, five or fix inches diftance, quite from bot- tom to top, beating it down finoothly with the back of a fpade, then earth the furface of the bed all over with fine light mould, an inch or two thick. ■Cover it with dry ftraw or litter, after it has flood a week, to defend the top from rain. Let it be covered only half a foot thick at firft, and increafe it by degrees till it is double that thicknefs. This will finifh the bufinefs, retaining the covering con- ftantly on the bed night and day. In a month or fixweeks it will begin to produce mufhrooms, which will be foon followed by plenty. Ottobcr. SOWING is this month required in only three articles for early production next fpring and fummer, and thofe are peas, lettuces, and radifhes, and fmall fallading for the prefent fupply. Cut down the ftems of the afparagus in the beds of laft fpring, hoe off the weeds, dig the alleys, and fpread fome of the earth over the beds. Your main fpring-fowed crop of carrots being now arrived at full growth, take them up towards the latter end of the month, for keeping in land all winter. Cut the tops off clofe, cleared from earth, and when quite dry, let them be carried under cover, and placed in dry fand, or light dry earth, a layer of fand and carrots alternately. Young carrots of the autumn lowing in July and D d 4 Auguft,408 management of the KITCHEN CARDEN. Auguft, muft now be cleared from weeds, and thinned where too clofe. Manure your ground where it is required, with the rotten dung of old hot-beds. Sec. efpecially where the hand-glafs crop of cauliflowers, and early cabbages, are intended to be placed. Con- tinue to tie up full-grown plants of endive, in dry weather, every week to blanch. Plant endive for the laft late crop, in a warm border, to ftand till fpring. Your horfe-radifh is now at full growth, to be dug up for ufe as wanted. Parfnips being now at their full growth, dig up a quantity, and lay them in fand, in the fame manner as direfted for carrots. Potatoes, which are now arrived at their full growth, may be all dug up, and houfed in fome dry clofe place, thickly covered with draw, from the air and moifture, to keep all winter, till fpring or fummer. Seed plants of feveral forts fhould now be planted, as cabbages, favoys, diverted of the large leaves, and put in by trenching them down to their heads, two feet dirtance ; as alfo carrots, parfnips, turnips, and red beet, all of full growth, cutting the tops off near the crown, and planting them two feet dirtance, with the heads one or two inches under the furface of the earth. Alfo the largeft dried onions planted in rows, at the fame dirtance, 9.nd three or four inches over the crown. November. DIGGING and dunging the ground muft now be attended to for the benefit of future crops. Aromatic plants, in beds and borders, fhould now, if before omitted, have the laft thorough cleaning from weeds and litter, and the beds dreffed to re- main in decent order for the winter. Earth up theMANAGEMENT OF THE KITCHEN GARDEN. 4O9 the different crops of celery when dry, and let thofe of full growth be earthed up almod to the top. Dio- vacant ground one or two fpades deep, and if dunged, dig it in a fpade deep, laying the ground in rough ridges to improve by the weather, till wanted for fowing and planting with future crops. Dig up fome roots of horfe-radifh to preferve in fand, that it may be ready for ufe when that in the ground is frozen up. Do the like by Je- rufalem artichokes, which are now in their full perfection. Defend your mufhroom beds night and day with dry draw, or long dry liable litter a foot thick, and put mats over all as a fecurity againlt rain and cold. Sow fome early Ihort-topped radilhes on a fouth border. Cover it with draw two inches thick till they come up, afterwards on nights, and in frody weather, to have the chance of drawing a few early. Sow likewife fmall fallading, as cref- fes, mudard, and rape, under glades, or in a hot- bed. Finifh dedroying weeds, in all parts, by hand and hoe. Carefully hand-weed beds of fmall plants, as onions, &c. In other compartments, eradicate them by hoe in dry days, and rake or fork off the large weeds after hoeing, or let them be beat about and loofened off effectually, fo as not to grow again. December. DUNGING and digging the ground is the principal bufinefs to be done in the kitchen gar- den this month, and laying it in ridges to enrich for fowing and planting after Chridmas with fome principal and early crops, for the enfuing fpring and fummer. Drefs your artichoke beds by fird cutting dpwn any remaining dems, and the large leaves clofe. Pay410 management of the fruit Garden. Pay diligent attention to your afparagus hot- beds, to keep up the heat of the beds by linings of hot dung, and to admit air in mild days to the plants come up, by opening the glafles two or three inches behind but {hut them clofe on night, and cover the glalfes with mats. Take up your red-rooted beet on a dry day, and let them be placed in fand, &c. under cover, for ufe, in cafe of hard frofts. Hoe earth to the Hems of your borecole and brocoli on a dry day. In all moderate weather, give air to your cau- liflowers in frames and hand-glafles. Pick off all the decayed leaves, and deftroy flugs, if any in- feft the plants. Whatever vacant ground you have, dig it in ridges trench ways two fpades aflde, and one or two fpades deep. If dunged, dig in the dung, but one fpade, laying each trench in a rough ridge, to remain for future cropping, that it may improve by the weather, and be ready for levelling down expeditioufly for the reception of feeds and plants. CHAP. XXXV. The Management of the Fruit Garden. January. TH E bufinefs to be done this month in the fruit garden and orchard conflfts in preparing for and planting fuch fruit trees as are intend- ed, pruning and nailing wall and efpalier trees in general, and ftandard trees where necelfary, and in preparingMANAGEMENT OF THE FRUIT GARDEN. 411, preparing to force fruit trees on hot walls for early fruit. The proper ages for trees to be planted are when they are one, two, or three years old, and thefe maybe hadatpublic nurferies, as well as thofe more advanced and trained to a bearing (late for imme- diate bearers. Particular attention mult be paid to their being taken up with their full fpread of roots as entire as poffible. Prune broken parts and long llragglers, and any very irregular branch in the head. When you plant them, dig a wide aperture two or three feet over, and one deep, or more or lefs according to the fize of the roots. Fill the earth in regularly about them from three or four to five or fix inches over the uppermoft roots, and tread it evenly and geptly thereto, firlt round the outfide, then gradually towards the middle, and clofe round the Hem of the tree. You mull now prune peaches, ne6tarines, apri- cots, and other wall fruit. They bear moftly on the young wood produced the preceding year, and of which a general fupply of the moll regularly- placed mull now be every where retained at pro- per diltances, for fuccelfional bearers, or for new wood, occafionally for multiplying the branches. When pruned, nail them to the wall, four or five inches afunder. Prune vines, which bear only on the young wood, the lafl fummer fhoots being the proper bearers. Take out molt of the 1 all year’s bearers, and all the naked old wood. Shorten the re- ferred fhoots, the fmaller to three or four joints, and the flronger to five or fix. Nail the vines to the wall as foon as pruned, arranging the general branches and fhoots from eight to ten or twelve inches diltance. Prune your apples, pears, plums, and cherries, on walls and efpaliers, and alfo currants and goofeberries*412 MANAGEMENT OF TIIE FRUIT GARDEN. goofeberries. Cut away any crofs-placed or too crouded branches, decayed wood, and worn out bearers. Prune alfo your orchard trees, cutting out crofs-growing and confufed branches; thin fuch as grow too clofe together, and reduce the very long branches to moderate lengths. February. THE ground muft now be prepared for plant- ing, by proper digging and trenching, and im- proving it with dung, frefh loam, or comport, where required. A comport of good loam, com- mon earth, and rotten dung together, is excellent for fruit-tree borders. General planting of fruit-trees may be now performed in open mild weather, but particularly thofe forts moft required. Standard-tree planting, in any kind of fruit- trees, may now be performed in open weather, in gardens or orchards, principally of apples, pears, plums, and cherries, for the main collection, efpe- cially moft of the two former, for family fupply during the courfe of the year. Plant the trees from twenty or thirty to forty or fifty feet diftance ; the moderate growers, clofer in proportion, fuch as the codlin, common cherry tree, plum, See. Dwarf ftandards, with low Items, from one to two or three feet, may be planted in borders, fifteen or twenty feet diftance, in different fpecies and varieties. Let all fruit-trees for planting be dug up with full roots, and at planting, prune any long ftragg- ling roots, and broken or bruifed fhoots from the Items of the trees ; and in young trees, having their firft fhoots of but a year old from grafting or budding entire, leave them in that ftate till next month, then to be headed. In thofe more ad- vanced with trained or fuller heads, cutaway only any ill-grown or crofs-planted branches or fhoots, orMANAGEMENT OF THE FRUIT GARDEN. 4*3 or prune thinner any that are too numeious and crouded, or any very luxuriant productions; and from the wall and efpalier tree kinds, prune out all fore-right or projecting (hoots. Your vines mu(t now be pruned and nailed, as directed lad month. Prune goofeberries and cur- rants, where required, to keep the heads moderate, and the branch thin to obtain large fruit. Prune rafpberries in proper order, and make new plan- tations of them where required. Plant cuttings and fuckers of goofeberries and currants, for new plants. March. I N the earlieft part of this month finifh the prin- cipal planting and pruning of all kinds of fruit- trees, as the trees will now be advancing in their bloffoms and buds. In planting the different fruit- trees, obferve the proper diftances for wall-trees, efpaliers, and dandards; and give each a good watering to the earth, to fettle it clofe about the roots and fibres, and to promote their taking frefli root. In frody weather, fhelter wall-trees in bloffom of apricotSj peaches, the early, and fome princi- pal kinds, by nailing up large mats on nights before the trees; or occafionally on days, when the froff is fevere, and no fun, to proteft the young fruit now in embrio, and its generative organs in the center of the flower. Train young wall and efpalier trees, now intheir fil'd or fecond years (hoots, pruning out fore-right and crofs-placed (hoots. In peaches, neClarines, apricots, and vines, fhorten the remaining (hoots more or lefs, to obtain a further fupply of wood and (hoots for bearers. But in apples, pears, plums, cherries, if well furniflied with fecond and third years branches, leave mod entire, only cut-414 MANAGEMENT OF TftE FRUIT GARDEN. ting fhort any middle fhoots in the vacancies, to force out laterals in fummer to fiipply the defici- encies ; and as foon as pruned, train in all the branches horizontally to the wall, and efpaliers at regular diftances. Propagate fig-trees by layers, cuttings, and fuck- ers of the young fhoots. Plant vine cuttings of the young fhoots, two or three joints long, inverted in the ground to the uppermoft eye or bud. Plant fuckers and cutlings of the feveral forts of fruit- trees that produce them, for new plants and flocks to bud and graft upon. Perform grafting now on apples, pears, plums, cherries, quinces, and med- lars, this being the proper fcafon for that ope- ration. April. WATER new-planted trees in dry weather mo- derately, about once a week. Divert young budded and grafted trees of all fhoots from the flock, below the bud or graft. If any webs of caterpillars now appear on any fruit trees, clear them off before they fpread, to prevent the infeCts from devouring the advancing leaves. Defend early wall-trees now in bloffom and young fruit, particularly apricots, peaches, nectarines, and others of the principal kinds, con- tinuing to nail up mats in frofty nights. Rub off ufelefsbuds in early-fhooting wall-trees, as peaches, neCtarines, and apricots. Their fhoots will now be advancing: rub oft' clofe the fore-right ones, and others where too numerous, and fuch as are ill placed, or where not wanted. May. THE moft principal part of the bufinefs-of this month in the fruit garden is to commence the dim- mer pruning, by difbudding early aft the fore- rightMANAGEMENT OF THE FRUIT GARDEN. 4 15 right and other ill-placed and evidently unnecef- fary (hoots, and to thin the young fruit where fet in clufters. The new-planted trees mud now be watered in dry weather. The operation of fummer pruning, at this early period, is performed without a knife : the buds be- ing tender, theufelefs growths are more eafily dil- budded, or detached with the finger and thumb, by rubbing them off clofe to the old wood. Go over peaches, nectarines, and apricots, and rub off all the fore-right and other ill-plaeed (hoot buds of the year. Likewife difplace, in a thinning order, part of the fuperfluous fhoots, where evidently too numerous in any parts of the trees, and the re- maining (hoots, when of due length, train in clofe &nd regular. Vines likewife, which will be now advancing in numerous fhoots, go over early, and difplace all the improper and ill-placed (hoots of the year, particularly thofe omitted from the old wood, where not wanted, and the weak and un- fruitful draggling (hoots in all parts. Wall-trees defended when in bloffom and fetting their fruit, (hould now have all the covering dif- continued, and removed away. Thin wall-fruit, as apricots, ne&arines, and peaches, where fet too thick, of in clufters, retaining the moft promiftng fruit at moderate diftances, from three or four to five or fix inches afunder. Water new-planted fruit-trees in hot dry wea- ther, giving each about a watering pot of water once a week or fortnight, during this month, or till they have taken good root. June. SUMMER pruning or nailing the fruit-trees comprehends the principal bufinels of this month. Begin the fummer pruning of the earlieft (hooting kinds of wall-trees, as peaches, neCtarines, apri- v" cots.416 management of the fruit garden.- cots, vines, cherries, plums, pears, apples, to difplace the fore-right and other ill-placed fhoots, and nail in all the regular placed fide or terminal fhoots to the wall. from fig-trees, advanced in the prefent year’s fummer fhoots, prune out the ill-placed branches* and nail the fide fhoots and terminal ones to the wall. Thin apricots, peaches, and ne&arines, where too thick or in cluflers, thinning out the fmalleft, and leaving the moft promifing fingly, at moderate diftances, having the apricots, and nefta- rines thinned off for tarts. Currants trained againft walls, and efpaliers, &c. muft now be diverted of all fuperabundant fhoots to admit the fun to the fruit. Goofeberries and currant bufhes in ftand- ard, if very crouded with fhoots of the year, prune where thickeft, to admit the fun to ripen the fruit with proper flavour. Defend the fineft fort of cherry-trees in ripe fruit from the birds, by the afliftance of nets. July. THE bufinefs of this month will continue to re- quire great attention to the fummer pruning and nailing in all wall and efpalier trees, both in con- tinuance of the former regulations, and more par- ticularly in thofe not done, to regulate the nume- rous flioots of the year, by difplacing thofe im- proper and fuperfluous, and to nail and train the young wood in regular order to the wall and efpa- lier, and according as they advance in length to train them along clofe, always at their full length all fummer. Where the above regulations were commenced in May or June, very little will be required at this time but to faften along the regular flioots in their proper places. Thin apricots, peaches, and neflarines, if they be rtill too clofe. Regulate and nail vines, and prunemanagement of the fruit garden. 417 and nail fig-trees, thefe having now made nume- rous ftrong fhoots. Prune apples, pears, plums, cherries, and currants ; and defend ripe wall-fruit from birds and infeCts: the former by nets, and the latter by placing phials of ftrong liquor and water, or water fugared, to emit an odorous fmell, to decoy wafps and flies from the fruit. Keep rafpberries cleared from all ftraggling fuckers of the plants, between the rows, or at a diftance from the main ftools, and hoe down weeds. Go over wall-trees. See. every week, to difplace with your knife ufelefs after-fhoots, and nail the proper fupply clofe as they flioot in length. AuguJl. THIS month will require great attention to be paid to the wall and efpalier trees. Difplace all ufelefs young wood that may prevent the fun ripen- ing the fruit, which will be now getting to a ftate of maturity. Gather ripe apricots before they be- come too foft and mealy-tafted. Train and faften in all the requifite fupply of proper fhoots clofe to the wall and efpalier in re- gular order, and as they advance in length without fhortening, both topreferve the neceflary regularity of the trees, to admit the fun and free air to im- prove the fupply of young wood to perfeftion, and for the advanced fruit to have all poftible benefit of the fun to accelerate its ripening in a regular man- ner, in the fulleft ftate of perfection and richnefs of flavour. Purfue the fame method with the ef- paliers of apples, plums, and all other trees in that order of training. Defend the choiceft forts of wall-fruit, that are now ripening, from birds and infeds ; the former, by hanging nets before the trees, and the latter by placing phials of fweetened water, &c. to decoy and drown them, fuch as wafps and flies. If an- E e noyed4 1 8 MAN AGEME N T O F THE FRUIT GARDEN. noyed with ants, place cuttings of common or Spanifh reed, hollowed elder, or any thing of a hollowed pipe-like kind, in which they will har- bour, and may be deftroyed. September. THE principal fummer pruning in wall and efpalier trees being by this time completed, nothing material of that operation will now be wanted, ex- cept adjtilling any diforderly fhoots that project from the wall, or have fprung from their places, or training along any that have extended in length, or to reduce others that have overtopped the walls, or run confiderably out of their limited fpace, fo as to keep the whole in perfect regularity, and that the full fun may be admitted to ripen the fruit of the feafon, now in raoft forts advanced to near or full muft be particularly attended to, it being the principal ripening feafon of the grapes, which in this country demand every poftible alfiftance of the fun, by ftill keeping the vines cleared from all improper fhoots, and nailing the others along clofe and regular to the wall, to admit the fun’s warmth in full power, equally to the ripening grapes, that they may acquire perfection before the cold and wet in autumn commence, and ripen with their particular richnefs and flavour. Such grapes as are fully ripe muft be guarded fromwafps or birds, by putting fome of the belt bunches into bags of fine paper, or rather of thin gauze or crape, that will jidmit the fun, and keep off birds and infeCls. Fruit in general will now be ripe on all walls, efpalier, and ftandard trees, which be careful to gather when in beft perfection before too ripe, c(- pecially of fome particular forts, as peaches, nec- tarines, plums, pears. See. for prelent ufe. Ottober. growth Vinemanagement of the fruit garden. 419 OElober. THE moft material bufinefs of this month is to give proper attention to the gathering of all ■winter fruits, particularly apples and pears for keeping; and the feveral autumnal fruits, for pre- fent fupply, according as they ripen, and in late wall-fruits, keeping all the fhoots nailed clofe to admit the full fun, efpecially grapes. Gather apples and pears now of full growth, both of the autumnal eating, and winter keeping kinds, all on dry days. All the autumnal kinds, and thofe defigned for keeping, fliould be gather- ed by hand. Apples are proper both for prefent ufe, and to keep feveral months; but of the win- ter pears few are fit for immediate eating, only for ftewing, &c. They ripen to perfection as they lie in the houfe, fooner or later, according to the different forts, from next month and December, till March and April, and thofe late ripeners will fometimes keep till May or June. November. THE gathering of any fruits that are kill out muff now be finifhed, and all intended planting of fruit-trees forwarded, being an eligible feafon for Iran fpl an ting moft forts, walls, efpaliers, and ftand- ards; alfo for the general operation of winter pruning and nailing, which fhould now be per- formed at all opportunities. Wall-tree planting may now be forwarded in apucots, peaches, nedarines, plums, cherries, vines, figs, pears; likewife any defirable apples, to ripen earlier with an approved flavour; alfo occafionally mulberries, to obtain larger fruit and fooner ripe, with an improved flavour, generally allotting a principal fupply for fouth walls, parti- cularly of the peaches, neCtarines, apricots, figs, £ e2 and4*0 MANAGEMENT OF THE FRUIT CARDEN. and vines; alfo of the others in a fmaller portion; others on fouth-wed and eaderly walls, and fome on north expofures, as morello and other cherries, plums, and pears. Standard planting may now be performed in all the hardy fruits in their different varieties, as ap- ples, pears, plums, cherries, mulberries, medlars, quinces, fervices, filberts, all the hazle nut tribe, barberries, bullaces, damfons, almonds, walnuts; likewife the Breda and Bruffels apricot in a warm fituation; all which may be planted in kitchen gardens, pleafure-grounds, orchards, See. always allotting the fulled fupply of the mod ufeful kinds, as apples, pears, cherries, plums,'(fee, and planted from twenty or thirty, to forty or fifty feet dif- tance. Winter pruning fliould now be forwarded in all kinds of fruit-trees, particularly wall-trees, and efpaliers in the general annual regulation, both among the young and old branches; which gene- ral pruning is indifpenfibly neceffary in all wall and efpalier trees every year in winter, any time from this month till March, to preferve their re- quifite regularity within the limited bounds, and their proper fruitfulnefs. As to the dandard-tree pruning, the trees having full fcope for their heads to branch freely all round and above, they only need pruning occafionally, to regulate any ill- growing branches, and for which now, or any time in the winter, is the proper feafon. Prune goofeberries and currants, thinning the branches where too crouded, cutting out thofe that are crofs-placed and decayed. Rafpberries may now be planted in full fupply of both the red and white kinds, in rooted young dems of the lad dimmer, in rows four feet and a half didance by ■j. yard in the row, as in the fpring months. December.MANAGEMENT OF THE FRUIT GARDEN. 421 December. THE bufinefs of this month in the fruit-gar- den is principally the fame as in the laft ; that is, if the weather be open, to prepare ground, where neceffary, to plant with any kind of fruit-trees that may be wanted, or intended for planting this, or the two following months when the weather admits; but for fear of a fevere froft, it is advifeable to finifh the principal planting early in the month, at leaft all that is intended before Chriftmas. As to pruning it may be continued, when conveni- ent, all this month. Standard-tree planting may be now forwarded in open weather. Plant orchard trees where in- tended, as apples, pears, plums, and cherries, in full ftandards, thirty, forty, or fifty feet fquare, to form ftraight ranges each way. Likewife occa- fionally plant half ftandards, grafted on dwarf flocks, in fmall orchards, at lefs diftances. Efpa- lier-tree planting may be performed in apples, or pears, fifteen or twenty feet diftance ; plums, cher- ries, quinces, or medlars, at fifteen feet diftance. Fruit put by for keeping, fuch as apples, pears, and quinces, 'mull be occafionally examined, in order to remove what are decayed or rotten, and keep the whole clofely covered with ftraw, at leaft a foot thick, in order to exclude the damps. CHAP.[ 422 ] C H A P. XXXVI. Articles omitted in the preceding Part of the Work. To prcferve Dripping. THIS is a very ufeful article at fea, and in order to be kept properly for that purpofe, mull be managed in the following manner. Take fix pounds of good beef dripping, boil it in fome foft water, (train it into a pan, and let it (land till it is cold. Then take off the hard fat, and fcrape off the gravy which (ticks to the infide. Do this eight times, and when it is cold and hard, take it off clean from the water, and put it into a large faucepan, with fix bay leaves, twelve cloves, half a pound of fait, and a quarter of a pound of whole pepper. Let the fat be all melted, and juft hot enough to (train through a fieve into a (tone pot. Then let it ftand till it is quite cold, and cover it up. In this manner you may do what quantity you pleafe. It is a very good me- thod to keep the pot upfide down, to prevent its being deftroyed by the rats. It will keep good anv voyage, and make as fine puff-pafte cruft as the bed butter. To keep and drefs dried Fifh. THE generality of fifh, except ftock-fifh, are either falted and dried in the fun, as the moll common way, or in preparing-kilns, and fome- times by the fmoak of wood fires, in chimney- corners ; and, in either cafe, they require to be foftened and frefbened, in proportion to their bulk, nature, or drynefs. The very dry fort, as cod-fifh, or whiting, and fuch like, fhould be ftceped in lukewarm milk and water, and the fteeping kept as nearly as poffible to an equal r ' degreeARTICLES OMITTED. 423 degree of heat. The larged fifh fhould be deeped twelve hours; the fmaller, as whitings. See. about two hours. 1 he cod mud, theiefoie, be laid to deep in the evening; the whitings, &c. in the morning of the day they are to be dreffed. After the time of deeping, they are to be taken out, and hung up by the tails until they are dreff- ed. The reafon of hanging them up is this, that they foften equally as in the deeping, with- out extrafling too much of the relifh, which would make them infipid. When thus prepared, the fmall fifh, as whitings, tufk, and luch like, mud be floured and laid on the gridiron, and when a little hardened on the one fide, mud be turned, and baded with oil upon a feather ; and when baded on both Tides, and heated through, take them up, always obferving, that as fweet oil fupplies the fifh with a kind of artificial juices, fo the fire draws out thefe juices and hardens them. Be careful, therefore, not to let them broil too long; but no time can be preferibed, becaufe of the difference of fires, and various flzes of the fifh. A clear charcoal fire is much the bed, and the fifh kept a good didance to broil gradually. The bed way to know when the fifh arc enough is, that they will fwell a little in the bading, and you mud not let them fall again. To thofe who like fweet-oil, the bed fauce is oil, vinegar, and mudard, beat to a confidence, and ferved up in faucers. If your fifh be boiled, as thofe of a large fort ufually are, it fhould be in milk and water, but not properly to fay boiled, as it fhould only jud fimmer over an equal fire. In this wav, half an hour will do the larged fifh, and five minutes the fmalled. Some people broil both forts after fimmering, and fome pick them to pieces, and then tofs them up in a pap with £ e 4 friedARTICLES OMITTED. 424 fried onions and apples. They are very good either way, and the choice depends on the weak or ftrong ftomach of the eaters. Dried falmon mult be managed in a different manner: for, though a large fifh, it does not require more flceping than a whiting, and fhould be moderately peppered when laid on the gridiron. Dried herrings fhould be fleeped the fame time as a whiting, in fmall beer, inflead of milk and water; and to which, as to all kinds of broiled falt-fifh, fweet oil will al- ways be found the befl bailing, and no ways effeft even the delicacy of thofe who are not fond of it. To make Panada. T A K E a blade of mace, a large piece of crumb of bread, and put them into a faucepan, with a quart of water. After it has boiled two minutes, take out the bread, and bruife it very fine in a bafon. Mix as much water as you think it will require, pour away the reft, and fweeten it to your palate. Put in a piece of butter about the fize of a walnut; but do not put in any wine, as that will fpoil it. Grate in a little nutmeg. To make fweet Panada. HAVING fliced the crumb of a penny loaf very thin, put it into a faucepan with a pint of water, and boil it till it be very foft and looks clear. Then put in a glafs of Madeira wine, grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a lump of butter about the fize of a walnut, and fugar to your tafte. Beat it exceedingly fine, and put it into a deep foup-difh. To make Beef Tea. TAKE a pound of lean beef,' cut it into very thin flices, and put it into ajar. Pour a quart of boiling water over it, cover it clofe that the fleam mayARTICLES OMITTED. 425 may not get out, and let it ftand by the fire. This is ftrongly recommended by phyficians for weak conftitutions, and fliould be drank milk warm. To make Water Gruel. PUT a large fpoonful of oatmeal to a pint of water, ftir them well together, and let it boil up three or four times, ftirring it often; but take care not to let it boil over. Then drain it through a fieve, fait it to your palate, put in a good piece of frefli butter, brew it with a fpoon till the butter be all melted, and it will be fine and fmooth. Barley Gruel. P U T a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, and a ftick of cinnamon, into two quarts of water, and let it boil till it be reduced to one quart. Add a pint of red wine and fugar to your taftc. You may add two or three ounces of currants, if you pleafe. To make Barley Water. BOIL a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in two quarts of water, fldm it well, boil it half away, and then ftrain it. Sweeten it, but not too much, and put to it two fpoonfuls of white wine. It muft be drank a little warm. To make Orgeat. BEAT to a pafte two pounds of almonds, with thirty bitter almonds. Mix it with three quarts of water, and ftrain it through a fine cloth. Having added orange and lemon juice, with fome of the peel, fweeten it to your tafte. To make Lemonade. PARE two Seville oranges and fix lemons very thin, and ftcep the parings four hours in two quarts426 ARTICLES OMITTED. quarts of water. Put the juice of fix oranges and twelve lemons upon twelve ounces of fine fugar, and when the fugar is melted, put the water to it! Add a little orange-flower water, and more fugar, if neceffary. Pafs it through a bag till it be fine. To make Sack Pojfet. BEAT well and ftrain the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs. Then put three quarters of a pound of white fugar into a pint of canary, and mix it in a bafon with your eggs. Set it over a cha- fing-difh of coals, and keep continually ftirring it till it is fealding hot. In the mean time, grate fome nutmeg into a quart of milk, and boil it; then put it into your eggs and wine, they being feald- ing hot. Hold your hand very high as you pour it, and let fomebody ftir it all the time you are pouring in the milk. Then take it off the chaf- ing-difh, fet it before the fire half an hour, and it will be fit for ufe. To make Wine Pojfet. PUT the crumb of a penny loaf into a quart of milk, and boil it till it be foft. Then take it off the fire, grate in half a nutmeg, and fweeten it to your tafte. Put it into a China bowl, and by degrees add to it a pint of Lifbon wine. Send it up to table with toaft and butter on a plate. To make Ale Pojfet. P U T a little white bread into a pint of milk, and fet it over the fire. Then put fome nutmeg and fugar into a pint of ale, warm it, and when your milk boils, pour it upon the ale. Let it Hand a few minutes to clear, and the curd will rile to the top. To make an Orange Pojfet. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, and put it into rather more than a pint oi water, withARTICLES OMITTED. 427 with half the peel of a Seville orange grated, or fugar rubbed upon it to take out the effence. Boil all together till it looks thick and clear, and then beat it well. Take a pint of Mountain wine, the juice of half a Seville orange, three ounces of |ordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter, finely beat, with a little French brandy and fugar to your tafte. Mix it well, put it into your poffet, and ferve it up. A lemon poffet is made in the fame manner. To make White Wine Whey. PUT half a pint of white wine and half a pint of fkimmed milk into a bafon. Let it (land a few minutes, and then pour over it a pint of boiling water. Let it (land a little, and the curd will ga- ther in a lump, and fettle to the bottom. Then pour your whey into a China bowl, and put in a lump of fugar, a fprig of balm, or a flice of lemon. To make Capillaire. TAKE fourteen pounds of loaf fugar, three pounds of coarfe fugar, fix eggs beaten in with the fhells, and three quarts of water. Boil it up twice, fkim it well, and then add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water. Strain it through a jelly- bag, and put it into bottles. When it is cold, mix a fpoonful or two of this fyrup, as it is liked for fweetnefs, in a draught of warm or cold water. To mull Wine. GRATE half a nutmeg into a pint of wine and fweeten it to your tafle with loaf-fugar. Set it over the lire, and when it boils, take it off to cool. Take the yolks of four eggs well beaten, add to them a little cold wine, and then mix them care- fully with your hot wine, a little at a time. Pour it backwards and forwards feveral times till it looks line428 ARTICLES OMITTED. fine and bright. Then fet it on the fire, and beat it a little at a time for feveral times, till it is quite hot, and pretty thick, and pour it backwards and forwards frequently. Then put it into chocolate cups, and ferve it up with dry toaft cut in long nar- row pieces. To make Goofebcrry Fool. PUT two quarts of goofeberries into about a quart of water, and fet them on the fire. When they begin to fimmer, turn yellow, and to plump, throw them into a cullender to drain out the water, and with the back of a fpoon carefully fqueeze the pulp through a fieve into a difli. Make them pretty fweet, and let them ftand till they are cold. In the mean time, take two quarts of milk, and the yolks of four eggs beaten up with a little grated nutmeg. Stir it foftly over a flow fire, and when it begins to fimmer, take it off, and by degrees ftir it into the goofeberries. Let it Hand till it be cold, and then ferve it up. If you make it with cream, you need not put any eggs. To viake a White Pot. " 1 PUT eight eggs, and half the whites, beat up with a little rofe-water, a nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of fugar, to two quarts of milk. Cut a penny loaf in very thin flices, and pour the milk and eggs over them. Put a little piece of butter on the top, and bake it half an hour in a flow oven. A Rice White Pot. H AVI NG boiled a pound of rice in two quarts of milk till it be tender and thick, beat it in amor- tar with a quarter of a pound of fweet almonds blanched. Then boil two quarts of cream, with a few crumbs of white bread, and two t>r three blades of429 ARTICLES OMITTED. of mace. Mix it with eight eggs, and a little rofe- water, and fweeten to your tafte. Cut iome can- died orange or citron peels thin, and lay it in. It muft be baked in a flow oven. To make Sago. PUT a large fpoonful of fago to three quarters of a pint of water; ftir it, and boil it foftly till it is as thick as you would have it. Then put in wine and fugar, with a little nutmeg, to your palate. To make Rice Milk. PUT half a pound of rice into a quart of water, with a little cinnamon, and let it boil till the water is wafted ; but take care that it does not burn. Then add three pints of milk, and the yolk of an egg beat up. Keep ftirring it, and when it boils, take it up and fweeten it. To make Salop. TAKE a large tea-fpoonful of this powder, which is fold at the chemifts, and put it into a pint of boiling water. Keep ftirring it till it becomes a fine jelly, and then add wine and fugar to your tafte. • To make White Caudle. MIX four fpoonfuls of oatmeal, a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon-peel, with two quarts of water. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, ftirring it often ; but be careful not to let it boil over, and then ftrain it through a coarfe fieve. When you ufe it, fweeten it to your tafte, grate in a little nutmeg, and put in what wine you think proper. To make brown Caudle. MAKE your gruel as above, with fix fpoonfuls of oatmeal, and ftrain it. Then put to it a quart 2 ofARTICLES OMITTED. 43° 3 Pan> of ale that is not bitter. Boil it, and fwceten it fo your palate, and add half a pint of white wine or brandy. When you do not put in white wine or brandy, let it be half ale. To fncajfee Chickens. HAVING fkinned your chickens, and cut them into fmall pieces, wadi them in warm water, and dry them very clean with a cloth. Seafon them with pepper and fait, and put them into a dewpan with a little water, and a good piece of butter, a little lemon pickle, or half a lemon, a glafs of white wine, an anchovy, a little mace and nutmeg, an onion (luck with cloves, a bunch of lemon-thyme, and fweet-marjoram. Let thefe flew together till your chickens are tender, and then lay them on your difli. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and drain it. Beat the yolks of three eggs a little, and mix them with a large teacupful of rich cream, and put it into your gravy. Shake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, and pour it over your chickens. To fricajfee Rabbits white. CUT up your rabbits, put them into a tofling- pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, an anchovy, a (lice of lemon, a little beaten mace, chian pepper, and fait, and flew them over a flow lire. When they are enough, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, and drain it. Then add the yolks of two eggs' mixed with a large teacupful of cream, and a little nut- meg grated in it. Take care not to let it boil; as that will fpoil it. To fricajfee Rabbits brown. HAVING cut them as for eating, fry them of a light brown in butter, and put them into a todmg-ARTICLES OMITTED.. 43> pan, with a pint of water, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, an anchovy, a flice of lemon, a large fpoon- ful of mufhroom catchup, the fame of browning, with chian pepper, and fait to your tafte. Stew them over a flow fire till they be enough ; thicken your gravy and ftrain it, difh up your rabbits, and pour the gravy over them. To JricaJfee Tripe. GET fome nice white tripe, cut it into flips, put it into fome boiled gravy with a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. Stir it till the but- ter be melted, and add a little white wine, lemon- peel grated, chopped parfley, pepper, fait, and pickled mulhrooms, or lemon-juice. Shake all together, and give it a gentle flew. To JricaJf ee Ox Palates. HAVING well cleaned your palates, put them into a ftew-pot, cover them with water, and fet them in the oven for three or four hours. When they come from the oven, ftrip off the fkins, and cut them in fquare pieces. Seafon them with mace, nutmeg, chian, and fait. Mix a fpoonful of flour with the yolks of two eggs, dip in your palates, fry them of a light brown, and then put them in a fieve to drain. Have ready half a pint of veal gravy, with a little caper liquor, a fpoonful of browning, and a few mulhrooms. Thicken it well with flour and butter, pour it hot on your difh, and lay in your palates. Garnifh with barberries and fried parfley. To fncajjee Pigeons. C U T your pigeons in the fame manner as chickens for fricaffeeing, fry them of a light brown, put them into fome good mutton grav>q and flew them near half an hour. Put in half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of browning, and a flice of le- mon.ARTICLES OMITTED. 432 mon. Take up your pigeons, and thicken your gravy ; drain it over your pigeons, lay round them forcemeat balls, and garnifh with pickles. To fricajjec Eggs. HAVING boiled your eggs pretty hard, dice them. Take a little veal gravy, a little cream and dour, and a bit of butter, nutmeg, fait, pep- per, chopped pardey, and a few .pickled mufh- rooms. Boil this up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of the difli, with toafted fippets.[ 433 1 F f Cardoons ' ~ 1 CATALOGUE OF THE Various ARTICLES in Seafon in the different MONTHS of the TEAR. JANUARY. MEAT. BEEF Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lanib POULTRY, See. Pheafantl r PartridgeJ Woodcocks Pullets Snipes Fowls Hares T urkeys Chickens Rabbits Capons FISH. Tame Pigeons Carp Soles Smelts Tench Flounders Whitings Perch Plaice Lobfters Lampreys Turbot Crabs V Eels Thornback Prawns Craw-fifh Skate Oyfters Cod Sturgeon VEGETABLES, See. Cabbage Lettuces Sage Savoys CrefTes Parfnips Coleworts Muftard Carrots Sprouts Rape Turnips Brocoli, purple : Radifli Potatoes and white Turnips Scorzonera Spinach Tarragon Skirrets434 the A CATALOGUE OF Cardoons Mint Salfifie Beets Cucumbers in To be had, though, Par (ley hot houfes O not m Seafon Sorrel Thyme Jerufalem Arti- Chervil Savory chokes Celery- Pot-Marjoram Afparagus Endive Hvfop FRUIT. Mufhrooms Apples Almonds Medlars Pears Services Grapes Nuts FEBRUARY. MEAT. Beef Veal - Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb POULTRY, j &C. / Turkeys Chickens W oodcocks Capons Pigeons Snipes Pullets Pheafants Hares Fowls Partridges FISH. Tame Rabbits Cod Skate Tench Soles Whitings Perch Sturgeon Smelts Carp Flounders Lobfters Eels Plaice Crabs Lampreys Turbot Oyflers Craw-filli Thornback Prawns VEGETABLES, &c. Cabbage Mu Hard Afparagus Savoys Rape Kidney Beans Coleworts Radifhes Carrots Sprouts Turnips Turnips Brocoli, purple Tarragon Parfnips and white Mint Potatoes Carcfoons435 VARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON. Cardoons Burnet Onions Beets Tan fey Leeks Parfley Thyme Shalots Chervil Savory Garlick Endive Marjoram Roc.ombole Sorrel Alfo may fist'd 7 Salfifie 6 Skirret Celery Chard Beets / LLVLO Scorzonera Lettuces Forced Radifhes Terufalem Arti- Crefles Cucumbers chokes FRUIT. Pears ■ , Apples Grapes MARC MEAT. H. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb POULTRY, &c. Turkeys Fowls Pigeons Pullets Chickens Tame Rabbits Capons Ducklings - FISH. Carp Eels Soles Tench Mullets Whitings Turbot Plaice Crabs Thornback Flounders Craw-fifh Skate Lobfters Prawns VEGETABLES. Carrots Onions Beets Turnips - Garlick Parfley Parfnips Shalots Fennel Jerulalem Arti- Brocoli Celerv chokes Cardoons J Endive Ff 2 Tan feyA CATALOGUE OF THE 436 Tanfcy Turnips Burnet Rape Tarragon Thyme Radifhes Mint Winter-Savory Coleworts Mulhrooms Pot-Marjoram Borecole Lettuces Fly fop Cabbages Chives Fennel Savoys CrefTes Cucumbers Spinach Milliard FRUIT. Kidney-Beans Pears Apples Forced Straw- berries. APRIL. M FAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb POULTRY, See. Pullets Ducklings Rabbits Fowls Pigeons Leverets Chickens \ FISH. Crabs Salmon Smelts Chub Turbot Herrings Tench Soles Lobllers Trout Skate Prawns Craw-filh Mullets VEGETABL E S. Coleworts Young Onions Lettuces Sprouts Celery All forts of final! Brocoli Endive Sallad Spinach Sorrel Thyme Fennel Burnet All forts of Pot- Parfley Tarragon Herbs Chervil Radilhes FRUIT. Apples Pears Forced Cherries Apricots for and Parts. M A Y.VARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON. 437 F f 3 POULTRY. MAY.' MEAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb P c SULTRY, Sc c. Pullets Green Geefe Rabbits Fowls Chickens Ducklings Turkey Poults FISH. Leverets Carp Salmon Lobfters Tench Soles Craw-fifh Eels Turbot Crabs Trout Chub Pier rings Smelts Prawns V E G E T A B L E S, Scc. Early Potatoes Barley Savory Carrots Mint All other fweet Turnips Purflane Herbs Radilhes Fennel Peafe Early Cabbages Lettuces Beans Cauliflowers Creffes Kidney Beans Artichokes Muftard Afparagus Spinach All forts of fmallTragopogon Parfley Sorrel Sallad Herbs Thyme FRUIT. Cucumbers, See. Pears Apples Strawberries Cherries And Melons Goofeberries With Green And Currants for Apricots Tarts Beef Mutton JUNE. MEAT. Veal Lamb Buck Venifon IA CATALOGUE OF THE 438 P Fowls Pullets Chickens Green Geefe Trout Carp Tench Pike Eels V E Carrots Turnips Potatoes Parfnips Raclifhes Onions Beans Peafe Cherries Strawberries Goofeberries Currants Beef Mutton P Pullets Fowls Chickens 0 U L T R 7, &c. Ducklings Wheat-Ears Turkey Poults Leverets Plovers Rabbits FISH. Salmon Soles Turbot Mullets Mackarel G E T A B L Afparagus Kidney Beans Artichokes Cucumbers Lettuces Spinach Parfley Purflane FRUIT. Apricots Apples Pears Some Peaches Herrings Smelts Lobfters Craw-fifh Prawns E S, See. Rape Crefies All other fmall .Sallading Thyme All forts of Pot- Herbs Ne&arines Grapes Melons Pine Apples JULY. MEAT. Veal Buck Venifon Lamb 0 U L T R Y, &c. Ducklings Pheafants Turkey Poults Wheat-Ears Ducks Plovers PigeonsVARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON. 439 Pigeons Young Par- Leverets Green Geefe tridges FISH. Rabbits Cod Herrings Skate Haddocks Soles Thornback Mullets Plaice Salmon Mackarel Flounders Carp Tench Eels Prawns Pike Lobfters Craw-fifh V E G E T A B L E S, See. Carrots Cabbages All forts of fmall Turnips Sprouts Sallad Herbs Potatoes Artichokes Mint Radifhes Celery Balm Onions Endive Thyme Garlick Finocha All other Pot- Rocombole Chervil Herbs Scorzonera Sorrel Peafe Salfifie Purflane Beans Mulh rooms Lettuce Kidney Beans Cauliflowers Creffes FRUIT. Pears Neftarines Strawberries ' Apples Plumbs Rafpberries Cherries Apricots Melons Peaches Goofeberries Pine Apples A U G U S T. MEAT. > Beef Veal Buck Venifon Mutton Lamb POULTRY, See. Fowls Ducklings Pheafants Pullets Leverets Wild Ducks F f 4 Chickens \A CATALOGUE OF THE . 440 POULTRY. Chickens Rabbits Wheat-Ears Green Geefe Turkey Poults Pigeons FISH. Plovers Cod Mullets Eels Haddock Mackarel Lobfters Flounders Herrings Craw-fifb Plaice Pike Prawns Skate Thornback Carp Oyfters V E G E T A B L E S, &c. Carrots Beans Finocha Turnips Kidney Beans Parfley Potatoes Mufhrooms Lettuces Raddhes Artichokes All forts of fmall Onions Cabbage Sallad Garlick Cauliflowers Thyme Shalots Sprouts Savory Scorzonera Beets Marjoram Salfifie Celery All forts of fweet Peafe Endive FRUIT. Plerbs Peaches Pears Strawberries Nectarines Grapes Goofeberries Plums Figs Currants Cherries Filberts Melons Apples Mulberries Pine Apples SEPTEMBER. MEAT. Beef Mutton Pork Veal Lamb Buck VenifonVARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON. 441 POULTRY, Sec. Gee fe Pullets ' Chickens Turkies Fowls Ducks Teals Hares Pheafants Pigeons Larks Rabbits FISH. Partridges Cod Skate Tench Haddock Soles Pike Flounders Smelts Lobfters Plaice Salmon Oyfters Thornbacks Carp VEGETABLES. Carrots Kidney Beans Finocha Turnips Mufhrooms Lettuces, and all Potatoes Artichokes forts of linall Shalots Cabbages Sallads Onions Sprouts Chervil Leeks Cauliflowers Sorrel Garlick Cardoons Beets Scorzonera Endive Thyme, and all Salfifie Celery forts of Soup Peafe Beans Parfley FRUIT. Herbs Peaches W alnuts Lazaroles Plums Filberts Currants Apples Hazel Nuts Morello Cherries Pears Medlars Melons Grapes Quinces Pine Apples ’ OCTOBER. MEAT. Beef Lamb Pork Mutton Veal Doe Venifon 2 POULTRYy I442 A CATALOGUE OF THE POULTRY, POULTRY, &c. Geefe Rabbits Larks Turkics Wild Ducks Dotterels Pigeons Teals Hares Pullets Widgeons Pheafants . Fowls Woodcocks Partridges Chickens Snipes FISH. Dorees Gudgeons Salmon Trout Holobets Pike Lobfters Bearbet Carp Cockles Smelts Tench Mufcles Brills Perch Oyfters VEGETABLES. Cabbages Scorzonera Chard Beets Sprouts Leeks Corn Sallad Cauliflowers Shalots Lettuces Artichokes Garlick All forts of young Carrots Rocombole Sallad Parfnips Celery Thyme Turnips Endive Savory Potatoes Cardoons All forts of Pot- Skirrets* Chervil Herbs Salfifie/ > Finocha FRUIT. Peaches 9 Quinces Filberts Grapes 'Black and white Hazle-Nuts Figs Bullace Pears Medlars Services Walnuts Apples • NOVEMBER. MEAT. Beef Veal Doe Venifon Mutton FIoufe-LambVARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON. 443 3 POULTRY, POULTRY, See. Geefe Wild Ducks Dotterels Turkies Teals Hares Fowls Widgeons Rabbits Chickens Woodcocks Partridges Pullets Snipes Pheafants Pigeons Larks. F. I S H. Gurnets Salmon Trout Gudgeons Dorees Smelts Lobfters Holobets Carp Oyfters Bearbet Pike Cockles Salmon Tench Mufcles VEGETABLES, See. Carrots Rocombole Cardoons Turnips Jerufalem Arti- - Parfley Parfnips chokes Creffes Potatoes Cabbages Endive Skirret Cauliflowers Chervil SaHifie Savoys Lettuces Scorzonera Sprouts All forts of fmall Onions Coleworts Sallad Herbs Leeks Spinage Thyme, and all Shalots Chard Beets other Pot Herbs > - ‘ • • i F R U IT, f Pears Chefnuts M dlars Apples Hazle-Nuts Services Bullace Walnuts Grapes , D E C E M B E R. MEAT. \ Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb Doe VenifionA CATALOGUE, &C. 444 p 0 U L T R Yt &c. Gecfe Chickens Wild Ducks Turkeys Hares Teals Pullets Rabbits Widgeons Pigeons W oodcocks Dottrels Capons Snipes Partridges Fowls , Larks FISH. Pheafants Turbot Smelts Gudgeon Gurnets Cod Eels Sturgeon Codlings Cockles Dorees Soles Muffels Holobets Bearbet Carp Oyfters VEGETABLES, &c. Cabbages Potatoes Garlick Savoys Sldrrets Rocombole Brocoli, purple Scorzonera Celery and white Salfifie Endive Carrots Leeks Beets Parfnips Onions Spinach Turnips Shalots Parfley Lettuces Cardoons Thyme Crelfes Forced Afpara- All forts of Pot All forts of fma.ll gus Sallad FRUIT. PIcrbs Apples Services Hazle-Nuts Pears Chefnuts Grapes Medlars Walnuts[ 445 1 ✓ # Marketing tables, from one penny three farthings t* tMARKbilNO THR’EE pENCE per POUND, See. 1 2 Pence £ 1. s. d. 2 Pence | s. d. Pence. 1. s. d. 1 o o 5 0 0 52 006 0 O 0 0 8g- 009 O O 10 O Oil 0 1O O 1 02 0 1 1^ 0 1 3 013 O 1 4^ 0 1 (3 0 1 5& 0 1 7^ 0 1 9 018 0110 0 2 0 0 1 lo| 0 2 o| 0 2 3 I 0 2 j 0 2 3| 026 0 2 32 0 2 029 026 029 030 0 2 8g 0 2 ui 033 0 2 11 0 3 2^ 036 O 3 15 035? 039 034 038 040 p 3 0 3 10! 043 039 0 4 15 046 0 3 112 0 4 4? 049 042 0 4 7 050 0 4 42 0 4 9? 0 5 3 0 4 7 0 5 o| 056 0 4 95 0 5 3i 0 5 9 0 5 0 056 060 Ho 5 25 0 5 063 H O 5 5 0 5 1I5 066 Ho 5 75 062^ 069 0 ,5 10 065' O7O 0 cn 0 K\~ 0 6 7s 0 7 3 2 0 6 3 0 6 103 076 1 0 6 5* 0 7 is 0 7 9 068 074 080 Ho 6 io| 0 7 6| 083 2 I ° 7 1 0 7 9s 086 H 0 7 32 0 8 05 089 076 083 090 i 0 ■ 7 0 8 5i 0 9 3 Ho 7 n 0 8 82 096 Ho 8 ii 0 8 n| 0 9 9 084 092 0100 Ho 8 6| 0 9 4} 0103 5 0 8 9 0 9 7s 0 10 6 >'i 0 8 n£ 0 9 105 0 io 9 O 9 2 0 10 1 Oil 0 jH 0 9 Is 0 10 3! on 3 5 0 9 7 0 10 6£ 011 6 )H 0 9 9k 0 10 g£ 011 9 3 0 lo 0 on 0 0120 2^ 0 10 2i oil 2J 0123 45 0 10 5 0 11 5* 0 12 6 6;} 0 10 y\ 0 11. 8^ 0129 0 0 0 cr1 0 11 11 0 13 0 l| 0 1 1 o£ 0 12 i| 0 13 3 4 0 H 3 0 12 41 0136 3-H 0 11 5i; O 12 yX 0 13 9 6 011 8 O 12 10 014 0 9 0 17 6 0 19 3 110 9 1 0 10 1 2 11 1 5 0 0 1 1 3 4 I158 180[ 446 ] MARKETING TABLES, from THREEPENCE-FARTHING to PENCE-HALFPENNY per POUND, &c. FOUR- No. of lbs.&c. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 J3 *4 15 16 17 18 »9 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 [28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 5° 51 52 53 54 55 [56 [84 I loo r 112 3 Pence i 1. s. d. 6h 9-i * 7s io§ 2 2 2 5i 2 8g 2 n| 3 3 3 6* 3 9z 4 o£ 4 4 4. 7* 4 5 5 5 5 8| 5 115 6 2i 6 9i °2 3i 7 7 i°i 8 i’- 8 4* 8 8 8 ni 9 2£ 5i 9 °i 3s 64 9 9 o 10 o 10 o 10 o 10 10 Oil ii O 11 4i 011 7i o 11 11 o 12 2^ o 12 52 012 8| o 13 o 13 _ o 13 6| o 13 94 0141 o 14 4i o 14 7& o 14 104 0 i's 2 1 2 9 1 7 1 110 4 o 3i 3 Pence £ 1. s. d. 3 Pence £ .). s. d. 4 1. ^en ct s. d. 4 Pence i 1. s. d. 4 Pence £ 1. s. d. O 0 7, 0 0 74 0 0 8 O 0 8i 0 0 9 0 0 10J 0 0 ni 0 1 O 0 1 °i 0 1 >7 0 1 2 0 1 3 0 1 4 0 1 5 0 1 6 0 1 52 0 1 H 0 1 8 0 1 9b 0 1 i°£ 0 1 9, 0 1 i°4 0 2 O 0 2 ii 0 2 3 0 2 °z 0 2 25 0 2 4 0 2 5t 0 2 7s 0 2 4 0 2 6 0 2 8 0 2 IO 0 3 0 0 2 7s 0 2 9i 0 3 O 0 3 2i 0 3 4* 0 2 11 0 3 »4 0 3 4 0 3 6| 0 3 9 0 3 2g 0 3 54 0 3 8 0 3 io| 0 4 15 0 3 6 0 3 9 0 4 0 0 4 3 0 4 6 0 3 92 0 4 °i 0 4 4 0 4 7i 0 4 1°2 0 4 1 0 4 44 0 4 8 0 4 112 0 5 3 0 4 4s 0 4 84 0 5 O 0 5 3t 0 5 72 0 4 8 0 5 0 0 5 4 0 5 8 0 6 O 0 4 1 *5 0 5 3i 0 5 8 0 6 oi 0 6 42 0 5 3 0 5 74 0 6 0 0 6 42 0 6 9 0 5 62 0 5 1J4 0 6 4 0 6 «i 0 7 12 0 5 10 0 6 3 0 6 8 0 7 1 0 7 6 0 6 15 0 6 64 0 7 O 0 7 Si 0 7 1°5 0 6 5 0 6 104 •0 7 4 0 7 92 0 8 3 0 6 0 7 24 0 7 8 0 8 it 0 8 72 0 7 O 0 7 6 0 8 O 0 8 6 0 9 0 0 7 32 0 7 94 0 8 4 0 8 ioi 0 9 42 0 7 7 0 8 14 0 8 8 0 9 25 0 9 9, 0 7 ioi 0 8 5i 0 9 0 0 9 64 0 10 12 0 8 2 0 8 9 0 9 4 0 9 1 1 0 10 6 0 8 52 0 9 °i -0 9 8 0 10 3t 0 10 105 0 8 9 0 9 44 0 lo 0 0 io 72 0 11 3 0 9 °4 0 9 84 0 10 4 0 10 i»t 0 11 75 0 9 4 0 10 O 0 10 8 0 11 4 0 12 0 0 9 74 0 10 0 11 O 0 11 8i 0 12 45 0 9 11 0 10 74 0 11 4 0 12 02 0 12 9 0 10 2i 0 10 ll4 0 11 8 0 1 2 4i 0 13 l£ 0 10 6 0 11 3 0 12 O 0 12 9 0 13 6 0 10 94 0 11 6i 0 12 4 0 13 ii 0 13 105 0 11 1 0 11 l04 0 12 8 0 13 52 o' 14 3 0 11 44 0 12 *4 0 13 0 0 13 9t 0 14 7l 0 11 8 0 12 6 0 13 4 0 14 2 0 15 O 0 11 n* 0 12 9i 0 13 8 0 14 6i 0 15 45 0 12 3 0 13 *4 0 14 0 0 14 1 °z 0 15 9 0 12 64 0 13 54 0 14 4 0 15 2i 0 16 4 0 12 10 0 ‘3 9 0 14 8 0 i5 7 0 16 6 0 13 0 *4 0-4 0 15 O 0 15 ni 0 10 IC5 0 13 5 0 »4 45 0 15 4 0 ib 3a 0 17 3 0 13 84 0 14 84 0 15 8 0 16 li 0 17 7l 0 14 0 0 15 O 0 l6 0 0 17 0 0 18 O 0 14 34 0 >5 3i 0 16 4 0 17 4i 0 18 45 0 14 7 0 15 74 0 16 8 0 17 85 0 1B 9 0 14 i°4 0 15 Hi 0 17 0 0 18 °t 0 19 15 0 15 2 0 16 3 0 17 4 0 18 5 0 19 6 0 15 65 0 16 64 0 17 8 0 18 9i 0 19 ioi 0 15 9 0 16 104 0 18 O 0 19 ii 1 0 3 0 l6 °4 0 17 24 0 18 4 0 19 5t 1 0 7& 0 16 4 0 17 6 0 18 8 0 19 10 1 1 O 1 4 6 1 6 3 1 8 0 1 9 9 1 11 6 1 9 2 1 u 3 1 >3 4 1 15 5 1 17 0 1 12 8 1 15 0 1 17 4 1 19 8 2 9. 0[ 447 3 MARKETING TABLES, from FOUR-PENCE THREE-FARTHINCS to MARKt XINU xa slx;pEKcE pcr poUND, &c. I 1 4o. of bs. See. 4 pence 4 1. s. d. 5 Pence. 1. s. d. 2 0 0 92 0 0 10 3 0 1 24 0 1 3 4 0 1 7, 018 5 0 i Hi 021 6 0 2 44 026 7 0 2 g4 O 2 11 8 032 034 9 0 3 64 039 IO 0 3 “2 042 1 1 0 4 44 047 12 0 4. 9 050 *3 0 5 055 *4 0 5 6| 0 5 10 15 0 5 n4 063 l6 064 068 17 0 6 84 071 18 0 7 14 076 *9 0 7 64 O 7 11 20 0 711 084 21 O 8 34 089 22 0 8 84 (D92 23 0 9 >4 097 24 096 0 10 0 25 0 9 104 0 10 5 26 0 10 34 0 IO 10 27 0 is 84 on 3 [28 Oil I 0 11 8 29 ■on 54 012 1 30 0 11 105 0186 31 0 12 34 O 12 11 32 0 12 8 0 13 4 33 0 13 o| 0 13 9 34 0 13 5s 014 2 35 0 13 104 014 7 36 0 14 3 0 15 0 37 0 14 74 0 15 5 38 0 15 05 0 15 10 39 0 15 54 0163 40 0 15 10 0 16 8 41 0 16 24 017 1 42 0 16 7^ 017 6 43 0 17 o4 0 17 n 44 0 17 r, 018 4 45 O 17 94 0189 46 0l8 2^ 0 19 2 47 0l8 7| 0 19 7 48 O 19 O 1 • O O 49 O 19 44 1 0 5 50 0 19 94 1 0 10 5» 1 0 24 1 1 3 52 1 0 7 ll8 53 I 0 111 1 2 I 54 1 1 44 126 55 1 1 94 1 2 ll [56 12 2 1 3 4 J84 1100 [112 1 »3 3 1 15 0 1 19 7 218 | 2 4 4 268 0 id| 1 3i 2? 75 oa 1 2 2 3 3 6 3 4 4z 4 94 O 5 3 O 5 84 O 6 *4 O 6 64 O 7 0 O 7 54 0 7 104 O 8 34 O 8 9 O 9 24 O 9 74 O 10 O4 O 10 6 O 10 n4 O 11 45 0 11 94 0 12 3 0 12 84 0 13 i4 0 *3 64 0 *4 0 0 M 54 0 14 104 0 15 34 0 15 9 0 16 24 0 16 75 0 17 °4 0 i7 6 0 17 n4 0 18 44 0 18 94 0 19 3 0 19 84 1 0 i4 I 0 64 .*>4 1 »05 2 34 2 3 3 4 4 6 1 16 9 2 3 9 9 nO 7t °4 O O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o • o o o o 0 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 2 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 io 10 i i i i i i 12 12 13 *3 *4 *4 *5 15 16 16 16 x7 17 18 18 *9 x9 o 0 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 18 5 i i 111 A 11 31 82 2 1 72 1 62 o 1 52 11 i 42 IO 1 32 9-i 25 8 i 12 u 6 112 5x 102 9^ ii 2 73 I 6h o 55 11 4 io 34 t* 8 6 io 4 «4 84 H 8 8 i| 8 75 9 *4 9 73 0 10 o^ O 10 62 Oil O^ on 6 o II ll| o 12 55 0 12 1 i4 0 13 5 o 13 1 of 014 4! o 14 iOj 0 15 4 0 15 9f ° 16 32 O 16 95 0173 017 84 018 25 o 18 85 o ig 2 0 19 ll 5 Pence 4 1. s. d- 5 Pence § 1. s. d. 6 Pence. 1. s. d. O O 1 l 0 0 1 is O 1 O O 1 45 0 I 54 O I 6 O 1 10 0 I I I O 0 O O 2 35 0 2 44 0 2 6 O 2 9 0 2 105 0 3 0 O 3 24 0 3 44 0 3 6 O 3 8 0 3 10 0 4 0 O 4 15 0 4 34 0 4 6 O 4 7, 0 4 95 0 5 O O 5 02 0 5 34 0 5 6 O 5 .6 0 5 9 0 6 O , *2 74 64 °5 64 o 5s 3 llS 4 54 4 “a 5 4f 5 1 °2 6 44 6 10 ° 3 2 7 11 2 13 8 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 o 10 0 10 O 1 I on 012 012 o Ig o 13 o 14 O 14 0 *5 0 15 O 16 O 16 o 17 o 17 o 18 o 18 o If) 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 10 2 16 *9 o 0 1 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8[ 448 1 MARKETING TABLES, from SIX-PENCE HALF-PENNY to NINC- PENCE per POUND, &c. No. or 6 Pence t 7 Pence. 7 Pence A 8 Pence. 8 Pence £ 9 Pence. lbs. &c. 1. 8. d. 1. s. d. 1. 8. d. 1. s. d. I. s. d. 1. s. 1. 2 0 1 1 0 1 2 0 1 3 O 1 4 0 1 5 0 1 6 3 0 1 7 4 0 1 9 0 0 H H 0 2 O 0 2 15 0 2 3 4 0 2 2 0 2 4 0 2 6 0 2 8 0 2 10 0 3 O 5 0 2 84 0 2 1 0 3 i4 0 3 4 0 3 62 0 3 9 6 0 3 3 0 3 6 0 3 9 0 4 O 0 4 3 0 4 6 7 0 3 92 0 4 1 0 4 45 0 4 8 0 4 115 0 5 3 8 0 4 4 0 4 8 0 5 O 0 5 4 0 5 8 0 '6 0 9 0 4 i°4 0 5 3 0 5 75 0 6 O 0 b 45 0 6 9 10 0 5 5 0 5 10 0 6 3 0 6 8 0 7 1 0 7 b 11 0 5 115 0 6 5 0 6 105 0 7 4 0 7 95 0 8 3 12 0 6 6 0 7 O 0 7 6 0 8 O 0 8 b 0 9 O *3 0 7 O5 0 7 7 0 8 15 0 8 8 0 9 25 0 9 9 *4 0 7 7 0 8 2 0 8 9 0 9 4 0 9 u 0 IO 6 15 0 8 1-2 0 8 9 0 9 45 0 lO O 0 10 75 0 1 1 3 16 0 8 8 0 9 4 0 lo O 0 10 8 0 11 4 0 12 O 17 0 9 25 0 9 11 0 10 75 0 11 4 0 12 °4 0 12 9 18 0 9 9, 0 lO 6 0 11 3 0 12 O 0 12 9 0 13 6 19 0 10 35 0 11 1 0 11 1°4 0 12 8 0 13 54 0 14 3 20 0 10 10 0 1 1 8 0 12 6 0 13 4 0 14 2 0 15 0 21 0 ll 45 0 12 3 0 >3 0 14 O 0 14 lot 0 15 9 22 0 11 11 0 12 lO 0 »3 9 0 14 8 0 15 7 0 16 6 23 0 12 55 0 13 5 0 14 45 0 15 4 0 16 35 0 17 3 24 0 13 0 0 l4 O 0 15 O 0 16 O 0 17 O 0 l8 0 25 0 13 64 0 14 7 0 L5 75 0 lb 8 0 17 8£ 0 18 9 26 0 14 1 0 15 2 0 l6 3 0 17 4 0 1& 5 0 19 6 27 0 14 75 0 15 9 0 l6 io£ 0 18 O 0 i9 15 1 0 3 r28 0 15 2 0 l6 4 0 17 6 0 18 8 0 i9 10 I 1 0 29 0 15 85 0 l6 ll 0 18 15 0 19 4 1 O 65 1 I 9 3° 0 16 3 0 17 6 0 l8 9 1 0 O 1 1 3 1 2 6 31 0 16 95 0 18 1 0 19 45 l 0 8 1 1 115 1 3 3 32 0 i7 4 0 18 8 1 O O 1 1 4 1 2 8 I 4 O 33 0 i7 loi 0 19 3 1 O 75 1 2 O 1 3 4i l 4 9 34 0 l8 5 0 19 10 1 1 3, 1 8 1 4 1 1 5 6 35 0 1& i4 1 0 5 1 1 lot 1 3 4 1 4 95 1 6 3 36 0 i9 6 1 1 O 1 2 6 1 4 O 1 5 6 1 7 O 37 1 O °4 1 1 7 1 3 4 1 4 8 1 6 24 1 7 9 38 1 O 7 1 2 2 1 3 9, 1 6 4 1 6 I 1 l 8 6 39 1 1 i4 1 0 9 1 4 45 1 6 O 1 7 74 l 9 3 4° 1 1 8 1 3 4 1 5 O 1 0 8 1 8 4 1 IO O 41 1 O 22 1 3 1 1 1 5 75 1 7 4 1 9 °4 I 10 9 42 1 2 9 1 4 6 1 6 3 1 8 O 1 9 9, 1 11 6 43 1 3 35 1 5 1 1 6 i°4 1 8 8 1 10 54 1 12 3 44 1 3 lO 1 5 8 1 7 6 1 9 4 1 ll 2 1 13 O 45 1 4 44 1 6 3 1 8 1 10 O 1 11 i°4 1 13 9 46 1 4 11 1 6 lO 1 8 9 1 10 8 1 12 7 1 14 6 47 1 5 55 1 J1 5 1 9 44 1 11 4 1 >3 34 1 15 3 48 1 6 0 1 8 O 1 10 0 1 12 O 1 >4 O 1 ib O 49 1 6 64 1 8 7 1 10 75 1 12 8 1 14 83 1 16 9 5° 1 7 1 1 9 0 1 11 3 1 13 4 1 *5 5, I 17 6 51 1 7 74 1 9 9 1 11 i°4 1 *4 O X 16 i4 1 18 3 52 1 8 2 1 lO 4 1 12 6 1 »4 8 1 ib 10 I 19 0 53 1 8 84 1 lO U 1 >3 >4 1 15 4 1 17 64 1 19 9 54 1 9 3 1 1 1 6 1 13 9 1 l6 0 1 18 3 2 0 6 55" 1 9 94 1 12 1 1 »4 44 1 l6 8 X 18 n4 2 1 3 r 56 1 10 4 1 12 8 1 15 0 1 17 4 1 19 8 2 2 0 [84 2 5 6 2 9 O 2 12 6 2 16 0 2 19 6 3 3 0 [100 [ 112 2 «4 2 2 18 4 3 2 6 3 6 8 8 3 10 IO 3 15 0 3 O 8 3 5 4 3 10 0 3 l4 3 >9 4 4 4 0 —.— ^[ 449 ] . MARKETING TABLES, from NINE-PENCE HALF-PENNY to ONE SHILLING per POUND, &c. No. ot lbs. &c. q Pence. 5 1. s. d 10 Pence. 1 1. s. 'd. ' 2 0 1 7 018 3 0 to rc<*- 026 4 o 3 2 0 3 4 5 0 3 115 042 6 0 4 9 050 7 0 5 65 0 5 10 8 064 068 9 O 7 076 10 0 7 11 084 11 0 8 092 12 096 0 10 0 13 0 10 35 0 10 10 14 011 1 011 8 15 0 u io£ 012 6 l6 0 i2 8 0134 17 O 13 55 014 2 l8 0 14 3 0150 19 0 15 °5 0 15 10 20 0 15 10 016 8 21 0 16 7s 017 6 22 0 i7 5 018 4 23 0 18 2± 019 2 24 0 i9 0 1 0 0 2.5 0 19 9s 1 010 26 1 0 7 ll8 27 1 1 45 126 [28 1 2 2 13 4 29 1 2 H5 142 30 1 3 9 1 5 0 3l 1 4 1 5 10 32 1 5 4 1 6 8 33 1 6 i* 176 34 1 611 184 35 1 7 85 1 9 2 36 i 8 6 1 10 0 37 1 9 35 1 10 10 33 1 10 1 1 n 8 39 1 10 105 112 6 40 111 8 1 13 4 41 112 si 1 14 2 42 1 13 3 1 15 0 43 114 05 1 15 10 44 1 14 10 116 8 45 1 1.5 75 117 6' 46 1 16 5 118 4 47 1 17 2\ 1 19 2 48 118 0 2 0 0 49 i i3 92 2 0 10 50 1 19 7 218 5‘ 2 0 45 226 52 2 12 2 3 4 53 2- 1 ll£ 242 54 229 2 5 ° 55 2 3 6i 2 5 10 56 244 268 J84 366 3100 1 100 3192 4 3 4 1 1 1 2 -488 4 1.3 4 s. d. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 4 4 1. 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 io i i 1 2 J 3 J4 14 16 *7 18 *9 0 _i 1 2 3 4 5 6 72 6 42 ?* o io£ ?4 6 4a U o 105 ?* 6 45 o 105 •rt 6 45 ?* 7 8 o 8 105 9, 75 6 4i 9 10 11 12 13 3 14 J5 15 o 15 I05 16 9 17 18 >9 0 1 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 7 18 45 3 *5 o lo| 7i 6 4 3 o 6 6 o li Pence- 1. s. d. 1 1 1. Pence £ s. d. 1 Shil. 1. s. O 1 10 O 1 1 0 2 O 2 9 0 2 lo£ 0 3 O 3 8 0 31°. 0 4 0 4 7 0 4 95 0 5 0 5 6 0 5 9, 0 6 0 6 5 0 6 8 i 0 7 0 7 4 0 7 8 0 8 0 8 3 0 8 75 0 9 0 9 2 0 9 7. 0 10 J 0 IO 1 0 10 6| 0 11 0 1 1 0 0 1 6 0 12 0 1 1 11 0 12 55 0 13 0 12 10 0 13 5, 0 14 0 13 9 0 14 45 0 *5 0 14 8 0 15 4, 0 16 i 0 15 7 0 l6 35 0 17 0 16 6 0 17 3 0 18 0 17 5 0 18 2s 0 19 0 18 4 0 19 2 1 0 0 19 3 1 O J2 1 1 1 O 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 °5 1 3 1 2 O 1 3 O 1 4 1 2 11 1 3 115 1 5 1 3 10 1 4 11 1 6 1 4 9 1 5 IO5 1 7 1 5 8 1 6 10 1 8 1 6 7 1 7 95 1 9 1 7 6 1 8 9 1 10 1 8 5 1 9 «5 1 II 1 9 4 1 10 8 1 12 1 10 3 1 11 75 1 *3 1 11 2 1 12 7 1 14 1 1 2 1 1 13 6i 1 15 1 13 0 1 i4 6 1 16 1 13 11 1 i5 55 1 17 1 14 10 1 16 5 1 18 1 15 9 1 17 45 1 *9 1 16 8 1 18 4 2 O 1 17 7 1 19 35 2 I 1 18 6 2 0 3 2 2 1 19 5 2 1 2S 2 3 2 0 4 2 0 2 2 4 2 1 3 2 3 15 2 5 2 2 2 2 4 1 2 6 2 3 1 2 5 °5 2 7 2 4 O 2 b O 2 8 2 4 11 2 6 115 2 9 2 5 10 2 7 1 l 2 10 2 6 9 2 8 lO’S 2 I I 2 7 8 2 9 Jo 2 12 2 8 7 2 10 9! 2 ‘3 2 9 6 2 11 9, 2 *4 2 10 5 2 12 8i 2 15 2 11 4 2 13 8 2 16 3 17 0 4 O 6 4 4 4 11 8 4 1.5 10 5 O 5 2 8 1 5 7 4 5 1 00 l 70 0 0 0 0 280 0 0 0 365° [ 45° ] TABLE of Expenccs, Income, or Wages, by the Day, Week, Month, and Year, trom One Penny to Teu Pounds per Day, how much per Week, and Year. Per Day. 1. s. d. 1 per Week, 1. s. d. per Month. 1. s. d. per Year. 1. s. d. o o I O 0 7 0 2 4 1 10 5 o o 2 0 1 2 0 4 8 3 0 10 o o 3 0 > 9 9 7 O 4 I 3 o o 4 0 2 4 0 9 4 6 1 8 o o 5 0 2 I 1 0 I I 8 7 2 I o 0 6 0 3 6 0 14 O 9 2 6 0 o 7 0 4 1 0 16 4 10 13 1 I o o 8 0 4 8 0 t8 8 I 2 3 4 o 0 9 0 5 3 X 1 0 13 '3 9 o 0 to 0 5 i° I 3 4 15 4 4 6 o It 0 6 5 1 5 8 l6 ‘4 7 o I 0 0 7 0 1 8 0 18 5 0 o 2 0 0 4 0 216 0 36 10 0 o 3 0 I 1 0 4 4 0 54 l5 0 o 4 0 I 8 0 512 0 73 O 0 o 5 0 I '5 0 7 ° 0 91 5 0 0 6 0 2 2 0 8 8 0 109 IO 0 o 7 0 2 9 0 9 16 0 127 15 0 0 8 0 2 16 0 11 4 0 146 O 0 o 9 0 is ^ 3 3 0 12 12 0 164 5 0 o to 0 3 IO 0 14 0 0 182 IO 0 o 11 0 3 17 0 15 8 0 to 0 0 15 0 o 12 0 4 O 16 16 0 219 O 0 o 13 0 4 I 1 O 18 4 0 237 5 0 o 14 0 4 CO O 19 12 0 255 10 0 o ■5 0 5 5 0 21 O 0 2/3 15 0 o 16 0 5 12 O 22 8 0 292 0 0 0 >7 0 5 19 0 23 16 0 310 5 0 o 18 0 6 ’6 0 25 4 0 328 IO 0 D 19 0 6 13 0 26 12 0 346 14 0 1 O 0 7 O O 28 0 0 365 O 0 2 O 0 J4 0 0 56 0 0 730 O 0 3 O 0 21 0 0 84 0 0 1095 O 0 4 O 0 28 0 0 It2 O 0 1460 O 0 5 O 0 35 0 0 140 0 0 1825 O 0 6 O 0 42 0 0 168 O 0 2190 O 0 7 O 0 49 0 0 196 O 0 2555 O 0 8 0 0 56 0 0 224 0 0 2Q20 0 0 9 0 0 63 0 0 252 0 0 328.5 0 0 10 .[ 451 ] TABLE of Expences, Income, or Wages, by the Year, Lunar Month, Week* and Day, from One Pound to 40,000 Pounds per Year, how much per Month, Week, or Day. perYear." £■ per Month 1. s. d. per Week. 1. s. d. f. per Day. 1. s. d. f. 1 0 I 8 0 O 4 2 O O O 1 2 0 3 4 0 O 9 1 O O 1 3 3 0 5 0 0 i 3 3 O O 2 1 4 0 6 8 0 1 6 2 O O 2 3 5 0 8 4 0 1 I 1 O O O .3 1 6 0 10 O 0 2 3 2 O O 4 O 7 0 ll 8 0 2 8 0 O O 4 3 8 0 >3 4 0 3 1 O O 0 5 1 9 0 O 0 3 5 2 O 0 6 O 10 0 l6 8 0 3 10 0 O O 6 2 20 J >3 4 0 7 8 O O 1 I O 3° 4 10 O 0 11 6 0 O 1 7 2 40 3 6 8 0 15 4 0 0 2 2 I 5° 4 3 4 0 ‘9 2 0 0 2 8 2 60 5 O 0 1 3 O 0 0 3 3 2 . 7° 5 16 8 1 T5 1 0 0 0 3 IO O 80 6 *3 4 I 10 8 0 0 4 4 2 90 7 10 0 1 ■4 6 0 0 4' 11 0 100 8 6 8 1 18 4 0 0 5 5 3 200 16 >3 4 3 l6 8 0 0 10 11 2 S00 25 O O 5 *5 O 0 0 x6 5 1 400 33 6 8 7 *3 4 0 I 1 I 1 O 500 4i l3 4 9 1 I 8 0 1 7 4 3 6co 5° 0 0 I 1 10 0 0 1 12 IO 2 700 58 6 8 13 8 4 0 1 18 4 I 800 66 *3 4 15 6 8 0 2 3 IO 0 9°o 75 O O 17 5 O 0 2 9 3 3 1000 83 6 8 »9 3 4 0 2 J4 9 2 2000 16 5 *3 4 38 6 8 0 5 9 7 O 3000 250 O O 57 10 0 0 8 4 4 2 4000 333 6 8 76 13 4 0 10 »9 2 O 5000 416 J3 4 95 16 8 0 13 13 11 2 6000 500 O O 115 0 0 0 16 8 9 0 7000 583 6 8 5 34 3 4 0 !9 3 6 2 8000 666 »3 4 J53 6 8 0 21 18 4 1 9000 75° O 0 172 IO 0 0 24 13 1 2 10000 833 6 8 191 13 4 0 27 W 11 I 20000 1666 !3 4 383 6 8 0 54 15 10 2 30000 2500 O O 574 19 0 0 82 3 10 0 40000 l 3333 6 8 767 22. 4 0 109 1 I 9 0 THE END. i /RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars /< Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification S' Lamination sS Solvents Leather Treatment *S Adhesives UDV&Y-r (WzTt ^ 0-A - 220?l Remarks