ADVERTISER. 1 "Excellent in Flavour. Free from any Adulteration."—THE LANCET. PRODUITS. TRADE MARK. ALlMENTAIRES. THIRTEEN DIPLOMAS OF HONOUR AND PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED FOR PURITY AND EXCELLENCE. SENN'S HIGH-CLA88 TABLE DELICACIES. SAVOURY MEAT AND FISH PATES. A GREAT DELICACY FOR Breakfast^ Luncheo7t^ and Suppers^ Sandwiches^ Toast^ and Biscuits, SENN'S TOMATO MUSTARD. DELICIOUS FLAVOUR. ECONOMICAL SEASONING. SENN'S HYGIENIC CAVIARE, Free from Superfluous Salt and OiL Appetising and Digestive, FOIEGRAS PATES, GAME PATES. CARDINALIS (Meat Extract) for Soups, Sauces, and Made Dishes. PRESERVED SOUPS, ENTREES, FRUITS, AND VEGETABLES. EOREiaN BISCUITS, SAUSAGES, COMESTIBLES, Etc. Most of Senn's Table Delicacies can be obtained at principal Stores, Grocers, Provision Merchants, etc. OH. H. SENN, Vauxhall Bridge Ed., Victoria St., London. TELEGRAMS: COMESTIBLE, LONDON, aADVERTISER. IMPROVED AND ECONOMIC COOKERY. Use LIEBIC COMPANYS EXTRACT OF MEAT, and see each Jar bears THE FACSIMILE OF BARON JUSTUS VON LIEBIG'S SIGNATURE IN BLUE. "No Soups, Sauces, Gravies, or made- dishes are perfect without an addition of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat."— FRANCA TELLI\ Chef de Cuisine to ihe late Emperor of the French.(\/\l6^ ^ I j WELLCOME INSTITUTE THE NATIONAL '-'BRARY TRAINING SCHOOL FOB COOKERY, Buckingham Palace Eoab, S-W. HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY EECIPES, AS TAUGHT IN THE SCHOOL. PEEPAEED BY MRS. CHARLES CLARKE,' THE LADY SUPERINTENDENT. THIIiD EDITION, LONDON: FEINTED AND PUBLISHED FOB THE LADY SUPEEINTENDENT OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, 13, CHAEIKG CROSS. S.W. 1890. {All rigJits lesei'ved.^Carriage Free on Orders over 40s. to any Station ~ in England and Wales. HKAIa & SON 195 to 198, TOTTENHAM COURT ROAD, BEDSTEADS, BEDDING EAL & SON, who have been Manufacturers for 70 years, J- J- and make all their Bedding on the Premises as above, under their own personal supervision, are the only retailers of Bedding who Dress and Purify their own Feathers and Downs. Their Sommier Elastique Portatif, of which they have sold 35,000, is the best Spring Mattress yet invented. EYE^Y DE^ORIP3FI0]5 0E W0YEJ5 WI^E ^]5D CP}?I]S A CATALOGUE, containing 700 IllMstrations of Bed- steads and Bedroom Furniture, sent free by post. 195 to 198, TOTTENHAM COURT ROAD, W.SUMMARY OF THE NATIONAC/ TBAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Pairow—H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES, K.G. President—THE DUKE OF WESTMINSTER, K.G. EXECUTIVE C03IMITTEE. The Hon. E. F. Leveson Gower, M.P., Cliairman. The Duke of Beaufort, K.G. The Duke of Abercorn, C.B. The Marquis of Northampton, K.G. Lord Arthur Russell, F.R.G.S. Col. The Hon. W. P. Talbot. Capt. The Hon. John Manners Yorke, R.N. The Hon. Lyulph Stanley. Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart., G.C.M.G. Sir Philip Cunliffe-Owen, K.C.M.G. K.C.B., CLE. James Bateman, Esq., F.R.S. \V. L. A. B. Burdett-Coutts, Esq., M.P. Lady SupeHntenient—MTs, Charles Clarke. Students are admitted to train for Teachers either by paying the Tees or by Votes of Subscribers. Classes for Cooks and Students. £ sJji, ScuUery Cleaning, for five Lessons 10 a.m. to 12 Noon 0 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Demonstrations 10 a.m. to 12 Noon 0 4 6 Ten High-Class Demonstrations 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 0 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Practice Lessons 11 a.m. to 4^p.h. 2 2 0 Ten High-Class Practice Lessons 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 3 3 0 Single Lessons, from 6c7. to 10s. Qd,SUMMARY OF RULES, FEES, ETC. iv March, 1890. Fees to be paid on entry. Dishes cooked in the School are for sale every day (except Saturday) at cost price. Classes held in any part of the United Kingdom, if forty people will take tickets at 4^. 6d. for ten lessons, and thirty at IO5. 6d. for ten lessons. Teachers sent to all parts for private lessons at moderate fees. Tor full particulars, apply to the Secretary of the School. Edith Clarke, Lady Superintendent.PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. The extra Vork entailed upon me for the last twelve months in consequence of moving this School from its old and inadequate quarters in the Exhibition Eoad, South Kensington, to these large premises, built expressly to meet all our requirements, have made it impossible for me to write the new recipes in time for this Edition of my book. I have therefore put them all into a separate book, which I hope my readers will not find inconvenient. Visitors to the old School will be pleased to find us settled in this large building, the handsome kitchens of which are now full to overflowing. Here we can also take some of our pupils to board and lodge, and can promise them very comfortable quarters at reason- able terms. The first floor consists of our sitting rooms, the second floor of ladies' bedrooms and bathrooms, and the third floor of bedrooms for cooks taking lessons. The secretary's room, the restaurant, and six kitchens and sculleries are all on the ground floor, while the basement contains cellars, larders, store rooms, and servants' hallVi PKEFACE TO THE THIED EDITION". March, 1890. The situation mil be found most convenient, in the Buckingham Palace Eoad, close to Victoria Station, and nearly opposite the Grosvenor Hotel, so that Ave are in easy reach by omnibus and train of all parts of London and the suburbs. Ladies shopping in the Buckingham Palace Eoad will find our restaurant a convenient place for luncheons and afternoon tea; the room is large and airy, and the tables well appointed. The dishes are made of the best materials, well cooked, well served, and the tariff is moderate. The uncheons are a la carte, and next month we hope to serve dinners at a set price in the evenings from 6 to 8 o'clock. Edith Clauke, Lady Superintendent,PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. This Edition contains a good many fresh recipes of all kinds, and the old ones have been thoroughly- revised. Indian Curries form a new feature, the recipes for which I collected last summer in the Colonial and Indian Exhibition, from a native of Madras. I give also the recipe for making the Curry Powder, which we prepared fresh every morning in the Exhibition; it is a good deal of trouble, but the result is well worth it. Among these Indian dishes will be found one about the name of which I feel very doubtful; our native called it " MoUet" and spelt it so; this conveys nothing to my mind, and I have failed for so far to discover among my old Indian friends any particular meaning for it, so it must go forth on the authority of the native; I have added a sort of explanation and called it an " Indian Breakfast Dish." Edith Clarke, Lady SujQe7Hntendent, February 1887.NOTE. To insure good frying, the heat of the fat should bo tested by a fryometer; the right heat for Whitebait is not less than 400°, for Fish from 360° to 375°, and for Meat from 375° to 380^. If oil is used it must be much hotter than either fat or lajd. The fryometers and oven thermometers used in the School have the correct heats for various cookings marked on the scale, and a^ " made by Messrs. Joseph Davies & Co., Fitzroy Works, S.E.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. SOUPS, Stock. Ingredients, Four pounds Shin of Beef. One Carrot. . One Turnip. One Onion. Half a head of Celery, One teaspoonful of Salt. Four quarts of Water. Cut the meat off the shin of beef into small pieces. Break the bones and remove the marrow. Put the meat, bones, and water into a stock-pot, add the salt, and remove the scum as it rises. When the stock is thoroughly skimmed and^ boiling, put in the vegetables, all well washed and cut up in large pieces. Avoid the use of spices and herbs in making stocks, and do not use much salt: these seasonings can be added later when you finish the soups made from this stock. Let the stock boil slowly for at least five hours ; then BHiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 2 strain it through a hair sieve into a basin, and let it get cold. White stock is made in this way, only use knuckle of veal instead of beef, and bones of poultry, all white meat. Consomme. Ingredients. Three pints of Stock. Half a pound of lean Beef, One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. Scrape or chop up the beef very finely. Clean the vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces. Carefully remove all the fat from the stock, which is now a jelly, and put it into a stewpan; add the scraped meat and vegetables, stir all to- gether over the fire until just on boiling point, then take out the whisk and let the soup boil up well; it should then be clear. Take a clean cloth, fix it on a soupstand, and pour boiling water through it, to wash and warm it thoroughly. Pour the contents of the stewpan gently on to this cloth, let it run through slowly twice. This is consomme, and can be served as a variety of soups named according to what is served in them.3 SOUPS. Consomme a la Rachel. Ingredients, Clear consomme, to which is added some very small quenelles made in teaspoons. One part coloured with pounded Tarragon. One part coloured with Lobster Coral. One part coloured with Truffles pounded. These quenelles must be all mixed separately, poached separately, and kept in cold water until the soup is ready. Put them into the tureen and pour the boiling consomme on them. Consomme a la Royale. Ingredients, Three pints of Consomme, Custard to serve in the Consomme. Ingredients. Three Yolks of Eggs, One White of Egg. One gill of Stock. A little Salt. Beat up the eggs with the stock and a little salt; strain this into a well-buttered gallipot, cover it over with a piece of kitchen paper buttered, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam it very gently for fifteen minutes; if steamed quickly the custard will be full of holes. When the custard is set take it out of the sauce- B 2HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 4 pan and let it get cool, then turn it out of the gallipot, cut it into small rounds, diamonds or fancy shapes, put them into the tureen and pour the boiling consomme on them. Consomme au Riz. Ingredients. Two quarts of White Stock. Four tablespoonfuls of ground Rice. Half a pint of boiling Cream. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Salt to taste. Put the stock, which must be white and freed from fat, in a stewpan; when nearly boiling, stir in the ground rice, or better still, Trench flour of rice, which is smoother; stir well, and let it boil for ten minutes. Add the seasoning but not any pepper; then, when boiled sufficiently, add the cream^ and strain before serving. Consomme aux CEufs Files. Ingredients, One quart of Consomme, One Egg. One dessertspoonful of Flour. One tablespoonful of Milk. Seasoning. Put the soup on to boil. Mix the egg, flour,SOUPS. 5 milk, and seasoning together like a batter. Pass this batter through a very fine funnel or strainer into the boiling soup. It should look like threads. Consomme d'Orleans. Ingredients, One quart of Consomme. Quarter pound of Quenelle Meat. Divide the quenelle meat into three portions ; make one a nice green with spinach colouring, another red with beetroot colouring or coral, then shape the quenelles in teaspoons and poach as usual; there should be an equal number of red, green, and white quenelles. Serve these in the consomme. Consomme a la Sevigne. Ingredients, One quart of Consomme. Two ounces of cooked Chicken. Two Eggs. Three tablespoonfuls of Milk. Twelve drops of Almond Essence. Salt, Cayenne, and Nutmeg. Pound the chicken and pass it through a hair sieve. Then mix with it the eggs, milk, salt, cayenne, nutmeg, and almond essence. When thoroughly blended, turn the mixture into threeHiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 6 or four small dariole moulds well greased, and steam slowly for twenty minutes, or until set. Turn out very carefully, cut into fancy shapes, and serve in the consomme. A few asparagus points and chervil leaves may also be served in this soup. Carrot Soup a la Dressy. Ingredients. Six large Carrots. Two Onions. One head of Celery. Four ounces of raw Ham or Bacon. Two ounces of Butter. Three pints of Stock. One gin of Cream. Half a teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Pepper and Salt, and fried Croiitons. Peel off the red part of the carrots, and put into a stewpan with the onions sliced, the celery cut up, and the ham cut up, add two ounces of butter, put the lid on close and simmer over the fire gently for ten minutes, then add two pints of stock and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender. Drain off the stock, pound the carrots, &c., in the mortar, add the stock they were cooked in and one pint more, pass all through a tammy cloth or fine hair sieve. Eeturn this puree to the stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it boils, then stand it by the fire to clear itself of all grease, which must be taken off with a spoon as it rises. Let it boil7 SOUPS. gently for a quarter of an hour, add one gill of cream, half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt. Serve with fried croutons handed separately. Clear Mock Turtle. Ingredients, Half a Calf 8 Head. Six pounds of Knuckle Veal. Eight ounces of raw Ham. One Carrot. One Turnip. Two Onions. Twelve Cloves. One head of Celery. A bunch of Sweet Basil, Marjoram, Thyme, Lemon Thyme and Parsley. One blade of Mace. One quart of Stock. Two pounds of lean Beef. Half pint of Madeira. A pinch of Cayenne. A teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. Some small quenelles. A little Salt. Egg Balls. Bone half a calf s head and parboil it in plenty of cold water with a little salt for twenty minutes. Take it out, let it get cold, then trim away all the rough parts. Place the half head in a stewpan with the knuckle of veal, ham, all the vege- tables cleaned and cut up, all the herbs and a quart of stock ; let this all boil quickly until the stock is reduced to a glaze, then fill up the stew-HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 8 pan with cold water (about two quarts) ; when it boils, skim it well and keep it gently boiling until the calf s head is quite tender; lift the head carefully out with a slice and set it aside to get cooL Strain the stock through a hair sieve or cloth, when cold remove all the grease and clarify it with the two pounds of beef scraped (proceed as in Consomme). When clarified, cut up some of the calf s head into pieces one inch square, put these into the soup with the Maderia, cayenne, lemon juice, salt to taste; egg balls and small quenelles. Egg Balls. Six hard boiled eggs and four yolks of egg ; pound all in a mortar and rub through a hair sieve, then sift a little flour over them on a board, roll them into balls the size of marbles, poach them very carefully, add them to the mock turtle soup just before sending to table. Clear Mulligatawny, Ingredients. Three quarts of Second Stock. I'oTlr Onions. Six Apples. Two Shalots. Four whites of Eggs. One Leek.SOUPS. 9 Six Cardamom Seeds. One tablespoonful of Mustard Seed. Three tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Paste. One tablespoonful of Salt. Juice of one Lemon. Put all the ingredients in a stewpan, with the exception of the lemon-juice and eggs; add the stock, and let it boil for two hours. When it is cold, add four whites of eggs, beaten up with a little cold water. Let the soup boil up again, and, when clarified, strain through a clean cloth; then add the lemon-juice, and serve with some pieces of cooked chicken and well-boiled rice; the chicken served with the soup, the rice served separately. Garbure d'Oseille a la Parisienne. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Sorrel after shredding. Two ounces of Butter. One pint of Bechamel. Twenty-four small squares of Bread. Wash and shred the sorrel. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and when hot put in the sorrel and cook about five minutes. Then add the Bechamel and boil the soup for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste. Put the squares of bread in the soup tureen and pour the soup over them.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 10 Kidney Soup. Ingredients, Four Sheep's Kidneys. The weight of the Kidneys in lean Beef. Three pints of Brown Stock. Two tablespoonfuls of Ric6. Chopped Parsley. One Onion. Four ounces of Butter. Crolites of Bread. Pepper and Salt. Cut up the kidneys and the beef into small dice, season with pepper and salt, add the onion chopped up and some parsley, saute all these for about ten minutes in the butter; pour off the grease, add the stock and rice, and boil till quite tender, then strain; pound all the meat and rice in a mortar, then pass through a tammy or fine hair sieve; stir this into the stock again, make it very hot and serve with croutes of bread. The soup must not boil after it has been passed through the tammy. Potage aux Abatis. Ingredients. Two sets of Duck Giblets. Half a head of Celery. One Carrot. One Turnip. Two Onions. A Bouquet Garni. Two Cloves.11 SOUPS. Ten Peppercorns. Two quarts of Second Stock. Half a pint of Madeira. Thirty drops of Lemon Juice. A few grains of Cayenne Pepper. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. Clean the giblets carefully and put them in a stewpan of boiling water to blanch for five minutes. Then put them into cold water, wash and scrape them, and then cut them into pieces about an inch and a half in length. Put the pieces of giblets, the stock, and the vegetables (all cleaned and cut up small) into a stewpan, add the bouquet, cloves and peppercorns, and let the whole boil for two hours, skimming occasionally. Then take out the best pieces of giblets, trim them neatly, but let the stock and remainder of giblets boil half an hour longer. Now melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the flour, and fry for a few minutes ; add the stock strained, the Madeira, lemon-juice, cayenne and the trimmed pieces of giblets, and let the whole boil twenty minutes. Potage a TAmericaine. To one quart of clear consomme add, when boiling, two tablespoonfuls of prepared tapioca; let it boil ten minutes, then add half a pint of puree of tomato, a little salt, and a little sugar. This soup is better made with fresh tomatoes.12 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. Potage a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients, Two small Lettuces. Two leaves of Sorrel. Four sprigs of Tarragon. Four sprigs of Chervil. Half a Cucumber. One ounce of Butter. - One saltspoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. One pint and a lialf of White Stock. Yolks of three Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. The crust of a French Koll. Wash the lettuces, sorrel, tarragon, and chervil, and shred them all finely. Peel the cucumber, cut it into thin slices and shred these also. Melt the butter in a stewpan, place in the shredded vegetables and herbs» and cook them for five minutes, but do not let them discolour. Sprinkle over the salt and castor sugar, add the stock, and let the vegetables boil slowly until tender. Beat the eggs and cream together. Take the stewpan containing the soup off the fire and let it cool. Then strain in the liason of eggs and cream, place the stewpan on the fire, and stir until the eggs are cooked. Put the crust of the French roll in the oven to dry for a few minutes, then cut it into small round pieces. Put these into the tureen and pour the hot soup over them.13 SOUPS. Potage Dupoise, or Mussel Soup. Ingredients, Two pints of Fish Stock. Three pints of Mussels (prepared as for Dressed Mussels). Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. A few Parsley Stalks. Half a teaspoonful of Sugar. Cayenne, Salt, Mignonnette Pepper. Lemon Juice. Half a pint of Cream. PrejDare the mussels as for dressed mussels. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix them well. Pour the fish stock and the liquor from the m,ussels to the butter and flour; add the parsley stalks, &c. Let it boil, and skim well; then strain, and add the cream and the mussels, Ee-heat without boiling, and serve. Potage aux HuTtres. Ingredients. Three dozen of Oysters. Two Whitings, or one Eel or two Flounders. Parsley Boots. One Carrot. One Stick of Celery. A little Thyme. One Blade of Mace. A few Peppercorns. Two Anchovies. Two ounces of Butter.14 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY, Two ounces of Flour. Two quarts of White Stock. ^ One gill of Cream and two yolks of Eggs. Lemon Juice, Salt, and Cayenne, Take the eel (or whitings or flounders), cut them up into pieces, and put them in a stewpan with the stock, parsley, carrot, cleaned and cut up, celery, thyme, mace, peppercorns, anchovies, and salt; let it boil up, skim it well, and let it cook for one hour, then strain it off. Put two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour into a stewpan, mix them well together, and pour in the fish- stock : stir it well, and boil for ten minutes ; then strain it through a tammy-sieve. Blanch and beard the oysters, strain them, and save the liquor Put the fish stock on the fire and make it boil, then draw it off the fire; mix the cream and yolks of eggs together, a few drops of lemon juice, and a little cayenne; pour this into the soup and stir it over the fire until the eggs are cooked, taking care it does not boil, or it will curdle. Just before serving, put in the oysters and the oyster liquor. Potage k la Hollandaise. Ingredients. One quart of Veal or Chicken Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Four yolks of Eggs. Half a pint of Cream. One gill of Green Peas cooked.15 SOUPS. One gill of Carrots cooked. One gill of Cucumber cooked. One teaspoonful of chopped Tarragon. One teaspoonful of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Salt. Trim the peas, carrots, and cucumber with a round cutter the size and shape of peas. Cook them in boiling water, being careful not to cook them too much. Put the stock on the fire to boil; when boiling, add the salt and sugar, and remove any scum. Break the yolks of eggs into a basin and add the cream (making a liason) ; add the stock to the butter and flour, and stir until it thickens; then add the liason of eggs and cream ; let it just come to a boil, being careful it does not curdle. Strain into a clean stewpan, and add the vegetables, which have been previously cooked, and the tar- ragon. Potage a la Julienne. Ingredients. One large Carrot. One small Turnip. Two Leeks. Half a head of Celery. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. One teaspoonful of Sugar. One Cabbage Lettuce. A little Tarragon and Chervil.16 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Shred the vegetables all of the same length and size. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry all the vegetables (except the lettuce, tarragon, and chervil), a light brown; add three pints of boiling consomme, the sugar and salt. Skim well until all grease is removed ; then add lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, let it boil a few minutes, and serve. Ordinary clear consomme is required for this soup. Potage a la Puree Lievre. Ingredients, One Hare. One ounce of Flour, Two ounces of Butter. Two Shalots. One smaU Onion. SmaU bouquet Garni. Blade of Mace. Quarter of a pound of lean Ham, Half a pint of White Wine, Salt, Whole Pepper, Cayenne. Two pints Second Stock. Cut up the hare in joints after it has been skinned and paunched. Do not wash it. Cut the bacon up in small pieces and butter a sauce- pan with the butter. Put the bacon and the hare in the stewpan and fry a light brown; then add the onion, &c., also the wine; boil ten minutes, add the stock, and let this simmer gently for about one hour and a half; strain through a sieve.17 remove all the meat from tlie bones, and pound in a mortar; pass the meat through a fine hair-sieve, using the liquor by degrees to pass it through with. Make it hot in a stewpan, but do not let it boil. Add seasoning if required. Potage aux Queues de Boeuf- Ingredients, One Ox-Tail. Four ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One Onion. Two Cloves. One Blade of Mace, Half a head of Celeiy. A bouquet Garni. Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. Two quarts of Second Stock. Cut the ox-tail into joints and blanch them for five minutes. Take them out of the water and wipe them dry. Melt two ounces of the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of ox-tail, the vege- tables cleaned and cut small, the herbs and the spices. Fry all these together for ten minutes. Add the stock, and the salt. Let this come to the boil, skim well, and then simmer two hours. Take another stewpan and melt two ounces of 0HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 18 butter, put in the flour, fry it a little. Then pour in the stock (which must be strained and freed from fat), stir until boiling, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste. Strain the soup into the tureen, serve in it the pieces of ox-tail and thin pieces of carrot and turnip, cut into rounds about the size of a shilling; these must be boiled tender before being put into the soup. Fausse Tortue. Ingredients, Half a Calf's Head. One Carrot. One Turnip. Half a head of Celery. One Onion. A bouquet Garni. Twenty Peppercorns. Mace, Cloves, and Salt. Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. Two glasses of Sherry. Four quarts of Water. Juice of half a Lemon. Wash and bone the head. Tie the meat in a cloth and chop the bones. Put the meat, bones, and four quarts of cold water into a stewpan, place it on the fire, add some salt, let it boil up, and skim well. Let it boil about three hours. Strain the stock into a basin to get cold, then19 SOUPS. carefully remove the fat. Now-melt the butter in a stewpan; then put in the vegetables, cleaned and cut up small, the ham cut into dice, and the herbs and spices. Fry all these for ten minutes ; add the flour, and stir well. Now add the stock, stir until boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer ten minutes. Put in the sherry, lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, and strain the soup into another stewpan. Cut some of the calf s head into small neat pieces, and serve it in the soup. Make some veal stuffing as follows: Two ounces of beef suet, three ounces of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and marjoram, half a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, a little nutmeg, one egg, pepper and salt; mix these all together, and roll into small balls. Poach these in salted water and then put them into the soup. Potage au Tapioca. Ingredients. One pint of White Stock. One ounce of crushed Tapioca. Two yolks of Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. Salt. Put the Stock on to boil. When boiling, shake in the tapioca and stir until cooked. Beat the yolks and cream together and strain into another c 2SIGH-CLASS COOKKnr. 20 basin. Add the soup, when it is just off boiling point, slowly to this basin. Then pour the sonp back into the saucepan, place it on the fire, and stir carefully until the eggs are cooked. This soup recj[uires care not to curdle the eggs. Potage a la Royale. Ingredients, Three pints of White Stock. Two ounces of cooked Macaroni. Three yolks of Eggs. One ounce of grated Parmesan Cheese. One giU of Cream. Salt and Cayenne. Put the stock in a stewpan to boil, add the macaroni cut up into pieces haK an inch long; when this is cooked mix the eggs and cream together in a basin, then draw tlie stewpan off the fire and add the cream and eggs, the grated cheese, a little cayenne and salt. The soup must not boil after the cheese and Hason are in, or it will be spoilt. Puree de Marrons. Ingredients. Twenty-five large Chestnuts. I'hree ounces of Butter. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugai?.21 SOXJPg. serve. One pint and a half of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Slit the chestnuts at both ends, put them into boiling water, and boil ten minutes. Then remove the husks. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts and saut^ for a few minutes, but do not brown. Then add the stock and let the soup boil until the chestnuts are tender, when they must be rubbed through a hair-sieve. Warm up the soup, add the sugar, seasoning, and cream, and it is ready to serve. Puree de Navets. Ingredients, Twelve large Turnips, Five ounces of Butter. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Two quarts of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. A little grated Nutmeg. Peel and slice the turnips, put them into a stewpan with four ounces of butter and one ounce of castor sugar and drawn down, taking care that they do not get brown; then add the stock and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; strain this, and rub the turnips through a hair- sieve. Boil up the stock and skim it well, add the passed turnips, the cream, and an ounce of butter; stir all well together, boil up once and22 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Puree d'Homard. Ingredients, One Hen Lobster. Two sticks of Celery. One Carrot. . , One Turnip, Four Shalots. Bayleaf, Thyme, and Parsley. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. Three pints of Stock (Fish Stock is best). One glass of Sherry. A tablespoonful of Anchovy Sauce. A tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. A little Lemon Juice and Cayenne. Cut up all the vegetables very small and fry them a light brown in the butter; stir in the flour, mix well, add the stock, stir well till it boils, then set it by the side of the fire to simmer gently for half an hour. Break up the lobster, cut up the meat from the claws into neat pieces, and put them on one side until the soup is finished. Break up the shell, the rest of ^ the lobster and some of the spawn, in a mortar, and put it into the soup, let it all boil for ten minutes, then rub it through a hair-sieve, put it back on the fire, let it boil up, skim it well, add the sherry, Harvey, anchovy, lemon-juice, and cayenne. Put the pieces of lobster, and some small quenelles of whiting into the tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve.SOUPS. 23 [Puree de Pommes de Terre. , Ingredients, One pound of Potatoes. One Onion. Two leaves of Celery. One ounce of Butter. One pint of Stock. Half a pint of Milk. One gill of Cream. Salt. Fried Bread, Wash all the vegetables, and cut them into thin slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the sliced vegetables. Place the stewpan on the fire and let the vegetables cook for five minutes; then add the stock and milk, and boil slowly until the vegetables are quite tender. Now rub the vege- tables through a tammy-cloth or hair-sieve. Put the soup back in a saucepan, add the cream, and when hot it is ready to serve. Take two or three slices [of stale bread; remove the crust, and cut the crumb into dice. Fry either in fat or butter, and serve with the soup. Puree a la Princesse. Ingredients, One Chicken. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. A little Mace* Bay4eaf»24 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY, Parsley Stalks. Twelve White Peppercorns, Salt. Two quarts of Veal or White Stock. [ Cut the fowl in pieces, well wash it, put it in a stewpan previously buttered, with the onion, mace, &c. Put the lid on, let it cook over the fire ten minutes, taking care that it does not brown; add the stock ; simmer this gently one hour. Next put in a stewpan— Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour (Vienna). When well melted, strain the liquor from the chicken into it, and stir well; let it cook a few minutes; add the juice of half a lemon and half a pint of cream. Take the best pieces of chicken from the bones, pound in the mortar, add to the stock, and then strain through a tammy-cloth. This soup must not boil after the chicken and cream is added. Puree de Pois Verts. Ingredients, One quart of Peas. One handful of Parsley. A small bunch of Mint. One quart of Stock. One giU of Cream. Salt and Pepper.25 SOUPS. serve. Put the stock on to boil. When boiling add the salt, then the peas, and other ingredients except the cream; boil until the vegetables are tender, then pass them through a hair-sieve with the stock they were boiled in, and again pass through a tammy-cloth, if desired very smooth; put all back into a clean stewpan to boil up, and just before serving add the cream and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Puree k la Palestine. Ingredients. ^ Two pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes, Two ounces of Butter. One pint of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream, Pepper and Salt. Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the vegetables, squeeze over them the lemon juice, and cook carefully for about five minutes; being careful the vegetables do not brown. Add the stock and boil until the artichokes are tender, then rub them through a hair-sieve. Eeturn the soup to the saucepan, warm it up, add the cream, and it is ready to26 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Puree de Tomates. IngredieTUs, Three pints of Stock. Two ounces of lean Ham. One Onion. A little Celery. One Shalot. One ounce of Butter. Three pounds of Tomatoes. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg. Put all these ingredients, except the tomatoes and the stock, into a saute pan and saute them for five minutes, tlgien add the tomatoes sliced; let them simmer, and when cooked pass through a fine sieve; add to the stock, and let it boil about five minutes. This soup can be made of tinned tomatoes.( 27 ) DEESSED FISH. GENERAL REMARKS ON COOKING FISH, I never allow fish to be boiled unless to make Fish Stock; except the very strong kinds, such as Mackerel and Eels. Fish should always be steamed. In my book of " Plain Cookery Eecipes I suggest several ways of steaming Fish in a small household where there are not many saucepans to be had perhaps. But since I wrote those remarks I have found a first-rate fish steamer,* made of block tin with a copper bottom and in various sizes from quite small ones and upwards. These steamers have a great advantage over my simple method, which is that from an arrangement under the drainer on which the fish is placed, the steam as it condenses on the lid does not drip back upon the fish and make it sodden, but falls down into the water underneath. Fish takes rather longer to steam than to boil, but it is very much nicer, and its flavour and goodness are fully preserved. Put a good tablespoonful of salt in the water, and do * These steamers are to be bought of Messrs, Davis & Co. 200, Camberwell Road, S.E.28 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY, not put the fish into the steamer until the water boils. The recipes for Athenian Eel, Water Souchy, to warm up Salmon, and Perch; Bream Pie, and Stewed Trout, I found in MSS. among my grandfather's papers. (Thomas Love Peacock, author of Headlong Hall, etc.), Among the entrees Filet de Boeuf aux huitres. Salmi of "Wild Duck and Minced Yeal are also his. Athenian Eel and Sauce. Ingredients, Half a pint of good Stock. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One tablespoonful of Onion Vinegar. One mustardspoonful of Mustard. One dessertspoonful of Shalot Wine. One dessertspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One dessertspoonful of Worcester Sauce. >^ Marjoram and Parsley. Mix these all well together in a stewpan, and when hot stir in a dessertspoonful of chopped sweet marjoram and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Serve very hot in a sauce tureen; the eels, cut in pieces, to be baked, each piece to be rolled in oiled paper. Bream Pie. Ingredients, Two pounds of Bream. Four Eggs (hard-boiled).bilESSEi) FISH. Two Slialots (chopped fine). Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a teaspoonful of Thyme and Marjoram. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. One gill of Stock. Cut the bream in slices. Mix the butter, bread- crumbs, shalot, and seasoning together, and make into small balls. Cut the eggs in quarters. Lay the bream in a pie-dish, and then a layer of egg and seasoning, balls, &c., and, if liked, some pieces of lobster. Cover with a crust of rough puff-paste, and bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. Mix the Worcester and anchovy sauce with the stock, and pour into the pie, after it is baked. A glass of sherry or Chablis may be added. Cassolettes de Saumon. Ingredients, Quarter of a pound of Pastry. Quarter of a pound of Kippered Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Chutney. French and English Mustard. Half a pint of Aspic Jelly. EoU the paste thinly and line six oval tin dariole moulds. Fill these with raw rice, and bake. When done, remove the rice and let the pastry cases got cold. Cut the salmon into six thin slices.30 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. On each slice put a little chutney, some French and English mustard. Then roll up the slices of salmon, wrap each in greased paper, and bake about ten minutes. Eemove the papers and let the fish get cold. Place a roll of salmon in each pastry case. Melt the aspic jelly, and pour sufficient over the fish to cover it. When set, it is ready to serve. Dressed Mussels. Ingredients. Two quarts of Mussels. One smaU Onion. Bay-leaf. A tablespoonful of Salt, First, well wash the mussels and lay them in water over night with a handful of salt; when they are quite clean put them in a stewpan, with the onion and bay-leaf; sprinkle over them the salt, put on the lid, and stand them over the fire for a few minutes, when the shells will open; take them out of the stewpan and carefully take them from the shells, removing with care a small piece of weed which lies in the centre of the mussel. Strain the liquor which will be in the stewpan, and, if liked, can be made into a sauce with One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Cayenne Pepper. Lemon Juice. Half a gill of Cream.DRESSED FISH. 81 and poured over the mussels. Or just warmed in their own liquor, and served with brown bread and butter. Eel Pie. Ingredients. One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Meat Stock. Pepper and Salt. One tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. Two tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup. Cut up the eels into pieces between two and three inches long. Cut off the heads and tails and stew them in half a pint of meat stock. Strain out the heads and tails when they are thoroughly cooked, and mix into the stock a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and two table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Put the pieces of eel into a pie-dish, pour in this sauce, cover with a good crust, and bake. Filets de Cabilleaux a la Normande. Ingredients. Three slices of Cod of moderate thickness. Two glasses of Vin de Grave. Twelve Oysters. Twelve Button Mushrooms. Twelve small Quenelles. Half a pint of White Sauce.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 32 Put the slices of cod on a greased tin, pour over a glass of the wine, place a greased paper over all, and bake in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Eeduce the rest of the wine in a stew- pan, add the white sauce the oysters blanched, the mushrooms and the quenelles, and season to taste. Place the slices of fish on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and place the oysters, mushrooms, and quenelles, in groups in the corners of the dish. Filets de Rougets a Tltalienne. Take your mullets and fillet them, making two fillets only of each mullet. Six mullets make a nice dish. Butter your dish, lay the fillets neatly on, sprinkle over a little salt, lemon-juice, and pepper. Cover them with a buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven till done. Drain any moisture from the dish into the sauce. Serve with Italian sauce poured over the mullet. Fish Cakes. iTigredienU, One pound of cold Fish. Half a pint of thick Brown SauC^. One dessertspoonful of Anchovy SaucO. Six Gherkins. One Egg. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs,DRESSED EISH. 33 Make the brown sauce hot and stir into it the anchovy sauce and the gherkins, chopped finely. Take the stewpan off the fire, and add the fish in small flakes, removing all skin and bone. Turn this on to a plate, and when cold form into little cakes, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them; serve with fried parsley. Homard a la St. Stephens. Ingredients. One Lobster. One giU of Salad Oil. Two tablespoonfuls of Sherry. Pepper, Salt, and Cayenne. A little Chopped Parsley and Garlic. Two tablespoonfuls of Chablis. One ounce of Butter. Lemon-juice. Two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole Sauce. Take a nice fresh lobster and chop it up into small pieces, cracking the shell well; saute it in salad oil for five minutes, then pour off the oil and add the sherry, salt, pepper, cayenne, chopped parsley and garlic and chablis, let this all boil for about five minutes, then add the Espagnole sauce, boil it for a few minutes more, dish up the lobster, add the butter and lemon-juice to the sauce, give it a boil up, pour it over the lobster, and serve.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 34 Lobster Cutlets- ■ Ingredients, One Hen Lobster. One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Cream. Salt and Cayenne. One gill of Water. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Parsley. Eemove all the flesh from the tail and claws of the lobster and cut it up into small pieces. Take the coral of the lobster, wash it, dry it, and then pound it in a mortar with one ounce of butter, and rub it through a hair-sieve. Put in a stewpan one ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, and mix these together over the fire; then add the water and boil the mixture well. Put in the coral butter, the cream, and the seasoning. Mix well, add the lobster, and turn on a plate to cool. Make up into cutlets, egg and crumb each one carefully^ and fry in a saucepan, with sufficient fat to cover them. Dish the cutlets on a napkin and ornament with fried parsley. Lobster Soufflee* higredients, Two Whitings. One Hen Lobster. One gill of Cream.DRESSED PISH. 35 Two ounces of Butter. 7 Two ounces of Flour. One gill of Fish Stock made from bones of the Whitings. Four Eggs. Take tlie meat of the whitings (half a pound) off the bones and the coral from the lobster, pound these two together in a mortar, then pass through a wire sieve. Make a sauce of one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, and the gill of fish stock ; this must be well cooked. Take the meat of the body of the lobster (half a pound) and pound in a mortar with the whiting and the sauce, adding the eggs one at a time; when well pounded, pass all through a hair sieve, add the cream (whipped), a little cayenne pepper. Take a plain souflflee mould and well butter it, put a layer of the above mixture in the bottom of the mould, and a few pieces of the meat from the lobster's claws; repeat this till the mould is full. The mould must be evenly filled. Cover with buttered paper, and steam very gently for half an hour. Serve very hot with white sauce, poured over the souffiee. You can use half a pint of cream instead of the sauce if you like to make the souffiee richer. Oyster Souffiee. Ingredients, l?wo Whitings (half a pound of Fish). Twelve Oysters. Three Eggs. Two ounces of Flour. j> 236 HIGH-CLASS COOKSIRY* One gill of Oyster Liquor. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Cream. Take all the meat of the whitings, pound it in a mortar, and rub it through a hair sieve. Blanch and beard the oysters and cut each one in four pieces. Put the butter and flour into a stewpan and mix them well together over the fire, add the one gill of oyster liquor and stir till it thickens, and the flour is cooked. Now put this sauce and the meat of whitings into a mortar, and pound them well together, adding the three eggs, one at a time, also a little salt, cayenne pepper, oysters, and the cream whipped. Well butter your mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with buttered paper, and steam it gently for half an hour. To make this richer, you can use half a pint of whipped cream instead of the white sauce. Sauce for Oyster Soufflee. Ingredients. Bones of the Whitings, Beards of the Oysters. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Half a gill of Cream, To make half a pint of stock, boil down the beards of the oysters and whitings' bones in one pint of water. Melt the flour and butter together, stir in the half pint of stock, and let it boil sixDRESSED FISH. 37 minutes ; then add the cream, a few drops of lemon- juice, and a little cayenne. Pour this round the soufflee. Petites Soufflees d'Homard, Ingredients, One Hen Lobster. Three tables230onfuls of good Mayonnaise Sauce. Half a pint of Aspic JeUy. One giU of Tomato Sauce. Cut up the lobster into neat pieces, showing the red side as much as possible. Take some Eamequin cases and prepare as for a soufflee, with bands of writing-paper about three inches above the case. Put the Mayonnaise sauce, the tomato sauce, and aspic jelly into a basin, and whisk till it begins to look white; stir in the pieces of lobster, add a little tarragon and chervil; then fill the Eamequin cases. When set, take off the papers carefully. Garnish with coral sprinkled on the top^ and serve. Scollops of Turbot- Ingredients. One pound of Cold Turbot. Half a pint of White Sauce. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. Cayenne and Salt. Browned Bread-crumbs. One ounce of Butter.88 HIOH-CLASS COOKERY. Take one pound of cold turbot, salmon, or any cold fish, break it into small pieces^ put in a ste^v- pan with a little salt and pepper, and the white sauce, to which mav be added one tablespoonful of cream, also the anchovy sauce, and cayenne. Butter some scollop shells, and sprinkle over them a few brown crumbs; fill in with the mixture; again sprinkle them with brown crumbs, and put them in the oven to get hot through. Serve on a napkin in the shells. Slice of Salmon Baked. Ingredients, Tvo tablespoonfiils of Salad Oil. One teaspoonfiil of chopped Parsley. One Gherkin chopped fine. One Shalot chopped fine. One Anchovy chopped fine. Half a teaspoonfnl of Cayenne Sauce. Mix these all together and rub over both sides of a slice of salmon. "Wrap the salmon in buttered paper and bake about half an hour. Serve in the paper. Sole a la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients. One Sole, filleted. One ounce of Butter. Three quarters of an ounce of Flour.39 DKESSED FISH. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half a gill of Cream. Put tlie bones and fins of the sole Into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water or milk, if you have no cream, and put it on to boil. Fold the fillets loosely, put them on a greased tin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze some lemon-juice over them. Cover with a buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven for about six minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix well. Pour in the fish-stock, made from the bones, and boil for ten minutes. Then add salt, pepper, cream, lemon-juice, and the chopped parsley. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Sole aux Fines Herbes. Ingredients. One Sole. Half a pint of White Sauce. Two tablespoonfuls of Tarragon Vinegar. One teaspoonful of mixed Parsley, Tarragon, and Chervil chopped finely. Put the fish on a greased tin and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes or until done. Eeduce the vinegar in a stewpan, add the white sauce and mix well, then the chopped herbs, and seasoning to taste. Place the fish when done on a dish, pour the sauce over it. (The white sauce should be made of fish-stock.)HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 40 Sole au Gratin. Ingredients, One Sole. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley HalfaShalot. Four Mushrooms. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of Glaze. Half an ounce of Butter. Browned Crumbs. Skin the sole, cut off the fins, and nick it with a knife on both sides. Dry it well; chop the parsley, shalot, and mushrooms, and mix them together. Butter a dish, sprinkle half the chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot on the dish. Lay the sole on this seasoning, and sprinkle the rest of the parsley, &c., over the fish. Squeeze over a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and then shake over some bread-crumbs previously browned in the oven. Lay the butter in little bits here and there on the fish. Put the sole in a moderate oven and bake it about ten minutes. Remove the fish on to a clean dish. Melt the glaze and pour it round as sauce. Sole a la Bohemienne. Ingredients, Two Soles, filleted. Two Truffles.DRESSED FISH. 41 Two Eggs (hard-boiled). One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One tablespoonful of Lobster Coral. Three quarters of an ounce of Butter, One ounce of Flour. One gill of Fish-Stock, Half a gill of Cream. Cayenne, Salt. Lemon-juice. Fillet the soles, fold tliem over, put tliem on a buttered tin, cover them with a buttered paper to prevent them from burning, and cook in the oven. Melt the butter in a stewpan; add the flour and fish-stock; when well cooked, add the cream, salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Chop up the truffles, yolks of eggs, and parsley finely ; pound the coral in the mortar, and pass through a hair-sieve. Next arrange the soles on a dish, pour the sauce over; ornament each fillet, thus: one with truffles, one with eggs, one with coral, another with parsley, so on alternately. Sole a la Portugaise. Ingredients. One large Sole. One ounce of Butter. One Shalot. Half a teaspoonful of Parsley. Half a teaspoonful of Anchovy. Skin the sole, make an incision sufficiently large to admit of the stuffing; put the butter on a plate, add the shalot, parsley (chopped veryHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 42 fine), and ancliovy sauce; put this stuffing in the sole, and put it on a buttered gratin dish. Then take— One ounce of Butter. Four Tomatoes. One Spanish Onion. Half an ounce of grated Parmesan and Bread-crumbs. Half a gill of Tomato Sauce. Peel and cut the onion and tomatoes into thin slices, and lay over the sole alternately; sprinkle over this some salt and pepper, about one ounce of butter, and a few brown bread-crumbs, in which has been mixed a little Parmesan. Pour round the sole three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven about ten minutes. Sole a la Colbert, Ingredients, Two Soles. Six AnctLovies pounded. One Clove Garlic. Skin and fillet the soles. Pold them, by placing each fillet round the left thumb and twisting the two ends tightly together. Put them on to a baking sheet, previously buttered. Sprinkle them with a little salt and lemon-juice, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When done, stuff them with Maitre43 DRESSED FISH. d'Hotel butter, roll in brown bread-crumbs. Dish in a circle, and pour sauce round. Sauce. Bone and pound the anchovies. Add them, with the clove of garlic, to half a pint of good melted butter, made with one ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, and half a pint of fish- stock made from the bones of the soles; boil for six minutes, and strain before serving. Fish sauce is always better if it is made from fish-stock. Sole a la Rouennaise. Ingredients, Two Soles. Lemon-juice. Lobster Mixture (see Lobster Outlets, p. 34). Chopped Truffles. Skin and fillet the soles; lay some lobster mixture on the half of each fillet, fold them over in half, and put them on a buttered baking sheet; squeeze a little lemon on each fillet, cover them with buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes. Serve with sauce made as for Sole a la Bohemienne, page 40.44 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Sole k I'Horly. Ingredients. One Sole. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One teaspoonful of Chili Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar Chopped Parsley. Chopped Onion, Pepper and Salt. For the Batter. Two yolks and one white of Egg. Two ounces of Flour. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk or Cream. Salt. First make the batter, because it slionld stand before it is wanted. Mix the milk and flour smoothly together with a pinch of salt; add the two yolks of eggs and the oil—the white of egg whipped ; mix in very lightly. Stand this on one side till you are ready to cook the fish. Mix the salad oil, tarragon and chili vinegar, with a little chopped parsley and onion; add some pepper and salt. Fillet the sole, cut each fillet in half, and lay each piece to soak for about ten minutes in the oil and vinegars. Dip each piece in the batter, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley.45 DUESSED FISH. Stewed Eels. Ingredients, One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Stock. One gill of Port Wine. One dessertspoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One Onion. Sweet Herbs. One blade of Mace. Twelve whole Peppers. Salt. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Chop up the onion and fry it a nice brown with the herbs and the flour, in the butter; then stir in the peppers, the mace, a pinch of salt, and the stock. Cut the eel up into pieces and add it; let it stew slowly till the fish is cooked,—about half an hour. Take out the fish witli a slice; put it on a hot dish in the oven while you finish the sauce. Add the ketchup and port wine to the sauce ; let it boil up quickly, strain it over the eel, and serve. Stewed Trout. Ingredients, One Trout. Four Shalots. One pint of Fish-Stock, One ounce of Butter. Two Cloves.46 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. One teas23ooiiful of Salt. A few grains of Cayenne. One Carrot. One Bay-leaf. One tablespoonful of Basil and Thyme mixed. A bunch of Parsley. Chop up the shalots and carrot, put them in a stewpan with the butter and parsley; let tliis get hot, add the stock, cloves, herbs and seasoning; let all this simmer for one hour. Clean and wash the trout, tie round with broad tapes to prevent it breaking. Put the trout into a stewpan, strain the stock over it, add three glasses of port wine ; let it simmer gently till the fish is cooked ; it will take about half an hour. Take off the tapes carefully so as not to break the fish, reduce the stock it was cooked in, and pour over it. Hand lemon. Supreme de Crabe aux Tomates. Take all the meat out of a crab, and to each pound add the following:— Four ounces of stale Bread-crumbs. One gill of Tomato Sauce. The Juice of one Lemon. The Peel of a quarter of a Lemon. Five very thin slices of Lemon. Salt and Pepper to taste. One glass of Chablis, or more if the Crab is very diy. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, taking care that it does not burn. Before serving, brino* it just to the boil; serve in the shell, and garnish with fried parsley.47 DRESSED FISH. Tartelettes a Tlndienne, Ingredients, Twelve large Oysters. One Shalot chopped fine. One Carrot (cooked) Half a gill of Cream. One teaspoonful of Curry Powder. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice, Half a teaspoonful of Flour. One ounce and a half of Butter. Cayenne Pepper. A little Salt. Line some small patty-pans with good paste, very thin, and fill them with rice, so that they may be kept hollow, and bake ten minutes; then take out the rice, blanch the oysters, and remove the beards only, not the muscle part, and lay them in cold water to keep their colour. Melt the butter, fry the shalot, add the flour and curry-powder, the liquor from the oysters, cayenne, and lemon-juice; when this is cooked over the fire, add the cream and the carrot, cut up in dice; fill the cases with this mixture, and put on the top of each case one oyster. When finished, cover with a buttered paper, and make hot in the oven. To Warm up Perch. Ingredients. Cold cooked Perch. Half a pint of Port Wine* One quart of Stock.48 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. One large Onion. Twelve whole Peppers. Twelve Allspice. One blade of Mace. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One tablespoonful of Chili Yinegar. Mix all these ingredients together and make them hot; put in the cold perch in flakes, and serve. To Warm up Salmon. Ingredients, Salmon. .] Two tablespoonfuls of Liquor, One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One dessertspoonful of Chili Yinegar. One dessertspoonful of Cucumber Yinegar. One teaspoonful of minced Capers. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. Bread-crumbs. Separate the salmon in flakes and lay them in a sauce made of all the above ingredients mixed together (except the crumbs), to soak for about two hours. Take them up separately and lay them in a scollop tin. Mix the sauce with enough bread-crumbs to give it consistency; cover the fish with it and make it hot in the oven.DRESSED FISH. 49 Water Souchy« Ingredients, Fish, Perch or Flounders, Fish Liquor. Four Parsley plants, roots and leaves. One teaspoonful of Horse-radish. One teaspoonful of Shalot Wine. One teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. One teaspoonful of Walnut Ketchup. Stew the fish slowly, in just enough fish liquor to cover them, with the parsley, the horse-radish and above sauces. V/hen the fish are done, lay them in a deep dish, with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; strain the liquor in which the fish were cooked over them, and serve, adding a little more fish liquor to them if there is not enough left after the cooking to cover them. Whitebait, Ingredients, Three or four pounds of Lard or clarified Fat» Whitebait, One large teacupful of Flour, Put the lard in a stewpan and let it get very hot. If you use a fryometer the heat of the fat must not be less than 400 degrees. Pick the whitebait carefully out of the water, and dry them E50 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. very lightly. Put the flour into a sheet of kitchen paper. Toss the whitebait in the flour, move them about quickly, and finger them as little as possible. Then turn the fish into a frying-basket and sift all the loose flour back on to the paper. Plunge the fish into the fat, which must be as hot as possible not to burn, for one minute ; serve at once very hot. To devil white- bait, sprinkle them, when cooked, with pepper and cayenne mixed.( 5i ) CURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. AS TAUGHT BY A NATIVE COOK IN THE COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION, 1886. GENERAL REMARKS ON CURRIES. 1. The quantity of butter depends a great deal on the fatness of the meat curried. 2. The onions should be of a moderate size. If small, more must be used than specified in the recipes; if large, less. 3. The quantity of fluid must depend greatly on the length of time the meat has to be cooked. The cook must use a little judgment in this matter. Curry Powder. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Papaver Somniferum. Two pounds of Turmeric (Powder). Two ounces of YeUow Mustard Seed. One ounce of Cinnamon. Quarter of a pound of Garlic. E 2Hiail-CLASS COOKEMc 52 A little Lemon-juice. Five pounds of Coriander Seed. Quarter of a pound of large Chilies. Two ounces of Black Pepper. Grind all these up together in a spice mill, then rub them through a hair-sieve. I have given half the quantities the native gave me, they can be decreased in proportion as required. It is best to make small quantities. Be sure to get the turmeric powdered. I broke several machines trying to grind it; the rest of the ingredients are easy enough. The ingredients can be had of any large wholesale druggist. Get the large chilies, the little ones are so terribly hot. "When we do not make our own curry powder, we always use Edmund's ; also his curry paste and chutneys. Brown Curry (Beef). T/ijmlicnts, Two pounds of Beef, Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. Two tablespoonfuls of Ouiry Powder, Half a pint of Stock. Half a saltspoonful of Salt, Jnice of half a Lemon, Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion sliced and fry a few minutes. Then add the meat cut into small pieces and cook all together. Now sprinkle the curry over the meat and stir the contents of the saucepan overCURRIES AKD INDIAN DISHES. 53 the fire for about five minutes. Tlie stock and tlie salt must now be added and the curry cooked slowly for about an hour and a half or until the meat is tender. Add the lemon-juice just before serving. (Mutton or veal may be cooked by this recipe.) Dry Curry, Ingredients, Two pounds of Beef. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Two Chopped Gherkins. One dessertspoonful of Chutney. One saUspoonful of SaU. Juice of half a Lemon. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion sliced, and fry a few minutes. Then add the meat cut into small pieces and cook all together. ISTow sprinkle the curry over the meat and stir the contents of the saucepan over the fire for five minutes. The gherkins, chutney, and salt must now be added, and the stewpan must be set over a very slow fire for about an hour. It is impossible to give the exact time, as it depends on the meat, which must be quite tender. Add the lemon-juice just before serving.51 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Fish Ourry- Ingredients. Two pounds of Fish. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. The Juice of half a Lemon. Half a pint of Stock, or half a pint of Almond Milk. (See Chicken Curry.) Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion sliced and fry for a few minutes. Then add the curry powder and fry also. Now pour in the stock or almond milk, add the salt and lemon- juice, and boil all together for five minutes. Then put in the fish, which should be cut up into pieces about one and a half inches square, and allow it to cook in the curry until done, which will be from fifteen to thirty minutes according to the sort of fish. Kebob Curry« Ingredients. Two pounds of Beef, Mutton, or Veal. Two or three Onions. Three or four pieces of Green Ginger. Procure some small skewers about two aiid a half inches long. Peel the ginger and slice it, skin the onion and slice it rather thickly, and cut the meat into pieces about an inch and a halfCURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. 55 square. Thread the meat, ginger, and onion on the skewers, about two pieces of each alternately. When the skewers are full proceed to make the curry by either of the recipes for meat curry given in this book, putting in tlie skewers in place of the pieces of meat. Vegetable Curry- Ingredients, Two Carrots. Two Turnips. Half a pint of Green Peas. Two Potatoes. One Onion. One and a half ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Stock. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. One teaspoonful of Salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion sliced, and fry a few minutes. Then add the curry powder and stock mixed together, the salt, and the lemon-juice, and boil all together for about five minutes. Have ready the carrots, turnips, and potatoes, cut into small pieces and boiled separately, and the peas nicely cooked. Put these vegetables into the curry and warm for about five minutes.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 56 White Curry (Chicken): Ingredients. <Dne Fowl. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Two ounces of Sweet Almonds. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. The Juice of half a Lemon. Half a pint of Water. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion sliced and stir over the fire, but do not brown. Then add the fowl cut into rather small pieces, and cook all together for a few minutes. The curry powder should then be sprinkled over the fowl and the contents of the saucepan stirred carefully over the fire for five minutes. Blanch the almonds and pound them with a little water. When they are quite fine put them in a strainer and pour over them the rest of the water, which should come from the almonds looking like milk. Add this almond milk and the salt to the curry, and cook slowly for about half an hour according to the age of the fowl. Add the lemon- juice a few minutes before serving. (Veal may be cooked by this recipe.) Grated cocoa-nut mny be used instead of almonds.57 CURIIIES AND INDIAN DISHES. Burdwan of Fowl. Ingredients. One cooked Chicken. One sliced Onion. Twenty-four Oysters. Half a pint of White Sauce. One glass of Sherry. One tablespoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One ounce of Butter. Cayenne. Salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and fry it a little. Then add all the other in- gredients, except the chicken and the oysters, and boil the sauce for about five minutes. Lastly put in the fowl cut into neat joints, and the oysters blanched and bearded, cook slowly about ten minutes and serve. Devilled Almonds- Ingredients, Two ounces of Sweet Almonds. Two ounces of Butter. Seven or eight croutons of fried Bread. One tablespoonful of Chutney. Two chopped pickled Gherkins. One tablespoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne and Salt. Blanch and shred the almonds, then fry them brown in the butter. Mix the chutney, gherkins,HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 58 Worcester sauce, cayenne, and salt on a plate; turn this mixture into the pan with the almonds and mix well. When quite hot serve on croutons. Devilled Lobster. Ingredients. The Tail of one or more Lobsters. Seven Croutons of fried Bread. Two tablespoonfuls of Chutney. Two chopped pickled Gherkins. One tablespoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne. Salt. Two ounces of Butter. Cut from the tail of the lobster seven nice slices ; these should be as nearly the same size as possible. Mix the chutney, gherkins, salt, cayenne, and Worcester sauce^on a plate, and cover each piece of lobster with the mixture. Make the butter hot in a frying-pan, put in the pieces of lobster, and warm thoroughly. Have the croutons hot and crisp, and place one piece of lobster on each. If any of the chutney mixture remains, put a little on each piece of lobster. Serve very hot.CUBRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. 59 Clear Mulligatawny- Ingredients, One quart of good Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One sliced Onion. Two sliced Tomatoes. Three tablespoonfuls of Curry Paste. Two green Chilies cut fine. Three Eggs. Try the onion in the butter, add the tomatoes, chilies and curry. Then pour in the stock and boil for about half an hour. Skim well. Let the soup cool. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs together, wash and crush the shells, and add all to the soup. Stir over the fire until boiling, and strain in the usual way. Serve boiled rice separately. ''Mollet" (Indian Breakfast Dish). Ingredients, Two ounces of Butter. One rather large Onion sliced. Two pounds of Fish. One ounce and a half of Sweet Almonds. Half a pint of Water. One ounce of Turmeric. One teaspoonful of Salt. Cayenne. Two or three chopped green Chilies. Melt the butter in a saucepan, andjfry the onion a little. Blanch the almonds and poundHIGH-CLASS COOKEKY. 60 them, adding the water by degrees. Then put the ahnonds, water, salt, cayenne, turmeric and chilies into the saucepan and boil for about five minutes. Have the fish boned if possible, and cut in pieces about one and a half inches square, place these pieces in the stewpan and cook slowly until done, from fifteen to thirty minutes according to the sort of fish. Take out the chilies, and serve with boiled rice. Piliau of Fowl Ingredients, One Fowl. Half a pound of Bice. Quarter of a pound of Buttel*. One Onion. Twelve Kaisins. One ounce of Sweet Almonds, One quart of White Stock. Two Cloves. One inch stick of Cinnamon. Cayenne. Salt. Have the stock boiling, put in the fowl and boil for twenty minutes. Heat the butter in a stew- pan and fry the almonds blanched and shredded, the raisins stoned and cut in halves, and the onion skinned and shredded. When these are browned strain them from the butter and place them aside. Heat the butter up again, put in the rice picked and washed, and fry it a light brown. Strain off the butter and add the stock by degrees to the61 CURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. rice until it is quite tender. Then stir in tlie salt, cayenne, cinnamon, and cloves. Make a well in the centre of the rice, lay in the fowl, heap the rice on the bird, and cook all together for about forty-five minutes. To serve, place the fowl on a dish, the rice round and a little on the bird, and garnish with the fried raisins, almonds, and onions. (The rice may not require quite the quart of stock.)62 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. ENTEEES. Beef Olives- Ingredients. One pound and a half of Fillet of Beef or Rump Steak. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs, Two ounces of Beef Suet. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped Thyme and Marjoram. Nutmeg and Lemon-rind grated. One Egg. Salt and Pepper. One pint of Brown Sauce. Cut the fillet of beef into pieces of half an inch thick and four inches long, and beat them out with a wet cutlet-bat. Chop up the trimmings of the beef, the suet, parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and mix them in a basin with the bread-crumbs, the grated lemon-rind, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and the egg; stuff each piece of beef with this mixture, roll it up, and tie it round with a piece of string. Place these stuffed rolls of beef in a stewpan with one pint of brown sauce, and stew gently for three quarters of an hour. For serving, take off theENTREES. 63 string, and dish up with mashed potato or spinach, with the sauce poured round. Bengal Curry. Ingredients, Two pounds of Meat—Chicken, Veal, Beef, or Kabbit. Six Onions. One Clove Garlic. Two Cardamoms. One inch of Cinnamon. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. One tablespoonful of Curry Paste. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Lemon-juice. Salt. Cut the meat in pieces; slice the onions and put them in a saucepan with the butter, carda- moms, garlic, and cinnamon; cook all this over the fire until the onions are quite tender, taking care that they do not brown; then stir in the powder, paste, meat, and salt. Put the lid on and let it simmer in the oven. If the meat used is chicken or rabbit, one hour will be sufficient; if beef or mutton, two hours will not be too long; add then the lemon-juice, and serve with well- boiled rice, separately.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 64 Bouchees a la Reine. Ingredients. Half a minced Chicken. Two ounces of minced Ham. Six minced Mushrooms. Three minced Truffles. Half a pint of White Sauce, One gill of Cream. Yolks of two Eggs. Cases made with puff paste, either baked like vol-au-vent cases, small, or line some little moulds, which should be filled with rice before baking, to prevent them from rising too much. Next put the sauce into a stewpan, with chicken, ham, etc.; when it is quite hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the yolks of eggs, which must be cooked but not curdled; fill this into the patty cases, and serve. Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 1), Ingredients, One cold boiled Chicken. Half a pint of Bechamel Sauce, One Beetroot. One Cucumber. One pint of Aspic Jelly. Mayonnaise Sauce. Cut the chicken into neat joints; remove the skin, and mask each piece carefully with the Bechamel sauce. Dish up on chopped aspic jelly;65 ENTREES. garnish with a little of the cucumber and beetroot; the remaining beet and cucumber cut into neat pieces, stir into the Mayonnaise, and serve in the centre/ Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 2). Another very simple chaudfroid is less rich and a nice change; leave out the aspic jelly and Mayonnaise sauce, season the white sauce for masking well with tarragon, pile up the pieces of chicken neatly on the entree dish and garnish with the white hearts of cabbage lettuces cut in halves. Ohaudfroid of Larks or Quails. Ingredients, Larks or Quails. Half a pint of brown Stock, One gill of Sherry. Bay-leaf and Thyme. A little chopped Onion, Carrot and Turnip. Jngreclients for stuffing ''Liver Farce!' Half a pound of Calf's Liver. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. One small Carrot. A small bunch of Herbs. One Onion, Salt, Pepper and Nutmeg.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 66 First make the stuffing. Cut up the bacon and cook it, then add the liver cut up, the carrot, herbs, onion, salt, pepper and nutmeg. When well cooked pound all in a mortar and rub through a wire sieve. This liver farce is now ready for use. Draw and clean the birds, take out the breast-bone and the back-bone but leave the legs. Stuff each bird with the liver farce, tie each one up in a piece of muslin, lay them in a stewpan, cover them over with their bones, chopped vegetables, bay-leaf, thyme, half a pint of stock, and one gill of sherry. Let them cook steadily for half an hour, then take them out of the stewpan and press them lightly between two dishes. Strain the stock the birds were cooked in and reduce it to a glaze, take the muslin off the birds and baste each one several times with this glaze to coat them well. When cold, dish up the birds on chopped aspic jelly with small salad in the centre. Chicken Casuala, Ingredients, One Chicken. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. One Egg. One quart of White Stock, Four Potatoes. Pepper and Salt. Cut up the onion and cook it in the butter; cut up the chicken into neat joints, add it to the onion^67 ENTREES. also the stock, pepper and salt, and let it all stew gently for half an hour. Peel the potatoes, cut them into slices not too thin, add these to the chicken and stew gently until the potatoes are cooked; just before dishing up break the raw egg over, dish up neatly, and serve. Chicken Saute a la Marengo. Ingredients, One Chicken. One gill of Salad Oil. A few Truffles. Six Chives, cut small. Six Mushrooms. One gill of Tomato Sauce. One gill of Brown Sauce. Croutons of Puif Paste, Cut the chicken in six pieces; put it in a stew- pan with the salad oil; let it brown, which will take about ten minutes, then pour away the oil; add the mushrooms, the tomato, and the brown sauce, also the chives and the truffles; it is best to put the stewpan in the oven, with the lid on, and let simmer for about half an hour. This should be nicely arranged on a silver dish, and served with croutons of puff paste; poached eggs may also be used as a garnish.68 HiaH-OLASS COOKEBY. Civet de Lievre, Ingredients. One Hare. Half a pound of Bacon. Twenty-four Button Onions. Twelve Mushrooms. Bouquet Garni. Half a pint of Claret or Port Wine. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Cut tlie hare in neat pieces, wipe but not wash it; cut the bacon in strips, and fry in a saucepan; add the hare. Let it saute about ten minutes. Add the claret, bouquet of garni, and mushrooms; let this simmer gently one hour, then add the brown sauce and the onions, which should be previously blanched ; let it simmer again for about half an hour, remove the bouquet garni, and serve with fried croutons. One gill of Tomato Sauce, Half a gill of Glaze, One tablespoonful of Chutney, if added to this, makes a great improvement. Oreme de Volaille, Ingredients, Half a pound of the meat from the breasts of two raw Fowls. One pint of Double Cream. Pepper and Salt to taste Pound the meat in a mortar, add pepper andENTREES* 69 salt to taste, and pass it all through a hair sieve. Then add one pint of double cream, half whipped, mix these well together, and steam in a mould very slowly for half an hour. It is best to try a little of the mixture in a patty-pan first, and if it is too stiff, add a little more cream. Turn out and serve with Bechamel sauce poured round; the sauce should be made with chicken stock Cutlets a la Bretonne. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One giU of Bechamel Sauce. Half a pint of Haricot Beans, well cooked. Four Onions, well cooked. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. * Trim the cutlets, bread-crumb and fry them. Put the haricots and onions, previously well boiled, in a stewpan with the butter; season, and stir them over the fire. When they are hot, pass tliem through a tammy or hair-sieve, add the white sauce, dish the cutlets, and put the puree of beans and onions in the centre, pouring round a little thin brown sauce or half-glaze. * For detailed directions how to cut and trim cutlets, see Mutton Cutlets k la Soubise, page 74.70 - HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Russe. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One pint of Aspic Jelly. Half a pint of good Glaze. Macedoine of Vegetables, consisting of Carrot, Potato, Cauliflower, Peas, Green Haricots, French Beans, Beetroot, Cucumber, all of which must be neatly- cut in equal sizes, and carefully boiled in separate water, washed in cold water after, ^'to preserve the colour." Half a pint of thick Mayonnaise Sauce. Pepper and Salt. The cutlets must first be cut, a bone to each cutlet, and not very much trimmed, then braized for an hour (in the oven is best) till the meat is quite tender; take them out and press them until cold, when each cutlet should be very neatly trimmed, and dipped in the glaze until they have a smooth glace appearance. Next chop the aspic, cutting from it first a few croutons to arrange round the cutlets. Put the chopped aspic on the dish, arrange the cutlets, and fill in the centre with the macedoine, which should previously be well stirred into the Mayonnaise sauce, leaving the beetroot to add at the last, as it discolours the other vegetables. This entree can be varied or ornamented, according to taste, with cut cu- cumber, small frills, etc.ENTREES. 71 Cutlets a rEpicurienne- Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One Onion. Pepper and Salt. One dessertspoonful of Vinegar. Two tablespooufuls of Salad Oil, Half a pint of Stock. A little Glaze. Two ounces of Butter. Some chopped Mushrooms. Trim the cutlets, lay them round in a saute-pan, put in one ounce of butter, cover them with the onion cut in slices, sprinkle over them some pepper and salt, and pour over all the stock, oil, and vinegar. Stew gently for about half an hour, take out the cutlets, glaze them, strain the sauce and reduce it; dish the cutlets round mashed potatoes with the chopped mushrooms in the centre, and sauce poured round. Outlets a la Milanaise- Ingredients, Strips of Tongue. \ Strips of Truffles. >Equal quantities of each. Strips of Macaroni.) One gill of White Sauoe. Best end of a neck of Mutton. One gill of Brown Sauce. One Egg. Bread-crumbs.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 72 Trim the cutlets, egg and bread-crumb tliem, and fry them in butter. Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. Stir the tongue, truffles, and macaroni into the white sauce, and serve in the centre of the cutlets; pour the brown sauce round, and serve. Mutton Cutsets a !a Provencale. Ingredients. Three pounds of the best end of a neck of Mutton. Half a pint of White Soubise Sauce. Six Mushrooms (chopped fine). One Shalot „ One small Onion „ Half a Clove Garlic „ One tablespoonful of Parsley Yolks of four Eggs. Pepper and Salt, to taste. Brown Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of Parmesan (grated). Trim your cutlets, fry them, and press them until cold; remove all outside pieces, so that each cutlet may be the same size and shape. Put the soubise sauce in a saute-pan ; add the mushrooms, shalot, onion, garlic, pepper, and salt; when they have cooked ten minutes, take out the garlic, stir in the yolks of egg, and cook well, also the parsley; this will now form a stiff paste, which must be put on the cutlet on one side only. Sprinkle over each cutlet a little browned bread-crumb, to which has been added the Parmesan cheese. Put them73 in the oven to get hot through, dish them up, and serve with brown sauce or demi-glaza Cutlets a la RacheK Ingredients. Six or seven Mutton Cutlets. Half a pound of Calf's Liver. Quarter of a pound of fat Bncon. A Pig's Caul. One small Carrot. Oue small Onion. Parsley, Bay-leaf, Thyme, all tied together. One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. Twelve Peppercorns. A small blade of Mace. Cut up the bacon and fry it for five minutes, having added the liver and other ingredients (except the cutlets and caul). When the liver is quite cooked, put all into a mortar and pound well; add seasoning to taste, and pass all through a wire-sieve. Trim the cutlets neatly; cook them, and press them between two dishes until cold. Mask them on one side with the liver farce ; cover each one with a piece of caul; put in the oven to get hot; brush over with glaze. Dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour a little half- glaze round, some macedoine in the centre, and serve.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 74 Cutlets a la Reforme- Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. Two lean slices of Ham (chopped fine). One Egg. Bread-crumbs. One Carrot (cut in strips). Four Gherkins „ Four Mushrooms „ Four Truffles „ Whites of two Eggs (previously cooked). Cut the carrot into strips to cook. Cut the vegetables up neatly, put them in a stewpan, and keep them warm in a bain-marie. Cut the cutlets, trim, mix the ham with the bread-crumb, pepper and salt, egg and bread-crumb them. Fry them a nice brown in about three ounces of butter; arrange them on a dish in a circle. Put the chips of vegetables in the centre of the cutlets, and pour Eeform sauce round. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Take the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the upper rib bones, leaving the bones which will form the cutlets about three inches long; then saw75 ENTREES. off the spine bone and cut off each cutlet, trim neatly, scraping the meat and fat clean off about half an inch of the top of each bone. Arrange the cutlets neatly round in a saute-pan, sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, add an ounce of butter, and cook the cutlets a nice brown on each side. Serve with Soubise sauce in the centre and a good gravy round the cutlets. Cutlets a la Venetienne. Ingredients, Three pounds of the best end of neck of Mutton. Six ounces of Quenelle Meat. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Tongue. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Truffles. Three-quarters of a pint of good Brown Sauce. Strips of Tongue, Gherkin, and the White of Egg to garnish. Braize and press the mutton. When cold trim into cutlets. Cover one side of each cutlet with quenelle meat, and then dip in chopped tongue and truffles. Put the cutlets in a stewpan, pour in the sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly about fifteen minutes. Serve on a border of mashed potatoes, the sauce round, and the garnish in the centre.76 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Cotelettes de Veau. Ingredimts. One pound of Veal Cutlets. Parsley and Thyme. Ltemon-rind. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets into a round shape, and beat them to half an inch in thickness with a cutlet-bat; chop up the thyme (which, when chopped, should fill a saltspoon), also the parsley. Melt the butter, add to it the chopped parsley, thyme, lemon-juice, and a little grated lemon-rind, one egg, pepper and salt to taste, and beat it all up together with a knife. Dip each cutlet into the plate and cover them all over with the mixture; then cover them with bread-crumbs and press the crumbs firmly on with a palette-knife. Fry the cutlets for ten minutes; dish in a circle on mashed potatoes, and serve with rolls of bacon in the centre and brown sauce poured round. Escallopes de Poulet a la Financiere, Ingredients, The Legs of a Chicken. Half a pound of Veal.77 EHTK]EES. Quarter of a pound of fat Bacon. Two tablespoonfuls 5f chopped Tongue, Truffles. Mushrooms. Two Eggs. Nutmeg. Cayenne and Salt. Two ounces of Butter. Three-quarters of a pint of Stock, Sauce for the Above. Ingredients. One gill of Sherry. Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Brown Sauce, Chopped Truffles. Cockscombs. Tongues and Mushrooms. Bone the legs neatly; scrape and pound the veal and bacon, and pass through a sieve; add to this the two tablespoonfuls of chopped tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg, salt and cayenne ; mix well together, and stuff the legs of the fowl with this, sewing them up neatly. Wrap them up in buttered paper, put them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and some vegetables, cut up; then add three-quarters of a pint of brown stock; put the stewpan in the oven, baste well, and cook gently for one hour. When cooked, cut them in slices half an inch thick, and dish up on spinach. For the sauce: make the half pint of brown sauce, sherry, cayenne, and chopped truffles boil up once, and78 Hian-CLASS COOKERY. pour round the chicken, putting cockscombs, truffles, pieces of tongue, and mushrooms in the centre. Filets de Boeuf a la Bearnaise. Ingredients, Two pounds of FiUet of Beef, cut up into neat round fillets. Two ounces of Glaze. Two ounces of Butter. One chopped Mushroom. Pepper and Salt, Fry the fillets in butter with the mushroom and seasoning. When cooked, brush each one over with a little glaze. Dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato or spinach. Serve Bearnaise sau.ce in the centre, with some glaze poured round. Filets de Boeuf a la Mirabeau. Ingredients. One pound of Fillet of Beef. Six filleted Anchovies. Eight or ten turned Olives. A few sprigs of Watercress. Maitre d'Hotel Butter. Three ounces of Butter. Parsley. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. Broil the fillet nicely, place a pat of Maitre79 ENTREES. d'Hotel butter on the top, and garnish round with the anchovies, olives, and watercress. For the Maitre d'Hotel butter, take Three ounces of Butter. One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Pepper and Salt. Work all the ingredients into a pat, and set the mixture in a cool place until wanted. Filets de Bosuf Pique a la Flamande. Trim and lard carefully about three pounds of fillet of beef. Braize until cooked about forty-five minutes. Then cut the fillet in slices and arrange down the centre of the dish. Serve brown sauce round. Garnish with heads of braized lettuce, carrots, and turnips turned into fancy shapes, rings of fried onions and little bits of streaky bacon. The carrots and turnips must be boiled separately. Filets de BcBuf aux Huitres- Ingredients, One pound of Fillet Steak, One Spanish Onion. Two iDicMed Walnuts. Two tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup. One dessertspoonful of Walnut Ketchup.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 80 One teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce, One dozen Oysters. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Mix the butter and flour together in a stewpan ; peel and chop up the onion, cut up the walnuts, put them into the stewpan, also the ketchup and Worcester sauce. Lay the steak on these and let it stew for an hour, turning it every twenty minutes ; it must not hoiL Just before serving, put in the oysters, bearded, with their liquor strained through a fine straiDer. Filets de BcBuf a la Pompadour, Ingredients. Three pounds of FiUet of Beef. Three Tomatoes. One ounce of Glaze. Five ounces of Butter. Chopped Parsley. Lemon-juice. Macedoine. Trim off all the fat and skin, cut the fillet into neat pieces about half an inch thick. Fry quickly in two ounces of butter. Skin the tomatoes and cut them into slices, put them on a baking sheet with some pieces of fat cut into rounds, and bake for three or four minutes. Dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato, put a piece of fat and tomato on each fillet, also a small pat of Maitre81 Entree^. d'Sotel butte]", made of three ouiiaes of butter, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice mixed; pour some half-glaze round; and put some macedoine in the centre of the fillets. Filets de Boeuf a la Russe^ Ingredients. One pound FiUet of Beef. One gill of Glaze. Grated Horse-radish. . ' Twenty-four Button Onions. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Cut the beef into neat fillets, cook them on a gridiron, sprinkling a little pepper and salt on each fillet. When cooked, glaze them nicely and dish them up round mashed potato, putting a small piece of cooked fat on each fillet, and some grated horse-radish. Fry the onions in the butter, put them in the centre of the fillets, pour round some good gravy, and serve very hot. Filets de Lievre a !a St= Stephens- Ingredients. Oiie Hare. Half pint of Stock* One Carrot. One Onion.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 82 Four Cloves. Bouquet Garni. Larding Bacon. One Orange and One ounce of dried Cherries to dish up with. Cut as many nice fillets off the hare as you can, lard them and braise them in the stock, vege- tables, cloves and bouquet garni, watch them and baste them; when the bacon they are larded with turns a pale brown, the fillets are ready to serve. While the fillets are cooking, make some quenelle meat (see Quenelles, p. 98) of these ingredients: The Meat of the Hare that is left after the Fillets are cut. Two Eggs. One gill of Brown Sauce. Two ounces of fat Bacon. Pepper, Salt, a little Kutmeg. ] A teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. When all this is made into quenelle meat and passed through a wire sieve, butter some small moulds, fill them in with the quenelle meat and steam them twenty minutes. Sauce fob the above. Ingredients, Bones of the Hare. Two ounces of Butter. A Bay-leaf. A Clove of Garlic. Thyme,ENTREES. 83 One ounce of Flour. One Orange. Stock the Fillets were cooked in. Half pint of Claret. A teaspoonful of Ked Currant Jelly. Salt, Lemon-juice, Cayenne. Chop up the bones of the hare, fry them in the butter with the bay-leaf, thyme, garlic, and flour; then add the stock, jelly, claret, the juice and rind of one orange, a few drops of lemon-juice, salt and cayenne. Let this all boil for twenty minutes. To dish up the hare, turn out the moulds of quenelle meat, and place them in a circle on a dish; lay the fillets on the top with thin slices of orange in between each fillet; boil one ounce of dried cherries for five minutes in a little claret, take them out and place them in the centre of the fillets ; strain the sauce and pour it over the hare. Filets de Veau a la Talleyrand. Ingfedients. One pound Of Fillet of Yeal. Four Mushrooms. Two Shalots. One tablespoonfui of finely-clioppecl Parsley* One gill of White Sauce, Yolks of two Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Lemon-juice. Cut and trim your cutlets neatly into i^otind pieces; they should be all the same size; place them in a frying-pan with the ounce of butter and G 2HIGH-CLASS COOItEBY. 84 fry them, but do not let them brown ; have ready chopped the mushroom and shalot. Add to the cutlets. When nearly done, add the white sauce, let them saute in it for three minutes. Add the yolks of egg, and, lastly, the finely-chopped parsley and some lemon-juice, stirring well all the time, until the sauce is thick. Dish in a circle on mashed potato, and pour the sauce over and round. Fricandeau de Veau, Ingredients. Three pounds of Cushion of Veal. Larding Bacon. Stock. One Carrot. One Onion. Three sticks of Celery. Bouquet of Herbs. Pare off the skin, and trim the veal infcd an oval shape; lard this neatly and closely with lard- ing bacon; put it into a stewpan on a bed of carroty onion, and celery cut up ; the herbs tied together, and sufficient stock to half cover the veal; cover it over with buttered paper, and stew slowly for about an hour and a half; baste it about every ten minutes. When done, place the veal on a baking sheet in the oven for about five minutes to glaze the bacon. Strain the stock, free it from grease, boil it down to half-glaze. Eemove the veal from the oven, glaze it nicely, and serve it ©n a bed of85 ENTREES. spinach or sorrel, and pour the half-glaze round. A fricandeau may be served with tomato sauce or macedoine of vegetables, instead of spinach, etc. Fricassee de Poulet, Ingredients, One Chicken. One Carrot. Half an Onion. One stick of Celery. Parsley. One sprig of Thyme. One Bay-leaf. Two Cloves. Six Peppercorns. One blade of Mace. One pint and a half of Second White Stock. One ounce and a half of Batter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Twenty-four Button Mushrooms. Fried Bread, One gill of Cream. Cut up the chicken into joints and lay it in cold water for ten minutes. Put the carrot, cut in slices, the onion, thyme, bay-leaf, celery, parsley, cloves, peppercorns, and mace into a stewpan, with the stock and the pieces of chicken taken out of the water and wiped dry on a clean cloth; let these all boil gently for half an hour, then take out the pieces of chicken, wash them in cold water^ and dry them 5 strain the stock into a basin. Peel the mushrooms and m% off thg italkSi86 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. and put them into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, the lemon-juice, and a tablespoonful of cold water; let this just boil up, and then turn them on to a plate. Put one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour into a stewpan, and mix well together; add the stalks and trimmings of the mushrooms and the chicken stock, first taking off the grease thoroughly; stir till it boils, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes, with the lid half on; then skim off the butter which has risen to the top, and let it reduce to one pint. Add the cream, put the mushrooms and the pieces of chicken into a stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and, when quite hot, serve with pieces of fried bread round. Galantine of Fowl, Ingredients. One Fowl. Pepper, Salt, Aromatic Spice. Sausage Meat, about one pound. A little Tongue or Ham. Truffles and Pistachios. One hard-boiled Egg. One pint of Stock. A little Glaze. Some chopped Aspic Jelly. Bone a large fowl, draw the skin of the legs and wings inside, spread out the fowl flat on the table, season with pepper, salt, and a little aromatic spice. Spread a layer of sausage meat an inch thick uponENTREES. 87 the fowl, add some long stripes of tongue or ham, some good black truffles, a few Pistachio nuts and some stripes of hard-boiled egg; put a thin layer of sausage meat over all this, fold the fowl over both sides, roll it in a clean cloth, fasten the ends very tightly with string, braise it in some good stock for an hour and a half to two hours, according to the size of the fowl. When cooked and nearly cold, remove the cloth, as it always becomes loose, tie it up again tightly at both ends as before, press it between two dishes with weights on the top : when cold remove the cloth, glaze it all over, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Gibelotte de Lapin, Ingredients, One Kabbit. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. Two Shalots. One clove of Garlic. One pint Poivrade Sauce. Cut the rabbit in pieces; fry, or saute it in the butter: add the shalot, onion, and the brown sauce; put it in the oven for one hour, being care- ful it does not burn. Twelve small new potatoes, previously cooked, may be added to this, or pieces of cauliflower or croutons of fried bread.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 88 Jugged Hare- Ingredients, One Hare. One Carrot. One Onion. One Turnip. A bunch of Sweet Herbs. Quarter pound of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. One pint of Stock. One glass of Port Wine. One tablespoonful of Ked Currant Jelly. Cut up the onion, carrot, and turnip and fry them in the butter in a stewpan with the herbs. Joint the hare into neat pieces and add it to the vegetables, and let it simmer gently for half an hour; then mix the flour into a thin paste with a little of the stock, stir it to the hare, add the rest of the stock, and cook slowly for one hour. Just before dishing up add the port wine and red currant jelly. Dish the hare up neatly, strain the sauce over it: add forcemeat balls if liked. Forcemeat Balls. Ingredients, Two ouiices of Beef Suet. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley* Quarter teaspoonful of choppedlThyme and Marjoram.89 ENTREES. Half teaspoonfrl of grated Lemon-rind and Nutmeg, One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Chop the suet finely, mix all these ingredients well together, roll them up into small balls. Poach them in boiling water for a few minutes and they are ready to serve. Mauviettes en Caisse a la Lucullus. Ingredients. Larks, according to number wanted. Half a pound of Calf's Liver. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. Two Shalots. One clove of Garlic. Twelve whole Peppers, Six Cloves. Two Bay-leaves, A little Parsley. Marjoram. Thyme. Salt. Six Trufifles, chopped fine. Three haid-boiled Eggs (yolks). First bone the larks, being careful not to break them. Then cut the bacon into small pieces, put it in a saute-pan with the shalot, garlic, and flavour- ing : let it fry until brown ; add the liver cut in pieces, and cook over the fire until brown, but not too much cooked. Put the contents of the aaute- pan into a mortar and pound it, then pa®i it90 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY, through a wire sieve, return again to the mortar, and add the yolks of egg. When well mixed, add the truffles, and stuff each lark to resemble its natural shape. Oil some paper cases, and put each lark in a case. Brush over with salad oil and put in the oven until they are just cooked. Put the bones of the larks, half a pint of good stock, and one glass of Marsala, into a stewpan, and reduce it all to one gill. When the larks are cooked, put a spoonful of this sauce over each. Mayonnaise aux Huitres. Ingredients, Native Oysters, number as required. Mayonnaise Sauce. Mustard and Cress. The shells of the oysters must be well washed ; in the deep shell put a little mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle a little mustard and cress on it, and lay the oyster on the salad, leaving the beards on. Mayonnaise de Volaille. Ingredients, A cold boiled Fowl. Oil, Vinegar, Pepper and Salt. Mayonnaise Sauce. Salad, Cucumber, Tarragon, Chervil. Chopped Aspic Jelly.ENTREES. 91 Cut up a cold fowl into small joints, and steep them for fifteen minutes in a basin with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Then drain them quite dry on a cloth, mask them all over very smoothly with some white mayonnaise sauce stiffened with a little aspic jelly. Dish up these pieces of fowl on a thick bed of well-seasoned salad, shred finely in a pyramid form. Garnish the base with chopped aspic jelly, neatly cut cucumber, and the top with sprigs of tarragon and chervil. Minced Veal. Ingredients, One pound Minced Veal. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. The grated peel of half a Lemon. One teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. One blade of Mace. Half pint of Stock. Two dozen of Oysters, Sippets of Toast. Mince the veal and make it hot in the stock with the ketchup, cayenne sauce, lemon peel, and mace. When thoroughly hot, take out the mace; scald the oysters in their own liquor, taking off the beards; put the mince on a hot dish, the oysters in the centre and the sippets of toast round.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY, 92 Noix de Boeuf a la Chipolata. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pint of Claret. Quarter of a pint of Water. One small Onion. Quarter of a small Carrot. Twenty Peppercorns. One Bay-leaf. Two pounds of Fillet of Beef. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Twelve Button Onions. Two ounces of Sausage Meat. Six Chestnuts. Trim the fillet of beef, tie it up carefully and put it into an earthen pan. Boil the claret, water, onion, carrot, bay-leaf, and peppercorns together, and when the mixture is cold pour it over the beef and allow it to stand two days. Then braise the beef as usual for about forty-five minutes, and when cooked cut it into slices. Arrange these slices up the centre of the dish and pour brown sauce round. To garnish the entree have the onions fried brown in butter, the sausage meat rolled in little pieces and cooked in the oven, and the chestnuts boiled tender in stock. Mix these together and serve in groups round the beef&3 Ox Palates a la Financiered Ingredierds. Six Ox Palates. One Carrot. One Onion. One stick of Celery. A faggot of Parsley. Six Cloves. A blade of Mace. Six Peppercorns. A clove of Garlic. Salt. Two quarts of Stock. Quenelle Meat and fine Herbs, Financiere Kagout. Financiere Sauce. Soak the palates in water with a good handful of salt for several hours, cleaning them well; then parboil them in salt and water until the hard skin can be easily scraped off. When thoroughly clean put them on to cook in the stock with the onion, carrot, celery, parsley, cloves, mace, garlic, pepper- corns, and some salt; let them boil gently till quite tender, about four hours. Then press them between two dishes till cold; when cold cut them into pieces two inches wide and three inches long; spread each of these with a thin layer of quenelle meat in which some fine herbs have been mixed; each scollop must be rolled up tightly in a piece of buttered writing paper and placed in a saute-pan; simmer these for about twenty minutes in some of the stock in which the palates were cooked. Take them out94 HiaH-OLABS COOKERY. of the papers, trim the ends off neatly, roll them in some half-glaze made by reducing some of the stock, dish them up in a conical form with Knanciere ragout in the centre, and Financiere sauce poured over the entree. Gompote de Pigeons- Ingredients, TJiree Pigeons. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. One small Carrot. One small Turnip. Two sticks of Celery. One small Shalot. Six Mushrooms. Bouquet Garni. One pint of Brown Stock. Seasoning. One tablespoonful of Flour. Cut the bacon into neat pieces and fry for five minutes. Cut the pigeons in half, truss each half as neatly as possible, and then fry them a nice brown on both sides; add the vegetables and stock, and simmer gently for one hour. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, pepper, and salt, and add a gill of the stock; half an hour before serving add the flour, etc., to the pigeons, and stir till it boils up and thickens. When cooked, dish the pigeons in a circle on mashed potatoes; strain. the gravy round and over them, and put some peas or spinach iu the centre,95 ENTREES. Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Bourgeoise- Ingreclients, Two Bordeaux Pigeons. Half pint of Brown Sauce. Six stoned Olives. Six pieces of Carrot turned in the sliape of an olive. Six pieces of Turnip turned in the shape of an olive. Six Mushrooms. Eight small Quenelles shaped in teaspoons. Eight or ten croutons of fried Bread. Truss the pigeons for boiling and braise them for about forty-five minutes. Then cut them into about four pieces; arrange neatly on a dish; pour the sauce over and round. Place the pieces of carrot and turnip, the olives, mushrooms, and quenelles here and there as garnish, and stand the croutons round the base of the entree. The pieces of carrot and turnip must he boiled separately. Pigeons a la Duchesse. Ingredimts. Three Pigeons. Quarter of a pound of Quenelle Meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Macedoine of Vegetables to garnish. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast- bone and beat them flat. Saute them with twoHIGH-CLxiSS OOOKEUY. 0fi ounces of butter, pepper, and salt. TherL press them flat. When the pigeons are cold, spread the quenelle meat over the cut side of the birds. Then egg, crumb, and fry in fat. Dish in a circle, brown sauce round and macedoine in centre. Pigeons k la Financiered Ingredients. Four Pigeons^ One pint of good Stock. A block of fried Bread. One ounce of Glaze. Half a pint of Financiere Hauee. Small Quenelles. Mushrooms. Truffles. Cockscombs. Truss and braize the pigeons in the stock. When done, glaze them. Dish them up against the block of fried bread. Pour the sauce round the entree, and place the garnish of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs in the centre. Pigeons a la Mazarine Ingredients, Three Pigeons. Half a pound of Sausage Meat. One pint of Stock. One small Onion.Entrees. 97 One small Carrot. One Turnip. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Tomato Sauce. Green Peas to garnish. Split the pigeons, take out the breast-bone, and braize them with the stock and vegetables for half an hour. Then press them flat. When the birds are cold, spread the sausage meat over the cut side of each. Then egg and crumb and fry in fat. Dish in a circle. Tomato sauce round and peas in the centre. Quails a la Lucullus. Ingredients, Six or eight Quails, boned, which must be very carefully clone, l^welve Livers from Game or Chicken. 'Three ounces of Bacon. One Shalot. Small Bouquet Garni. Twelve Peppercorns. Six Cloves. Pepper and Salt. Three Truffles. Cut up the bacon and put it in a saute-paii; let it cook for a few minutes, then add the livers shalot, white peppers, cloves, and bouquet. Let this all cook carefully; pound all in the mortar, pass through a hair-sieve, then add the chopped truffles. Stuff each quail into shape, butter some HHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 98 paper cases, called Quail cases/' or oil them, put the quail into the case, a few drops of salad oil on each, when they should be put in the oven for about ten minutes. Sauce. Ingredients, One gill of Brown Sauce. One tablespoonful of Glaze. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Truffles. Half gill of Sherry. Put the bones of the quails in a stewpan, add the glaze and brown sauce ; let this boil to extract the flavour from the bones, strain, and add the truffles and the sherry; put about one tablespoon- ful of this sauce over each quail when they are taken from the oven, after very carefully draining off all grease from the quails. Serve them in the cases. Quenelles of VeaL Ingredients, One pound of Fillet of Yeal. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. Quarter pint of Second White Stock. Two Eggs. Salt. Mix one ounce of butter and two ounces of flour together in a stewpan, add one gill of stock,99 ENTREES. and cook these well together until quite thick and the mixture or panada leaves the sides of the stew- pan quite clean, then put it on a plate to cool. Cut up the veal into small pieces, removing all the fat and skin, pound it in a mortar with the panada, put half of it into the mortar with one egg (raw) and pound it to a cream, then half the veal, pepper and salt, and pound these well together; now add the rest of the panada, the veal, pepper and salt, and the other egg, and again pound all well together and rub through a wire- sieve, put this quenelle mixture into a basin. Butter a saute-pan, shape the mixture into quenelles with two dessert-spoons and a knife, thus: dip a dessert-spoon into hot water, fill it with the mixture, shape it oval with a knife dipped in hot water ; take another dessert-spoon, dip it in hot water, scoop the mixture from the first spoon into the second and place it carefully into the saute-pan and so on, arrange the quenelles in the saute-pan, pour boiling water carefully into it, and poach them for ten minutes. Turn the quenelles carefully with a spoon, and when thoroughly cooked lift them out of the water, drain them on a clean cloth, arrange them tastily in a circle on a hot dish, pour white sauce over them, filling in the centre of the dish with button mushrooms cooked in stock, or peas, or spinach. H 2HiaH-dLASS COOKERY. lOO Ris de Veau k ritaliennei Ingredients. One heart Sweetbread* One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. One pint of Second Stock. Larding Bacon. Fried block of Bread. Half a pint of Italienne Sauce. Twelve small Quenelles. One gill of Mushrooms. Steep the sweetbread in water for an hour. Then blanch it and press it slightly between two dishes. When cold, cut away the sinewy fat and lard it. Place the sweetbread in a stewpan with the vegetables and stock, cover with buttered paper, and braize carefully for twenty or thirty minutes. Then take it out of the stewpan, place it on a baking sheet, baste it well with its own liquor, and put it in the oven to brown. Serve on the block of fried bread, sauce round, and garnish with the quenelles and mushrooms. Ris de Veau a !a Supreme. Ingredients. Two heart Sweetbreads. Half a pint of Button Mustoooms* One quart of Chicken or Yeal Stock* Lemon-juice.101 ENTREES. Nutmeg. Seasoning, Half a pint of Cream* Vegetables. Well wash the sweetbreads and cover them with cold water, add one tablespoonful of salt, and put them on the fire to boil for ten minutes. "Wash them again in cold water, and press them under a weight until cold; then take out the gristle, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with stock in which is a little vegetable, carrot, celery, onion, and small bouquet garni. Cover with a buttered paper and simmer gently about three-quarters of an hour; prepare the mushrooms, and with the trimmings of the mushrooms, the butter, flour, and stock, make a sauce, and let it well boil, then add the cream, lemon-juice, and seasoning. Strain the sauce and add mushrooms. Dish the sweet- breads on a croustade of fried bread, and cover with the sauce. An addition of green peas or haricots verts is an improvement, and the sweet- breads may be first larded with bacon or truffles. If larded they must be glazed with a little of the stock they were cooked in, and the sauce poured round, not over them. Rognons a rEpicurienne. Ingredients. Four Sheep's Kidneys. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pound of Quenelle MeaiHIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 102 One teaspoonful of chopped Onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms, Salt and Pepper. Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Brown Italian Sauce. Small Quenelles or Mushrooms to garnish. Split the kidneys, remove the white skin, and saute them with the butter, onion, mushrooms, lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Butter eight small oval moulds, and line them with the quenelle meat. Place half a kidney in each, and steam slowly for twenty minutes. Turn out care- fully. Pour the Italian sauce over, and garnish with the quenelles or mushrooms. Rognons aux Croutes- Ingredients. Four Kidneys. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of chopped Ham. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Half pint of good Stock. Fried Bread. Salt. Bacon. Skin the kidneys and cut them open, put them in a stewpan with the butter, ham, parsley, stock, and a little salt. Let them cook for five minutes, then dish them up on rounds of fried bread ; reduce the gravy to one gill, strain it and pour it over them, serve with some nice little pieces of fried bacon round.103 ENTREES. Rissoles a la Victoria. Ingredients. One gill of Supreme Sauce. Half a Chicken, minced. Half a Sweetbread „ Six Truffles Six Mushrooms „ Three Eggs. Mix all this into the sauce; stir in, when over the fire, the yolks of three eggs. Let this thicken, pour out on a dish, and when cold make up into rissoles. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry them a nice brown in boiling lard or fat. These should be dished -on a napkin, served with parsley fried; or they can be made into cutlet shape, and served with brown sauce, and peas or macddoine in the centre. SoufTl e de Perdrix. Ingredients. Two Partridges. Two ounces of cooked Kice. One ounce of Butter. Seasoning. One gill and a half of Glaze. Yolks of four and whites of two Eggs. Cook the partridges, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound with the rice, butter, season- ing, and glaze. Pass all through a hair-sieve; then add the yolks of egg, and lastly the two104 HIGH-CI.ASS COOKERY. whites whipped to a stiff froth. Put into a mould. Bake in a quick oven; serve with a good gravy round made from the game bones. SoufFlee de Volaiile, Ingredients. One pound of raw Chicken. Three ounces of Butter. Four Egge. Half pint of double Cream. Pepper and Salt to taste. Pound the meat in a mortar, then add gradually three ounces of butter, four yolks and two whites of egg, season to taste, and then pass through a hair-sieve. Whip the remaining two whites of egg to a stiff froth, half whip the cream, and stir these in very lightly to the chicken mixture. Steam very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve with white sauce made from chicken- stock. Salmi of Cold Wild Duck. Ingredients, Wild Luck and the gravy loft, or half pint of Stock. Two glaeses of Port Wine. Four Shalots. One ounce of Butter. Half ounce of Flour,ENTREES. 105 The rind of one Orange, The juice of one Lemon. Half teaspoonful of Cayenne. A sprig of Thyme. Cut up the duck into neat pieces, and stew the trimmings of the duck in the gravy, with the Port wine, shalots, orange rind cut very thin, the lemon-juice, cayenne, and thyme, thicken with the butter and flour worked together. Stew this till reduced to half its quantity, then strain over the pieces of duck, warm all together without boiling, and serve. Tartlets of Chicken, Ingredients. Half a pound of Quenelle Meat. Six ounces of the breast of a cooked Chicken, Two ounces of lean cooked Ham. Six Mushrooms. One Truffle. One gill of White Sauce. Cut the chicken into very small pieces. Chop up the mushrooms, truffles, and ham, and stir into the white sauce. Butter well nine small moulds; line them neatly with the quenelle meat, not leaving a particle uncoated; fill in with the minced chicken; coat them neatly over the top with the quenelle meat. Steam them for twenty minutes ; dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour good white >sauce over and round, and serve peas or mixed vegetables in the centre.106 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. Tendrons de Veau a la Tartare. Ingredients. The thick end of a breast of Veal. A Carrot, Onion, Turnip. Two sticks of Celery. Bunch of Parsley, Cloves, Peppercorns. One quart of Stock. Salt. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Cold Tartare Sauce. Mixed Pickles. Eemove the meat from the tendons, cut them right along the end of the rib-bones, divide the tendon or gristle part into square pieces about the size of a cutlet, put them into a stewpan with the stock and all the herbs and vegetables, let them cook very gently for about four hours. When quite tender lift them out carefully, place them between two dishes till nearly cold, trim them neatly, egg and bread-crumb them, fry them a light brown, dish them up on cold Tartare sauce, garnish with pickles and serve. Tendrons de Veau a la Villeroy. Ingredients. Two pounds breast of Veal braised. Quarter pound of Liver Farce (see Cutlets a la Kachel). Quarter pint of thick Bechamel Sauce. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Half pint of Brown Sauce. Macedoine to garnish.107 ENTREES. Cook the veal carefully until done, about one and a half hours. Then pull out the bones, and press it flat. When cold trim into cutlet-shaped pieces. Cover each piece with liver-farce, and then with bechamel. Egg and crumb carefully, and fry in sufficient fat to cover. Arrange the tendrons in a circle, pour the brown sauce round, and place the macedoine in the centre. Tete de Veau. Ingredients, Half a Calf s Head. One Carrot. One Onion. Two sticks of Celery. Two tablespoonfals of Flour. One gill of Vinegar. One tablespoonful of Salt. Half a calf s head ; wash and clean well, remove the brains, put it in a stewpan, cover with cold water, and add the carrot, onion, celery, flour, and one gill of vinegar (this is added to make the head keep white), and the salt. Skim well when boil- ing; let it simmer two hours, when serve with Piquante sauce. Garnish with the brains and tongue cooked separately. Vol au Vent k la Toulouse. Ingredients. Half a pound of Puif Paste, which must only have had six turns, from whichHiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 108 cut either small cases, or one ordinary-sized vol-au- vent case, and bake till a nice brown in an oven not too hot; when baked remove the centre. Put in a stewpan— Half a pint of Supreme Sauce. Half a cold Chicken or Sweetbreads, cut in neat pieces. Two ounces of Tongue. Three Truffles, sliced. Six Mushrooms „ Four CJockscombs. A few quenelles of Veal or Chicken. Stir this over the fire until hot, but not boiling; fill in your vol-au-vent, w^hich should only be done on sending it to table, as it makes the paste damp, and does not appear so satisfactory when filled long before serving.( 109 ) SAUCES. Bearnaise Sauce. Ingredients, Four Shalots. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a gill of Vinegar. One gill of White Sance. Yolks of three Eggs. Three ounces of Butter. Chop up the shalots and put them into a stew- pan with the vinegar, and boil till reduced to a tablespoonful; then add the white sauce, mixing it well; add one at a time the three yolks of egg, whisking each one well in before adding another, and on no account let it toil. When the eggs are in, remove the stewpan from the fire and whisk in the butter in small pieces, taking care that each piece is dissolved before adding the next, as, if the butter is added too quickly, the sauce will oil. Strain it, and it is ready for use.110 HIOT-CLASS COOKERY. Bechamel Sauce. Ingredients. One pint of White Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Six Mushrooms. Half a pint of Cream. The juice of half a Lemon. Put the butter and flour into a stewpan; when well mixed, add the stock, and stir till it boils; then add the mushrooms, washed and peeled ; let the sauce boil up again, and simmer for twenty minutes with the lid half on, to throw up the butter, which skim off as it rises. Strain the sauce through a tammy cloth into another stew- pan ; now stir in the cream and lemon-juice, and let it boil well for three to five minutes. Pour it into a basin, and stir while it cools. It is now ready for use when required. If used to mask for a chaudfroid, this sauce must have a French gelatine or aspic jelly in it. Two tablespoonfuls of aspic to half a pint of sauce. Brandy Sauce. Ingredients. Three Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. One wineglassful of Brandy. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar.Ill SAUCES. Put the yolks of egg into a milk saucepan, add the cream, brandy, and sugar; whisk all well to- gether for six or eight minutes. Be careful that it does not curdle. Bread Sauce. Ingredients. One giU of Bread-crumbs. One smaU Onion. Five Peppercorns. Half a pint of Milk. Salt. One tablespoonful of Cream. Put the milk into a stewpan, when boiling add the crumbs, onion, salt, and peppercorns, and let it stand by the fire for fifteen minutes to soak the bread, then stir it and add the cream. Before serving, take out the onion and peppercorns. Brown Sauce. Ingredients. One pint of Brown Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Six Mushrooms. One Carrot. One small Onion. One Slialot. Salt and Pepper.SiaH-CLASS COOKEEf. 112 Put the mushrooms washed and peeled, the carrot, shalot, and onion cut up, into a stewpan, and fry them in the butter a good brown; stir in the flour, and last of all the stock ; let it boil ten minutes, and skim it; season with pepper and salt; strain it through a tammy sieve, and it is ready for use. Sauce a la Cardinal. For Fillets of Sole oe Whiting. Ingredients, Coral from a Lobster. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Half pint of Fish Stock. A teaspoonful of Lemon-juicd. Half gill of Cream. Cayenne and Salt. Pound the coral in a mortar with the butter and pass it through a hair-sieve, put the stock into a stewpan, mix the flour into a smooth cream with a little of the stock, add this to the rest with the coral butter, stir till it boils and thickens; then add the lemon-juice, cream, cayenne, and salt, to taste.SAUCES. 113 Custard Sauce» Ingredients. One Egg. One gill of Milk. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Eiglit drops of Essence of Vanilla. Break the egg into a milk saucepan, add the sugar, milk, and vanilla, and whisk it over the fire till it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle. Celery Sauce, Ingredients. Four heads of Celery. Four ounces of Butter, Two ounces of Flour. One pint of Milk. One gill of Cream. A little Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt. Clean the celery very thoroughly, and slice it up very thinly, put it into a stewpan with the butter, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Let it stew slowly until the celery is dissolved: it will take some time, and it must not brown. When it has dissolved, stir in the flour, mix it well, then stir in the milk and boil it for twenty minutes. Eub it through a hair-sieve, warm it up again, stir in the cream, and serve. I114 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. Espagnole. Ingredients. One pint of Brown Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One and a half ounces of Flour, Six Mushrooms. One Carrot. One small Onion. One Shalot. One gill of Tomato Sauce. One glass of Sherry. Wash, peel, and cut up the carrot, mushrooms, onion, and shalot; put them into a stewpan and fry a good brown; stir in the flour, and last of all, the stock; let it boil ten minutes, then add the tomato sauce, the sherry, and season with pepper and salt; let it boil up again, skim it, strain it through a tammy cloth, and it is ready for use. Financiere Sauce. Ingredients. Quarter of a pint of Sherry, One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Glaze. One tablespoonful of chopped Mushrooms or Truffles. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Put the sherry, butter, glaze, and chopped mushrooms or truflies into a stewpan, and cook for five minutes. Then add the brown sauce ;SAUCES. 115 boil till it coats the spoon. Strain, and it is ready to serve. TlNAKCIERE EaGOUT. Sliced Truffles. Scollops of Foie Gras. Cocks- combs. Mushrooms, and Quenelles. German Sauce. Incp^edicnts, Two Eggs. One wineglassful of Sherry, One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Put the yolks of egg into a stewpan with the sherry and sugar. Whisk this over the fire until it conies to a thick froth, taking care that it does not curdle, Sauce Hollandaise. Ingredients, Half a pint of melted Butter. Yolks of five Eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of Lemon-juic?. Salt and Cayenne. Put the butter and yolks of egg into a stewpan; stand it in a saucepan of hot water, and whisk it well over the fire till it thickens; it must not boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, and at the last stir in the lemon-juice. I 2116 HIGH-CLASS COOKERy. Horse^-radish Sauce« Ingredients One gill of whipped Cream. Two ounces of grated Horse-radish, Salt, Pepper, mixed Mustard. One tablespoonful of White Yinegar. Mix together and serve. Sauce Italienne. Ingredients, Two Shalots, Six Mushrooms, One ounce of Batter, A sprig of Thyme. Bay-leaf. One gill of Sherry. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Second Stock. Chop the shalots and mushrooms and fry them in the butter with the flour, thyme, and bay-leaf, till a good brown; then add the sherry, let it boil till reduced to half the quantity. Add the stock, and boil for ten minutes. Strain it, and it is r§ady for use. Lobster Sauce. Ingredients, One Lobster. ^ Two ounces of Butter*SATTCES. 117 One ounce of Flour] Half a pint of Water. One tablespoonful of Cream. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Salt and Cayenne. Eemove the flesh from the tail and claws and cut it up into dice. Take the coral, wash and dry it, pound it with one ounce of butter and rub it through a hair-sieve. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter and the flour. Mix these over the fire and add half a pint of water, stir well, and boil the sauce a few minutes. Then add the coral, butter, the pieces of lobster, the seasoning, and the cream. Mix and warm thoroughly, and the sauce is ready. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients, Two Eggs. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar^ Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard. One gill of Salad Oil. Put the yolks of egg into a basin, with a salt- spoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper; break the yolks with a wooden spoon, and pour in, one drop at a time, the gill of oil, whisking it well the whole time. At the last, stir in the vinegar and the mustard. The sauce, when properly made, must be as smooth and as thick as double cream.HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. 118 Oyster Sauce. Ingredients, One dozen Oysters. Half an ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Cream. Lemon-juice, Salt, and Cayenne. Put the oysters into a stewpan with their liquor, and bring them to the boil. Strain the liquor into a basin. Eemove the beards and the hard parts of the oysters, and cut the soft parts into two pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, then the oyster liquor, and boil the sauce five minutes. Add the cream, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and pieces of oysters. Sauce Piquante, Ingredients. One Shalot. Half a Carrot. Three Mushrooms. One sprig of Thyme. One Bay-leaf. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. Half an ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Brown Stock. Two tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. Salt and Cayenne. Clean and cut up the vegetables very fine, reduce them in the vinegar and fry them brownSAUCES. 119 in the butter and flour in a stewpan ; then stir in the stock, also the thyme, bay-leaf, and Harvey sauce, let it simmer for twenty minutes ; then add the salt and cayenne, strain through a tammy, and it is ready for use. Poivrade Sauce. Ingredients, ' One head of Celery. Two Carrots. Two Onions. One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. One Turnip. Two Leeks. Three Tomatoes. Twenty-four whole Peppercorns. Six Cloves. A blade of Mace. Bouquet Garni (Thyme, Bay-leaf, Parsley, and Marjoram). Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Three ounces of Flour. Three pints of Stock. Half a pint of Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. Shred and wash the vegetables clean; put them in a stewpan with the ham and butter; fry them but not very brown; add the vinegar, and let it boil till quite reduced ; then stir in the flour, also add the stock. Stir well, and simmer gently one hour ; pass through a tammy, and it is ready for use.120 man-CLAss cookery. Reform. Ingredients. Half prnt of Poivrade Sauce. One tablespoonfiil of Eed Currant Jelly. One glass of Port Wine. Cayenne Pepper. When the Poivrade sauce is boiling stir in the red currant jelly, the port wine, and a little cayenne. Let it boil about ten minutes, strain, and it is ready for use. Soubise Sauce. Ingredients. Six large Onions. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of White SaUce. One gill of Cream. Pepper, Salt, and Castor Sugar. Peel and slice the onions, boil them in the milk till quite tender, then press out all the milk and rub them through a hair-sieve; put them into a stewpan with the white sauce and reduce it to half the quantity, stir in the cream, pepper, salt, and a little castor sugar. This sauce is now ready for use.SATTOES. 121 Supreme Sauce. Ingredients, Quarter of a ponnd of fresh Butter. Two ounces of Vienna Flour. One pint and a half of White Stock, made from Chickens. Half a pint of Cream. Twelve Peppercorns (white). A few Parsley-stalks. Juice of half a Lemon. Salt. Put the butter in a clean stewpan ; when melted, add the peppercorns, parsley-stalks, then stir in the flour. Cook this over the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes, then add the stock; stir again till it has well boiled; add the lemon-juice and salt, and, if at hand, some trimmings of white mushrooms, previously well washed and all water removed; lastly, add the cream. Pass through a tammy-cloth, and it is ready for use. Tartare Sauce. Ingredients, Two yolks of Eggs. Salt and Pepper. One gill of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of French Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. One teaspoonful of made Mustard. One tablespoonful of chopped Gherkins or Capers.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 122 Put' the yolks into a basin, add salt and pepper, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Add the oil drop by drop, stirring well all the time. Then put in the mustard, vinegar, gherkins, or capers, and the sauce is ready. Sauce Tomate. Ingredients, One pound of Tomatoes. Three Shalots. One Bay-leaf. A sprig of Thyme. Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of lean Ham. One tablespoonful of Yinegar. Put the butter into a saute-pan. Peel and cut up the shalots a-nd chop up the ham; put these into the saute-pan with the peppercorns, vinegar, salt, thyme, bay-leaf, and the sliced tomatoes. Stir this over the fire for about fifteen minutes, till it is well reduced ; then rub it all through a hair-sieve; return it to the saute-pan to re-heat, and it is ready for use. Wine Sauce. Ingredients. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of Water,SAUCES. 123 One tablespoonful of Jam. ^Xldt^^ One wineglassful of Sherry. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Put the sugar and water into a stewpan and stir till the sugar is melted ; stir in the jam, and, when well mixed, stir in the wine and lemon- juice. White Sauce. (cheap recipe.) Ingredients, One pint of Milk. One small Carrot. One gill of Cream. One stick of Celery. One Bay-leaf. One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Ten Peppercorns. Cut up the carrot, celery, shalot, and put them with the garlic, peppercorns, and bay-leaf into a stewpan to simmer for a few minutes, but not to brown : mix the butter and flour together, add to the vegetables, whisk in the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes. Then strain through a tammy- cloth, re-heat, and add the cream.( 124 ) VARIOUS .RECIPES. To boil a York Ham/ To choose a ham: select one with a smooth thin skin and a neat plump shape, not too long. Eun a skewer down the knuckle by the bone and it should smell sweet and savoury, not strong or rancid ; it should not be too hard, but be elastic to the touch. Having selected your ham, saw off the knuckle-bone quite close, soak it for twenty- four hours in cold water, scrape it clean from dirt and slime, and put it on in cold water to boil with plenty of fat in the water; let it simmer steadily for three hours, and allow it to get cold in the water. Take it up, remove the rind, trim the surface of the fat smoothly with a knife; put it on a baking sheet in the oven for a few minutes, then dab it with a clean cloth to absorb the grease. Take a paste-brush and paint it all over with glaze; when thoroughly cold, garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Instead of glazing the ham you can * A ham of 12 to 14 lbs. weight takes three hours to cook.VARIOUS RECIPES, 125 sprinkle raspings all over it. If the ham is to be eaten hot, it must be skinned, put in the oven, covered with buttered paper to get hot through, for about half an hour, then glaze it, and garnish with green peas, or Brussels sprouts, spinach, etc, To boil an Ox Tongue. A pickled tongue should be soaked for two or three hours in cold water. Then put it on to boil in cold water with a bunch of savoury herbs. Let it come slowly to the boil, skim it well, and let it boil slowly for about two hours and a half. When done, take it up, plunge it into cold water so that you can skin it easily: this must be done carefully, especially at the tip of the tongue. When skinned, set the tongue with the root end against a board or a wall, stick a dishing-up fork through the root into a board, stick another fork in front of the tip of the tongue, to get it into a good shape so that it will stand well; when quite cold trim off the root and glaze it, put a rouche round the root, garnish with parsley, and serve. If to be eaten hot, it must be wrapped up in buttered paper and made hot in boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then glazed and garnished with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels sprouts, and served with tomato, piquante, or poivrade sauce.HiaH-CLASS COOKEKYc 126 Boiled Pheasant. Truss a pheasant for boiling, stuff it either with oyster stuffing as for turkey or with chestnuts. The chestnuts must be boiled and skinned first, stuff at the neck end. Put the bird breast downwards into hot water, and let it boil gently for from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour according to size. Serve with celery sauce poured over and round. Boiled Turkey and Oyster Stuffing. Ingredients for stvffing. Quarter pound of Suet. Grated rind of half a Lemon. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Salt, Cayenne, and grated Nutmeg, Six ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two Eggs. Three dozen Oysters. Stuff the turkey with the above ingredients mixed thus : chop the suet very fine, mix it with crumbs, and the lemon-peel grated, chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg; take the beards off the oysters, add them and their127 VABIOUS BECIPES. liquor strained, and lastly the eggs; mix all well together, and fill the turkey with this stuffing at the neck end. Put the turkey breast downwards into hot water, let it come to the boil, skim it well, and boil gently for an hour and a half to an hour and three-quarters according to size. Serve with celery sauce poured over and round. Braized Ox Tongue, Ingredients, A fresh Tongue. Three quarts of Second Stock. A good Bouquet Garni, One Onion, whole Peppercorns, three Cloves, and Salt, Steep a fresh tongue in cold water for an hour, then put it into a stewpan with three quarts of second stock, an onion, a bunch of herbs, pepper- corns, cloves and salt; let it boil steadily for three hours. Take it up, strip off the white skin very carefully, trim off the root and rough parts of fat, etc., glaze it well and put it in the oven for twenty minutes. Serve with Piquante or Italian sauce; and spinach round it.128 HiaH-CLASS COOKEBY. Shoulder of Mutton Stuffed and Braized. Ingredients. One small shoulder of Mutton. Three quarts of Second Stock. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of sweet Herbs, One Shalot. Two ounces of chopped Bacon, Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of chopped Fowl or Game. One Yolk of Egg. Pepper and Salt. One dessertspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. Bone a shoulder of mutton, mix all the above ingredients well together and stuff the mutton with them, roll it up into a neat shape not too long, sew it up, braize it in the stock for about two hours according to size. When done, take it out and glaze it: serve with brown or piquante sauce, This joint is very nice baked. Lark Pudding, Ingredients. Six Larks. Half a pound of Fillet Steak. Six Oysters. Half a pound of Liver Faroe, One Shalot.VAEIOtrS EECrPES. 129 A teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms, Grated Nutmeg. Pepper and Salt. One gill of Brown Sauce. Suet Paste. Grease and line a pint-and-a-half pudding basin with good suet paste. Bone and clean the larks, stuff each one with liver farce with an oyster in the middle, wrap each lark up in a thin strip of steak, season each piece of steak with pepper and salt and a very little grated nutmeg. Put some pieces of steak in the bottom of the basin, put the roUed-up larks in neatly, sprinkle over the chopped shalot and mushrooms, pour in the brown sauce, fill in with any pieces of steak left, wet round the edge of the paste, put on the top crust, tie it up in a cloth tightly, plunge into boiling water and boil gently for two hours. Partridge Pudding. Ingredients, Two Partridges. Half a pound of Yeal Cutlet. One gill of good Brown Stock. Pepper and Salt. One Shalot. Chopped Mushrooms. Suet Paste. Grease and line a pint-and-a-half pudding basin with good suet paste, cut up the veal cutlet and KHiaH-OLASS COOKERY, 130 place it in the bottom of the basin, cut up the partridges into neat joints, lay them on the cutlet, sprinkle over pepper, salt, chopped shalot, and mushrooms, pour in the stock, wet the edge of the paste, put on the top crust, tie over with a cloth, plunge into boiling water and boil steadily for two hours.(131 ) VEGETABLES AND SALADS, Asparagus. Pick off the loose leaves, scrape the stalks, and wash them in cold water; cut all the stalks the same length, and tie them together in small bun- dles, the heads all the same way. Put the asparagus into hot water with a little salt, and boil gently for about twenty minutes till tender, taking care not to break the heads. Serve the asparagus on a slice of thick toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in. Hand melted butter with a few drops of lemon-juice in it. Jerusalem Artichokes a ritalienne. Ingredients, Two pounds of Artichokes. One giU of Consomme. Two ounces of Butter. Pepper and Salt. K 2132 HiaH-OLASS COOKEBY, Nutmeg. Lemon-juice. Italian Sauce (see Entrees). Wash and peel the artichokes, shaping them like small pears, of even sizes. Butter a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and arrange the arti- chokes in circles in it, sprinkle over a little pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-juice; pour one gill of consomme to them, put the lid on, and simmer gently for half an hour, basting them occasion- ally ; they should colour a deep yellow. Just before serving, roll them in the consomme. Serve with Italian sauce round them. Brussels Sprouts. Ingredients. Two pounds of Brussels Sprouts. Two ounces of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Quarter of a saltspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. Wash the sprouts well in salt and water, and trim them; put them into a saucepanful of boiling water with some salt and the carbonate of soda. Let them boil fast with the lid off till quite tender —from ten to twenty minutes, according to age. When done, strain them off, dry them in a cloth, put them into a stewpan with the butter, pepper, and salt, toss them in this till thoroughly hot— they must not fry; then serve.VEaETABLES AND SALADS. 133 French Beans k la Maitre d'H5tel. Ingredients. * Two pounds of French Beans. Two ounces of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Nutmeg. A tablespoonful of chopped Parsley parboiled. The juice of half a Lemon. Pick and string the beans, cutting each bean into three or four strips. Wash them well in cold water, drain them, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water, boil fast till tender. Put them into cold water for a few minutes, dry them in a clean cloth, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, parsley, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon- juice. When quite hot, serve them with croutons round. Haricots panaches k la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients. Half a pint of Haricot Beans. „ French „ Two ounces of Butter. Croiitons of fried Bread. Boil the haricots and French beans as usual until tender. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and saute both the beans until hot and well mixed. Serve134 HlOH-CLASS COOKEBY. piled lightly on a dish and garnish with the croutons. Lettuces, Watercress, Mustard and Cress, Endive, Cucumber, Celery, a little of each. Beetroot. ^ One or two Spring Onions. Two tablespoonfuls of the best Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. (Cold boiled vegetables can be used as well, such as Potato, Carrot, Turnip, Cauliflower, etc.) Wash all the ingredients carefully to remove dirt and grit. Dry them well in a clean cloth; break up the leaves into small pieces and put them into the salad-bowl; do not use a knife to the green vegetables. Put the salt, sugar, and mustard into a tablespoon; fill it with tarragon vinegar, and stir to melt the salt and sugar and mix the mustard. Pour this over the salad, shake over some pepper, and add the oil last, mixing all well together. Eemember the old saying in making a salad, " The vinegar should be measured out by a miser, the oil by a spendthrift, and a maniac should mix it." Plain Salad. Ingredients,VEGETABLES AND SALADS. ISS Saute PotatoeSi ^ Ingredients, Two pounds of New Potatoes. Two ounces of Butter. Bait. Wash the potatoes in cold water, scrape them and cut them into shapes like the quarters of an orange. Put them into a saucepan of cold water, and just let them boil up; then strain them and wipe them dry on a clean cloth. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and toss the potatoes in it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire; they should brown on all sides alike. Strain off the butter, sprinkle some salt over the potatoes, and serve. Potato Scollops. Ingredients, Two pounds of cold Potatoes. Half a pint of Milk. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheeso. Pepper and Salt. Mash the potatoes quite soft with the milk and the butter melted; add two ounces of cheese, pepper and salt to taste. Fill some patty-pans with this mixture, and brown them in the oven* While hot, glaze each over with melted butter and the rest of the cheese; serve very hot in the patty- pans.HIGH-OLASS COOKER"^. 136 Potato Croquettes. i * Ingredients, ^ Two pounds of Potatoes. Oue ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Milk.* Three Eggs. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Bread-crumbs. Pepper and Salt. Eub two pounds of cold potatoes, or potatoes cooked on purpose, through a sieve on to a plate; put the milk and butter into a stewpan, and when hot, stir in the sifted potatoes. Take the stew- pan off the fire and break the yolks of two eggs into the potatoes, stir in the chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. When quite cold, shape this mixture into balls or croquettes, egg and bread- crumb and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. Potato Chips. Wash and peel the potatoes, taking out the eyes and specks, peel them very thinly in ribbons, twist them into fancy shapes, put them into a frying- basket, and fry in boiling fat for about six minutes. You can cut the potatoes into thin slices about one-eighth of an inch in thickness if you prefer it. * If the potatoes are moist leave out the milk.VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 137 Russian Salad. lake equal quantities of carrots, turnips, French beans, cauliflower, green peas, and haricots; cut them into fancy shapes, and boil them separately until tender, also beetroot. Set all these vegetables in a border-mould with aspic jelly. When the border is turned out, fill in the centre with some of the same vegetables mixed with Mayonnaise sauce. Seakale. Tie the seakale up in small bundles, put it into boiling water with some salt, and boil it for twenty minutes, till quite tender. Untie the bundles, dish it up on a slice of toast, and hand, separately, melted butter with a few drops of lemon-juice in it. Spinach. Ingredients. Two pounds of Spinach. Two ounces of Butter. Half a gill of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Pick all the stalks off the spinach, wash it well in several waters, and put it into a stewpan with the drops of water that hang to the leaves; let it boil till thoroughly tender, then rub it through a138 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. wire sieve. Put it back in the stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a gill of cream, and a little pepper and salt; mix well till it is thoroughly hot, then serve with croutons round it. Young Carrots. Ingredients, One bunch of Spring Carrots. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Stock. A tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled Parsley. Wash and scrape the carrots, boil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes, put them into cold water, and dry them in a cloth. Now put them into a saucepan with the stock, butter, and sugar, and boil gently for half an hour; then boil them fast till the stock is reduced to glaze, sprinkle in the chopped parsley, and serve, with the glaze on them.( 189 ) SAVOUKIES. Anchovy Toast. Ingredients. Six Anchovies. Two Eggs. Two ounces of Butter. Creates of Bread. Cayenne. Wash and bone the anchovies, pound them in a mortar with the hard-boiled yolks of egg, butter and cayenne. Eub this through a hair-sieve. Cut some rounds of bread with a cutter and fry them in boiling fat, spread them with the anchovy butter and sprinkle over them the whites of egg chopped very finely. Serve either hot or cold. Angels on Horseback. Ingredients, Twelve Oystel's. Twelve round Crolitons. Twelve pieces of very thin Bacon, 2 inches long, 1J inch wide.140 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Beard and trim each oyster, put one on each piece of bacon, sprinkle over the oyster a little cayenne and two or three drops of lemon-juice; then roll it up in the bacon. Lay each roll of bacon and oyster on a crouton, put them into a brisk oven just to cook the bacon, serve very hot, dished up on watercress. Birds' Nests. Ingredients. Six Eggs (Plover's are the best). Half a pound of Sausages, or Quenelle Meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Boil six eggs quite hard, take them out of the shell carefully, and when quite cold mask them all over with quenelle or sausage meat, egg and bread- crumb them and fry them a nice brown. Take them out of the fat, cut them in half with a sharp knife, stand them up on the narrow end, dish them up with tomato sauce round. Cassolettes of Potato. Take the same mixture as potato croquettes (see p. 136), make it up into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, shape them into cases, cutting a lid with a pastry cutter. Fry them in very hot fat; lift off the lid, take out the soft part of the potato, fill inSAVOURIES. 141 with chicken, oyster, game, anything of that kind which you like, put the little lids on again, and serve with fried parsley. Cassolettes of Rice. Ingredients. Half a pound of Rice. One pint of White Stock. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Pepper and Salt. Well wash the rice and boil it in the stock until quite tender ; then pack it down in a saute- pan and press it till quite cold. Now cut out patty cases of the rice with a pastry cutter, making a lid with a smaller cutter. Egg and bread-crumb these cassolettes, fry them a nice brown in very hot fat. Lift the lid and fill the cases with any savoury mixture you like, replace the lid, and serve with fried parsley. Cauliflower au Gratin. Ingredients. A nice Cauliflower. Two ounces of grated Parmesan Cheese One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One gill of cold Water,142 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. One tablespoonful of Cream. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. Take a moderate-sized cauliflower, close and white, cut the stalk quite close, and cut away the outer withered leaves. Put it head down into a large saucepan, with plenty of fast-boiling water, slightly salted, and let it boil until tender; it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. If it turns over in the water, as it is apt to do, it must be turned back again with a fork, for the flowers keep whiter well under the water. Care must be taken to remove any scum that rises. "When the centre of the flower yields to pressure, it is done. Take it up carefully with a slice, and drain it over a sieve. But while it was boiling, the sauce should have been made. Two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, one gill of cold water, a tablespoonful of cream, and as much cayenne pepper as would cover the flat surface of a split pea. Put the butter and flour into a small stewpan, and mix them thoroughly, off the fire; with the back of a wooden spoon, add a gill of cold water, and stir the sauce over the fire till it is thick and quite smooth, then add the cream, the cayenne, and a pinch of salt. When the cauliflower is done enough, take it up, place it on the dish in which it is to be served, and squeeze it gently together in a clean cloth, held with both hands. Stir half the cheese into the143 BAVOUBIEg. sauce, and then pour the sauce gently all over the flower; sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and brown it as macaroni is browned, Serve it very hot. Cheese Aigrettes. Ingredients. Half a pint of cold Water. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Vienna Flour, sifted. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Two whole Eggs and one Yolk. Cayenne and Salt to taste. Dry the flour in the oven and rub it through a sieve ; put the water and butter on to boil; when boiling add the flour; stir vigorously all the time on the fire until the panada leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Eemove from the fire, and when slightly cooled add the eggs, one by one, the seasoning, and lastly the cheese; put on a plate to cool. Take a small piece of the mixture in a teaspoon, drop it into hot but not quite boiling fat, and fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin, with grated Parmesan sprinkled over them. Cheese d'Artois. Ingredients. Yolks of two Eggs. White of one Egg.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 144 Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese, grated. Salt and Pepper. Three ounces of Puff-paste. Beat the eggs in a basin for a few minutes; melt the butter and stir it and the cheese to the eggs, and a little pepper and salt. EoU the paste out thinly, and cut it in half; spread the cheese mixture over one half of the paste and lay the other half over it. Cut this out in rounds with a cutter; brush over with egg, and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Cheese Soufflee. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One teaspoonful of Mignonette Pepper, Salt, Pepper, and Cayenne. One gm of Milk. Three Eggs. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese, grated. Fry the mignonette pepper in the butter for two or three minutes; then strain the butter into a stewpan; add the flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little cayenne, also the milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens. When a little cool, add, one at a time, two yolks of egg; beat this all well together and add the cheese; whip the three whites of egg to a stiffSAVOtJEIES. 145 froth, and stir in lightly to the cheese mixture. Pour into a pint soufflee-tin, previously buttered and lined outside with buttered paper coming two inches above the tin, and bake in a quick oven from twenty to thirty minutes. To serve, take off the paper and fold a clean napkin round the tin ; but send it to table as quickly as possible, as it will fall as soon as it leaves the oven. Cheese Tartlets. Ingredients to make fourteen. One giU of White Sauce. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Two Eggs. Cayenne and Salt. Put the yolks of the eggs, the grated cheese, cayenne, and salt into the white sauce, and mix all well together; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in also very lightly. Line fourteen patty-pans with rough puff-pastry, fill in with the cheese mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Do not bang the oven- door. Choux Marin au Parmesan. Ingredients. One basket of Seakale. Three ounces of Parmesan. Two ounces of Butter. Seasoning. L146 man-CLAss cookery. Wash the kale, cut it across and boil in salted water until tender. Then drain and place it on a greased dish in layers with grated cheese and seasoning between each. Sprinkle cheese over the top, pour some butter melted over all, and bake for about ten minutes or until slightly browned. Cold Cheese SoufTlee. Ingredients. One and a half ounces of Gruyere Cheese. One and a half ounces of Parmesan. Half a pint of Cream. One giU of Aspic Jelly. Cayenne and Mustard. Grate the Gruyere and Parmesan, whip the cream and the aspic jelly, stir in the cheese, season to taste with salt, cayenne, and made mustard: serve in Eamequin cases with a little grated cheese on the top. Croustades. Ingredients, ilalf a pound of Puff-paste. Quarter of a pound of Quenelle Meat. Quarter of a pound of Chicken Mixture, or Quarter of a pound of Oyster Mixture. Line some small plain moulds with puff-paste, fill them with raw rice to keep the paste in position^SAVOURIES. L 14? bake them a light brown, turn out the rice and the cases out of the mould and spread the inside of the cases with a thin layer of quenelle meat, fill the centre with chicken or oyster mixture, bake again a few minutes to cook the quenelle meat. Serve very hot on a folded serviette. Croutes de Merluche Fume. Ingredients, Half a pound of dried Haddock. Two ounces of Butter. One Egg, hard-boiled. : Two Gherkins. Pepper and Salt. ^ Coral. Chopped Parsley. Crotites of Bread. Mince up the fish and the gherkins, put them into a stewpan with the butter, pepper and salt, mix well together. When quite hot put a little heap of this mixture on the croutes ; sprinkle the tops of some with very finely chopped parsley and others with coral rubbed through a sieve, the yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and the white of egg chopped finely; decorate with these three colours, green, yellow, and coral alternately.HiaH-CLASS COOKEEY. 148 Croutes de Fromage Glace. Ingredients. Three ounces of grated Parmesan. Two ounces of Gruyere. Half a pint of whipped Cream. A gill and a half of whipped Aspic. Cayenne, Salt, and Pepper. Mix all these ingredients well together in a basin. Freeze this mixture in a mould or ice-box for about one hour, turn out^ cut into small square pieces, and serve on croutons of fried bread. Homard a la Creme. Ingredients, One Lobster. One gill of White Sauce* One tablespoonful of Mayonnaise Sauce, Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg. One gill of Aspic Jelly. Browned Bread-crumbs. Mince half a pound of the meat of the lobster finely, put it into a basin with the white sauce, Mayonnaise, aspic jelly, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mix well, steam until quite hot, serve in Eamequin cases with browned bread-crumbs sprinkled over it.149 SAVOURIES. Mushrooms Farcies. Ingredients, Mushrooms. One Shalot. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. A tablespoonful of Bread-crumbs. Pepper and Salt. A little Brown Sauce. Take some mushrooms, not too large and as much of a size as possible, peel and trim them^ chop up the trimmings with the shalot and parsley, saute them in the butter, add a little brown sauce, the bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Stuff the mushrooms with this mixture, put them in the oven for about ten minutes. Place each mushroom on a croute of bread its own size, and serve very hot. CEufs a TAurore. Ingredients, Five Eggs, hard-boiled. Mix half a pint of good White Sauce and Tomato Sauce, Yolk of one Egg, raw. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Salt and Cayenne. Fried croutons of Bread. Two ounces of grated Parmesan. Cut the whites of the eggs into strips, and rub the yolks through a wire sieve. Eeduce the150 HIGH-CLASS COOKEBY. vinegar in a stewpan; add the sauce, then the raw yolk of egg, and cook, Season, add the shredded whites, and half the cheese to the sauce, and warm them up. Turn out on to a dish; sprinkle the yolk of egg and the rest of the cheese on the top and garnish with the fried croutons. CEufs a la Bonne Femme, Ingredients, Four Eggs, hard-boiled. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Tarragon. Beetroot cut into fancy shapes. Small Salad. Cut the eggs in halves and remove the yolks; pound these with the butter and tarragon. Fill the whites with the mixture; garnish with the pieces of beetroot, and arrange on a dish with the small salad round. CEufs a Madame, Ingredients, \/ Fresh Eggs, as required. Chopped Parsley. Croutons of Bread. Ancliovy or Bloater Paste. Butter. Take some small fireproof china fondu cases, butter them well inside with fresh butter, and151 SAY0UKIE3. sprinkle them with very finely chopped parsley. Break an egg carefully into each cup, stand them up to the middle of the cups in boiling water and cook for ten minutes till quite hard. Cut some rounds of bread the size of the cups, fry these a nice brown in boiling fat, spread these croutons with anchovy or bloater paste, worked up with some butter. Turn the eggs out on to the croutons, serve very hot. ^ufs a la Suisse. Ingredients. Two ounces of fresh Butter. Eight Eggs. Eight thiu slices of Gruyere Cheese. Two ounces of grated Gruyere Cheese, Nutmeg. Mignonette Pepper. Salt. One gill of double Cream. A little chopped Parsley, Spread the butter on the bottom of a dish and lay the slices of cheese on it; break the eggs upon the cheese, being careful not to disturb the yolks. Sprinkle some grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper and salt over them ; mix the chopped parsley, the cream whipped, and the grated cheese together, and pour over them; bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Hand very thin dry toast with the eggs.HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. 152 CEufs Farcies a la Russe. Ingredients, Six hard-boiled Eggs. Caviare. Tomatoes. Oil. Vinegar. Cut the eggs in half, and take out some of the yolk from the centre of each half; fill this space in with caviare, and cover over with the yolk rubbed through a sieve. Serve on slices of tomato, with a little salad oil, vinegar, and pepper and salt over them. CEufs Farcies a la Provengale. Ingredients, Four Eggs, hard-boiled. Three Anchovies, boned. One teaspoonful of Essence of Anchovy. Watercress. Two ounces of Butter. Lettuce. Cayenne and Salt. Cut the eggs carefully in half, and remove the yolk without breaking the white. Pound the yolks of egg, the anchovies, watercress, butter, anchovy-essence, cayenne, and salt; when well pounded rub through a hair-sieve. Fill in the white of egg cases neatly with this mixture, putting small handles of parsley - stalks acrossSAVOUBIES. 153 the tops. Dish up on shredded lettuce, and the remaider of the mixture in the centre with a little Moyannaise sauce. Oysters a la St. Patrick. Ingredients, Croutons of Bread. Oysters. Two ounces of Butter. Soft roes of Bloaters. Salt. Lemon-juice and Cayenne. Take the beards off the oysters and saute them with the soft roes of bloaters in the butter, sprinkle over a little salt and cayenne. Have some round croutons fried a nice brown, place a nice piece of roe on each crouton and an oyster on the top. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice on each and serve very hot. Raviolis a Tltalienne. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of short Crust. Quarter of a pound of cooked Fowl. Salt, Cayenne, Nutmeg. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. One ounce of Parmesan Cheese. Pound the fowl well and season thoroughly. EoU the paste out thinly, lay the pounded fowl on154 HiaH«OLASS COOKERY. in little heaps, fold the paste over and cut out like small croquettes. Let these stand for half an hour to dry thoroughly. Then drop them into boil- ing water and cook for about ten minutes. Drain and serve with the cheese and sauce over. Sardines a la Piedmontaise. Fry some bread in boiling fat, and having taken the scales off some sardines, making them hot in the oven, put them on the fried bread, and pour over them the following sauce, made with— Yolks of four Eggs, well whipped. Half an ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar, One teaspoonful of Malt Vinegar. A little made Mustard. Salt. Stir these well together over the fire till the sauce thickens; it must not boil. Savoury Cream. Ingredients. A small Lobster. Half a pint of Cream. One gill of Aspic Jelly. One tablespoonful of Mayonnaise. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. One gill of Tomato-juice. Tarragon and Chervil.155 SAVOURIES. Decorate a border mould with tarragon and chervil leaves and some nice pieces of lobster. Melt the gelatine in the tomato juice, whip the cream and the aspic jelly, mix these together, stir in the Mayonnaise and the melted gelatine, also some small pieces of lobster, fill the mould care- fully and set. When cold, turn out and fill the centre with small salad. Scotch Eggs. Ingredients. Three Eggs, hard-boiled. Half a pound of Quenelle or Sausage Meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Tomato Sauce. Eemove the shells from the eggs .and cover them thinly with the quenelle or sausage meat. Then egg and crumb carefully and fry in hot fat. Cut each egg carefully in half; arrange the cut side upwards on a dish, and serve tomato sauce round. Soufflee de Merluche Fume. Ingredients. A dried Haddock. One ounce of Butter. Three Eggs. Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg. One gill of Cream.HiaH-OLASS COOKEBY. 156 Scald and bake the haddock, take half a pound of the meat free from skin and bones, pound it in a mortar with one ounce of butter, rub this through a hair-sieve, then put it into a basin, add the yolks of egg one by one and mix well, stir in the cream whipped, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Whip the whites of egg to a stiff froth and stir in very lightly. Pour this mixture into a Eamequin case and bake about ten minutes. Serve very hot. Tomatoes Farcies au Gratin. Ingredients, Six Tomatoes (aU of one size). Six Mushrooms (chopped fine). Two Shalofs „ One Onion „ Two ounces of lean Ham „ (cooked). One teaspoonful of Parsley „ One ounce of Butter. A little Nutmeg. One tablespoonful of Brown Sauce. Browned Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of Parmesan Cheese. Pepper and Salt. One Tablespoonful of Bread Crumbs. Cut the centre from the tomatoes, and, without breaking them, squeeze the juice or water out; season each one with a little pepper and salt. Put all the chopped ingredients into a saute-pan, and stir over the fire, with the butter, until they are, cooked, but not burnt; then add the brown sauce,SAVOTJEIES. I5t the bread crumbs, the nutmeg, and a little season- ing. Fill each tomato with the mixture, and sprinkle over each a little browned crumbs, in which has been mixed the Parmesan cheese. About ten minutes in a moderate oven will suffice to cook them; they should be quite tender, but not broken.HiGH-Ct-AgS COOKERY. 158 PASTEY. Cheese Pastry. Ingredients. \^ Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. One ounce of Cheddar Cheese. One Egg. Salt and Cayenne. Put the flour on a paste-board, sprinkle in a little salt and cayenne, and rub in the cheese, grated, and the butter; mix all these together with the yolk of an egg into a smooth stiff paste. EoU this out into a strip one eighth of an inch thick and five inches long; cut this into strips of equal sizes, also some rings. Grease a baking sheet, put the straws and rings on it, and bake in a hot oven ten minutes till they are a pale brown. For serving, stand the straws through the rings like a bundle of sticks.159 Flaky Crust. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Salt. Put the flour and a little salt into a basin and mix to a stiff paste with, about a gill of cold water. Put this on a paste-board and roll it out to a thin sheet. Divide the butter into three equal portions ; take one portion and spread it over the paste with a knife, sprinkle a little flour over it, fold it in three, and roll it out; repeat this twice. When all the butter is rolled in, roll out the paste to the size required for a fruit tart or an open tart, and it is ready for use. Genoese Pastry. Ingredients, Seven Eggs. Eight ounces of Castor Sugar. Six ounces of Butter. Six ounces of Flour, sifted. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin ; stand tlid basin over a stewpan of boiling water, and whip well for twenty minutes. Take a cake-tin and line it with kitchen paper; melt the butter, and grease both cake-tin and paper with some of it; when the eggs and sugar are sufficiently whipped,HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 160 stir into them the flour and the remainder of the melted butter. Turn the mixture into the pre- pared tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. ^ Petits Choux. Ingredients. Half a pint of Water. Two ounces of Butter. Four ounces of Flour. Three Eggs. Essence of Vanilla or Orange. A little Salt. Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a Btewpan, as soon as these begin to boil, draw the stewpan off the fire and add the flour, stir these well together over the fire with a wooden spoon until it becomes a soft paste; now add the flavour- ing and one egg, beat these well together and add the other two eggs one at a time. Place this paste on a baking sheet in round balls, bake a very light brown, and serve either plain or filled with whipped cream.PASTRY. 161 Puff Paste. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Half a pound of fresh Butter. Salt. Lemon-juice. Take a clean cloth, and squeeze all the water out of the butter. Put the flour on a marble slab or a paste-board, in a heap; make a well in the centre, put in a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and enough water to make a paste of the same consistency as the butter. EoU this paste out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put the butter on half this paste, fold the other half over it, cover it entirely, and press the edges together with your thumb. Let this stand in a cool place for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out and fold it over in three; turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it again, fold it in three, and put it aside for a quarter of an hour. Eepeat this until the paste has been rolled out seven times ; it is then ready for use either for a vol-au-vent, or patties, or tartlets, or pie-crust. Rough Puff. Ingredients, Eigkt ounces of Flour. Six ounces of Butter. Salt. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. M162 Sigh-class cookery. Put the butter and flour on a paste-board, chop up the butter in the flour, heap it all up on the board, make a well in the centre, put in the lemon-juice, and sprinkle the salt over. Take a full tablespoonful of cold water, and mix it slowly and lightly with your fingers into the flour and butter, adding more water if necessary until you get a stiff paste. Eoll this out, fold it over in half, turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it and fold it again; repeat this twice more, so that it is rolled out and folded four times in all. It is now ready for use for a meat pie, apple tart, or tartlets. Short Crust. Ingredients, Eight ounces of Flour. Six ounces of Butter. Half a teasx^oonful of Baking-powder* One Egg. One ounce of Castor Sugar, » Put the flour into a basin and mix in the baking-powder; rub the butter into the flour with your hands; add enough cold water to make a stiff paste. Put the paste on a floured board and roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. It is now ready for use for tarts, turnovers, or baked dumplings*( 163 ) OMELETS. Cheese Omeleta Ingredients, Three Eggs. Two ounces of grated Parmesaii. Mignonette Pepper. Salt. One ounce of Butter* Break the eggs into a basin and whip them till well mixed ; then add pepper, salt, and the cheese. Melt one ounce of butter in the omelet pan, and turn in the eggs; stir quickly to prevent the omelet from sticking. When just set, turn it quickly over- towards the handle of the pan for a second, and then on to a hot dish. Kidney Omeleti Ingredients, One Kidne}^ Parsley. Three Eggs. u 2HIGH-CLASS COOKEBY. 164 * ' A piece of Shalot. One ounce and a half of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Cut up the kidney into small pieces and saute it in a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, parsley, and the shalot chopped very fine. Take the eggs and beat the whites and yolks separately. Mix the kidney and chopped shalot with the yolks of egg. Put the butter into the omelet-pan and make it quite hot. Then stir the whipped whites of egg lightly into the yolks, &c.; put the mix- ture into the omelet-pan for two or three minutes over the fire, stirring all the time. Oyster Omelet. Ingredients, Three Eggs. Six Oysters. Pepper and Salt. Blanch and beard the oysters and cut each into four. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the yolks a little, and add the oysters and pepper and salt. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir lightly to the yolks.- Cook as for kidney omelet.165 OMELETS. Savoury Omelet. Ingredients, Three Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Parsley. Shalot. Break two eggs into a basin and whip them; add pepper and salt to taste. Chop finely a tea- spoonful of parsley and a very small piece of shalot and add that. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet- or frying-pan. When the butter is quite hot, pour in the eggs; stir quickly with a spoon, and shake the pan to prevent the omelet sticking. Turn it quickly towards the handle of the pan, turn it over for a second, and then on to a hot plate. Sweet Omelet. Ingredients. Three Eggs. Half an ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Orange-Flower Water. Salt. Put the orange-flower water and the sugar into a stewpan, and stir over the fire; let it boil quickly for three minutes; then put it into a basin to cool. When cool, add the yolks of egg166 Hian-OLASS COOKERY. and beat to a cream. Put a pinch of salt to the whites of egg, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly to the yolks of egg. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, and pour in the eggs ; put this on the fire for two minutes, and then in the oven for three or four minutes. Make some jam, about a dessertspoonful, quite hot; take the omelet out of the oven and put it on a hot dish, spread the jam on the omelet lightly and quickly, fold it over like a sandwich, sprinkle a little castor sugar over it, and serve. Tomato Omelet. Ingredients, One Tomato. Three Eggs. A piece of Shalot. One ounce and a half of Butter. Skin the tomato, cut it up into small pieces, with a piece of shalot chopped up. Take the eggs, beat the yolks and whites separately ; mix the tomato, shalot, pepper, and salt with the yolks. Put the butter into the omelet-pan and make it quite hot; then stir the whipped whites of egg lightly into the yolks, &c.; put the mixture into the omelet-pan and cook for two or three minutes, stirring all the time.167 OMELETS. SoufTlee Omelets Ingredients, \ Six Eggs. Half an ounce of Flour. Half an ounce of Butter, Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Fifteen drops of Essence of Vanilla, Put four yolks of egg into a basin, add the castor sugar, and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes; then stir in the flour and vanilla; whisk the six whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix lightly to the yolks of egg. Butter a half- pint soufflee-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes; send to table quickly. If jam is used, it must be put in the centre of the soufiiee before it is baked.168 HIGH-CLASS OOOKEEY. HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLEES. Amber Pudding. Ingredients, Six large Apples, or one pound after peeling. Three ounces of moist Sugar. One Lemon. Two ounces of Butter. Three Eggs. Puff Paste. A few preserved Cherries. Peel, core, and slice the apples; place them in a stewpan with the butter, sugar, and lemon-rind, and let them stew slowly until tender. Then rub them through a hair-sieve. Line the edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste, and decorate it tastefully. Add the yolks of the eggs to the apple, and pour the mixture into the pie-dish. Place it in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Whip the whites very stiff; spread them over the apple, dredge over a little castor sugar; garnish with the cherries. Then place the pudding in a cool oven to set the white of egg; it will take about ten minutes, and should get a light brown.HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLEES. 169 Alexandra Pudding. Ingredients, Five Eggs. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One gill of Cream. Half a pint of Milk. One teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Put ten yolks of egg into a basin, add the sugar, milk, and cream. Whip five whites of egg slightly, add the vanilla and stir lightly to the yolks of egg. Take a pint-and-half plain mould, butter it inside, and cover the bottom with three rounds of buttered paper. Pour the mixture through a strainer into the mould, and tie a piece of stiff paper over the top. Steam the pudding gently for one hour and a quarter. When cooked, stand the mould in ice. For serving, turn it out care- fully, and ornament it with red currant jelly. Brown Bread Pudding. Ingredients. A stale Brown Loaf. One pound of fresh Cherries. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Four Eggs. One Lemon. One gill of Cream. One gill of Milk. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanillp Two ounces of Loaf Sugar. A gill and a half of Water>liIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 170 Put five ounces of brown bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, and three-quarters of a pound of cherries, stoned, the vanilla, and grated lemon rind. Boil the milk and pour it over the crumbs and fruit. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and add it to the crumbs ; add the four yolks of egg one at a time, and the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a pint mould and pour in this mixture, cover it over with buttered paper, and steam or bake one hour and a quarter. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with sauce made with two ounces of loaf sugar, a gill and a half of water, and a quarter of a pound of cherries. Baked Lemon Pudding, Ingredients, Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Three Eggs. Two Lemons. One gill of Cream or Milk. Two ounces of Cake-crumbs. Pufif-pastry. Grate the lemon-rinds and squeeze the juice; mix these with the castor sugar, yolks of egg, cream, and cake-crumbs. Stir all well together in a basin; whip two whites stiff, and mix them lightly to the other ingredients. Line and deco- rate the edges of a pie-dish with puff-pastry; turn in the pudding, and bake for about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven.171 HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLEES. Cabinet Pudding. Ingredients, Twelve preserved Cherries. Three pieces of Angelica. Four Sponge Cakes. Six Eatafias. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Four Eggs. Fifteen drops of Essence of Yanilla, Butter a pint-and-half mould, ornament the bottom with the cherries and angelica, break the sponge cakes and put into the mould, also the ratafias. Put four yolks and two whites of egg into a basin with the sugar; whip them lightly- together, stirring in the milk by degrees, and the vanilla; pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould. Cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn the pudding out carefully, and serve. Carannel Pudding. Ingredients, For the Caramel:— Two ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half a gill of Cold Water. For the Pudding :— Four Yolks and one White of Egg. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Milk.HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. 172 Put two ounces of loaf sugar and a half gill of cold water into a stewpan, and boil quickly, until coffee colour, stir well and pour it quickly into a thoroughly dry, plain soufiflee mould, and let it coat the mould all over. Make a custard of the four yolks, one white of egg, the castor sugar and the milk, thus: break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, boil the milk, and when a little cool pour it on to the eggs and sugar, then strain it into the mould you have lined with caramel; steam it very slowly for half an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, and some of the caramel will run off and form a sauce. Cocoanut Pudding. Ingredients, Half a pint of Milk. Half a pound of grated Cocoanut. Two tablespoonfuls of Cake-crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Cream. Six Eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. Cook the cocoanut in the milk; cream the butter and sugar together, beat up the yolks of egg, and add to the butter and sugar. When the milk is off the boil, stir the eggs, cream, butter, and sugar, the cake-crumbs and vanilla, to it; also add three whites of egg whipped to a stiff froth. Put this into a pie-dish, and bake for half an hour.17S HOT PtJDBINaS AND SOUFFLEES. Whip the other three whites of egg to a stiff froth with three tablespoonfuls of castor and a little vanilla. Just before the pudding is done, spread this meringue on the top of it, and brown it lightly in the oven. Fig Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Half a pound of Beef Suet. Half a pound of Sugar. Half a pound of Figs. Quarter of a pound of Sultanas, Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Citron. Two ounces of Almonds. One ounce of Bitter Almonds. One glass of Brandy. Rind of one Lemon, grated. Half a Nutmeg. Two ounces of Cherries. Two ounces of Angelica. One gill of Cream. Four Eggs. Chop the suet, figs, almonds, cherries, and angelica very fine; mix all well, and add the dry ingredients; mix again, and stir in the eggs, cream, and brandy. Boil for four hours or steam for five.174 Hian-CLASS COOKEitY. Plum Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of Befef feiiet; Half a pound of Raising; Half a pound of Currants. Half a pound of Sultanas. Quarter of a pound of mixed Peel. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Flour. One Lemon. Half a pound of moist Sugar. Four Eggs. One gill of Milk. One wineglassful of Brandy. Two ounces of Almonds. Half a Nutmeg. A little Salt, Chop up the suet, wash and dry the currants, stone the raisms, clean the sultanas taking off the stalks, cut up the peel, blanch and chop up the almonds. Put the flour into a basin and rub the suet into the flour with your hands, sprinkle in a little salt, add the crumbs, currants, raisins, sul- tanas, sugar, and peel, and mix all well together. Grate in half a nutmeg, the rind of the lemon^ and add the almonds. Put the eggs into another basin, stir to them the milk and brandy, and mix them with the fruit, &c., taking care to mix all these ingredients very thoroughly together. Turn the pudding into a mould or floured pudding- cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil for five or six hours*175 EOT PtTDDINaS AND SOUFFLEES. Pine-apple SoufFlee. Ingredients, Three ounces of Pine-Apple. Three ounces of Flour, sifted. Three ounces of Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Yolks of three Eggs. Whites of four Eggs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and add the flour and milk; cook well; add the sugar and the pine- apple, previously cut into dice; add the yolks one by one; whip the whites very stiff; stir in the mixture very lightly; pour into a prepared soufflee mould; steam one hour. Sauce. Eeduce one gill of the syrup from the pine-apple, add one ounce of loaf sugar, and one glass of sherry; colour with cochineal; pour round the pudding. Some small pieces of pine-apple may be added to the sauce. Raspberry Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Three Eggs. One pound pot of Jam. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Sugar.HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. 176 Beat the butter and eggs separately, then mix and add the sugar and jam. Butter a shape well, and put a layer of crumbs and a layer of the mix- ture alternately, till the shape is full. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Semolina Soufflee. Ingredients, One pint of Milk. Three ounces of Semolina. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. Four Eggs. Kind of one Lemon. Put the milk on to boil; sprinkle in the semo- lina and sugar; add the peel of the lemon, cut very thin; stir till it thickens, then take out the lemon-peel. Let it cool a little, and then stir in the yolks of three eggs and the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Grease a soufflee mould, pour in the mixture, and steam it for twenty minutes. Mince Meat. Ingredients, One pound and a half of Beef Suet chopped fine. One pound and a half of Baisins „ „ Two pounds of Currants. Two pounds of Apples, chopped very fine.177 HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLEES. Quarter of an ounce of mixed Mace and Cinnamon powdered. Four Cloves powdered. One pound and a half of Castor Sugar. A saltspoonful of Salt. The juice of three Lemons and the rinds grated. Half a pound of mixed Peel chopped fine. One gill of Brandy. One gill of Port. Mix all these ingredients well "together, and tie down in a jar until required for use. Viennoise Pudding. Ingredients, Five ounces of crumb of Bread. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of candied Peel. One ounce of Loaf Sugar. Three ounces of Sultana Raisins. Rind of one Lemon. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. One gill of Cream. One wineglassful of Sherry. Cut the bread into dice, shred the candied peel, grate the lemon-rind, and pick the sultanas. Put these all into a basin with the castor sugar. The loaf sugar is to be placed in a saucepan and put on the fire to burn a dark-brown colour. Then add the milk, and let the burnt sugar dissolve in the milk. Pour this to the yolks, previously whisked, and then strain over the bread and other dry ingredients in the basin \ add the cream and N178 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. sherry. Pour the pudding into a well-greased mould, and set it in a saucepan to steam for an hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce. Vanilla Soufflee. Ingredients. Four Eggs. One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Salt One gin of Milk. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Butter a pint-and-half souflBee-tin; tie a band of buttered paper round the tin, coming two inches above it. Melt an ounce of butter, add to it an ounce of flour, mix them well together, and add the castor sugar and milk; stir this over the fire till it thickens. Then take it off the fire, and add, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs, beating all well together. Put a pinch of salt to the four whites of egg, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir lightly to the mixture; add the vanilla essence, pour it all into the buttered tin, and steam from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and pour some wine sauce or custard sauce round it.UOT PUDDINaS AND SOUFFL^ES. 179 West-Riding Pudding. Ingredients. Jam. Two Eggs. The weight of the Eggs in Butter, ; Sugar, and Flour. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Bind of one Lemon, grated. Puff-paste. Beat the butter to a cream, and stir into it the flour, sugar, and the eggs beaten up; add the baking-powder and lemon-rind. Line a pie-dish with puff-paste, cover the bottom of the dish with jam, pour in the mixture, and bake for one hour and a quarter.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 180 CEEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS, Coffee Cream. Ingredients, Two Eggs. One ounce of Gelatine. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Cream. Half a gill of strong Coffee, or Essence of Coifee. Make half a pint of custard with the eggs and milk. Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the coffee; add the custard, and strain; whip the cream, and stir lightly into the custard when cool. Pour into the mould, and set. Ginger Cream. Ingredients. Yolks of three Eggs. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of Milk.CEEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 181 Half a gill of Ginger Syrup. Half a pint of Cream. Two ounces of Ginger. Three-quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. Make a custard of the eggs, milk, and sugar; when cool, add to this the syrup of ginger, the ginger cut into small pieces, and the gelatine melted, last of all the cream whipped; mix all well together; pour into a mould to set. Italian Cream. Ingredients, Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One ounce of melted Gelatine. One wineglassful of Cura9oa. (Or half a wineglassful of Brandy and half a wineglassful of Sherry.) Make a custard with the eggs and milk; add the sugar, gelatine, and curafoa. When cool, mix in the cream whipped; stir all together, and mould. Neapolitan Oream. Ingredients. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream.182 HiaH-CLASS COOKERl^. One ounce of melted Gelatine, t Half a pint of Jelly. One ounce of dried Cherries. Three ounces of Preserved Ginger. Make a custard with the eggs and milk, and let it cool; cut up the ginger very small, cook it for ten minutes in one gill of syrup, and let it also cool. Decorate a mould all over with the jelly and dried cherries. Stir the melted gelatine, the ginger, and the cream, whipped into the custard ; pour all into the decorated mould, and set. Rice Cream. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Two ounces of ground Rice. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. Half a pint of Double Cream. Boil the milk and sugar together, stir in the ground rice and cook it for about six minutes, then draw it off the fire. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of milk and stir it to the rice, add the cream whipped, mix all lightly together, pour into a mould decorated according to taste, when set turn it out, and it is ready to serve.CBMMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 188 Strawberry Cream. Ingredients, One pint of fresh Strawberries. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Three-quarters of an ounce of French Gelatine. Half a pint of Cream. The juice of one Lemon. Take all the stalks off the strawberries, put them on a silk or hair-sieve, sprinkle half an ounce of sugar over them, and pass them through the sieve. Put the gelatine into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, the rest of the sugar, and the juice of the lemon. When the gelatine is melted, strain it into the strawberries, add the cream well whipped, stir all lightly together, pour into a pint mould, and set. Vanilla Cream. Ingredients. Three Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of Gelatine. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Make a custard of the milk, three yolks of egg and one white, melt the gelatine in two table- spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the custard, mixing it well. Whip the cream to a stiff froth,184 Hian-CLASS COOKERY. adding the sugar and vanilla. When the custard is sufficiently cool, stir the whipped cream lightly into it, and pour it into a mould to set. Velvet Cream. Ingredients. Three-quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One glass of Sherry. The rind of one Lemon. Half a pint of Double Cream. One gill of Water. Melt the gelatine in one gill of water, then add the sugar, sherry, grated rind of one lemon, and the cream whipped to a stiff froth; pour into a mould to set. Do not add the cream until the melted gelatine is cool. Apple Jelly. Ingredients, One pound of Apples. Half a pint of Cream. One Lemon. Three ounces of Lump Sugar. One ounce of Gelatine. Half a teaspoonful of Cochineal. Three gills of cold Water. Peel, core, and cut up the apple into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the sugar,CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 185 half a pint of water, the juice and grated rind of the lemon ; when cooked to a pulp, rub through a hair-sieve, and stir in the gelatine melted in a gill of water. Colour part of the apple with the cochineal, and fill a border mould with alternate layers of the coloured and plain apple. When cold, turn out, and serve with half a pint of whipped cream in the centre. Aspic Jelly from Calves' Feet. Ingredients. m Two Calves' Feet. SaU. Thirty Peppercorns. Two blades of Mace. One clove of Garlic. Two Shalots. One sprig of Thyme. One small bunch of Parsley. One Onion, stuck with four Cloves. One Leek. Half a head of Celery. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One sprig of Tarragon. One sprig of Chervil. Two Bay-leaves. The rind and juice of one Lemon. The Whites of two Eggs. Half a gill of common Vinegar. One tablespoonful of Chili Vinegar. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. One gill of Sherry. Two quarts of Water.186 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Take two calves' feet and chop them into eight pieces. Wash them well in cold water, and put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil to blanch them; then pour the water off, and wash them again in cold water. Wash the stewpan and put the pieces of feet into it, with two quarts of water, and just bring it to the boil; watch it and skim it occasionally. Add half a teaspoonful of salt and all the other ingredients, except the lemon, the eggs, and the vinegars. Let all boil gently for five hours. Strain it off through a hair-sieve into a basin, and let it stand until perfectly cold: take off the fat, and wipe,the top of the stock with a cloth dipped in hot water, to remove every particle of grease. Put the stock into a clean stewpan, with the lemon- peel and juice; also add the whipped whites of two eggs and the shells, the vinegars, and salt to taste. Whisk all on the fire until it boils; then draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for half an hour to form a crust. Take a clean soup cloth, and fix it on the stand; pour the contents into a cloth, and let it all run through into a basin. Let it pass through a second time slowly. Scald a mould with boiling water, then rinse it in cold water; garnish the mould with fish or vege- tables, according to taste, pour in the jelly care- fully, and let it stand until cold, when turn out and serve.CEEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 187 Aspic Jelly from French Gelatine. Ingredients for the Pupils in the Practice Kitchen, ( Four Quarts.) Three quarts of Water. One pint of Sherry. One gill of Malt Vinegar. One gill of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a gill of Chili Vinegar. Half a gill of Lemon-juice. One Carrot, one Turnip, one Onion. One stick of Celery. A teaspoonful of Salt. A sprig of Tarragon, Chervil and Parsley. The rind of two Lemons. Twenty White Peppercorns. Ten ounces of French Gelatine. Three Whites of Egg whipped and the shells crushed. Ingredients for the Pupils in the Demonstration Kitchen. {One Quart.) One and a half pints of Water. Quarter of a pint of Sherry. Quarter of a pint of these Vinegars mixed: Tarragan, Malt, and Chili. Juice of two Lemons. One Carrot, one Turnip, one Onion. One stick of Celery. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. A small bunch of Tarragon. Chervil and Parsley. The rind of one Lemon. Two ounces and a half of French Gelatine. The Whites and Shells of two Eggs. Ten White Peppercorns. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan to- gether, and whisk over the fire until it boils ; then draw it to the side of the fire for a few minutes, strain it as usual through a clean cloth, scalded and put on a soup stand, and when it is set it is ready for use.* * For all these jellies I have given the Ingredients in two quantities, as the different kitchens require in the School, because the pupils seem to find so much trouble in reducing the quantities in proper proportions. This will, I hope, save trouble to our pupils and to my staff of teachers, and it will not interfere with the general public who use the book.188 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Claret Jelly. Ingredients for three Quarts. Two quarts of Water. One pint and a half of Claret. Half a pint of Lemon-juice. The rind of four Lemons. One inch of Cinnamon and six Cloves. Two tablespoonfuls of Ked Currant Jelly. Eight ounces of French Gel- atine. Three Whites of Egg whipped and the shells crushed. A few drops of Cochineal. Fourteen ounces of Sugar. Ingredients for one Quart, Three-quarters of a pint of Water. One pint of Claret. Quarter of a pint of Lemon- juice. The rind of one Lemon. Half an inch of Cinnamon and two Cloves. One tablespoonful of Ked Cur- rant Jelly. Two and a half ounces of French Gelatine. Two Whites of Egg whipped and the shells crushed. A few drops of Cochineal. Four ounces of Sugar. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan and whisk over the fire till it boils, then draw it off, let it stand at the side of the fire for about five minutes, strain as usual, add a few drops of cochineal to improve the colour, set as required, and it is ready for use. Orange Jelly. Ingredients. Half a pint of Orange-juice, Half a pint of Water. Juice of two Lemons. Kind of three Oranges. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. One ounce of French Gelatine.CBEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, GOLD SWEETS. 189 Put the water, sugar, orange-rind, and gelatine into a stewpan, and let them simmer for ten minutes; skim and strain. Add the orange- and lemon-juice, pour into a mould, and set. Punch Jelly. Ingredients for four Quarts, Three quarts of Water. Half a pint of Milk Punch, Half a pint of Rum. Half a pint of Marsala. Three gills of Lemon-juice. Six rinds of Lemon. Eleven ounces of Gelatine. One inch of Cinnamon. Three Whites of Egg whipped and the shells crushed. Twenty-four ounces of Loaf Sugar. Ingredients for one Quart. One pint of Water. Quarter of a pint of Milk Punch. Quarter of a pint of Rum. Quarter of a pint of Marsala. One gill and a half of Lemon- juice. Two rinds of Lemon. Two and a half ounces ot Gelatine. Half an inch of Cinnamon. Two Whites of Egg whipped and the shells crushed. Six ounces of Loaf Sugar. Put all these ingredients together into a stew- pan, whisk them over the fire till they boil, then draw them off the fire, and let them stand by the side of it for about five minutes ; strain through a clean cloth, scalded and put on a soup-standj and it is tlien ready for use.190 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Wine Jelly from Calves' Feet. Ingredients. Two Calves' Feet. Two Lemons. Two Eggs. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Four Cloves. One inch of Cinnamon. One wineglassful of Sherry. Half a wineglassful of Brandy, Chop each foot into four pieces, wash them well in cold water, and blanch them; put the feet in a stewpan with five pints of cold water. Let this boil gently for five hours, skimming it care- fully ; then strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin to set. When this jelly stock is quite cold, dip a clean cloth into hot water and wipe every particle of grease off the stock. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a stewpan, add the lemon-peel, the whites of the eggs, slightly whipped, the egg-shells crushed, the sugar, cinnamon, and cloves. Whisk these all together, add the jelly stock, and whisk well till it boils. As soon as it boils, put the lid on the stewpan and draw to the side of the fire for twenty minutes to form a crust. When the crust is formed, the jelly must be strained through a jelly-bag or clean cloth previously scalded. When strained, add the wine and brandy. Garnish a jelly-mould according to taste, pour in the jelly, and set.CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLP STVEETS. 191 Wine Jelly from French Gelatine. Ingredients for the Pupils in Ingredients for the Pupils in Practice Kitchen. {Faur . the Demonstration Kitchen. Quarts,) \ {One Quart.) Three quarts of Water. One pint and a half of Sherry. One pint of Lemon-juice. Twenty-four ounces of Loaf Sugar. One inch of Cinnamon. Foui' Cloves. The rind of six Lemons. Eleven ounces of French Gela- tine. Three "Whites of Egg s hipped and the shells crushed. One pint and a quarter of Water. Half a pint of Sherry. Quarter of a pint of Lemon- juice. Six ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half an inch of Cinnamon. Two Cloves. The rind of two Lemons. Two ounces and a half of French Gelatine. Two Wiiites of Egg whipped and the shells crushed. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan together and whisk over the fire until it boils, then draw it to the side of the fire and let it stand for about five minutes, strain it as usual through a clean cloth scalded, and put on a soup-stand; when it is set it is readv for use. Ice Pudding. Ingredients. One pint and a half of Milk. Yolks of four Eggs. One whole Egg. Quarter of a pound of Loaf Sugar. Quarter of a pound of dried Fruits. One ounce of Pistachio Kuts.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 192 One ounce of candied Citron, chopped fine. One glassful of Maraschino. Half a glassful of Brandy. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Make a custard with the eggs and milk, adding the sugar to the milk. Strain it, and when cold put it in the freezing pot; when half frozen, add the dried fruits cut in pieces, candied peel, pis- tachios, maraschino, &c., and lastly, the whipped cream. When well frozen, pack into your pudding- mould and freeze until wanted. Lemon Water Ice. Ingredients. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. One pint of Water. Zest of two Lemons. Juice of four Lemons. Whites of two Eggs. Put the water and sugar in a stewpan on the fire to boil ten minutes, reserving about six lumps of sugar from the half pound, with which rub the zest from the two lemons. Strain the juice, which should measure one gill; sometimes it will take more than the quantity to make the measure. When the syrup is cold, add the lemon-juice and freeze. When half frozen, add the whipped whites of two eggs. N.B.—In making ices, the quantities should always be measured. Thus, in water or creamCREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS, 193 ices, to one pint of syrup add one pint of juice or puree of fruit, with the exception of lemons. The fruit should never be added hot. The cream should never be added without being whipped. Pine-apple Water Ice. Ingredients, One small Pine-apple, tinned or fresh. One pint of Water, if tinned, One pint and a half of Water, if fresh fruit. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Pound the pine-apple in a mortar, put it in a stewpan with the water and sugar; let this boil ten minutes, strain into a basin, add the lemon- juice, and when cold, freeze. Strawberry Cream Ice. Ingredients, One pound of Strawberries. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Cochineal. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Eemove the stalks from strawberries, put them on a fine hair-sieve, rub them through with a wooden spoon, add the cochineal and lemon-juice. This should measure half a pint. Add to this the 0194 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. cream whipped, and freeze. When well frozen, pack tightly into an ice mould, and return to the ice till required for table. Cold Cabinet Pudding. • Ingredients, Six Savoys. Two ounces of Katafias. Half a pint of Milk. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. The Yolks of four Eggs. Two ounces of dried Cherries. Half a gill of Cream. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Ornament the bottom of a pint mould with the cherries and angelica. Split the savoys in half, and line the sides of the mould round with them very evenly, arranging them alternately back and front next the tin. Put in the ratafias. Put four yolks of egg into a basin, stir in the milk, pour this mixture into a jug, stand it in boiling water, and stir until it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle. Melt the gelatine in a little water, and strain it into the custard. When it is cool, add the cream, vanilla, and sugar, mix well, and pour carefully into the mould to the cakes. Put the mould on ice or in a cool place to set. When set, turn out and serve.CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 195 Charlotte Russe. Ingredients, Twelve Sponge Finger-biscuits. Half an ounce of Gelatine. One gill of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Thirty drops of Essence of Vanilla. Take a pint soufflee-tin and line it carefully with the biscuits, fitting them close to each other; cut off the tops of the biscuits that stand above the tin. Put the gelatine and milk in a stewpan on the fire to melt. Whip the cream to a stiff froth; add the sugar and vanilla to it. Strain the melted gelatine into the cream, mix it well, and pour it carefully into the mould, not to dis- arrange the biscuits. When set, turn out and serve. Chartreuse of Cranges. Ingredients, Six Tangerine Oranges. One pint of Jelly. Peel the oranges and take away every morsel of white skin very carefully, quarter them carefully not to break the skin and let the juice out. Cover the bottom of the mould with a little jelly, let it set until cold, then arrange the quarters of orange with great precision and neatness all round the196 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. mould overlapping each other, carefully pour in a little jelly to cover these quarters, and when quite set repeat^this, until the mould is full. When set, turn out and serve. ^ Chocolate Tartlets. Ingredients, Four Eggs. Half a cake of Chocolate. One tablespoonful of Corn-flour, dissolved in water. Three tablespoonfuls of Milk. Four tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. One saltspoonful of Salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Cinnamon. One teaspoonful of Melted Butter. Melt the chocolate in the milk, and when it boils stir in the corn-flour, and stir well until it thickens ; then set it to cool. Beat up four yolks and two whites of egg with the sugar, and stir them to the cold chocolate, ^ith the vanilla, cin- namon, salt, and butter, till light. Bake in open shells of pastry. When done, cover them with some meringue made of two whites of egg whipped to a stiff froth, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Eat when cold.CREAMg, JELLIES, ICES; COLD SWEETS. 197 Custard. Ingredients, Four Yolks of Egg and one White. Half a pint of Milk. A tablespoonful of Brandy, One ounce of Loaf Sugar. Flavouring to taste, Vanilla and Lemon-peel. Put the yolks of four eggs and the white of one into a basin and mix them well together with a wooden spoon, stir in the milk and strain it all into a milk saucepan or a jug, add the sugar stand the jug (if you use one) in a saucepan of boiling water and stir the custard over the fire until it thickens, but mind it does not boil or your custard will curdle and be spoilt. Take it off the fire, stir in the brandy and flavouring a few drops of vanilla or any other essence you like. When the custard is cold pour it into custard glasses with a little grated nutmeg on the top, and it is ready for table. If you flavour with lemon-peel it must be pu.t into the milk before the custard is cooked and taken out before serving. Diplomatic Pudding. Ingredients. ^ One pint of Custard. See above. Half a pint of Jelly. See p. 191« One ounce of French Gelatine. Two ounces of Sponge Cake.198 HiaH-CLASS COOKEEY. Two ounces of Katafias. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One gill of Cream Vanilla Essence. One ouQce and a half of dried Cherries. One ounce of Angelica. Half an ounce of Citron. Line a plain mould with jelly and decorate it ^ith half an ounce of dried cherries and half an ounce of angelica. Melt the gelatine in a gill of water and stir it into the custard, add also the castor sugar, flavouring and cream: stir this occasionally until it is cool, then stir the rest of the cherries, the angelica, and half an ounce of citron, all chopped up. Pour this gently into the mould you have decorated. When it is set, turn out and serve. Gateaux a TAfricaine- Ingredients. Sixteen Eggs. One pound of Castor Sugar. Fifteen ounces of Flour. Work the yolks of egg and castor sugar well together with a wooden spoon. Beat the whites up stiffly and rub the flour through a sieve; then mix all together thoroughly but lightly. Put the mixture into a bag with a funnel at the end about the size of a shilling and press out pieces of the paste on to a greased tin the size of a small biscuit. Bake these in a moderate oven for aboutCREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 199 half an hour; when cold take two of these rounds and scoop out a small piece at the bottom of each, place a little whipped cream in each cavity, and stick the two cakes together : proceed in this way with all the cakes. Then cover them over with chocolate icing, and when cold they are ready to serve. Gateau de Prunes. Ingredients, One pound of Prunes. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. One ounce of Gelatine. The juice and rind of one Lemon. One glass of Brandy or Marsala. One pint of Water. A few drops of Cochineal. Boil the prunes in the water and sugar until quite soft; then take out the stones, crack the kernels and add them with the brandy, lemon- juice and peel, a little cochineal, and the gelatine dissolved in a little water; boil all for twenty minutes. Pour into a border mould; when set, turn it out and serve with whipped cream in the centre. Jubilee Pudding. Ingredients, One pint of Claret Jelly. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Half an ounce of Gelatine.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 200 One ounce of Preserved Cherries. One ounce of Angelica. One ounce of Preserved Ginger. One ounce of Preserved Apricot. Set a mould thickly with claret jelly. Whip the cream very stiffly and stir in the fruits chopped up^ the gelatine melted, and the castor sugar. Fill in the centre of the mould with the whipped cream and fruits. Turn it out and serve with whipped cream round if liked, this will require a little more cream than the half pint for the centre, and can be left out or not according to taste. Marguerites. Ingredients. Two and a quarter pounds of Castor Sugar. Twelve Whites of Egg. Whip the whites stiffly and mix as for meringues. Then put the mixture into a bag having a funnel about the size of a sixpence; press the meringue on to a greased tin in narrow finger-shaped pieces. Sprinkle with pink sugar and chopped almonds, and bake in a slow oven until crisp. Eemove very carefully on to a sieve, and serve cold with ices as for dessert.CKEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 201 Meringues. Ingredients. Six Whites of Egg. Pound and a half of Castor Sugar. A flat Meringue Board. Oiled paper to cover the Board. Cover the meringue board with oiled paper. Whip the whites of egg to a very stifif froth and stir in the sugar. Shape some of this mixture in a dessertspoon, scoop it out with another dessert- spoon and lay it on the oiled paper, sift some castor sugar over each meringue and dry them well in a warm oven. Then turn them over, scoop out all the soft part underneath, and dry them again. If for immediate use, fill them with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. If not required at once, put them away in a tin box covered over with paper until they are wanted. Princess Pudding or Cold SoufT16e. Ingredients, One gill of Milk or Cream.- Half an ounce of Gelatine. One gill of Apricot Pur^, or One gill of Orange-juice* Yolks of three Eggs. Whites of four Eggs. Two ounces of Sugar. A little Lemon-juice. A few drops of Cochineal.202 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Put the milk and gelatine into a stewpan, and stir over the fire until dissolved, care being taken that it does not boil, or it will curdle; beat the three yolks of egg well and add to the milk. When well mixed, put into a stewpan and stir till it thickens—it must not boil; add the sugar. Then pour out into a basin, add the apricot puree, lemon-juice, and cochineal. Beat the four whites of egg to a very stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients, stirring lightly but thoroughly. Stir until nearly cold before putting it into a mould. The mould should be ornamented with bright pale jelly. Riz a rimperatrice. Ligredients, Quarter of a pint of clear Jelly. One ounce of preserved Cherries. Half an ounce of Angelica. Quarter of a pound of Rice. Ooe pint of Milk. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Half an ounce of Gelatine. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. Vanilla. Set a mould with the jelly, cherries, and an- gelica. Stew the rice tender in the milk, and when cool add the cream, gelatine melted in a little water, sugar, and vanilla. Turn this pre- paration into the decorated mould and set on ice.CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 203 When quite cold, turn tlie rice out carefully and pour round a puree of apricots. Spanish Soufflee. IngredimU, Six Sponge Cakes. Jam and Red Jelly. Maraschino or Sherry. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Whites of five Eggs. Vanilla Essence. Cut the sponge cakes into three pieces length- ways, putting jam between each layer ; pile up on a glass dish, and well soak them with either sherry or Maraschino. When soaked, beat up the whites of egg to a very stiff froth; add sugar and vanilla; mask the cakes entirely over with the egg and put in a cool oven to dry; when dry, garnish with red jelly. Timbale de Fruits a la Marechale. Ingredients, One pint of Maraschino Jelly. French Plums. Oranges. Apricots. Apples. Cherries. Prepare the fruits carefully. The French plums204 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. should be stoned and stewed in claret, the apples turned into small even pieces and boiled tender in syrup, and the oranges and apricots divided into convenient pieces. When these are all ready set them with the Maraschino jelly in a fancy mould, and when cold turn out and serve.( 205 ) EANCY BEEAD AND CAKES. Arrowroot Cake. Ingredients, One pound of Butter. One pound of Arrowroot, One pound of Sugar. Eight Eggs. Bind of one Lemon. Beat the butter to a cream; beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately a long time; add the sugar rubbed through a sieve and the grated lemon-peel. Beat all well together for one hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Cocoanut Buns. Ingredients. Three quarters of a pound of Prepared Flour.* Quarter of a pound of Cocoanut. * To make Prepared Flour; four pounds of Vienna Flour, two ounces of Cream of Tartar, one ounce of Carbonate of Soda—well mixed together.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 206 Quarter of a pound of White Sugar. Three ounces of Butter. One Egg. One gill of Milk. Cream the butter and sugar well together; add the milk and egg by degrees, also the flour and the cocoanut, mix well, shape into buns, and bake twenty minutes. This quantity will make twenty- four buns. Chocolate Cake. Ingreclienis. Half a pound of grated Chocolate. Quarter of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Two ounces of ground Kice. Six ounces of White Sugar. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Four Eggs. Yanllla flavouring. Beat the butter and sugar well together, add the grated chocolate, previously dissolved in a table- spoonful of milk; add the yolks of egg one by one, mixing each carefully. Mix the flour, rice, and baking-powder together, sift them through a sieve to the yolks of egg. Beat the whites of egg to a very stiff froth and stir in lightly. Pour this mixture into a saute-pan, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour.FANCY BREAD AND CAEES. 207 Galettes. Ingredients, One pound of Household Flour. One pound of Vienna Flour. One ounce of Yeast. Half an ounce of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Milk (warmed). Half a pound of Butter. Seven Eggs. Sieve the household flour into a basin and make it into a soft dough with the milk, in which the yeast and sugar have been mixed as usual. Put the Vienna flour into another basin, add the eggs and the butter, and beat altogether with the hand. When the yeast has risen for about one hour, put the contents of the two basins together and beat until the mixtures are thoroughly in- corporated (about twenty minutes). The dough must now rise for another hour. Make into large oval cakes, prove about fifteen minutes till the tops crack, and bake in a quick oven. Brush with sugar and milk when half baked. Genoa Cake. Ingredients, Ten ounces of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of Sugar. Three ounces of Candied Peel. One ounce of Pistachio Kernels. Two ounces of Almonds. Six ounces of Sultanas.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 208 One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Five Eggs. Grated rind of one Lemon. Cream the butter well. Add the sugar, and cream again. Add all the other ingredients except the almonds, pistachio nuts, eggs and baking- powder ; then add the eggs one at a time, beating each one well in. When all are well mixed in, add the almonds and pistachio kernels cut in strips, and lastly the baking-powder. Bake in a shallow tin or saute-pan for one hour and a half in a moderate oven. German Pound Cake. Ingredients. Ten ounces of Flour. Eight ounces of fresh Butter. Eight ounces of Castor Sugar. Four ounces of Peel. One Lemon. Half a pound of Sultanas. Five Eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the flour, sifted by degrees, and the eggs, one at a time, beating all well together with your hand. Now add the sultanas, the candied peel chopped up, and the grated rind of the lemon; mix all well together with a spoon. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, putting three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom of the tin ; pour in the cake, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When baked, turn it out on to a sieve to cool.209 TANCY BKEAD AND CAKES. Madeira Cake. , Ingredients, Five ounces of Butter. Five ounces of Castor Sugar, Eight ounces of Flour. Four Eggs. A little Citron, and grated Lemon-peel. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the grated lemon-peel, stir in the eggs one at a time, sift the flour and add it by degrees. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the mixture, smooth it over and put a few pieces of citron on the top. Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. Mocha Cake. Ingredients for the Cake. Four Eggs. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Yienna Flour. Two ounces of Potato Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Ingredients for the Icing. Half a pound of fresh Butter. One pound of Icing Sugar. One tablespoonful of Essence of Oofifee. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the castor sugar, adding the flour and baking-powder gra- dually, beat till a smooth cream, then stir in lightly pHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 210 the four whites of egg whipped to a stiff froth; butter a plain mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. When done, turn it out, and when quite cold, cover it with the icing, and decorate to taste with the icing squeezed through the icing forcers. To make the icing, beat the butter and sugar together in a basin to a smooth cream, adding the coffee to it one drop at a time. When the cake is iced, stand it away on ice or in a cool place till required. Orange Cake. Ir/fvedierrits, Six ounces of Vienna Flour. Five ounces of Castor Sugar. Eind of one Orange, grated. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Three Eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar together to a smooth cream; add the flour and baking-powder sifted, and the orange-rind. Mix all well together, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. "When cold, ice it with French icing made of half a pound of icing sugar worked well with the juice of the orange; when well mixed, pour this all over the cake.211 FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. Rich Plum Cake. Ingredients, One pound of fresh Butter. One pound of Castor Sugar. One pound of Mixed Peel. One pound and a half of Flour. One pound of dried Cherries. One pound of Sultana Raisins. Eight ounces of Almonds. Half a pint of Brandy. Ten Eggs. One teaspoonful of Salt. One ounce of Allspice. Cream the butter and sugar well together, then sift in the floor and salt gradually, add the eggs one at a time, beating with your hand till all is well and smoothly mixed. Chop the cherries a little, chop the peel and the almonds, add these with the sultanas and the allspice, mix well together, and add last of all the brandy, a little at a time. Be sure that all is thoroughly mixed. Line a cake- tin with buttered paper, putting three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom, and bake for three hours in a moderate oven. The heat of the oven must not rise after the cake goes in. Savarin. Ingredients. Half a pound of Vienna Flour. Half an ounce of German Yeast.212 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY Quarter of a teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Haifa gill of Milk. Four Eggs. Five ounces of Butter. Warm one gill of milk, mix the yeast and sugar together, and stir the warm milk to them. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the middle, and pour in the milk with the yeast and sugar in it; just mix a little flour with it, and put it in a warm place to rise. When this sponge has risen to twice its original size, add the other gill of milk and two eggs; beat it well with the hand, adding by degrees the other three eggs and the butter beaten to a cream. Work all this well together, and put it into a mould to rise; when it has risen, bake it in a moderate oven for forty- five minutes. Turn it out, and when cold pour a good mm syrup over it. Sponge Cake. Ingredients, Half a pound of Vienna Flour. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. Eight Eggs. Sift the flour. Make a syrup of the sugar vmtil it sticks to your fingers. Beat the eggs well and add to the syrup, beat these well together for ten minutes, then work in the flour very lightly and by degrees, bake in a moderate oven from thirty to forty minutes.213 FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. Cake Icing. Ingredimts, Two pounds of Icing Sugar. Four Whites of Egg. The juice of two Lemons. Eub the sugar tlirough a hair-sieve into a basin, make a well in the sugar and pour in the whites of egg and lemon-juice, work these all well to- gether with a wooden spoon until quite soft. Put two layers of this icing with a knife, you must dip the knife in water from time to time to prevent it sticking. The third layer must be clear icing made thus : One pound of loaf sugar, half a pint of water boiled together for fifteen to twenty minutes and reduced to a syrup. Stir in a basin till nearly cold and pour over the cake. When this is dry, ornament with the first icing through a forcer. Sultana Cake. Ingredimts, One pound of Flour, Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of Castor Sugar. Five Eggs. Half a pound of Sultanas. One gill of Milk. The rind of one Lemon. ** One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Four ounces of Peel. Salt.214 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Cream the butter and sugar well together, sift in the flour, the salt, and the baking-powder; add the eggs, one at a time, and the milk; beat all well to- gether with your hand ; then stir in the sultanas, the peel chopped, and the grated lemon-rind. Mix well. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, two thicknesses at the bottom, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Vienna Bread. Ingredients, One pound of Flour. Half an ounce of Yeast. Quarter of an ounce of Castor Sugar. Quarter of an ounce of Salt. One Egg. One ounce of Butter. Half a pint of warm Milk. Mix the sugar and yeast together; beat up the egg, add it to the milk and pour it into the yeast. Have the flour, salt, and butter in a basin. Pour the dissolved yeast to these, and beat all together. Let the dough rise about two hours; make the mixture into rolls ; let them prove, and bake in a quick oven.FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. 215 Walnut Cake. Ingredients, Quarter of a pound of Vienna Flour. Half a pound of Castor Sugar. Half a pound of Butter. Eight Eggs. i Half a pound of Walnuts or Almonds. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One teaspoonful of Yanilla Eseence. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the flour, sifted, and mix well; add the walnuts or almonds chopped, and lastly the whites only of the eight eggs, whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour.INDEX. SOUPS. PAGE Stock 1 Consomme 2 Consomme k la Kachel . 3 Consomme a la Boyale . 3 Consomme au Riz ... 4 Consomme anx OEufs Fil^s 4 Consomme d'Orleans . . 5 Consomme a la Sevign^ . 5 Carrot Soup k la Cressy . 6 Clear Mock Turtle . . 7 Egg Balls 8 Clear Mulligatawny . . 8 Garbure d'Oseille h la Par- isienne 9 Kidney Soup . . . .10 Potage aux Abatis . . .10 Potage a I'Americaine . 11 Potage k la Bonne Fenime 12 Potage Dupoise, or Mussel Soup 13 Potage aux Huitres . . 13 Potage k la Hollandaise . 14 Potage a la Julienne . . 15 Potage a la Puree Lievre . 16 Potage aux Queues de Bceuf 17 Fausse Tortue . . . .18 Potage au Tapioca . . .19 Potage a la Royale . . 20 Puree de Marrons ... 20 Puree de Navets . . .21 Puree d'Homard ... 22 Puree de Pommes de Terre 23 Puree a la Princesse . . 23 PAGE Puree de Pois Verts . . 24 Puree a la Palestine . , 25 Puree de Tomates ... 26 DRESSED FISH. Athenian Eel and Sauce . 28 Bream Pie 28 Cassolettes de Snumon. . 29 Dressed Mussels ... 30 Eel Pie 31 Filets de Cabilleaux k la Normande .... 31 Filets de Rougets h I'ltali- enne 32 Fish Cakes 32 Homard a la St. Stephens . 33 Lobster Cutlets .... 34 Lobster Soufflee ... 34 Oyster Soufflee .... 35 Petites Soufflees d'Homard 37 Scollops of Turbot ... 37 Slice of Salmon Baked. . 38 Sole a la Maiire d'Hotel . 38 Sole aux Fines Herbes. . 39 Sole au Gratin .... 40 Sole a la Bohemienne . . 40 Sole a la Portugaise . . 41 Sole a la Colbert ... 42 Sole a la Rouennaise . . 43 Sole a I'Horly . . . . 44: Stewed Eels .... 45 Stewed Trout .... 45217 INDEX. TAGE Supreme de Crabe aux Tomates 46 Tartelettes a I'lndieniie . 47 To Warm up Perch . . 47 To Warm up Salmon . . 48 Water Souchy ... 49 Whitebait 49 CUREIES AND INDIAN DISHES. Curry Powder .... 51 Brown Curry (Beef) . . 52 Dry Curry 53 Fish Curry 54 Kebob Curry .... 54 Vegetable Curry ... 55 White Curry (Chicken) . 56 Burdwan of Fowl ... 57 Devilled Almonds ... 57 Devilled Lobster ... 58 Clear Mulligatawny . . 59 "Mollet" (Indian Break- fast Dish) .... 59 PillauofFowl .... 60 ENTREES, Beef Olives 62 Bengal Curry .... 63 Bouchees a la Reine . . 61 Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 1) 64 Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 2) 65 Chaudfroid of Larks or Quails 65 Chicken Casuala ... 66 Chicken Saute a la Morengo 67 Civet de Lievre.... 68 Creme do Volaille ... 68 Cutlets a la Bretonne . . 69 Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Russe 70 Cutlets a TEpicurienne . 71 Cutlets ii la Milanaise . » 71 PAGE Mutton Cutlets a la Pro- veuQale 72 Cutlets a la Rachel . . 73 Cutlets a la Reforme . . 74 Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise 74 Cutlets k la Yenetienne . 75 Cotelettes de Veau . . .76 Escallopes de Poulet a la Fiuanciere .... 76 Filets de Boeuf a la Bear- naise 78 Filets de Boeuf a la Mira- beau 78 Filets de Boeuf Pique a la Fliimande 79 Filets de Boeuf aux Huitres 79 Filets de Boeuf a la Pompa- dour ...... 80 Filets de Boeuf a la Russe. 81 Filets de Lievre a la St. Stephens 81 Filets de Veau a la Talley- rand 83 Fricandeau de Veau . . 84 Fricassee de Poulet . . 85 Galantine of Fowl ... 86 Gibelotte de Lapin ... 87 Jugged Hare .... 88 Forcemeats Balls ... 88 Mauviettes en Caisse a la Lucullus 89 Mayonnaise aux Huities . 90 Mayonnaise de Volaille . 90 Minced Veal .... 91 Noix de Boeuf a la Chipo- lata 92 Ox Palates a la Financiere 93 Compote de Pigeons . . 94 Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Bourgeoise . . . .95 Pigeons a la Duchesse. . 95 Pigeons a la Financiere . 96 Pigeons a la Mazarin . . 96 Quails a la Lucullus . . 97 Quenelles of Veal ... 98 Ris de Veau a I'ltalienne . 100 Ris de Veau a la Supreme. 100 Rognons a I'Epicurienne . 101 Rognong aux Crolates . .102 QINDEX. 218 PAGE 103 103 104 104 105 106 Kissoles a la Victoria Soufflee de Perdrix. Soufflee de Volaille . . Salmi of Cold Wild Duck . Tartlets of Chicken TendroDS de Veau a la Tartare Tendrons de Veau a la Villeroy 106 TetedeVeau .... 107 Vol au Vent a la Toulouse 107 SAUCES. Be'arnaise Sauce . 109 Bechamel Sauce . 110 Brandy Sauce . . Ill Bread Sauce . Ill Brown Sauce . Ill Sauce a la Cardinal . 112 Custard Sauce . . 113 Celery Sauce . 113 Espagnole . . . . . 114 Financiere Sauce . . 114 German Sauce ► . 115 Sauce Hollandaise . . 115 Horse-radish Sauce. . 116 Sauce Italienne. . 116 Lobster Sauce . . . 116 Mayonnaise Sauce . . 117 Oyster Sauce . . . . 118 Sauce Piquante. . 118 Poivrade Sauce . . 119 Keform . 120 Soubise Sauce , . 120 Supreme Sauce . . 121 Tartare Sauce . . 121 Sauce Tomate . . 122 Wine Sauce . . . . . 122 White Sauce . , . . 123 VAKIOUS KECIPES. To boil a York Ham . . 124 To boil an Ox Tongue. . 125 Boiled Pheasant ... 126 PAGE Boiled Turkey and Oyster Stuffing ..... 126 Braized Ox Tongue . . 127 Shoulder of Mutton Stuffed and Braized . . . .128 Lark Pudding .... 128 Partridge Pudding. . .129 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Asparagus 131 Jerusalem Artichokes a ITtalienne. Brussels Sprouts French Beans a la d'Hotel . . Haricots panaches Maitre d'Hotel Plain Salad . Potatoes Saute Potato Scollops Potato Croquettes Potato Chips Kussian Salad Seakale . Spinach . Young Carrots Maitre 131 132 133 la 133 134 135 135 136 136 137 137 137 138 SAVOURIES. Anchovy Toast .... 139 Angels on Horseback . .139 Birds' Nests 140 140 141 141 143 143 144 145 145 146 Cassolettes of Potato . Cassolettes of Rice . Cauliflowt r au Gratin . Cheese Aigrettes . Cheese d'Artois. Cheese Soufflee .... Cheese Tartlets .... Choux Marin au Parmesan Cold Cheese Soufflee . Croustades 146 Croutesde Meiluche Fume 147 Croutes de Fromage Glace 148 Homard a la Creme . ,148219 INDEX. PAGE 149 149 150 150 151 152 Mushi'ooms Farcies. . . CEufs a TAurore GEufs a la Bonne Femme , CEufs a Madame . , . CEufs a la Suisse . CEufs Farcies a la Russe . CEufs Farcies a la Proven- 9ale 0 ... 0 . 1^2 Oysters a la St. Patrick , 153 Eaviolis a I'ltaJienne . .153 Sardines a la Piedmontaise 154 Savoury Cream, , , , 154 Scotch Eggs . . . .155 Soufflee de Merluclie Fume 155 Tomatoes Farcies au Gratin 156 PASTRY. ^ Cheese Pastry Flaky Crust Genoese Pastry Petits Choux Puff Paste . Rough Puff. Short Crust . OMELETS. Cheese Omelet . Kidney Omelet . Oyster Omelet . Savoury Omelet Sweet Omelet . Tomato Omelet. Soufflee Omelet, 158 159 159 160 161 161 162 163 163 164 165 >165 166 167 Fig Pudding . . Plum Pudding . Pine-apple Soufflee Raspberry Pudding Semolina Soufflee . Mince Meat. . . Yiennoise Pudding. Vanilla Souffle'e West Ridinof Pudding HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLEES, Amber Pudding , . . 168 Alexandra Pudding . .169 Brown Bread Pudding. . 169 Baked Lemon Pudding . 170 Cabinet Pudding ... 171 Caramel Pudding . , .171 Cocoanut Puddino . .172 173 174 175 175 176 176 177 178 179 CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. Coffee Cream Ginger Cream . Italian Cream . Neapolitan Cream > Rice Cream .... Strawberry Cream , Vanilla Cream . Velvet Cream . Apple Jelly .... Aspic Jelly from Calves' Feet ..... Aspic Jelly from French . Gelatine .... Claret Jelly .... Orange Jelly Punch Jelly .... Wine Jellv from Calves- Feet . \ . . . Wine Jelly from French Gelatine .... Ice Pudding. Lemon Water Ice . Pine-apple Water Ice . Strawberry Cream Ice . Cold Cabinet Pudding. Charlotte Russe Chartreuse of Oranges Chocolate Tartlets . . Custard Diplomatic Pudding . Gllteaux a I'Africaine . Gateau de Prunes . . Jubilee Pudding . . Marguerites ...»INDEX. 220 PAGE Meringues 201 Princess Pudding or Cold Soufflee 201 Riz a rimperatrice. . . 202 Spanish Soufflee ... 203 Timbale de Fruits a la Marechale .... 203 FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. Arrowroot Cake Cocoanut Buns . . 205 . 205 Chocolate Cake Galettes . Genoa Cake. German Pound Madeira Cake Mocha Cake. Orange Cake Rich Plum Cake Savarin . Sponge Cake Cake Icing . Sultana Cake Vienna Bread Walnut Cake Cake T. W. BEACH & SONS' (Limited) Whole Fruit Jams. Prepared from Fruit grown on the Right Honourable Lord Sude^ey's Prantations, Toddington, Gloucestershire, and at Ealing Road Gardens, London, W. Awards tor Purity and Excellence. Four Gold and Four Silver Medals. Purveyors to the llatlonal Training School for Cookery, SOUTH KENSINGTON,ADVERTISER. " SAN ITARY " """^rxl^Tsa.. "SEAMLESS STEEL" SAUCEPANS, STEWPANS, SATITE PANS, BAIN-MARIE PANS, STOCK POTS, &c., &c, SILVER MEDAL, HEALTHERIES. STOCK POT. STEWPAN. saut6 or omelet pan. STRONG, DURABLE, CLEANLY, PLANISHED AND BURNISHED. ISo Verdigris, ]Sro Enamel Arsenic. No Copper Contamination, USTo Braizing. COATED WITH PURE REFINED TIN. Possessing all the Advantages^ but none of the Drawbacks^ of Copper or Enamel, Same Thickness and Weight as the Ordinary Copper Paits* lU use AT TK£ WATIOWAIi TRAZXJXIVG SCKOOZi FOR COOKERY AN-I> ZN-VSDJTZOIO-S EXBZBZTZOl^, and at the late HBAZiTK AIiri> COIiOiaXAIi AUD ITTBIATO" EXKIBXTZOITS. These Utensils are thickly coated inside and out with pure Tin. They can easily be re-tinned, but the bodies, being bright steel, are equally healthy, cleanly, and uninjurious to food, thus rendering them far superior to copper. Their strength and thickness, and being Seamless Steel* make them practically indestructible and not liable to burn their contents. Their cose being considerably less than wrought-iron, and about one-third the price of copper, they should be used in every Household, Cooking School, Restaurant, Club, &c. Made also to nest, for shipping, and with loose handles for camp use. Sole Manufacturers and Patentees (Wholesale only)^ B. PERKINS & SON, CANNON ST. BUILDINGS, E.C., & BERMONDSEY ST., S.E., LONDON. TO BE OBTAINED OF ALL IRONMONGERS, STORES, a^c.ADVERTISER. SUGG'S "CHARING CROSS" GAS KITCHENER. PATENT ''THE BEST TO BE OBTAfNED."—Vide "^'The Pictonar World/' June 3, 1886. May he seen in action and tested at the Show Rooms— WILLIAM SUGG & CO., Limited, Charing Cross.ADVERTISER. The National Condiment. UNEQUALLED IN FLAVOR. Mustard AS SUPPLIED TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES. LIDSTONE & CO, TELEPHONE No. 8556. JSutcbev6, Established 1801. 206, SLOANE STREET, S.W. J. L. & Co, of Sloane Street, have supplied the National Training School of Cookery, for many years, with all Meat, Ox-Tongues, Calves'-Heads, &c, and will at all times be pleased to quote the very Lowest Prices by Contract, or otherwise supply Clubs, Schools, Hotels, or Private Families, The New Zealand Mutton is now being used very largely, and they supply that properly thawed ready for use at the Market Prices; and having the pick of the largest consignors' stock, can always depend on the Best Quality that comes to this country.ADVERTISER. ^ ADAMS & SON, MANDFACTORING & FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, ELECTRO-PLATERS AND CUTLERS, By Appointment to H.M. the Queen and H.R,H. the Prince of Wales 57, HAYMARKET, S.W. Stockpot. Bainmarie. Stewpan. BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KITCHEN REQUISITES, MOULDS, and all the latest Parisian Novelties and Specialities for the Cuisine, special attention being- given to this Department. Depot for CAPT. WARREN'S PATENT COOKING POTS, 10 per cent. Discount allowed for Casli. Illustrated Catalogue forwarded on application. 5^, IIAY1IABK"ET, S.W. THE SELF-FEEDING REFRIGERATOR. Patknted by Mr, CLARKE ASH. Awarded the only Prize Medals and Diploma of Honour for Domestic Refrigerators at tlie Great International Fisheries ExMlDition, 1883, and Health Exhihition, 1884. By this invention Economy in Ice, increased space, an uniform low temperature, and a ventilated dry atmosphere are attained. Whether the ice placed in these safes be much or little the same low temperature is produced, and moreover, the lowest temperature generated by any given quantity of ice is maintained day by day until the ice is dissolved. Descriptive Catalogue free per post. Manufactured. Solely by THE "PISTON" FREEZING IVIACHINE AND ICE CO., 301 and 303, OXFORD STREET, LONDON.ADVERTISER. THE METROPOLITAN GAS KITCHENERS The most Eco- nomical and Most Popular Stove in the Market. MAY BE HAD FROM ALL GAS COMPANIES. 25.000 in London alone. Prices. £ No. 7, No. 8, No. 9, No. lo. No. II, No. 12, 4 5 4 15 5 15 7 15 II 15 13 15 GOLD, SILVER, AND BRONZE MEDALS INNUMERABLE. Works- Camberwell Road. Approximate Quarterly Rentals. No. 7 No. 8 No. 9 No. lo No. II No. 12 LOWEST CONSUMPTION OF GAS IN ALL TEST COMPETITIONS. Show Rooms— 69 Queen Victoria St. LOVELOCK'S IMPROVED MlHOlHQi AND SAUSAGE-MAKING MACHINES AND COFFEE MILLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. They are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy are invaluable in every household. Can be obtained of Ironmongers and Dealers in all parts of the World. Wholesale of J. F. LOYELOCK, Broadway Works, Mare Street, Hadney, London. ESTABLISHED 1856. E/ ADVERTISER. IMPORTANT to Housekeepers.-Time and LABOUR Saved. Domegtio Labour-kving' Inventiong. Mincing & Sausage Machine Combined. No. 1—30s. 2—42s. 3—63s. Best quaKty, 2 rows of Steel Cutters. Another Pattern, i row Cutters, from 88. 6d. to 21s. The No. I, 2, or 3 are recommended for family use, and with our recent improvements this pattern is a per- fect Mincer for general purposes, and a Sausage Machme. 4S., Coffee Mill 66., 8s., lOs., 14s. Arrang-ed to cramp on Table. Can be had to fix to wall, same price. Larger .. .. .. 15s. to 20s. Grind much quicker than the old- fashioned box mills. Also, Wheat Mills, Cocoa, Pepper, Rice, &c. Knife Cleaner and Carver. To clean 2 Knives, 32s. 3—45s. 4—68s. 5—lOOs. 6—120s. 7—135s. 8—150s. 9—165s^ As illustration. Also on High Stands to fix to floor. Our Machines were selected some years ago for Government use. THE DISC COMBINED Meat Chopper & Sausage Machine. Prices—12/6, 17/6, 25/-, 35/-. We recommend tke Machine described above for domestic nse in prejerejtce to the Disc,'' which is however the best on this principle. Wholemeal Dresser & Cleaner, 20s. Other Special Machines comprise Masticators, or Small Mincers, for Invalids' use, CofiFee Roasters, Brawn, Tong^ue, Lard, Fruit & Butter Presses, and other useful Inventions. Also, Garden Engines, Pumps, Syringes. See Illustrated CATALOGUE, post free, on application. S^»ECIAIj notice and CAUTION.—Orders to the extent of £5 sent free to any Railway Station in Great Britain and Ireland. When our Machines are not purchased direct from us, care should be taken to see that our NAME is stamped or cast on the article, otherwise SPURIOUS IMITATIONS may be passed for the sake of extra profit, especially at Stores. S. NYE & CO., BERWICK HOUSE, K, LONDON, W.