542 CEPHALOPODA. on etch side : these sinuses are relatively larger in the Sepia than the Octopus. In both species the branchial vein resumes its ordinary dimen- sions before terminating in the ventricle; but in the Cuttlefish the sinus is placed closer to the ventricle. The systemic ventricle (o) is situated in the mesial plane between the bifurcation of the vena cava above, and the ovary or testis below. In the Octopus and Eledone it presents a glo- bular form, rather extended tranversely, and with the branchial sinus entering at its superior and lateral aspects. In the Loligo and the Ouychoteuthis (fig. 227) it is lozenge-shaped, with the long axis in the axis of the body; giving off the two aortae (c, d) by the anterior and posterior angles, and receiving the bran- chial veins (a, a,) at the lateral angles. In the Sepia, (o, fig. 225,) Sepioteuthis, and Rossia, the systemic ventricle is a fusiform body, bent upon itself at right angles. About one-half on the right side lies in the axis of the body, the remainder extends transversely to the left side; the extremity of this part receives the left bran- chial vein, the other extremity gives off the an- terior aorta (q, fig, 225). The bulb of the posterior and generally the larger aorta (p, fig. 225) is continued from the middle of the transverse portion; the right branchial vein enters the middle of the right side of the lon- gitudinal portion of the ventricle. In all the Dibranchiata the parietes of the systemic heart, though thin, are firmer and more muscular than those of the branchial hearts; and its cavity is generally about three times greater than that of either of the others: its inner surface shows the regular interlacement and decussation of the columns earner, none of which, however, project into the cavity. The termination of each branchial vein is defended by a pair of membranous semi- lunar valves (b, Jig. 227). The origin of the lesser aorta (p), arising from the anterior part of the ventricle, is defended by a single valve (e, fig. 227); that of the great aorta, (q',fig. 226,) which, though posterior in its origin, is de- stined to supply the head and anterior parts of the body, is generally provided with a mus- cular bulb, as in the Nautilus. In the Octopus it is defended, according to Cuvier, by two semilunar valves; but in the Calamary and Onychoteuthis by a single valve (f, fig. 227). In the Octopus there is also a third small artery (r, fig. 225) given off directly from the ventricle, which is distributed to the generative organs, and presents considerable periodical variations of size in relation to the functions of those parts. In the same genus the small aorta, which arises from the anterior part of the ventricle, first gives off two long and slender branches (s, s, fig. 226), which are distributed to the venous follicles, whose arterial vascularity we have before mentioned. The trunk then di- vides into two arteries, of which the largest (t) ascends in front of the vena cava to be distri- buted to the mantle; the other supplies the folded intestine and surrounding peritoneum. The large aorta first passes backwards and to the right between the layers of peritoneum which separate the intestinal sac from that of the pyloric appendage and that of the stomach; winds round the latter, and passes, by a proper opening, to the right of the cardia through the muscular septum, and into the cavity behind the liver, and ascends on the right side of the dilated oesophagus to the cartilaginous cranium. Here, after distributing branches to the sur- rounding parts, it bifurcates and completely encircles the gullet; and from this vascular ring, which is strikingly analogous to the bran- chial arches in Vertebrata, the head and all its complex radiating appendages derive their nu- triment. Respiratory Organs.—The branchiae pre- sent the same general form and structure in both orders of Cephalopods, but differ, as before ob- served, in number, and also in their mode of attachment to the mantle. They are always entirely concealed and protected by the mantle, which is extended forwards so as to form a peculiar chamber for them anterior to the other viscera, and into which the rectum and gene- rative organs open. It is interesting to perceive the respiratory cavity retaining, in the highest organized Mollusks, that relation with the anal extremity of the digestive canal which we trace through the whole of this type of animal con- formation, and which forms so well-marked a line of distinction between the Molluscous and Vertebrate divisions of the animal kingdom. In the Nautilus the four branchias are at- tached by their bases only to the inner surface of the mantle; but in the Dibranchiates a thin fibrous membrane connects the fleshy stem of each gill to the contiguous surface of the man- tle. In the Nautilus the branchiae are subject to contortions from the want of this support; and in the specimen which we dissected, we found the gills on one side closely bent upon themselves, with their apices turned down; this circumstance does not probably impede a cir- culation which flows with an equable and con- tinuous current through the gill; but where the blood is driven in jerks by the contractions of a powerful ventricle, a necessity then exists for the provision of a free channel for the passage of the fluid; and accordingly we find that the obstruction of the branchial artery by the bending of the fleshy stem of the gill is obvia- ted by the simple but effectual means above described, viz. the superaddition of a connect- ing membrane, which always preserves the gill in a straight position. In both orders of Cephalopoda the branchiaa present an elongated pyramidal figure, with their apices directed forwards : they are compressed from before backwards in the Nautilus (n, m, fig. 224), and from side to side in the Cuttle-fish (h k> fig- 225) and most other Dibranchiates. They are composed of a number of triangular vascular lamina; extendingtransversely from each side of a central fleshy stem (h,fig. 225), having an alternate disposition : each lamina is com- posed of smaller transverse laminre, which are again similarly subdivided ; the entire gill thus exhibiting the structure called by botanists ' tri- pinnate,' by which an extensive surface is afford- ed for the minute division of the branchial vessels.