38 ACALEPH7E. animal's sinking into the deep when danger threatens. In the other physograda, the air-ve- jp;„_ 7> side is so small in pro- portion to the general mass of the animal that it is not sufficient to raise it above the sur- face of the water. It is generally an ovate sac, with an opening at its upper end, closed by a sphincter muscle. It is probable that its walls are muscular,and that by pressing out a portion of the contained air, and by secreting more, alternately the animal can sink and rise at pleasure. The nature of the air con- Rhizophysa Melon. ?ained ™ thfe vesicles 1 J nas not yet been ascer- tained. In rhizophysa ( Fig.7.) there are, pen- dent from one part of the body, certain peculiar organs, arranged very re- gularly in pairs, of a mus- cular structure, hollow, and furnished each with a round orifice. They differ from the tentacula in structure,and are, pro- bably, organs of natation. Similar tubes, but only two in number, exist in diphysa ; and, anterior to them, in the same animal, there is a two-lobed organ, the use of which is doubt- ful. In ugalma, (fig. 8.) and some of the genera allied to it, there are certain cartila- ginous plates disposed in an imbricated manner along the sides of the body. These, Eschscholtz regards as loco- motive organs. The mus- cles by which they are set in motion must be extremely delicate, as a slight touch is sufficient to separate the plates from one another. The chief bulk of the sin- gularly formed diphyda is made up of the swimming organs, which are two sub- cartilaginous bodies, poly- gonal, generally pointed an- teriorly, truncated posteri- orly, placed one behind the other, and one a little within the other; the posterior por- tion being lodged in a little excavation which exists in the anterior. These two parts differ somewhat from one another in form, but both are hollow, and have large open- ings. Their attachment is so slight as to admit of their being separated by agitation of the water. It is at the bottom of the anterior ca- vity that the essential parts of the animal are placed. Locomotion is effected by means of the impulse of a current which is kept up by the successive contractions and dilatations of the organs above described. The contractions of the two bodies are not synchronous; but they succeed one another within a short time, so that a steady progression is maintained; and in some species it is very rapid. In the ciliograda, the locomotive organs are large cilia, disposed in longitudinal bands on the surface of the body. These bands are ge- nerally eight in number; but in some species, (e. g. axiotoma Gaedii, Esch ,) there are only four. The arches supporting the cilia are of firmer texture, and are less transparent than the rest of the body. In many species they extend from one end of the body to the other; in some only along a part of the circumference. The structure of the cilia themselves has lately Fig. 9. Fig. 8. Agnlma okenii. Diphyes Campanulifera. been examined by Dr. Grant,* with his usual care, in the Beroe pikus;\ and he has found that they are fin-like processes, and that each is composed of several short, transparent, some- what curved filaments, placed parallel to each other in a single row, and connected together by the skin of the animal, like the rays sup- porting the fin of a fish. The rays in the middle of the cilium are a little longer than those at the sides. All the rays appear as transparent tubes under high magnifying pow- ers. They are so curved that their extremities are directed backwards towards the closed ex- tremity of the animal. There are about forty cilia attached to each arch in this species, which is nearly an inch in length. The cilia are so large as to be visible to the naked eye. Most of the ciliograda have their cilia quite exposed; but Pandora is provided with moveable folds of the skin along the cilia-bearing arches, which can be brought over the cilia, in whole or in part, at the animal's pleasure, so as to cover them more or less completely. These cilia are moved nearly in the same manner as the pec- toral fins of fishes. But their motion is so rapid, when the animal is vigorous, that the eye cannot follow it. The existence of motion is pointed out, however, by lines of beautiful iridiscent colours playing along the arches, and * Trans. Zool. Soc. of London, i. 10. t Pleurobrachia pileus. Fleming. Brit. Anim. 504. Cydippe p. Esch.