566 CETACEA. transverse superior cranial or occipital ridge, and the superior maxillary bones approach very close to the same part, the frontal bone seems to be represented by a very narrow osseous band traversing the cranium from right to left, and dilating at each extremity to form the roof of the orbit (c, c). But when the maxillary bones which have extended over the whole anterior part of the cranium are raised, the frontal bone is then seen to be of much larger size than the external appeaiances indicate. The two nasal bones (d, d) are in the form of oblong rounded tubercles, set deeply in two depressions in the middle of the frontal bone, and in front of which the nasal passages (e, e) are continued vertically downwards. The two intermaxillaries (f,f) form the exter- nal and anterior margin of the nasal apertures. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid consti- tutes the posterior wall of the nasal passages; and in this plate there are three or four small perforations. The remainder of the circum- ference of the bony nostrils is formed by the maxillary bones, of which a small part appears at g: their septum is the vomer, which is joined to the ethmoid as usual. The malar bone is an irregular flattened bone, which assists the frontal in forming the orbit, and, like it, is covered by the maxillary bone : it sends backwards a long and slender process, which articulates with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, and forms the only bony boundary of the lower part of the orbit. The zygomatic process of the temporal bone is united to the post-orbital process of the frontal, bounding the orbit posteriorly; and thus the zygomatic arch is exclusively formed by the temporal bone: this bone terminates at the temporal ridge, having but a small extent of development on the side of the cranium, and not entering at all into the composition of the posterior convex surface. At the base of the cranium the basilar and the lateral occipitals develop expanded plates, which join the ptery- goideal alee of the sphenoid, and a lamina of the temporal bone, to which the petrous and tympanic bones have a ligamentous attach- ment. The parietal bones also extend behind the temporals, to aid in completing the basilar walls of the cranial cavity, so that the temporal bone is almost excluded from entering into the composition of the cranium, serving merely to clo^yorne small vacancies left by the parietals: thrjHfeturc is of great interest, as we perceive inf^Re commencement of that displacement of the temporal bones from the cranial parietes which is characteristic of the small-brained and cold-blooded classes of Vertebrata. The differences between the Dugong and Manatee in respect to the structure of the cranium, we have seen to resolve themselves almost entirely into the expansion and elonga- tion of the intermaxillary bones in relation to the tusks, which they are destined to support in the former animal; and we shall find on a com- parison of the skulls of the Delphinida toge- ther, that they also differ from one another, chiefly in the forms and proportions of their maxillary and intermaxillary bones. The Delphinorhynchi are characterized, first, by an extremely narrow rostrum, the length of which is four times greater than that of the cranium ; secondly, by the anterior curvature of the posterior extremities of the intermaxil- laries, which, as it were, draw forwards in the same direction the maxillary, the frontal, and even the occipital bones; thirdly, by the posi- tion of the nasal bones, which are sunk in between the frontals and intermaxillaries; fourthly, by the very diminutive size of the temporal fosste. The Delphini, properly so called, have also a narrow rostrum, but its length is scarcely three times that of the cranium; the posterior extremities of the intermaxillary bones, toge- ther with the maxillary and frontal bones, are raised, but not bent forwards; the temporal fossae in some species are as diminutive as in the Delphinorhynchi, but in others gradually recede from that character, and approach, by their expansion, to the form which they exhibit in the next generic type, viz. the Inia. The cranium in this genus, besides the great extent of the temporal fossa, and the strong crista which forms its superior border, is also characterized by the shortness of the orbital fossa. In the Phocana the rostrum is as remarkable for its breadth as it is in the Delphini for its narrowness; this results from the great lateral development of the intermaxillary and max- illary bones ; but the antero-posterior extension of the bones is diminished, and the length of the rostrum does not exceed that of the cranium. The Narwhals (Monodon) manifest their affinity to the Porpesses (Phoctena) by the breadth and shortness of the rostrum, but differ from that and every other genus of Cetacea in the development of horizontal tusks in the inter- maxillary bones, of which the left in the male and both in the female remain concealed in a rudimental state within the maxillary bones. The cranium in the genus Hyperoodon, which includes the Great Boltle-noseWhale of Hunter, is at once distinguishable by the remarkable vertical crest which rises from the middle of the maxillary bones, the contour of which pro- cess descends suddenly behind, but extends more gradually and obliquely downwards an- teriorly. The lower jaw in this genus has two rudimental teeth at its anterior part. Lastly, in the Gangetic Dolphin (Plata- nista) the cranium presents a marked resem- blance to that of the Delphinorhynchus in the length and narrowness of the rostrum, and in the elevation and anterior curvature of its base; but on pursuing the comparison in detail, the structure and composition of this part of the skeleton presents several fundamental diffe- rences, which at the same time indicate an affinity to the Cachalots (' Physeter). The most striking character in the cranium of the Platanista is presented by the maxillary bones, which, after having covered, as in the other Delphinidce, the frontal bones as far as the temporal cristas, give off respectively a large osseous expansion, which arches forwards and forms a capacious vault above the spouting