CRUSTACEA. 785 pair of membranous sacs which contain and transport them from place to place. These varieties in the accessory organs of gene- ration, are in many cases sufficient to distin- guish the sexes: thus, among the Decapoda brachyura, the females are known at a glance by their wider abdomen, which is sometimes of such dimensions as to cover almost the whole sternum. Sometimes these sexual diffe- rences extend to the antennae and to various other organs; sometimes it even influences the size, and occasionally, as we have said, the general external conformation is modified to such a degree, that the male and the female of one and the same species have been taken as types of two distinct genera. There are some species jof which the females only are as yet known to naturalists. The ovum appears to be formed in the walls of the ovary, from whence it is detached when it has attained a certain size, and falls into the cavity of the organ. We have already stated in what manner it is expelled, and in what mode fecundation is accomplished in its pas- sage through the oviducts, or after its extru- sion. The distinguished German naturalist, Rathke, has given particular attention to the divers phases of the evolution of the egg of the Astacus fluviatilis, as well before as after its escape from the ovary and oviduct; and we believe we cannot conclude this article more satisfactorily than by presenting our readers with a simple and brief analysis of his work* The first and earliest form under which the ovum meets the eye in the ovary is that of a transparent vesicle, its walls of extreme te- nuity, and filled with a watery fluid. This is the vesicle of Purkinje. By-and-by there is another membranous and very thin envelope formed all round this vesicle, and in the minute interval that separates the two coverings there is a second fluid deposited, transparent like the other at first, but soon becoming opaque, whitish, and viscid; this is the vitellus or yolk. As this increases in size, the vesicle of Purkinje, which still preserves its first dimen- sions, quits the centre, and goes to be attached to the circumference, which, at last, it almost touches at one point. During this time the vitellus or yolk is continually declining in transparency, on account of the formation of an infinity of globules, which, at length, transform it into a viscid mass of a deep brown colour. During the last stage of its continuance in tlie ovary the vesicle of Purkinje disappears, and the first rudiments of the germ are disco- vered. This series of changes might induce the belief that the germ is neither more nor less than the liquid of the vesicle shed upon the surface of the vitellus. Its form at first resembles that of a slight whitish cloud, which, by slow degrees, changes into an opaque white spot, well defined, and covering nearly the sixth part of the entire surface. The egg is in the above state at the time it * Untersuchungen uebcr die Bildunp; und Ent- wickt'lung des Flusskrcbses, fol. Lcipz. 1829. is received into the oviducts. These canals secrete an albuminous fluid, which surrounds the vitellus and its envelope, and which itself becomes covered with a membranous involu- crum, called the chorion or dermoid envelope of the ovum. Another membrane still is thrown around the last, to serve as the means of attaching the ovum to the false abdominal extremities of the mother. When the process of incubation begins, the surface of the yolk is first seen to be- come covered with star-like or serrated spots, whitish in the fust instance, and then white, which by-and-bye disappear entirely. The germ at the same time is extended uniformly over the whole surface of the yolk; but again it seems to collect towards a point under the form of a white spot, which is the blastoderma. This spot, after undergoing certain variations in its form and dimensions, ends by becom- ing elliptical with a slight furrow in its mid- dle, shaped like a horse-shoe. This furrow soon extends; its extremities meet, and its centre becomes depressed, so as to assume the appearance of a sacculus of some depth. The blastoderma enlarges at the same time, and presents the appearance of a cordiform spot. It is at the bottom of the sacculus but just mentioned, and in the nearest point of the blastoderma, that the first rudiments of organs make their appearance. It is now that the orifice of the sacculus begins to enlarge; the edges separate; its bottom rises, so as at length to become pro- minent, and a small nipple-like elevation ap- pears upon it, hidden in some measure by the edge of the sac, which turns out to be the rudiments of the posterior portion of the body. At the same epoch there are formed anteriorly, on either side of the median line, two pairs of small strap-like bodies, which are by-and-bye discovered to have been the rudiments of the antennas, and another pair, which are the ear- liest vestiges of mandibles. Between the two anterior antennas an azygous point presents itself, which is the rudiment of the labrum, and which, by the progressive development of the neighbouring parts, shifts by slow degrees to its final position between the second pair of antennae. By slow degrees the blastoderma, the pe- ripheral portion of which is much thinner and more transparent than the middle portion, is seen to extend on the surface of the vitellus, and at length to envelope it completely. Du- ring this time the three pairs of spots which represent the antenna? and the mandibles are growing larger, their edges becoming distinctly defined, and their extremities are receding from the surface of the blastoderma, under the form of a little cylinder, the end of which before long divides into two. After the an- tennas have been seen, the peduncles of the eyes make their appearance, and detach themselves by degrees from the blastoderma, as the pre- ceding appendages had done. The nipple-like projection which we have seen formed at the bottom of the small blastodermic sac enlarges at the same time, and assumes the form of an