572 CETACEA, ble or triple ridges, and with the root distinct from the crown, pre- senting a remarkable resemblance to those of some of the Pachy- derms, as the Hippopotamus. The Dugongs have simple elliptical molares, the crown of which, before it is worn, presents two slight fur- rows, which are entirely effaced by age. They are without fangs, properly so called ; and in the up- per jaw are found two long tusks, of which the other Cetaceans of this family are destitute. The Rytina have no molares at all; these teeth are replaced by a horny plate in the middle of each jaw, a structure which seems to connect these animals with the Whalebone Whales. The tongue is short and but little susceptible of movement. The os hyoides is characterized in the Cetacea chiefly by the slight degree or total absence of connection with the larynx, resulting from the elevated position of this organ required by its peculiar relations with the posterior nares. In the Herbivorous order the Dugong pre- sents a simple form of the os hyoides; the posterior cornua soon anchylose with the body, but send no ligament to the thyroid cartilage. The anterior cornua generally remain cartila- ginous, and form the medium of union be- tween the body or basi-hyal, and the large and long styloid processes. In the Delphinidie the body and posterior cornua of the hyoid bone are of a flattened form. In the Balanitis, as the Piked Whale or Balcenoptera, the body (a, Jig. 258) is a cylindrical bone, extended Fig. 258. Fig. 259. Tongue and Baleen-plates of the Piked Whale, Balcenoptera Boops.* The genio-glossi pass backwards and inwards from the anterior contour of the lower jaw. The tongue itself corresponds to the form of the space included by the rami of the lower jaw, and is consequently of great size in the Cachalots and Balaenidee, rising in the latter like an immense cushion (a, Jig. 259), into the space between the laminae of baleen (b), and affording a great quantity of the finest oil. In the figure it is represented in the Piked Whale, but probably preternaturally enlarged and raised by the extrication of gas caused by putrefaction. It is thick, and its free extremity is generally short, but this is less remarkable in the Phi/tophaga than in the Zoophaga. In the Dugong (Jig. 260) the upper surface of the anterior part of the tongue (a) is beset with cuticular spines, and on each side of its basis there is a remarkable horny retroverted pointed process (6, b). . 260. Hyoid bones of the Piked Whale. transversely, and is slightly curved backwards and upwards; its middle portion supports an- teriorly two processes (6, b) resembling the base of the anterior cornua in the Ruminants ; besides these there are, in this genus, two rounded tubercles on the posterior margin op- posite these processes. The styloid bones (c, c) are cylindrical and slightly curved in two directions ; they are joined by cartilage on each side to the occipital protuberance which represents the mastoid process. The muscles which protrude and retract the tongue are extremely simplified in the Ce- taceans ; the retractors are represented by a single pair, analogous to the stylo-hyoidei, the fibres of which pass from the posterior margin of the stylo-hyal bones to the body of the hyoid. The stylo-glossi pass from the anterior and superior margin of the styloid process to their insertion. The hyoglossi arise from the middle of the convexity of the os hyoides. Tongue of the Dugong. In the Porpesse the surface of the tongue is soft and smooth, and very flat superiorly; the anterior margin is fringed by a number of short irregular processes {a, Jig. 265). The salivary glands are reduced to the most rudimental condition. In the Phytophagous Cetaceans the stomach is separated into two portions (Jig. 261); one, the cardiac (a), very large, the other, the pyloric (6), of narrower calibre, by a contrac- tion (c) giving origin to two prolongations (d, d), which are tubiform in the Dugongs, and of a pouch-like form in the Manatees. In both species there is a gland at the cardiac extremity of the stomach (c), which in the Dugong, Sir Everard Home (from whose memoir the figure subjoined is taken) describes as " forming a round mass, as in the Beaver. The orifices of these glands are small, and * From Fr. Cuvier, Cetacea, pi. 20.