AVES. 322 Pigeons, however, are known to carry gravel to their young. GaJlinaceous birds grow lean if deprived of pebbles; and no wonder, since experiment* shows that unless the grains of corn are bruised, and deprived of their vitality, the gastric juice will not act upon or dissolve them. The observations and experiments of Hunter have completely established the rationa- lity and truth of Redi's opinion, that the peb- bles perform the vicarious office of teeth. Hunter inferred from the form of hair-balls occasionally found in the stomach of Cuckoos,+ that the action of the great lateral muscles of the gizzard was rotatory. Harvey appears to have first investigated, by means of the ear, as it were in anticipation of the art of auscultation, the actions which are going on in the interior of an animal body, in reference to the motions of the gizzard. He observes, (De Generatione Animalium, in Opera Omnia, 4to. p. 208,) " Fal- conibus, aquilis, aliisque avibus ex preda viven- tibus, si aurem prope admoveris dum ventricu- lus jejunus est, manifestos intus strepitus, lapillomm illuc ingestorum, invicemque colli- sorum percipias." And Hunter observes, (Animal (Economy, p. 198,) "the extent of motion in grindstones need not be the tenth of an inch, if their motion is alternate and in con- trary directions. But although the motion of the gizzard is hardly visible, yet we may be made very sensible of its action by putting the ear to the sides of a fowl while it is grinding its food, when the stones can be heard moving upon one another." Tiedemann believes that the muscles of the gizzard are in some degree voluntary, having observed that when he placed his hand oppo- site the gizzard, its motions suddenly stopped. The pyloric orifice of the gizzard is guarded by a valve in many birds, especially in those which swallow the largest stones. This valve in the Ostrich is formed by a rising of the cuticle divided into six or seven ridges, which close the pylorus like a grating, and allow only stones of small size to pass through. In the Touraco the pylorus projects into the duodenum in a tubular form. There is a double valve at the pyloric orifice in the Gannet, and a single large valvular ridge at the same part in the Gigantic Crane. In this species and some other Waders, as the Heron and Bittern ; also in the Pelecan, and, according to Cuvier, in the Penguin and * Grains of barley, inclosed in strong perforated tubes, pass through the alimentary canal unchanged. Dead meat, similarly introduced into the gizzard, is dissolved. t The hairs of caterpillars devoured by this bird are sometimes pressed or stuck into the horny lining of the gizzard, instead of being collected into a loose ball. They are then neatly pressed down in a regular spiral direction, like the nap of a hat, and have often been mistaken for the natural structure of the gizzard. One of these specimens exhibited as such to the Zoological Society was sent to me for exami- nation, when, upon placing some of the supposed gastric hairs under the microscope, they exhibited the peculiar complex structure of the hairs of the larva of the Tiger-moth (Arctia Caja), and the broken surface of the extremity which was stuck into the euticular lining was plainly discernible. Sec Proceedings of Zool. Soc. 1834, p. 9. Grebe, there is a small but distinct cavity inter- posed between the gizzard and intestine. An analogous structure is found in the Crocodile. The intestines reach from the stomach to the cloaca ; in relative length they are much shorter than in the mammalia. In the Toucan, for example, the whole intestinal canal scarcely equals twice the length of the body, in- cluding the bill. The canal is divided into small and large intestines, sometimes by an internal valve, sometimes by the insertion of a single caecum, but most generally by those of two cceca, which are always opposite to one another. In a few instances there is no such distinction. The small intestines and cceca are longest in the vegetable feeders. The large intestine is, with one or two exceptions, very short and straight in all birds. The course of the small intestine varies somewhat in the different orders of Birds; it is always characterized by the elongated fold or loop made by the duodenum, (f f, fig. 163,) Fig. 163. Abdominal viscera of a Pigeon. which fold receives the pancreas (</ q) in its concavity. In the Raptores the intestines are generally disposed as follows:— The duodenum forms a long and broad fold, the lower part of which is commonly bent or doubled upon itself: the intestine then passes backwards on the right side of the ab- domen, crosses to the left, and is disposed in deep folds upon the edge of a scolloped mesen- tery ; towards its termination the ileum passes up behind the stomach and adheres to it, having here but a narrow mesentery; then passing down the posterior part of the abdomen the ileum makes another loose fold and ends in the rec- tum, which is continued straight to the cloaca.* In the Owls the last fold of the ileum is nearly as long as the duodenal fold, and the cceca adhere to each side of the fold. In the Diurnal Raptores the intestinal canal * In Jig. 156 the intestines are not represented according to their natural arrangement.