56 ADIPOSE TISSUE. individuals. One of these graves, opened in Fourcroy's presence, had been full, and closed for fifteen years. When the coffins were opened, the bodies appeared shrunk and flattened, and the soft solids were converted intoabrittle cheesy matter, which softened and felt greasy when rubbed between the fingers. The bones were brittle; and the texture of the abdominal and thoracic viscera no longer discernible, but lumps of fatty matter occupied their places. It is not uncommon to find masses of this adipocere in the refuse of dissecting-rooms, especially when heaps of such offal are thrown into pits and wells, and suffered gradually to decay. The carcases of cats and dogs and other drowned animals also often exhibit more or less of a similar change; and Dr. Gibbes (Phil. Trans. 1794) found that lean beef, se- cured in a running stream, underwent a change into fat in the course of three weeks. Fat, and the adipose parts of animals, also undergo a change in appearance and composition under similar circumstances: tallow becomes brittle and pulverulent, and may be rubbed between the fingers into a white soapy powder.* Gay Lussac, Clievreul, and some other emi- nent chemists, conceive that muscular fibre, skin, &c. is not convertible into adipocere,but that this compound results entirely from the fat originally present in the substance, and that the fibrin is completely destroyed by putrefaction. There are cases, however, in which the conversion of muscle and of fibrin into fat can scarcely be doubted, (Annals of Philosophy, xii. 41,) though the propriety of applying the term adipo- cere to such fatty matter may be questionable. The action of very dilute nitric acid upon some of the modifications of albumen is also attended by their conversion into an adipose substance. The chemical properties usually ascribed to adipocere are the following: it fuses at a tem- perature below 100°; it dissolves in boiling alcohol, and the greater portion is deposited as the solution cools; the action of ether resembles that of alcohol; it is saponified by the fixed alkalies, but not by ammonia. It would ap- pear, however, from Chevreul's experiments, that adipocere is not a mere modification of fat, or a simple product, but that it is a soap composed of margaric acid and ammonia. These combinations of adipose substances and their further chemical history will be given under the article Fat. Bibliography.—Fourcroy,Acad.Rle.des Sciences de Paris, 1787. Gibbes, Conversion of animal muscle into a substance resembling spermaceti. Phil. Trans. 1794. Conversion of animal sub- stances into fatty matter. Phil. Trail*;. 1795. Vide also'Annales de Chimie, t. v. 154 ; t. viii. 17—72 ; Crell's chemische Annalen for 1792 and 1794 ; and John's Tabcllen. 1. B. p. 35. ( W. T. Brunde.) * If a portion of the fatty degeneration of the liver he immersed for some time in water, it will furnish an excellent specimen of adipocere. The writer of this note had lately an opportunity of observing the process of the conversion of a large portion of liver into this subst ince. — R. B. T. ADIPOSE TISSUE.—fLat. Telaadiposa Fr. tissu adipeux, tissu graisseux, Germ, das Fttt, Ital. adipe. Many of the old anatomists, as Mondini, Berenger, Vesalius, and Spigelius, represent the fat (adeps vel pinguedo) of the animal body as entirely distinct from the membrana carnosa, or cellular membrane. The separate existence of a proper adipose membrane, however, si- tuate between the skin and the filamentous tissue, or membrana carnosa, was first taught by Malpighi, then distinctly maintained by De Bergen and Morgagni, and finally demon- strated by William Hunter. Collins, James Keill, and other anatomists adopted the views of Malpighi, and Haller was disposed latterly to imitate De Bergen and Morgagni, in assigning to the fat of the animal body a situation dis- tinct from that of the cellular membrane. And in this country the independent existence of the adipose membrane was recognized by Bromfield, John Hunter, and others. It was still, however, confounded with that of the filamentous tissue under the general name of cellular membrane, adipose mem- brane, and cellular fat, by Winslow, Dionis, Portal, Sabatier, Bichat, and Meckel, and described as a variety or modification of the cellular membrane; and Blumenbach considers it as a secretion into that membrane. Its dis- tinct existence from the cellular membrane was finally admitted by M. Beclard, and its anato- mical and physiological relations as well as its chemical properties have been since minutely investigated by M. Raspail. According to the dissections of De Bergen and Morgagni, the demonstrations of Hunter, and the observations of M. Beclard, the struc- ture of the adipose membrane consists of rounded packets or parcels (pelotons) separated from each other by furrows of various depth, of a figure irregularly ovoidal, or spheroidal, va- rying in diameter from a line to half an inch, according to the degree of obesity in the part submitted to examination. Each packet is composed of small spheroidal particles which may be easily separated by dissection, and which are said to consist of an assemblage of vesicular bags still more minute, aggregated together by very delicate filamentous tissue. These were originally described by Malpighi under the name of membranous sacadi, and by Morgagni under that of sacculi pinguedi- nosi. The appearance of these ultimate vesicular pouches is minutely described by Wolff" in the subcutaneous fat, and by Clopton Havers* and the first Monro in the marrow of bones, in which the two last authors compare them to strings of minute pearls. If the fat with which these vesicles are generally distended should disappear, as happens in dropsy, consumption, chronic dysentery, and other wasting diseases, the vesicular sacs collapse, their cavity is obli- terated, and they are confounded with the con- * Ostcologia Nova, Lond. 1691, and Obs. Nov. de Ossibus, Amst. 1731.