AVES. 287 bone of the pelvis which comes in con- tact with the vertebral column, and it ex- tends from the posterior dorsal vertebrae along the whole of the sacrum, to which it is early united by anchylosis. At its posterior extre- mity it is expanded laterally and becomes anchylosed with the ischium (c, Jig. 131) pos- terior to the ischiadic notch (e,Jig. 131) which is thus converted into a foramen. The ilium is of a considerable size, of an elongated form, expanded at its extremities and contracted in the middle ; the anterior expan- sion is concave externally, the posterior on the contrary convex. Besides being anchylosed with the ischium and sacrum, the spinous and transverse processes of one or two posterior dorsal vertebrae are commonly joined to it by bony union. In the Penguins, however, where the posterior extremities are ill adapted for supporting the body in progressive motion on land, the ilium appears at no time to be anchylosed with any part of the vertebral co- lumn. The os pubis f£, fig. 125, b b,Jig. 131J does not extend to meet its fellow on the mesial line, but is commonly directed backwards like a long bent styliform process (3, Jig. 134), adapted to allow a safe passage to the large and fragile eggs. In general it unites with the ischium so as to complete the obturator fora- men (f, Jig.\3l), behind which another fo- ramen is occasionally formed by a second union with the ischium, as is seen in the Hum- ming-bird ; while in other Birds, as the Stork, it is only united to the ischium at the cotyloid foramen, and the obturator hole communicates with a long fissure and is completed posteri- orly by ligament only. The cotyloid cavity for the head of the thigh-bone is always incomplete at its posterior or internal part, which is closed in the recent state by a strong aponeurosis. The ischium (c, Jig. 131) is a small elon- gated bone, slightly convex externally, ex- tending from the acetabulum backwards, pa- rallel with the ilium. In the Struthious Birds the pelvis is pro- portionally very long, but narrow ; the ossa innominata cover the whole of the sacrum, meeting and joining above that part like the roof of a dwelling. In the Rhea, or Ame- rican Ostrich, the ischiadic bones meet below the sacrum, where they are united for a con- siderable extent by a symphysis, so that the sacrum is closely surrounded, and in fact it3 place is almost supplied by the ossa inno- minata, for the development of the included vertebrae is in consequence so much impeded, that they can scarcely be detected at this part; beyond which, however, the coccygeal vertebrae suddenly resume their ordinary mag- nitude. This union of the ischia does not take place in the other Struthious birds; but the Ostrich presents the remarkable exception, among Birds, of the completion of the pelvic circle by the anchyloses of the pubic bones at their inferior extremities. The femur (Q,fig. 125, g,Jig. 131) is a short cylindrical bone, deviating from the straight line by a very slight anterior convexity. The head is a small hemisphere; joined, without the in- tervention of a neck, at a right angle, to the shaft of the bone : it presents at its upper part, a considerable depression for the attachment of the round ligament. The single large trochan- ter generally rises above the articular eminence, and is continuous with the outer side of the shaft. The orifice for the admission of air into the bone is situated anterior to this ca- vity. The femur is most readily characterised by the form of its lower extremity: this pre- sents as usual two condyles, the inner one cor- responding to the tibia, the outer one, which is the largest and the longest, resting both upon the tibia and fibula; upon this condyle a semi- circular rounded eminence is observed extend- ing from the front to the back part, and being lost in a depression at both extremities; the result of this structure is to put the external lateral ligament upon the stretch when the fibula is passing over the middle of the condyle, and that ligament, being elastic, pulls the fibula into the cavity in which the ridge termi- nates, with a jerk—whether the motion be that of flexion or extension, in either of which con- ditions the leg is by this structure the more firmly locked to the thigh. It has been denied that the spring-joint ever exists at the knee, and it is probable that all birds do not possess the requisite structure in the same perfection ; but a common indigenous species, the Water-hen, ( Gallinula Chloropus) affords a good example of the beautiful mechanism in question. The femur attains its greatest development in the Ostrich ; but in this species it is short in com- parison to the other bones of the leg, the length of which in the Stilt-bird and other Waders is attained solely by the elongation of the tibia and metatarsus. The tibia (i,Jig.\25,hh, flg.\3i) is the prin- cipal bone of the leg—the fibula (x.,Jig. 125, i, Jig. 131) appearing as a mere styliform process tapering to a point below, and anchylosed for a greater or less extent to the tibia. The tibia is of a triangular form, especially at its enlarged superior extremity, the articular surface of which is unequal, being flat internally, convex at the centre, and concave externally and in front. The inferior articular surface of the tibia forms a considerable transverse trochlea, above which anteriorly there is a deep depression. In ge- neral an osseous bridge extends transversely across this depression, converting it into a foramen through which the tendon of the Exten- sor communis digitorum passes. In the Divers, Grebes, Guillemots, and Albatrosses the middle and internal crests of the tibia unite superiorly and are extended up- wards into a long pointed process (k, Jig. 131) directed inwards and forwards, anterior to, but not supplying the place of, the patella, (I, Jig. 131) which will be always found as a distinct bone behind this process. The process is most developed in the genus Colymbus, and affords extensive attachments by way of insertion to the extensors of the tibia, and by way of origin to the extensors of the metatarsus; by means