792 DEATH. to the distribution of blood throughout the system, and the other parts may die from the want of this supply, their mechanism remain- ing entire. Or the injury, notwithstanding that the part may not be thus functionally es- sential to the circulation, may exert a no less certain operation, either indirectly by an im- pression made upon the central organs of in- nervation, and reflected upon those of circu- lation and respiration, or immediately by an impression upon the latter. (See the remarks upon Systemic Death.) The propagation of the dissolution will depend much upon the peculiar organization of the animal; but in all cases, as we have already intimated, text- ural death in one part has no immediate in- fluence in producing the same kind of death in other parts; the latter event will be found attributable to the impediment offered by the former to some important function of the whole system. The textural lesion which we have been considering may be caused either by mechanical violence, or by chemical action, such as that of corrosive substances and of heat. It is possible that solid tissue may un- dergo spontaneous decomposition, but we are unable to ascertain the fact, because in ulti- mate structure, where fluids and solids are so intimately intermixed, we have no means of distinguishing the priority of changes. Arrest of'the fluid of nutrition.—The access of this fluid is variously provided for in the different classes of animals. The capillary cir- culation in the higher species resembles that which suffices for the whole system in the lower species, inasmuch as the blood in the capillaries of a tissue bears the same relation to that tissue, as the water in the stomach of one of the Radiata to the whole animal. The consequences of abstracting the fluid in the one case, or of cutting off the supply of blood in the other by obstructing its vessels, will be pre- cisely analogous. The polype will desiccate, lose its proper form, and decay; the medusa will shrivel and putrefy; while in man the tissue dies, and is decomposed, as in senile gangrene, or in the sloughing of a hemorrhoid to which a ligature has been applied. Sup- pression of the action of the heart violates throughout the body the condition of vitality under discussion, and consequently all the tissues die, but the phenomena which they exhibit are not the same as in more partial obstruction of the circulation, because the chemical agencies are different, particularly that of surrounding heat. A gangrenous spot is under the influence of an atmosphere of 98° at the lowest; while the dead or dying organs of animals, which have been simultaneously deprived of their circulation, are submitted only to the temperature of the media in which they may chance to be placed. The higher this may be within certain limits, the more closely will the putrefactive changes resemble those of gangrene. It must be remembered, however, that in the latter case other chemical agents are probably presented in the fluids effused by those contiguous parts which still maintain their vitality. Dependence upon the circulation differs in different animals. The heart of a salamander may be excised, and yet the animal will live for several hours, or even a day or two after the operation ;* its possession of life being in- ferred from the exhibition, not merely of cer- tain organic actions, but even of those of rela- tion. It is plain, then, that in animals of this tribe, the brain and spinal marrow and other organs do not require so constant an inter- course with the blood as in certain other species ; and while we know with tolerable certainty that they do not need it for calorific purposes, it is not improbable that their textures are less frequently repaired than those of the warm- blooded classes. Dr. Edwards concludes that life in the above instance is maintained by the organs of innervation, whose function, as we have remarked, continues unimpaired. We should regard the integrity of their action rather as a sign than as a cause of continued vitality ; other signs being perceptible in the persistence of the capillary actions, for which the fluids still remaining in the tissues may be sufficient. Retention of fluid in the tissues.—Removal of the effete fluid is provided for in the Porifera by ejects; in the Polypifera by expulsion from the central cavity and by transpiration; in the Acalephffi by anal apertures; and in vascular animals by vessels especially appropriated to the purpose, by transpiration, and by various excretions. This condition of molecular life is less easily violated than those already spo- ken of, because the modes of fulfilling it are more numerous. This is equally true whether we speak of the simple animal forms, or of the tissues of the more complicated ; mortification is less frequently the result of venous than of arterial obstruction. Unquestionably turgescence and inflammation may ensue from the former, and may terminate in gangrene; but it is far more common for the part to be relieved by the excretion of various fluids, constituting haemorrhage and dropsy, until new channels are found for the returning blood. Hence it ap- pears that a redundance of fluid is less dan- gerous to organic structures than a deficiency. Depravation of the fluid of nutrition.—It is obvious that as the structures are elaborated either from the blood in the higher animals, or from the fluids corresponding to it in the in- ferior classes, the assimilative processes must be deranged and ultimately brought to a stop, if the liquids are wanting in the proper mate- rials. Their quality may be deteriorated in various modes; by imperfect respiration, by bad or scanty alimentation, and by insufficient or excessive excretion. Each of these causes is traced easily enough in the degenerated tex- tures of some animals, but with more difficulty in the simpler classes, because the functions just alluded to are not in the latter concen- trated within a space that admits of analysis so well as in the former. The effect of obstructed aeration of the blood however is soon mani- * Edwards, On the Influence of Physical Agents, &e. translated by Drs. Hodgkin and Fisher.