ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 235 likely that Mr. Turner's case of aneurism in the fore-arm, in which he secured both radial and ulnar arteries, was of a similar description also. 2. Where by an irregular distribution there exist two trunks in the limb, both con- veying blood to the aneurysmal tumour. Sir C. Bell had a case of popliteal aneurism in the Middlesex Hospital, in which, just below the origin of the profunda, the femoral artery divided into two branches of nearly equal size, which ran parallel to each other until they arrived at the spot where the artery perforates the tendon of the triceps muscle, and there they united again. Only one of these was tied, and although the pulsation in the tumour ceased for a moment, yet it soon returned, and never disappeared until the patient's death, which happened a few days afterwards, from erysipelas. A preparation of a similar distribution is pre- served in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Dublin;* and it is quite clear that where such exists in an aneurismatic limb, the securing of one of the trunks could produce no benefit. It has been already stated that one of the effects of the ligature on an artery is the eventual obliteration of the entire calibre of the vessel between it and the nearest collateral branch at each side, and, therefore, it might be supposed that if it be tied immediately close beyond an aneurismal sac in such wise that no branch shall intervene between the cord and it, the whole of the canal to the next branch, in- cluding the spot where the rupture had taken place, ought to become obliterated, and the aneurism thus be cured. This is the principle that led to the performance of the operation of tying the artery at the distal side of the aneu- rism. It was (1 believe) originally proposed by Delpech, and put in practice by Desault, but the termination of the case gave little en- couragement for future trials, and it fell into disuse until of late years, when it has again been tried in England, and still subsequently by Mott, in New York, but not with a success to justify its general adoption. There is but one artery in the body (the common carotid) so circumstanced as to answer the design of the operation ; and even in this, if the smallest and most trifling branch happened to intervene be- tween the aneurism and the ligature, it must defeat the principle of the operation altogether, and perhaps tend to aggravate the disease. True aneurism.—Two different pathological conditions of an artery have been regarded as constituting this disease; one in which the entire circumference of the vessel is distended, forming a tumour of an oval shape, pulsating strongly during life, and not containing coagu- lated blood : the other is where all the coats of an artery at one particular spot are dilated in such wise as to form a sac springing from the side of the vessel, and containing blood with- drawn from the circulation, and in a state of coagulation. Perhaps it would be more cor- rect to regard the former of these as a state of * There is a similar preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.-—Ed. vessel predisposing to the formation of a false aneurism, whilst the latter, presenting during life the same phenomena, and curable on the same principles that have been already laid down, must be considered as offering truly a specimen of the disease. When in consequence of arteritis, or from any other cause, the elasticity of the arterial structure becomes impaired or weakened, a dilatation of the vessel at the spot so debilitated ought to be the result; and this probably takes place in all arteries previous to the formation of idiopathic aneurism. But the circumstances that determine an artery to become dilated rather than to ulcerate are very obscure, for the same morbid appearances in the vessel are observed to precede both. In the eleventh number of the Dublin Journal of Medical Science there is an account of two cases of internal aneurism, one formed by ulceration of the internal and middle coats of the artery, which burst into the oesophagus; the other, evidently by dilatation, which destroyed the patient by pressure on the trachea: and in both the aorta exhibited the same appearances of inflammation and steatomatous deposit be- neath the lining membrane. The preparations are preserved in the collection of the school in Park-street, and as showing this pathological fact are extremely satisfactory. Again, it is not easy to say what dilatations should be con- sidered aneurismal or not. The aorta, in a great proportion of subjects above the age of forty, is dilated ; yet such dilatation is not regarded as an aneurism. Other arteries present a similar appearance occasionally; and a case occurred not very long since in the Meath Hospital, in which all the arteries of the inferior extremities in an aged man were dilated to more than twice their natural calibre. These vessels were found after death filled with coagulated blood, yet as the fluid seemed to circulate through them during life, and the patient never ex- perienced any inconvenience, it is difficult to admit them as specimens of true aneurism. On the other hand, nearly at the same time, a man died in another hospital who for years had a small aneurism of the femoral artery, with every observable symptom of the disease except that the growth of the tumour was un- usually slow; and on dissection this appeared to have been a species of true aneurism, caused by an equal dilatation of the entire circum- ference of the vessel, and did not contain coa- gulated blood. It would seem, then, impos- sible to pronounce during life on the real nature of an aneurismal tumour, nor is it always easy to demonstrate it after death. In most instances of aneurism, particularly those of long standing, the edges of the aperture into the sac are smooth and even, and the lining membrane seems to be prolonged into it. The internal wall of the sac is so thickened, and all the parts so matted together and confused by depositions of lymph and fibrine, that the appearances altogether become so deceptive as almost to countenance the old opinion as to the pathology of the disease. Professor Scarpa, who principally opposed the doctrine of aneu-