766 CRUSTACEA. Cephah-thoracic por- 5 presented by the ganglia, strictly speaking, are united into a single mass of a greatly elon- gated form, and presenting a little way back, like the fourth ganglion of the Palemon, a cleft for the trans- mission of the sternal artery. The transition Fig. 394. from the Deca- _ tt M poda Macroura to the Brachyura takes place by the Homola, and certain Anomou- ra,* in which the constantly in- creasing concen- tration of the thoracic nervous centres coincides with the almost rudimentary state of the abdominal ganglionic sys- tem, which is here reduced to a kind of median trunk without en- largements. This, too, is the disposition tion of the nervous si/stem of the Pali- nervous system nurus Vulgaris. in the Carcinus mcenas among the Brachyura, with this difference only, that the medullary nuclei are rather closer to one another, and more intimately connected.f The tho- racic ganglion has the form of a ring, the cir- cumference of which gives origin to the nerves of the thoracic appendages. The single abdomi- nal cord is in its rudimentary state, in obvious relation with the abdomen itself, and therefore reduced to very insignificant dimensions. It is in the Maja,t in fine (fig. 395), that the nervous system is found in its highest degree of centralization; for the elements of which the two masses there encountered are composed, are so intimately conjoined, that no trace can be found of their ever having existed indepen- dently, although among neighbouring geneia several of them may still be discovered isolated- ly. The cephalic ganglion (a) is a sufficiently faithful counterpart of that of the Lobster. The nervous cords (g) which connect this first portion of the system with the thoracic portion also present the same arrangement as in the Lob- ster ; there are similar mandibular nerves, a like gastric pair, the same transverse band (g)behind the oesophagus, &c. But the thoracic ganglion (I), instead of the ring which it presents in the * Vide Rech. sur l'organiz. et la classific. des Crustaces Decapodes par M. Milne Edwards ; An- nales des Sciences Naturelles, t. xv. t Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee, t. ii. p. 314. } Audouin et Edwards, loc. cit. Fig. 395: Nervous system of the Slaja Squinado. a, cephalic ganglion ; b, optic nerves; c, oculo- motor nerves; d, nerves of the antennulae; e, fourth pair of nerves belonging to the integuments; /, nerves of the exterior antennae; g, medullary cords uniting the cephalic and thoracic ganglions ; g', transverse cord; h, mandibular ganglion ; h', small nerve belonging to the muscles of the mandible; i, stomato-gastric nerve ; k, lateral branches of the stomato-gastric nerves; I, tho- racic ganglion ; in, nerves of the maxillae; n, nerves of the first pair of legs ; o, abdominal nerve; p, cells of the (lanes ; q, arch of the flancs. Carcinus moenas, here appears as a solid circu- lar and flattened nucleus giving origin to the whole of the nerves of the thorax and abdo- men, which radiate from it to the number of nine pairs, and one azygous nerve situated in the median plane. There is nothing very remarkable in the distribution of these nerves, unless it be that several pairs,and amongthe number the first and second, are distributed simultaneously to several rings, which proclaims that in the species which engages us the work of con- centration has extended from the ganglions to the nervous cords. Any farther detail in addition to what has now been said would contribute little to our essential knowledge of the nervous system. We have traced it from its commencement in