AVES. 348 trunks to the branches, are seen to become con- joined in pyramids, which adhere to the branches of the ureter, are sent out in the gyri of the lobules, and are outspread in a pinnatiiid figure on the surface, one next another, and ultimately terminate in blind, rounded, but not dilated extremities. The branches from the convoluted lobules unite dichotomously, and ultimately escape by a single duct—the ureter. The arteries and veins of the kidneys have already been described ; a difference of opinion, however, prevails as to the course of the blood in the veins which pass from the lower end of the kidneys (at v,jig. 171) to the hypogastric vein (z). Jacobson considers that the venous blood is carried into the kidney by these veins, for the purpose of affording the material for the urinary secretion, analogous to the portal vein in the liver; but Cuvier regards these veins as having the same function as those which come from the upper ends of the kidneys, and that they return the blood from the lower ends of the kidneys to aid in the formation of the portal vein. Nicolai* also opposes the doctrine of a venous circulation in the kidneys of Birds. In favour of Jacobson's theory is the small size of the renal arteries, in consequence of which the kidneys are not more coloured than the liver, when the arterial system is in- jected from the aorta, and the disproportionate size of the veins, together with the analogy of the cold-blooded ovipara, in which the exist- ence of a secreting system of veins in the kid- neys is now generally admitted. The ureter (y,fig. 163, 182; h, h,fig. 176) has the same structure as in the mammalia. It is continued down along the anterior surface of the kidney towards the mesial side ; here and there imbedded in its substance, forming a series of dilatations corresponding to the prin- cipal lobes or enlargements of the gland, and receiving the branches of the tubuli uriniferi as it passes along. But these slight reservoirs do not present any parts corresponding to the mammillae and their infundibula of mam- malia. Below the kidney the ureters pass be- hind the rectum, becoming connected to, and after a short distance involved in its coats; they ultimately terminate upon valvular emi- nences, in a depression at the lower part of the urinary sac; the terminal papillae of the ureters are situated with the orifices of the genital ducts, in the same segment of the cloaca, which is therefore termed the urethro-sexual cavity (e,fig. 176). The space intervening between the urethro- sexual cavity and the valvular termination of the rectum (c, fig. 176) forms a cavity more or less developed in different birds, but always distinct in the smoothness of its lining mem- brane from the rectum, which has a more vas- cular and villous internal tunic. The birds in which this rudimental urinary bladder presents the largest capacity are the Owls, many of the aquatic birds, as the Pelecan, Willock, Grebe, Swan, he.; some of the Wading Order, as the * Oken's Isis, 1826, p. 414. Bittern and Bustard, but more especially the Ostrich, among the Cursorcs, in which the urinary receptacle is represented as laid open (dJg.WG). Fig. 176. The Supra-renal Glands, Renal capsules, Glandules succcnturiatm (d, d, Jig. 182) are small bodies, usually of a bright yellow colour, situated on the mesial or inner side of the su- perior extremities of the kidneys; closely at- tached to the coats of the contiguous large veins and in contact with the testes in the male; and the left one adhering- to the ovary in the female. They vary in shape, being sometimes of a round, flattened, oval, or irregularly triangular figure. They are proportionally smaller than in mammalia, being in the Goose each about the size of a pea. They present, like the kidneys, a homoge- neous texture throughout, and do not exhibit the alternate strata of different-coloured sub- stances as in mammalia. In the Gigantic Crane we found the texture of the supra-renal glands to be coarsely fibrous; in the Hornbill they were granular, similar to the kidney; in the Pelecan they were of a granular but more pulpy texture. There is no cavity in the supra-renal glands. The veins which return the blood from them are of proportionally large size, as in all the parenchymatous bodies without excretory ducts. The supra-renal glands have been found to present a slight enlargement corresponding with the increased development of the sexual organs; and it has been conjectured that their function is related to that of the generative system. Thyroid Glands. In many birds, as the Vultures, Falcons, Starling, Magpie, Heron, Bustard, and in most Aquatic birds, two glands are found, one on each side of the trachea, very near the lower larynx and frequently attached to the jugular veins. They are regarded as the analogues of the thyroid glands. In addition to these there are two small glands, in the Gan- net, attached to the upper part of the commence- ment of each bronchus. * From Mcmoires flu Museum, lom. xv. pl.2,^<jr. 1.