CETACEA. 569 ness and thinness, principally in those at- tached to the atlas and the axis, are extreme; and although those which proceed from the other cervical vertebra may be better charac- terized, their action, nevertheless, is not much more extensive. The muscles of the back present no other important modifications than their great deve- lopment and their prolongation even upon the coccygeal vertebrae. Thus the longissimus dorsi and the sacro-lumbalis are attached anteriorly to the skull, and posteriorly transmit their ten- dons, the first to the end of the tail, the second to all the transverse processes of this part of the spine, associating in this way the move- ments of the back with those of the tail. As to the muscles peculiar to the tail, besides those which belong to this organ in all Mammals where it exists as a moveable organ, there are besides, in the Cetaceans, 1st, the antagonists of the sucro-lumbalis below the transverse pro- cesses ; 2nd, a levator Cauda, which takes its rise above the five or six dorsal vertebra?, under the longissimus dorsi, and often in this part blends with it; it then extends freely as far as the extremity of the tail, where the two muscles unite together again by their tendons; 3rd, a depressor cauda, of great thickness, which pro- ceeds from the pectoral region, and spreads its tendinous processes upon the ribs, distributes them laterally to the transverse processes, and •below to be inserted into the chevron bones along the two posterior thirds of the tail; 4th, a muscle which comes from the rudimental bones of the pelvis, and is inserted into the chevron bones of the anterior portion of the tail; 5th, the great recti muscles and the obliqui ascen- dentes, which, proceeding from the abdomen, attach themselves behind to the sides of the base of the tail. It is in consequence of this great aggre- gation of muscles, which are developed in unexampled proportions as compared with other Mammals, that the tail of the Cetaceans acquires the prodigious strength which it pos- sesses, and by means of which these gigantic animals propel themselves with so much faci- lity and impetuosity through the water, and so readily ascend to the surface to respire, and again seek protection in the deep abysses of the ocean. The sternum (q,fig. 246) is short and large. In the Dugong it is composed of five pieces ; in the Dolphin, the Porpesse, and the Pla- tanist, it is generally composed of only three; in the Whales it consists of but one. In the subjoined figure (fig. 254) from the Bala- noptera Boops, the Fig. 254. sternum is deeply notched behind, and has a large ridge on its exterior or under surface. The ribs of the Cetaceansarechiefly remarkable for their great curvature, but differ in their rela- tive length, thickness, and mode of connection. vol. r. Their thickness and the density of their tex- ture is most remarkable in the Herbivorous species, especially in the Manatee. In the Dugong, which has eighteen pairs of ribs (r, r, fig. 246), only the first three have car- tilages which join the sternum. In the Del- phinida the first pair of ribs are articulated at their sternal extremities to the anterior angles of the first bone of the sternum ; the second pair join the sternum between the first and second bones; the third between the second and third, and the fourth, fifth, and in some species the sixth pairs of ribs are joined to the third bone of the sternum; the sternal portions of these ribs are ossified. The anterior ribs are articulated at first by a head to the ver- tebral centres, and by a tubercle to the trans- verse processes ; but as they extend backwards the head disappears, and the ribs are attached only to the extremities of the transverse pro- cesses. In the Bulanida the first pair of ribs are remarkable for their great breadth, especially at the sternal extremity, and these alone join the sternum. In the Balana Capensis the two first, as well as the four last pairs of ribs, are joined only to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The depressors and elevators of the ribs ap- pear to possess nothing particular, and the same may be said of the diaphragm and the muscles of the abdomen ; but in regard to the movements of these parts, we must remember what M. Mayer says of the muscular fibres, which encircle closely the lungs, and which take part in the actions of inspiration and expiration. [Mr. Hunter observes that, " as the ribs in this tribe do not completely form the cavity of the thorax, the diaphragm has not the same attachments as in the Quadruped, but is con- nected forwards to the abdominal muscles, which are very strong, being a mixture of muscular and tendinous parts. The position of the diaphragm is less transverse than in the Quadruped, passing more obliquely back- ward and coming very low on the spine, and high up before, which makes the chest longest in the direction of the animal at the back, and gives room for the lungs to be con- tinued along the spine."] The anterior members in the Cetaceans do not essentially differ from those of the other Mammalia, but they undergo, in these animals, very great modifications. In the shoulder they are entirely devoid of clavicles. Their scapula is very large in general, but varies in this respect according to the species. In the Herbivorous Cetaceans, as the Dugong (s, fig. 246), the anterior angle is rounded, the posterior is extended backwards, and the posterior margin or costa is concave. The spine is prominent, and so placed as to divide the dorsum of the scapula into a supra-spinal and infra-spinal depression. The acromion is pointed, but much less elongated in the Dugong than in the Manatee. The coracoid process is also more pointed in the Dugong. 2 p