90 AMPHIBIA. men and calomel. Nitrate of silver, muriate of gold, and of platinum, also precipitate albumi- nous solutions. These precipitates are mostly triple compounds of acid, albumen, and oxide, and several of them are redissoluble in excess of liquid albumen. Albumen is precipitated by tannin in the form of a yellow viscid combination. Water, holding a thousandth part of solid or a two- hundredth of liquid ovalbumen, becomes tur- bid after some hours by the addition of a solution of galls containing 2.5 per cent, of solid matter. (Bostock.) The above are the principal chemical pro- perties of liquid and solid albumen as obtained from the egg and from serum of blood ; several of their modifications will be noticed under other heads, such as Fibrine, Milk, Bile, &c. The cause of the coagulation of albumen is, in many cases, obscure and even inexplicable. It ap- pears possible that the acids by which it is co- agulated enter into combination with it so as to form insoluble compounds; the same change pro- bably happens with certain metallic salts, and with tan; its coagulation by alcohol has been ascribed to the abstraction of water. Having remarked the copious coagulation of albumen at the electro-negative pole in the voltaic cir- cuit, I was induced to ascribe the fluidity of albumen to combined soda, the evolution of which seemed to cause its solidification, and it appeared possible that the acids and even alcohol might also occasion coagulation by the abstraction of soda; and that its more enigma- tical coagulation by heat only, might be as- scribed to the transfer of soda from the albu- men to the water. It has been objected to this statement that the addition of alcali to coagulated albumen does not reproduce liquid albumen, and that acetic acid causes no co- agulation ; but when albumen is once coagu- lated, its properties are essentially modified, and acetic acid, or even acetate of soda appear to form soluble compounds with it. (Gmelin.) Dr. Turner* supposes that albumen combines directly with water at the moment of being secreted, at a time when its particles are in a state of minute division ; but as its affinity for that liquid is very feeble, the compound is decomposed by slight causes, and the albumen thereby rendered quite insoluble. The or- ganization of albumen may certainly be con- cerned in its singular properties with respect to many coagulants : there are several albuminous fluids, which we shall hereafter refer to, which contain globules resembling those of the blood. In the voltaic coagulation of albumen, that which separates at the positive pole contains globules, which, under the microscope, resem- ble the blood-globules deprived of their co- louring matter.f The readiest tests of the presence of albumen in fluids are its coagulation by heat, alcohol, * Elements of Chemistry, 4th ed. 868. + Provost et Dumas, Ann. de Chiinie et Physique xxiii. 52. and acids; when it is too dilute for such detection, it may be subjected to voltaic elec- tricity, or tested by corrosive sublimate, or by ferrocyanate of potassa; the alcali should, in the latter case, be previously neutralized by acetic acid. It would appear, from Orfila's experiments, that white of egg is an antidote to the effects of corrosive sublimate when taken into the stomach, and that, if administered in sufficient quantity immediately after the recep- tion of the poison, it prevents the progress of the symptoms. The white of one egg appeared sufficient to render four grains of the poison ineffective. The readiness with which some metallic oxides are received into the system may per- haps be ascribed to their affinity for albumen, with which some of them form compounds not easily decomposable, and in which the metallic oxide cannot be detected by the usual tests, till they have been subjected to heat sufficient to decompose the organic matter. Mercury and silver are thus, in certain cases, detected in the secretions and excretions. (W. T. Brande.) AMPHIBIA.—(AfipK, utrinque, /3io;, vita. Fr. Amphibies. Germ. Amphibien. Ital. Amphibie.) A class of vertebrated animals, hitherto almost universally considered as an order of Reptilia, constituting the Butrachia of the later erpetologists. To the retention of the latter appellation, as derived from the Greek name of a single form of the group, and as bearing no reference to any character either of structure or of habit, there is an obvious objection. The term Amphibia is therefore here adopted, as designating one of the most striking peculiarities of the class; namely, the change which takes place at an epoch of their life, more or less advanced, from an aquatic respiration by branchiee to an atmospheric respiration by true lungs, and an equivalent and consequent alteration in their general structure and mode of life. The Amphibia may be characterized as " vertebrated animals, with cold blood, naked skin, oviparous reproduction, and most of them undergoing a metamorphosis or change of con- dition, having relation to a transition from an aquatic to an atmospheric medium of respi- ration." These characters, by many of which the am- phibia are distinguished from the reptilia, are sufficiently determinate and important to justify our considering them as a distinct class, ac- cording to the generally received principles of zoological arrangement; notwithstanding most even of the modern writers on the subject have retained them as merely an order of reptilia. But it will also be seen that if in the adult state they approach the reptilia in many points of their general structure, their organization, during the early and imperfect condition of the tad- pole, partakes no less of that of fishes. As an osculant or intermediate form, connecting two others of higher typical importance, it may be, certainly of greater extent, and consisting