f87 CYST. in this state till the fourteenth day, when a small projection makes its appearance from the hinder part of the body; on the twenty-second day it acquires a third pair of extremities, and on the twenty-eighth day it changes the tegu- mentary covering of its body.* Several Edrioph- thalmians are also born before they have ac- quired the whole of their extremities ; but we know of no instance of the appearance of one or more pairs of extremities after exclusion from the ovum among the superior Crustaceans. The changes of form which take place in parts already existing, and which depend on the unequal rates of increase with which the different parts" of the animal approach their final state of development, are often very con- siderable, and commonly tend to occasion peculiarities of conformation in the adult, which distinguish it from allied species, and imprint upon it the character proper to the tribe, genus, species, and even sex to which it belongs. These implicate one part in one, another in another; here it is the thorax which grows more rapidly than the abdomen and greatly preponderates; there it is the abdomen which, smaller at first than the thorax, increases in dimensions, and finally exceeds it in size : in other instances, again, the phenomenon of extraordinary growth is displayed in certain extremities, or even in certain articulations of these extremities, which follow differences in the proportions of the body and in the forms of its different parts. These differences contribute in general to in- crease the dissimilarity which already exists between the different segments of the body, and may therefore be regarded as a sequence in the general tendency of these animals to become more complicated in their structure in propor- tion as they rise in the series to which they belong, or in the course they have to run in order to attain their perfect state. To conclude: the modifications depending on the atrophy and the disappearance of certain parts with which the embryo is provided, tend also to individualize in a greater and greater degree the animals which experience them. As an instance of this phenomenon we may quote the disappearance of the eyes in certain llaustellate and certain Edriophthalmian Crus- taceans, and that of the greater number of the extremities in a great many of the Lernea^. The Dromise, among the Decapod anomoura, have also presented us with an instance of changes, analogous in their nature and in their consequences; for among tjje young animals the abdomen terminates in a caudal, fan- shaped fin, as among all the Macroura and a great many of the Anomoura; but with the advance of age, the lateral laminas of this organ disappear, and the abdomen then termi- nates very nearly as it does in the Brachyura. It is among the Crustacea which are born in the most imperfect state, and which conse- quently have the greatest number of changes to undergo, that the young animals bear the greatest resemblance to one another. The anomalies of conformation encountered among * Jurinc, Histoire rtes Monocles. these Crustacea do not in general show them- selves till the latter periods of their growth. The length of this article (already, perhaps, too great) does not allow of our pausing longer on this subject, and we shall only add that the evolution of the Crustacea is one of the points in the history of these animals which appears to promise the most interesting and important series of facts to whoever will devote himself to the comparative and extended investigation of the subject.* BIBLIOGRAPHY.—Besides the references at the bottoms of the preceding columns, see Suckow, Anat. physikalisch Dntersuchung ueber Insekten and Crus- tenthiere, 4to. Hcidelb. 1818. Fortius, De cancri fiuviatilis partibus genitalibus, Miscel. Acad. Natur. Curios. Dec. 2, An l(j87, p. 48. Geseeke, De cancri astaci qnibusdam partibus, 4to. Gotting. 1817. Kohler, Obs. nonnnlas anatomicas, &c. et in systema vacorum cancri astaci, 8vo. Tubing. 1811. Herbst, Naturgeschte der Krabben und Krebse, 3 Th. 4to. Berl. 1782-1800. MuUer, En- tomostraca seu insecta testacea, &c. 4to. Kopenh. 1785. Ramdohr, Jieytrage zur Naturgescbichte einiger deutschen Monoculusarten, 8vo. Halle, 1805. Hunter, Catalogue of the Hunterian Col- lection in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons—Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, 4to. 1831-5. (H. Milne Edwards.) CYST. Kystus, (kuo-tk, bladder). Certain membranous investments, of various forms, though commonly spheroidal, being shut sacs, and developed in the midst of other tissues, have obtained the name of cysts. Up to the present moment the study of cysts is so little advanced that we can scarcely dis- cover any researches which would appear to be founded upon the observation of nature. Whilst so much attention has been devoted to the in- vestigation of many departments of patholo- gical anatomy, it is difficult to understand why this very interesting subject has been compara- tively neglected. The singularity of the cir- cumstance is not lessened by the reflection that the rules of therapeutics ought to vary with the character of these sacs, and that, consequently, the anatomical study is of first-rate importance in enabling us to proceed rationally in the treat- ment of these extraordinary products of the ani- mal economy. In describing these organs, two modes have commonly been employed ; the one, to con- sider them with reference to the product they contain ; the other, with reference to their pro- per structure. It is not our intention to adopt either of these methods of considering the sub- ject, and for the following reasons:—it is de- monstrable that cysts which are identical in texture frequently envelope totally different products, and also that the products and the cysts are susceptible of transformation to an almost indefinite extent; and as neither method * See on this subject the observations of Rathke already quoted ; those of Thompson, " the Meta- morphoses of the Crustacea;" our own " Ke- cherches sur les changemens de forme que les Crustacea stibissent dans le jeune age." (Annalc s des Sciences Naturelles, torn. xxx. and 2ue serie, torn. iii.) and the inquiries of Nordmanu in his Mikrographische Beitr'age, &c. 2tes Heft.