ABDOMEN. 11 joint (from which as well as from the ramus of the pubis it is separated by a bursa) over the head and along the inner side of the neck of the femur, and is inserted into the posterior part of the trochanter minor at its base, being separated by a small bursa from the surface of that process. As the tendon is passing over the ramus of the pubis, it receives by its outer margin a series of fibres from the iliacus in- ternus muscle. At its superior portion the psoas muscle is covered by a thin fibrous ex- pansion, which is attached on the one hand to the apices of the transverse processes, and on the other to the bodies of the upper lumbar vertebra1 ; this expansion, the arcus interior of Senac and Haller,* also called ligamentum arcuatum, separates the psoas from the dia- phragm. Below this the psoas muscle is covered with a lax, and in some degree fatty cellular tissue, which separates the muscle from the kidney externally, and from the peritoneum and ureter within, excepting where the psoas parvus covers it, and on the right side where the vena cava lies upon it. Along its internal margin are the lumbar portion of the sympathetic, the crura of the diaphragm, more especially on the left side, and on this side too the aorta ap- proaches a little its internal margin. The common and external iliac arteries and veins lie along the internal margin of the pelvic portion of the muscle, which is covered by the fascia iliaca. The several branches of the lumbar plexus issue from this muscle at its external margin, and the genito-crural nerve descends in front of it interiorly. We refer to the article on the muscles of the thigh for a further account of this muscle, its relations in the upper part of the thigh, and its actions. Psoas parvus, (prelombo-pubien). This muscle is similar to the psoas magnus in course and position. It is very much elongated, its fleshy portion being small and tapering. Su- periorly it is attached to the body of the first lumbar vertebra, and to the intervertebral sub- stance between it and the last dorsal, and sometimes to the body of the last dorsal ver- tebra. The fleshy belly soon ends in a flattened tendon, which descends obliquely downwards and outwards over the anterior surface of the psoas magnus, and at its inferior extremity ex- pands considerably, and is inserted along the linea ilio-pectinea near the junction of the ilium and pubis. An expansion from the margins of this tendon becomes united on the outside to the fascia iliaca, and on the inside to the internal portion of the same fascia which covers the great psoas, and passes beneath the iliac vessels to become united at the brim of the pelvis to the pelvic fascia. We must not omit to state that the crura of the diaphragm, as they descend over the bodies of the lumbar vertebra;, (see Diaphragm,) may be regarded as entering into the formation of the posterior wall of the abdomen. The inferior wall of the abdomen is not devoid of muscle, although those muscles can exercise very little, if * Vid. Haller Icon. Scpti Transvcrsi. Op. Minora, torn. 1. any influence upon the contents of the cavity. The iliac fossa affords a large surface for the attachment of one of the principal muscles connecting the thigh with the trunk. This muscle is named Iliacus internus, (iliaco-trochanterien.) This muscle fills up the iliac fossa, to the whole of whose concavity as well as to its margin, and the two anterior spinous processes of the ilium and the interval between them, its fibres are attached. From these several points of origin the fibres converge to form a thick and broad belly, which passes over the upper part of the acetabulum and horizontal ramus of the pubis, filling up the external portion of the space between that bone and Poupart's ligament; and it is inserted, as we have already observed, into the outer margin of the tendon of the psoas magnus, which is for that reason gene- rally described as the common tendon of the psoas and iliacus. The anterior surface of this muscle is traversed by two of the external branches of the lumbar plexus (inguino-cuta- neous), and the anterior crural nerve passes between its internal margin and the psoas magnus. The superior wall of the abdomen is entirely formed by the muscular vault of the diaphragm, which by its contraction and relaxation exer- cises a considerable influence on the abdominal contents,and causes very obvious changes in the form of the cavity. The concavity of this vault is towards the abdomen, and is greater on the right side than on the left, in consequence, as it is said, of the presence of the liver on that side. It is through the several openings in this wall that a communication is established be- tween the thorax and abdomen. The largest of these openings are, that on the right side, which is completely tendinous, for the passage of the vena cava; the opening for the oeso- phagus ; and that for the aorta; in addition to these there is a small one behind the centre of the xiphoid appendix formed by a divarication of the anterior fibres of the dia- phragm, through which the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum communicates with the abdominal subserous tissue. There are, moreover, openings for the transmission of the splanchnic nerves, and the continued trunks of the sympathetics, as well as of branches of the phrenic arteries and nerves, and the abdominal branches of the internal mammary. The par- ticular description of this muscle will be given under the article Diaphragm. 4. The next element which enters into the formation of the abdominal parietes is a fibro- cellular expansion, which, varying in density in different situations, lines the whole internal surface of the muscular walls. It is strongest and exhibits most of the real fibrous character in the iliac region on the anterior wall, and over the iliac fossa in the inferior. In the former situation it has received the name of fascia transversalis, which was applied to it by Sir A. Cooper in consequence of its close con- nexion with the transversalis muscle : in the latter, it is called the fascia iliaca, from its connexion with the iliac fossa and muscle.