308 AVES. acini of the cells proceed. In the Albatross and Penguin we have traced two or three distinct ducts leading from this gland to the nose. Organ of Hearing.-—The structure of the organs of hearing in Birds resembles most closely thaf-dn the higher Reptiles, especially the Crocodile. There is no concha, or projecting Fig. 141. Organ of hearing. Owl. auricle in this class, for collecting and con- densing the rays of sound; but to compen- sate for this deficiency, the labyrinth, and especially the semicircular canals, are of large size in proportion to the cranium. In those Birds, however, which enjoy the locomotive or visual faculties in a less perfect degree than in the rest of the class, there is found a peculiar arrangement of the feathers around the external meatus auditorius, which serves in some degree the office of an external ear. The Ostrich and Bustard (d,jig. 155) are so provided, and these birds can raise the auditory circle of plumes to catch distinctly any distant sound that may alarm them. The Owls, again, are furnished with a large crescentic mem- branous flap, or valve; and the membrana tympani is situated at the bottom of a cavity {a, jig. 141), the lining membrane of which is disposed in folds analogous to those of the human auricle. The opercular flap is largely developed in our common Barn-owl (Strix flammed). This species is also remarkable in having the membrana. tympani attached ex- clusively to the bony meatus (b,fig. 141), and not to the tympanic bone or os quadratum. The bony framework of the membrana tym- pani is sunk below the surface of the head, and rarely projects so far from the tympanum as to deserve the name of a meatus or canal: it is deficient anteriorly, where it is bounded by the tympanic bone, to which, with the ex- ception above mentioned, the membrana tym- pani is attached for a greater or less extent of its anterior circumference. The drum of the ear (c, fig. 141) is more or less of an oval shape; it has the same structure as in Mammals, but is extremely delicate; it is convex, externally, as in the Reptiles, not concave, as in most Mammals. The cavity of the tympanum is widest at its outer part, and very irregular in the rest of its extent. It communicates by the usual fora- mina with the internal ear, and is connected with the fauces by means of the Eustachian tube. It also communicates by three other apertures with the cells of the bones of the cranium. " These," Macartney observes, " are widened into something like canals, where the holes open into them. The largest of the foramina is in the back of the tympa- num, and leads to the posterior cells, and communicates above the foramen magnum with the cellular canal of the other side. The second opening is placed at the anterior part of the tympanum, and conducts to the cells on the lower and anterior part of the cranium. The third foramen is continued amongst the cells which surround the labyrinth. Thus each tympanum has a communication with the interior of all parts of the cranium, and with each other, from which they might be reckoned as making only one cavity. The end of the tympanic bone, also, where it contributes to form the parietes of the tym- panum, has a foramen by which it derives its supply of air. The auditory cells of the cra- nium of birds are analogous to the mastoid of the human subject; but from their extent they multiply sound much more. They are of the greatest magnitude in the nocturnal birds of prey; the Night-jar ( Caprimulgus) has them also very large : they diminish in size in other birds, in which the posterior canals have no direct communication with each other; they are little observable in the Struthious Birds, and are wanting in the Parrots, but in their place the cavity of the tympanum is enlarged posteriorly.'' The Eustachian tube (e, e, fig. 141) is very large in birds; it is an osseous canal, and ter- minates by a small aperture close to the one of the other side, within the fissure of the posterior nares. In the Swan the Eustachian passages, after having reached the base of the skull, pass forwards for about half an inch and then unite to form one common tube, which gradually expands until it termi- nates just behind the posterior apertures of the nose. The foramina, which lead from the tym- panum into the labyrinth, are situated within a fossa. They do not merit the distinctions of foramen ovale and foramen rotundum, being both oval, and only separated by a small bony process. The ossicula auditus are supplied by a sin- gle bone, analogous to the stapes, and some cartilaginous processes representing the rudi- ments of a malleus and incus. The ossiculum consists of a stalk or pedicle, crowned by an oval plate, which is applied to the foramen that leads into the vestibule of the labyrinth. At the other extremity it is united to two or three cartilaginous processes, which form a tri- angle that is attached to the membrana tym- pani. The elongated stapes, or tympanic ossicle, is moved by one muscle (jf, fig- 141), which comes from the occiput and penetrating the cavity, is affixed to the triangle that is con- nected to the membrana tympani. This muscle,