286 AVES. the humerus presents a notable process at the pronation ; all power of flexion, extension, or of outer side, near its lower extremity; and in rotation, is removed from the wrist-joint, so that the Puffin (Fratercula arctica) an ossiculum the wing strikes firmly, and with the full force of is moveably articulated to this process. the contraction of the depressor muscles, upon Another ossiculum may here be noticed, al- the resisting air. though it belongs rather to the ulna, being The metacarpus is principally formed of two essentially the separated olecranon of that bone, bones, anchylosed together at both extremities This detached sesamoid bone is found attached (r, r, jig. 130) ; of these, the one which cor- (like the patella of the knee-joint) to the capsular responds to the radius is always the largest, ligament and the tendons of the extensor mus- and supports the finger which has the greatest cles, in many of the Raptores, and in the Swifts, number of phalanges: a third small rudi- In the Penguins it is double (n, n, fig. 130.) mental bone is in most birds found an- Of the two bones of the antibrachium chylosed to the outer-side of its proximal (y, jig. 125) the ulnar (o, fig. 130) is always extremity, and this supports the single phalanx the strongest, and especially so in the Stru- of what is usually called the thumb. The thiones: both this and the radius (p,fig- 130) longest or radial finger is generally composed are in general slender and straight bones, of two phalanges (s, s, Jig. 130) of moderate slightly enlarged at their extremities, placed length ; to which, in some birds, a third smaller not by the side of, but one in front of the other, phalanx is added. The ulnar finger consists of and so articulated together, and with the hu- a single phalanx only (t,fig. 130). These are merus, as to admit of scarcely any degree of strongly bound together by ligaments and in- pronation or supination, which, as Meckel tegument, so that the wing loses nothing of its justly remarks, adds to that firmness and resist- force, while it preserves in these separated ing power in the anterior member which are bones its analogy with the anterior extremities so necessary during the actions of flight. In in the other vertebrated classes. In Zoology the Penguins, the bones of the fore-arm present the large feathers that are attached to the ulnar the same modifications as the humerus in re- side of the hand, are termed Primaria or pri- lation to the corresponding action in the denser mary feathers; those which are attached to the element, or that of swimming: they are flat- fore-arm Secundaria, or secundaries, and Tec- tened, and are articulated with the anterior trices, or wing-coverts; those which lie over edge, and not the extremity of the humerus. the humerus are called Scapularia, or scapu- The bones of the hand are extended in laries; and those which are attached to the length, but restricted in lateral development, thumb, Spuria, or bastard feathers. In some The carpus consists of two bones only, (q, fig. birds the wing is armed with a spur attached 130,) so wedged in between the antibrachium to a phalanx at the radial side of the so-called and metacarpus, as to limit the motions of the thumb, which, as Nitzsch observes, would hand to those of abduction and adduction therefore seem analogous to the index finger, necessary for the folding up and expansion of The bones of the leg or posterior extremity the wing; the hand is thus fixed in a state of (jig. 131) do not exactly correspond, in their divisions or principal lig. 131. groups, to those of the wing, the segment corre- sponding to the carpus being invariably blended with the one that suc- ceeds. The pelvic bones present a remarkable contrast to those of the shoulder, being always anchylosed on either side into one piece, but being with one exception j never joined in the mesial line, while this is the only place where the elements of the scapular apparatus are in general united by bone. In the young bird the os innominatum is seen to be formed by the usual three bones, viz. the ilium, ischium, and pubis, corre- sponding respectively to the scapula, coracoid, and clavicle, of the anterior extremity. The ilium (I jig. 125, Pelvis and bones of the ley of the Diver, or Loon.— Colymbus glacialis. a, jig. 131.) is the only