AVES. 280 from below upwards and forwards; it is sepa- rated from the upper and lateral regions by a well developed, sharp,lambdoidal crest; and it is divided into two lateral moieties by a slight longitudinal ridge. The temporal fossae are deeper and wider than in any of the preceding orders; and they now extend upwards, as in many of the carnivorous mammalia, to the sa- gittal line, along which an osseous crest is developed to extend the surface of attachment of the temporal muscles. The cranium is ex- panded, anteriorly to the above fossae, as if to allow of a compensating space for the develop- ment of the cerebral hemispheres, the interspace of which is indicated by a deep longitudinal furrow, almost peculiar to these genera of birds. The roof of the orbits is expanded late- rally, which gives great breadth to this part of the head, but the posterior orbital walls are very imperfect, and the internal walls or septum almost wholly wanting. The optic foramina are blended with each other and with the smaller foramina, which in other birds represent the foramen lacerum orbitale. The anterior boundary of the orbits is also very imperfectly completed, the ungueo-naso-maxillary and an- terior nasal fissures are not remarkable for their extent. Woodcocks, Snipes,Curlews, and Lapwings, resemble Herons in their defective bony orbits; but they want the extended superior parietes of those cavities, and differ much in the al- most spherical form of the cranium, which is smooth and devoid of the muscular ridges characteristic of the fish-feeding Gralla. In this order the intermaxillary bones present some of their most eccentric forms. They are narrow, elongated, and curved downwards in the Ibises and Curlews; bent upwards in the contrary direction in the Avosets; extended in a straight line in the Snipes ; singularly widened, and hollowed out in the Boat-bill (Cancroma); widened, flattened, and dilated at the ex- tremity in the Spoon-bill; thickened, rounded, and bent downwards at an obtuse angle in the Flamingo. Among the Natatores, the sea-birds, as the Divers, ( Colymbus), Grebes, (Podiceps), and Cormorants (Carbo), are characterized for the defective condition of the bony orbits, and of the anterior parietes of the cranium ; the septum of the orbits is almost entirely wanting; in place of the posterior parietes there are two lacunae leading directly into the cranial cavity, one superior, of large size, and one inferior, smaller; they are, in general, separated by a narrow osseous bar, but in the Coulterneb, (Fratercula arctica) this is also wanting, so that all the anterior cerebral nerves escape by a common open- ing. But in this species it must be observed, that the vertical lamina of the aethmoid is ossified at its posterior part. In the Petrels and Albatrosses, the internal and posterior walls of the orbits are more complete. In the Diomedea exulans the optic foramina are separated both from each other, and from the neighbouring outlet. The occipital re- gion is low, and divided into a superior and an inferior facet, the latter being concave from side to side. The plane of the occipital foramen is almost vertical. The occipital or lambdoidal crista is well-marked, and the temporal fossae nearly approximate in the middle line. In these sea-birds and in the Gulls, the lateral lacunae in the bony parietes of the face are very considerable. A most remarkable characteristic of the cra- nium of both the Brachypterous and Macro- pterous Sea-birds is the presence of the two deep, elongated, semilunar glandulardepressions before mentioned, extending along the roof the orbits. In the'aquatic birds which frequent the marshes and fresh waters, as the Anatida or Lamellirostres, these glandular pits are want- ing, or very feebly marked, as in the Swans. They are, however, again met with of large size, though shallow, in the Curlews (Nume- nius) and Avosets (Recurvirostra); and are also found, though of smaller size, in the Flamingo. Of the thorax.—In every part of the skele- ton of Birds, we may observe that there is a close adherence to the oviparous modification of the vertebrate type of structure. This is manifested in the forms and connections of the several vertebrae, and of the cranial bones. It is no less conspicuous in the structure of the thorax. The ribs are apparently in moderate num- ber, but when their analogues are closely sought for, they are found to extend, as in the Crocodile, along the greater part of the cervical region. In fact the small styliform processes which point backwards from the lateral projections on the anterior parts of the bodies of these vertebrae remain separate after the true elements of the vertebrae have coalesced. Inan Ostrich which had attained half its growth, we have found these spurious ribs still moveable. They anchylose, however, with the transverse processes in general long before the growth of the individual is completed, excepting towards the caudal extremity of the cervical region, where comparative anatomists, from this cir- cumstance, have always found a difficulty in determining the commencement of the dorsal vertebrae. If the moveable ribs had com- menced, as in Mammalia, by extending to the sternum, the determination of their number would have been easy; but they begin, some- times by a gradual and at others by a sudden elongation,* opposite the furculum, from which point, either one, or two, as in the Humming- bird, (see p, fig. 125,) terminate by extremities imbedded in muscle, and unconnected with any corresponding portion extending from the sternum. Meckel considers the true number of ribs in the Diurnal Raptures to be nine pairs, of the Nocturnal eight; in the Insessurcs seven or eight; in the Scansores nine, except the Cuckoo, which has seven or eight; in the * This is remarkably the case in the Wood- Grouse ( Tetrao Urogallus), where the penultimate and last cervical ribs, instead of gradually enlarg- ing, diminish in size, so that the determination of the first thoracic rib is easy.