376 BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. mon salt and taurin, which are to bo separated, and the latter purified a second by crystalli- sation. Taurin, when purified, is in prismatic crystals, neither acid nor alkaline, not altered by exposure to air, inodorous, of a peculiar taste : soluble in about fifteen parts of cold wa- ter, and nearly insoluble in absolute alcohol: it is fusible,and not decomposed by nitric acid. In concluding this subject, we must again express our conviction that many of the sup- posed proximate components of bile are pro- ducts of the various operations and re-agents to which it has been submitted, and that the ana- lysis of Berzelius, which is the simplest, is probably the most correct: from the uncertain operation of various precipitants upon bile, and from the facility with which the results vary, apparently in consequence of very trifling causes, there seems to be a peculiar tendency in its component parts to undergo hitherto unex- plained modifications. Biliary calculi, or gall-stones.—These concretions have been especially examined by Gren, Thenard, Fourcroy, and as to the fatty matter which they contain, by Chevreul.* Human gall - stones are, for the most part, composed of a crystalline aggregate of a species of adipocere, or as it has been termed by Chevreul, cholesterine, (from yoXvi, bile, and o-te^eo;, solid,) with more or less colouring matter, muco-albumen, and inspissated bile; they are accordingly of various colours and textures, but generally brittle and friable. Those which are chiefly cholesterine, or as it should more properly be termed cholestearine, are white and crystalline, and lighter than water; the others are more tough, coloured, and dense; their specific gravities, therefore, vary from 0.803 to 1.06. Their chemical ex- amination may be conducted as follows : they may be powdered, and digested in water to separate the inspissated bile: then boiled in alcohol, and the solution filtered whilst hot; as it cools it deposits the cholesterine, and often retains common fat and its acids in solu- tion. The portion which resists the action of alcohol may be digested in a weak solution of caustic potash, which takes up colouring matter and muco-albumen: the solution, supersatura- ted by acetic acid, deposits these, and the co- louring matter may afterwards be removed by alcohol. Any common albumen may be de- tected by ferrocyanate of potash added to the acetic solution. Cholesterine separates in white pearly scales from its hot alcoholic or etherial solution during cooling; it fuses at about 280°, and when heated to about 400°, it sublimes: in the open air it burns like wax. Its ultimate components are 85 carbon, 12 hydrogen, 3 oxygen. It is the most carbonaceous of all the varieties of fat. The gall-stones of the ox frequently consist chiefly of the yellow colouring matter of the bile, which is occasionally used by painters on account of its brightness and durability : it is in- soluble in water and alcohol, but readily solu- ble in weak solution of potash, from which it * Annales de Chiinic, xcv. 5. is thrown down in green flocks by muriatic acid : nitric acid cautiously dropped into a solution of I liis colouring matter gives it various shades of green, blue, and red. Bibliography.—Bianchi, Historia hepatica, 2 vol. 4to. Genev. 1725. Roederer, Experimenta circa bilis nat. 4to. Argent. 1767. Cadet, Exper. sur la bile des bomraes et des animaux : Mem. de l'Acad. de Paris, 1767. Bordenave, Analyse de labile, ibid, (Savans ctrangers, t. vii.) Mavlury, Experiments upon the human bile, 8vo. Loud. 1772. Golduiits, Neue Versuche zu ein wahren Physiologie deiGalle, 8vo. ISamb. 1782. Ptoucquet, Exper. circa vim bilis chyliferam, 4to. Tubing. 1792. Thenard, Deux mem. sur la bile: Mem. d'Arcueil, t. i. Saunders, A treatise on the struc- ture, &c. of the liver, 8vo. Lond. 1793. John, Chemische Tab lien: Tableaux chimiques, 4to. Paris, 1816. Chevreul, Note sur la presence de cholesterine dans la bile de l'homme : Journ. de Chim. Med. t. i. and Ann. de Chimie, No. xcv. Bracconnut, Rech. sur la bile : Ann. de Phys. et de Chimie, Oct. 1829. Orfila, Elem. de chimie, 2 vol. 8vo. Berzelius, Traite de chimie : Raspail, Nouv. systeme de chimie organique, 8vo. Paris, 1833; Anglice a Henderson, 8vo. Eond. 1834. (W. T. Brande.) BLADDER, (in anatomy.) (Gr. xva-rn. Lat. vesica, vesicula. Fr. vessie, vesicule. Germ. Blase. Ital. vescica).—This term is employed to denote a membranous sac, more or less complicated in its structure, with one or more orifices, and destined as a reservoir for parti- cular fluids. We have, for instance, in most animals provided with a liver, a gall-bladder or reservoir for the bile; in fishes we have a swimming-bladder, vesica natatoria; and in the females of several insects, mollusca and crustaceans, a bladder, recently described by Audouin, Milne Edwards, Des Hayes, and others, the function of which is to receive, during copulation, the prolific fluid from the male, and which has, therefore, been called vesicule copulutrice. In fine, in a great num- ber of the animals provided with a urinary ap- paratus we have a urinary bladder, vesica urinaria. For a particular description of the first three varieties of bladder we refer to the articles Liver, Pisces, and Insecta;—that of the urinary bladder forms the subject of the succeeding article. (R. B. Todd.) BLADDER OF URINE (normal anato- my).—{VLvtrriq ovpo$o%o<;, vesica urinaria. Germ. Harnblase. Commonly known as the Bladder.) The urinary, like the biliary appa- ratus, consists of four principal organs, each accomplishing a different purpose, yet all con- tributing to the same end, namely, the sepa- ration from the circulating medium of a consi- derable portion of aqueous and saline matter: these are, first, the kidney or kidneys, which are the principal, indeed the sole agents in this function ; secondly, the ureters, the excre- tory ducts, whose office it is to convey the fluid secreted, drop by drop, as fast as it is formed, which is by a slow and gradual pro- cess, to, thirdly, the urinary bladder, which serves merely as a temporary receptacle for it; and, fourthly, the wethra, or terminating ex-