334 AVES. the tongue (E, fig. 170), the lower surface of the mouth, and furnishes the artery which enters the substance of the lower jaw. " Just at the origin of the submaxillary artery there is another little branch of the carotid, which is lost upon the muscles of the os hyoides. " The internal maxillary artery is, as usual, the continuation of the trunk of the external ca- rotid ; it runs forwards between the pterygoid muscle, and the lining of the mouth, upon the side of the long muscle for moving the upper jaw, and divides into two principal branches; one of them proceeds under the tendon of the long muscle to get upon the palate, where it forms two branches, of which one runs along the external side of the palate, between the membrane and the bone of the mandible to the extremity of the bill, where it becomes united to the same branch of the opposite side, as also to the middle artery of the palate. The other branch lies also superficially under the membrane which lines the mouth. It passes onwards to meet its corresponding vessel of the opposite side, with which it becomes ac- tually incorporated, and by their union a single artery is generated, which runs along the mid- dle line of the palate to the end of the mandi- ble, where it unites with the lateral branches, as already mentioned. At the junction of the vessel of each side to form the middle pala- tine artery, two branches go off, which are lost upon the lining of the mouth, and the interior of the organ of smell. " The other branch of the internal maxillary artery is reflected upwards towards the orbit, below which it divides and unites again, form- ing a triangle, through which the vein passes : at this place it produces a remarkable plexus of vessels, like the rete mirabile of the carotid artery of quadrupeds, which is increased by branches from the ophthalmic and the palatine arteries, and from which the back part of the organ of smell receives its supply of blood. "The internal maxillary artery then runs direct- ly backwards below the orbit, passes between the radiated or fan-shaped muscle which moves the upper jaw and the pterygoid process ; and turning inwards round the basis of the cranium, becomes incorporated with the internal carotid artery just as it enters the bony canal which conducts it to the brain.* " The vertebral artery (6), soon after it parts from the carotid, sends off a branch backwards, which passes over the neck of the scapula and is lost among the muscles on the posterior part of the shoulder, inosculating with the articular and other arteries about the joint: this branch might be called the supra-scapular (5). In the duck we have observed it, before it makes the turn over the scapula, to send an artery upwards along the muscles of the neck. The trunk of the vertebral artery proceeds obliquely upwards, * Barkow describes the internal maxillary artery as wanting in birds, and its place being supplied by blanches of both the external and internal carotids and the faiial artery, all of which sometimes unite to form the maxillary plexus of vessels, which is very conspicuous in the Goose and Duck. and having entered the foramen in the transverse process of the second cervical vertebra, gives off a large branch downwards, which is distributed between the vertebrae, and to the spinal canal, in the manner of the intercostal arteries, with which it anastomoses upon arriving in the thorax. The remainder of the vertebral artery is continued upwards in the canal formed in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, diminishing gradually in consequence of the branches it sends off between each vertebra to the spinal marrow and the muscles of the neck. Near the head the artery is found considerably reduced, and within the last foramen in the transverse processes terminates entirely by inosculation with the reflected occipital branch of the carotid, as before noticed. " The extraordinary anastomoses and the plexuses which are to be observed in the arte- ries of the head in birds are not easily ac- counted for. It seems possible that they may be required in consequence of the great length of the neck in these animals, it being well known that frequent communication amongst the vessels, although it diminishes the impetus of the circulation, ensures a free and uninter- rupted motion of the blood. " After the common trunk of the carotid and vertebral is detached from the arteria innominata, this vessel may assume the name of the sub- clavian (14). While passing under the clavicle it sends off some important branches: the first might be called the pectoral artery; it proceeds upwards upon the internal surface of the pec- toralis minimus muscle, whidi it supplies, and then dividing into two branches, one passes over the anterior edge of the clavicle, and under the pectoralis medius, between which and the sternum it runs, detaching its branches to the muscle; the other sends first along the under side of the clavicle a branch which is again subdivided and distributed to the outside of the shoulder-joint and to the deltoid muscle, in which it inosculates with the articular artery. The vessel then passes between the clavicle and the fork-shaped bone, and on a ligament which connects the head of the clavicle to that of the scapula, and disperses its branches upon the upper part of the shoulder-joint, form- ing anastomoses with the neighbouring arteries. " The next branch of the subclavian is the humeral artery (15); it arises from the upper side of the vessel, and makes a slight curve to reach its situation on the inside of the arm in order to disperse its branches in the manner hereafter described. " The internal mammary artery (24,fig. 171) is given off just as the subclavian leaves the chest. It divides into three branches; one ramifies upon the inner surface of the sternum, another upon the sternal ribs and the inter- costal muscles, and the third runs along the anterior extremities of the vertebral ribs, sup- plying the intercostal muscles, &c. " The chief peculiarity of the arteries of the superior extremities in birds consists in the great magnitude of the vessels which supply the pectoral muscles; these, instead of being inconsiderable branches of the axillary artery,