449 BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. that it is difficult to say which structure is the source of the purulent secretion; the disease, indeed, is generally described under the name of periostitis. We are disposed, however, to regard it as inflammation of the bone in the first instance, although the membrane comes very soon to be engaged ; because in many cases the pain in the commencement is not ag- gravated by external pressure, which it uni- formly is when the periosteum is engaged, and also because in very severe cases, such as paronychia periostei, a portion of the bone becomes carious, and is lost even from the earliest period. It is most frequently ob- served in connexion with some constitutional taint, such as scrofula or syphilis,* but it may and very often does appear purely as an idio- pathic disease. " Inflammation of the pe- riosteum, unconnected with any known con- stitutional disease, is an affection with which practical surgeons are well acquainted. It is remarkable, however, that a disease so impor- tant in its consequences and of such frequent occurrence, should not have been noticed in any systematic work, nor have been made the sub- ject of any separate inquiry ."f Whether we consider this affection to belong primarily and principally to the bone or pe- riosteum, it is certain that the former structure always is engaged, and shews the most evident marks of activity in the disease, although this, perhaps, may in part be explained by the fibrous texture of the membrane and its defi- cient organization. The bone is always in- flamed. Even in the most chronic case that leads only to a thickened condition of the pe- riosteum, the bone is preternaturally vascular, and so soft that it is often difficult in such cases to distinguish the limits between the sof- tened bone and the condensed periosteum.J In the severer forms, the bone, unable to sus- tain itself under the excitement, is always dead, and must be gotten rid of by ulceration or exfoliation : in these cases the periosteum is detached, and a fluid, very generally thin, ichorous, and fetid, is interposed between them. Between these extremes there is every possible variety, and, therefore, there will be vast dif- ferences in the results of the inflammation, * Of all the causes that produce these affections of ihe bones, an irregular or protracted use of mer- cuty seems to be the most efficacious. Many sur- geons of the present day doubt whether a suppu- rating node is a true or genuine venereal symptom. We have learned from an experienced army surgeon, who spent many years on the western coast of Africa, where the venereal disease is not known, but where mercury is profusely employed in the treatment of liver complaints and other diseases incident to the climate, that affections of the bones, resembling those considered to be venereal, are of exceeding frequency. It is a remark worthy of attention to the curious in such matters, that nodes, &c. formed no part of the symptoms of syphilis as first observed and described, and that the first practitioner who noticed them (John de Vigo, 1519,) is mentioned by Astryic, (page 158,) as an eminent promoter of the mercurial method of cure, and as having by that means acquired great reputation and riches. + See a paper bv Mr. Crampton, in the Dub. Hosp. Reports, vol. i. } Ibid. VOL. I. sometimes in the mere thickening of the pe- riosteum, sometimes in the deposition of more bony matter, or the apparent ossification of the membrane (exostosis) ; occasionally in the ab- sorption of the bone, and most frequently, particularly in specific diseases, in that which is our more immediate object, the deposition of purulent matter. A node is a swelling situated over a bone, hard, firm, and exquisitely tender to the touch, not round or circumscribed at its base, but gradually subsiding to the level of the adjacent parts, and not discoloured on the surface. It is at all times painful (except in some scrofulous cases), and when arising from a venereal cause, is subject to nocturnal exacerbations of great severity. The morbid anatomy of the disease is not always the same even when examined at the same period of duration, being modified by a number of circumstances, such as the age of the subject and consequent vascularity of the bones; the structure of the bone en- gaged being solid and firm or soft and spongy ; but more particularly by the fact of the disease being idiopathic, or produced by some consti- tutional affection. The scrofulous diseases of bones seldom or never exhibit the symptom of nodes, although attended by suppuration, be- cause they affect their substance rather than their surfaces : idiopathic nodes, or those pro- duced by injury, do not suppurate unless the violence used is great; on the contrary, these are cases which so frequently terminate in thickening of the periosteum, &c, and often, when cut into, scarcely afford any perceptible discharge. The venereal or mercurial node offers the best example of suppuration. At an early period, if an opportunity occurs for exa- mination, the periosteum round the margin of the effusion shews a more than ordinary degree of vascularity ; immediately covering the tu- mour it is somewhat paler, more opaque and thickened. The bone underneath is denuded and soon runs into caries ; between it and the membrane the matter is deposited, thin in con- sistence, dark-coloured, and sanious. There are other forms of suppuration on the surface of a bone of too much interest and im- portance to be omitted, such as those large de- pots which occasionally occur after severe in- juries or operations, as the accompaniments of inflammation of the veins, or as the sequelae of acute fevers. In general, the matter is in great quantity and of a good and healthy cha- racter, though sometimes it is otherwise, f;nd particularly in that form which attacks a stump after amputation We have seen the entire remnant of the bone up to the next articulation denuded of its periosteum, while quantities of green and fetid pus could be pressed from the very depths of the wound. In these cases the veins are generally inflamed, the divided ends of the muscles pale, flaccid, a id sloughy, and the patient seldom or never recovers. W'here the deposition has taken place after fever, if the patient is young and the con«titu ion has en (bled him to combat the original disease, a recovery very frequently takes place by the process of necrosis. 2 o