CEPHALOPODA. 557 length of the glandular part of the oviduct is one inch; its termination is at the base of the funnel close to the anus, and immediately behind an accessory glandular apparatus. This body is analogous to the laminated ovarian gland of the Pectinibranchiate Tes- tacea, and, as in them, forms no part of the oviduct; but in the Nautilus it is extended in the transverse direction, and composed of two lateral convex symmetrical masses, resem- bling the corresponding separate symmetrical glands in the Decapoda, but which are here united by a third middle transverse series of laminae. All the laminae are deep, pec- tinated, and close-set, and are supplied by a large artery. The lateral groups form conspicuous projections on the external sur- face of the ventral aspect of the Nautilus, and are covered internally by a layer of thin tough membrane; the middle laminae are exposed. The female organs of the Dibranchiate Ce- phalopods present different structures, as be- fore observed, in the Decapodous and Octo- podous tribes. In the former the oviduct or oviducts have laminated glandular termina- tions, near to which are placed two detached nidamental glands: in the latter there are al- ways two distinct oviducts which pass through laminated glands, but there are no detached superadded glandular organs. The Sepia, among the Decapodous Cephalo- pods, manifests in its generative, as in its prehensory and testaceous organs, a near affinity to the Tetrabranchiate order, while the form of the female apparatus in the Octopods more closely corresponds, on the other hand, with the same parts in the Oviparous Cartilaginous Fishes. The ovarium in both tribes is a single organ, situated at the bottom of the pallial sac, and consisting of a capsule and ovisacs di- versely attached to its internal surface. The ovisacs are proportionally larger in the Decapods than in the Octopods. In the Cuttle-fish they are extremely numerous, and are appended by long and slender pedicles to a longitudinal fold of membrane extending into the ovarian cavity, from the dorsal aspect of the sac. The plicae of the internal glan- dular surface of the ovisacs or calyces are disposed in a reticulate manner, forming cor- responding light-coloured opake lines on the external surface,which, being contrasted against the dark-brown tint of the contained ovum shining through the transparent areolar space, occasions the beautiful and characteristic ex- terior reticulate markings of the undischarged ovisacs. In the Genus Russia, from which the sub- joined illustration of the Decapodous type of the female organs is taken (Jig. 239), the ovisacs have the same structure and mode of attachment as in Sepia, but they are rela- tively of double the size and fewer in num- ber. In the specimen which we dissected, we found the greater part of the ovisacs con- taining the ovum in various stages of deve- lopment, as at a, a. One was in the act of shedding the ovum, as at b, f; others were Fig. 239. Female generative Organs, Rossia palpebrosa. ( Natural size.) discharged, collapsed, and shrivelled, and in progress of absorption, as at c, c. The pa- rietes of the ovarium consist of a thin and almost transparent membrane, which is con- tinued forwards to form the oviduct (d, d). This canal commences in the Cuttle-fish by a round aperture, about a third of an incli in diameter, immediately beyond which it dilates, and continues forwards of the same thin and membranous structure to within an inch of its extremity, where, as in the Nautilus, its pa- rietes are suddenly thickened by the develop- ment of a number of broad, close-set, glan- dular laminae. The chief difference between the Sepia and the Nautilus obtains in the greater extent of the membranous part* of the oviduct in the former. In the Russia the oviduct (d) differs only in greater relative width : the terminal gland (e) is composed of two lateral semioval groups of transverse glandular lamellae, each group being divided by a middle longitudinal groove; the oviduct was contracted immediately before opening into the interspace of the glands, and a deep but narrow groove, which is probably dilated during the passage of the ova, was continued between the two groups of lamellae to the termination of the oviduct. This was situated towards the left side and behind the orifices of the nidamental glands. The female organs of the Sepiola present the * In the original description of the Nautilus, this membranous part of the oviduct was regarded, from its brief extent, and the sudden commence- ment of the glandular tunic, as a connecting process of the peritoneum ; it was accurately represented, however, in the figure, (pi. viii. fig. 9.)