619 CEPHALOPODA. two strong lateral muscles (rf*), which are in- serted into the walls of the last chamber. The numerous hollow arms (e, e) and retrac- tile tentacles (/,/), mentioned in the general characters of the class are peculiar to this order, and the head is further provided with a large ligamento-muscular plate, or flattened disc, (g,) which, besides acting as a defence to the open- ing of the shell, serves also, in all probability, as an organ for creeping along the ground, like the foot in the Gasteropods. There are no fins or analogous organs for swimming. The jaws of the Tetrabranchiata are strength- ened by a dense, exterior, calcareous coating, and have thick dentated margins. The eyes are pedunculated (h,fig- 205) and of a simple structure. There is no organ of hearing. The gills are four in number, and without branchial hearts. The circulating system is provided with but one ventricle, which is systemic or propels arterial blood. There is no ink-bag. The inferior parietes of the funnel (i, fig. 205) are divided longitudinally. Order II. DIBRANCHIATA. Syn. Cryp- todibrunc/ies, Blainv.; Acetubulifera, D'Orb.; plus the Spirulidtf and Belemnitida. In the Dibranchiate Cephalopods one genus alone (Argonauta, jig. 206) has been hitherto found in which the body is protected by an Fig. 206. The Paper Nautilus or Argonaut, Argonauta A rgo, Linn. external shell (a); but this, though symme- trical, and convoluted on a vertical plane, consists of one simple chamber, or is ' mono- thalamous,' and does not adhere to the body of its Cephalopodous occupant, either by a hydraulic pipe or lateral muscles. All the other genera of the Dibranchiate Order are naked; but they are provided either with an internal siphoniferous polythalamous shell,f or the remains of a shell are found in various stages of degradation lodged in the substance of the dorsal part of the mantle. The arms of the Dibranchiata are, properly speaking, eight in number, (c, 1, 2, 3, 4, fig. 206,) to which, in many genera, two longer tentacles (d, d,figs. 207, 208) are superadded. Both kinds of prehensile organs are provided with acetabula, or suctorious discs for adhesion ; and hence the order has been termed Acetubu- lifera. The jaws are horny, and their margins tren- chant. The eyes are sessile, (e, e,fg. 207,) and of a more perfect structure. The organ of hearing is distinctly developed. The gills never exceed two in number; but the branchial circulation is aided by two mus- cular ventricles, situated one at the base of each gill; hence there are three distinct hearts in this order. There is an organ for secreting and expelling an inky fluid, used as a means of concealment. The parietes of the funnel are entire, (i, figs. 206, 208.) Subdivision of the Orders.—In the ancient periods of the globe the Tetrabranchiate Cepha- lopods appear to have abounded in every sea; one genus only, however, viz. the Nautilus, appears to have escaped the influences which have ren- dered extinct the rest of this once extensive order. Their chambered shells are found, generally in a fossil state, in all the regions of the globe, and at every elevation, charac- terizing the strata of the se- condary formation. In some places they occur in such pro- digious numbers that the rocks appear to be composed almost exclusively of their remains. Some of these fossil shells testify the immense size to which their animal construc- tors must have attained : the shells called ' Cornua Am- monis,' which were formed by Cephalopods resembling the Nautilus, have been found measuring four or five feet in diameter; some of the straight chambered shells, called ' Or- thoceratites,' exceed four feet other species again appear not to have surpassed the size of a grain of rice. As the consideration of these remains, of which the Tetrabranchiate division of Cepha- lopods is almost exclusively composed, would necessarily oblige us to exceed the limits allot- ted to this article, we shall here subjoin merely the characters of the two families into which they naturally resolve themselves, and to which their distribution appears to be limited. lencth * The letter is placed on the portion of broken shell which still adhered to one of the lateral muscles in the specimen taken by Mr. Geo. Bennett, in the New Hebrides Islands. See PI. 1. Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus, 4to. 1832. + This is the case in the Families Spirulidas and Belemnitidce; the terms Polythalamacea or Sipho- nifera, therefore, do not distinguish the preceding or Tetrabranchiate Order, nor indicate any cha- racters peculiar to that group, or which are of ordi- nal importance : and in other Molluscous classes it may be observed that modifications of the shell fail to afford indications of the primary divisions, which are uniformly based, as in the present arrange- ment of Cephalopods, on the modifications of the respiratory system.