BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. 427 clusively that the albumen of the blood will be found deficient in proportion. In other dropsical affections it will sometimes happen that a proportion of albumen more thai) equi- valent to the fibrine effused will disappear from the circulation. Eleven days after tap- ping a young woman, in whom ascites had supervened upon rheumatic affection of the heart, she was observed to be filling again very fast. A few ounces of blood were taken from the arm, and this blood was found to contain 0'319 per cent, of fibrine, and only 3-51 per cent, of albumen. Her serum had a specific gravity of 1-023. The experiments of MM. Prevostand Dumas (Annales de Chimie, vol. xxiii.) which have since been repeated by Gmelin and Tiedemann (Poggendorff's Annalen), prove satisfactorily that urea exists in the blood after the kidneys have been extirpated, and consequently that it is not formed, but merely abstracted by those organs. So long, however, as the kidneys act, we cannot expect to find it, since it is removed from the circulation as fast as it is formed, and never exists in any considerable quantity. In these cases of diseased kidney a result analogous to that which follows extirpation occurs, for while that organ is permitting albu- men to pass through it unchanged, the urea which it should separate is very generally if not always found in the blood. This I have proved in repeated instances, and it is now so generally admitted from the experiments of Prout, Chris- tison, and others, that it is scarcely worth while to cite cases. Dr. Bright, vol. ii. p. 447, al- ludes to several specimens of serum from patients under this disease, which he had sent me for examination, in some of which I did, and in others I could not detect urea. In one very remarkable instance of a young woman, the albuminous state of whose urine constantly existed for above three years, the urine con- tained less than one-third of the normal pro- portion of urea, while about one per cent, of albumen supplied the deficiency. The serum of the blood was, as I have already remarked to be usual in this disease, of very low specific gravity, being only 1-021. The quantity of al- bumen in 1000 grains amounted, after careful drying, to only 50 grains instead of 78 (Le- canu's healthy standard), and it contained fully as much urea as the urine itself, the 1000 grains yielding nearly 15 grains of that principle. It may not be out of place here to observe, that in this disease not only does the blood it- self contain urea, but all those effusions also which are formed from it, and which take place in the different serous cavities. I have repeat- edly detected urea in these cases in the serous effusion into the ventricles of the brain; and Dr. Barlow found it in one case, 1st, in abun- dance in the ventricles of the brain; 2dly, scantily in the effusion into the pleura and peri- cardium ; and 3dly, in .abundance in the peri- toneum. In a second case of a similar nature urea was obtained in abundance from the fluid of the pericardium. In a third the effusion collected after death from the pleura of a man who had suffered from general dropsy and mot- tied kidney, yielded a very satisfactory specimen of urea. I have dwelt at some length on this subject, as it is only of late years that the attention of the medical world has been drawn to it through the writings of Dr. Bright, and still more re- cently that the morbid changes presented in the blood have been investigated. Diabetes.—In this complaint the blood un- questionably undergoes some material change, although its nature has not hitherto been very successfully investigated. This may be inferred from the great length of time during which it is capable of resisting putrefaction, a circumstance first noticed by liollo, and which, though doubted by some authors, I have had oppor- tunities of confirming in several instances. Nicolas and Gieudeville* have observed that it contains an increase of serum and very little fibrine, but this is not borne out by my own experience as deduced from many specimens of diabetic blood which I have examined; neither can its antiseptic qualities be attributed to any deficiency in the proportion of azote, for Dr. Prout, who has made accurate experiments to determine this point, has found it not to differ in this respect from the standard of health. The most eminent chemists both abroad and in this country have endeavoured in vain to de- tect sugar in diabetic blood. Dr. Wollaston ascertained that the smallest portion of saccha- rine matter added to serum previously to its coagulation by heat, prevents the subsequent crystallization of the salts it contains, yet that in diabetic serum those salts crystallized with the same facility as in that procured from a person in health. The same reasoning as that which has been adduced to prove that urea may be formed in the blood, although it is not to be detected there while the kidneys perform their office, will also apply to the existence of sugar in the blood of those affected with this disease. I am not aware that the arterial blood has been made the subject of experiment, and yet it is possible that it might exist in the arteries alone, for we have only to suppose it to enter the cir- culation with the chyle, and after having been carried through the lungs, the left cavities of the heart, and the aorta, to be again withdrawn from the circulation by the kidneys. I do not pre- tend, however, that this supposition carries with it any degree of probability. Cholera.—There is no disease in which the blood undergoes more remarkable changes than in malignant cholera; not indeed in the in- cipient stage, as affirmed by Dr. Stevens, but in direct proportion to the intensity and duration of the collapse. In appearance it is thick and dark, bearing a strong resemblance to treacle or tar. It is of high specific gravity, the serum varying from 1-040 to 1-045 at 60 Fahr.; and according to M. Lecanu, the solid matter which it contains is sometimes double that of the healthy proportion. Most of its physical cha- racters are satisfactorily accounted for by its analysis, which has been accurately made by several eminent chemists, among whom we may * -Annales de Chimie, vol. xliv. p. 69.