AVES. 303 the thorax, where it sends a considerable branch from the first thoracic ganglion to join the pul- monary plexus formed by the par vagum. This ganglion also distributes seven other fila- ments, one of which goes to join the brachial plexus; a second is lost in the cardiac plexus of the par vagum ; three other filaments proceed inwardly to the projection formed by the bodies of the vertebrae to produce the commencement of the splanchnic nerve; lastly, the sixth and seventh serve to unite the first ganglion with the second, one passing above, the other below the head of the rib, which they thus include in a lozenge-shaped space. Each of the succeed- ing ganglions forms, in like manner, a centre of nervous radiations, which are five, six, or seven in number, of which four, two anterior and two posterior, serve to bring the contiguous ganglia into communication with each other; one or two contribute to the formation of the splanch- nic nerve, and one joins the dorsal spinal nerve situated immediately behind the ganglion. The splanchnic nerves, formed by all the in- ternal thoracic branches of the great intercostal, accompany on either side the trunk of the aorta. When it has arrived at the coeliac axis, they surround it and form one, two, or three ganglions from which an immense number of filaments are thrown off, which surround the different arteries of the abdomen. These gang- lions are evidently the analogues of the semi- lunar ganglions of man, and the filaments pro- ceeding from them correspond to the solar plexus. The trunk of the sympathetic con- tinues along the bodies of the vertebras, but the ganglions become less marked after the ribs cease to be given off; two or three filaments are given off from each of these small swell- ings, which, by uniting with the filaments of the opposite side, form a plexus around the aorta. The termination of the sympathetic may be readily traced along the coccyx, where four pairs of ganglions are observable in the Swan, the last of which join to form a ganglion impar. Fig. 137. Cerebral nerves, eyes, fyc. in situ of a Goose. Organs of Vision.—The eye in Birds pre- sents many peculiarities, which chiefly relate to the extraordinary powers of locomotion in this class, tending to accommodate vision to a rapid change of distance in the objects viewed, and to facilitate their distinct perception through a rare medium. There is no species of bird in which the eyes are wanting, or are rudimentary, as occurs in the other vertebrate classes. The eyes of Birds are, in the first place, re- markable for their great size, both as compared with the brain and with the entire head, (fig. 137,) being analogous, in this respect, to the eyes of some of the flying insects. Their form is admirably adapted to promote the objects above named. The anterior segment of the eye is more prominent than in any other class of animals, and is in many birds prolonged into a tubular form, terminated by a very convex cornea (e,fig. 137.) Dr. Macartney observes that " the owl furnishes the most striking ex- ample of the disproportion between the anterior and posterior spheres of the eye, the axis of the anterior portion being twice as great as that of the other. The obvious consequence of this figure of the globe of the eye is to allow room for a greater proportion of aqueous fluid, and for the removal of the chrystalline lens from the seat of the sensation, and thus produce a greater convergence of the rays of light, by which the animal is enabled to discern the objects placed near it, and to see with a weaker light; and hence owls, which require this sort of vision so much, possess the structure fitted to effect it in so remarkable a degree." The anterior division of the eye is least con- vex in the swimming birds. The sclerotic coat is divisible into three layers. It is thin, flexible, and somewhat elastic posteriorly, where it presents a bluish shining appearance, without any distinct fibres,but anteriorly its form ismain- tained by a circle of osseous plates or scales (f, fig.i 37) interposed between the exterior and mid- dle layers. These plates vary from thirteen to twenty in number, and are situated immedi- ately behind the cornea, with their edges over- lapping each other. They are in general thin, and of an oblong quadrate figure, becoming elongated from before backwards in proportion as the bird possesses the power of changing the convexity of the cornea. In the nocturnal Ruptores the bony plates are strong and thick, and extend from the cornea over the whole of the anterior projecting division of the eye to the posterior hemisphere, which they also contri- bute to form. The figure of the eye is thus maintained, notwithstanding its want of sphe- ricity ; and in other classes, as Reptiles and Eishes, where the eye recedes from the spherical figure from an opposite cause, viz. the extreme flattening of the cornea, that form is also pre- served by the introduction of an osseous struc- ture in the sclerotic. The bony plates are capable of a degree of motion upon each other, which is, however, restrained within certain limits by the attach- ments of their anterior and posterior edges to the sclerotic coat; and by their being bound