ARACHNIDA. 202 tron is distinctly shewn in Jig. 100, e, which represents the inferior surface of the body of the house-spider, (tegenuria domestica.) On the upper surface of the chest we find another plate much more extended than the sternum, and joined anteriorly with the head by means of a fissure or triangular V-shaped notch which receives it. This plate or dorsal shield exhibits divisions or rather lines of suture which the eye readily distinguishes. They represent arcs of circles arising from the base of the legs and all ending in the centre of the thorax, where there is a depression varying as to extent and depth according to the individual. In other arachnidans this structure is not so clearly shewn on account of the close union of the different pieces; but it is easy to detect or at least explain the un- important modifications which obtain in these cases. In the figure, which we have taken from Savigny, of the pholcus rivulatus, the traces of the division may be readily followed, (Jig- 79, b.) Continued comparative researches have convinced me that this dorsal plate of the thorax of the araneida is formed, not of the dorsal pieces of the thorax of insects, but only of the lateral pieces or those of the flancs. For the arachnidans being deprived of wings, the intermediate thoracic element or tergum, so largely developed on account of the pre- sence of those organs in the thorax of insects, being no longer necessary, has completely dis- appeared. How has this taken place? The flancs (pleurae) which in insects were diva- ricated and pushed to the sides by the tergum, when that obstacle was removed, have mutu- ally approximated and become united toge- ther in the middle line, precisely at the place where the little depression exists which we have already mentioned. We believe that we have placed these facts beyond all doubt in our ' Researches on the Thorax of Articulate Animals,' presented to the Academy of Sciences of Paris in 1820.* Now it is worthy of remark that what has hap- pened to the arachnidans, being animals de- prived of wings, is also found in the crusta- ceans, which are equally destitute of these organs. Only that there exists in some of the latter, as the decapods, a vast carapace which occurs independently of the flancs, and covers them. For if the carapace is raised in a crab, the flancs or pleura; are seen beneath, extending obliquely towards one another as in the thorax of a mygale, with this single difference, that in the cancer, where the carapace covers the flancs and protects them as well as the internal soft parts, the pleura or side pieces remain divaricated and are not joined at their apices as in the mygale.f * See the Report by Cuvier, in the Analysis of the Works of the Royal Academy of Sciences for the year 1820. t We must again refer to the articles CRUSTACEA and InsECTA for the full comprehension of the facts which presuppose an anatomical knowledge of (he external covering of the animals of these two classes. To those who already possess (hat infor- mation 1 shall observe that a single piece of the Digestive si/stem.—The arachnidans, whose habits have been made the subject of obser- vation, feed for the most part on animal matter, not in a state of decomposition or even re- cently dead, but in the living state. They either boldly seize their prey, which consists of insects of greater or less size, or they attach themselves to animals much larger than themselves, and live parasitically upon their blood or some other nutritious fluid. The latter species are generally very minute : many of them, as the mites (acari), require our best optical instruments for their detection. The above differences in habits of life are accompanied with important modifications in the organs of nutrition, and especially in the oral apparatus, which we proceed to de- scribe. In the non-parasitic species, as the pulmo- nary and part of the tracheary arachnidans, the mouth consists essentially, first, of two mandibula or forciples (Jig. 80, a) in close ap- Fig. 80. position, endowed with little lateral motion, but rather acting vertically and provided each with a hooked claw (6), which, near its point, is perforated, and emits a poisonous fluid, secreted by a gland, hereafter to be described. In other arachnidans of the same order the mandibulce are a species of pincers, one nipper of which is alone moveable, as in the scor- pions. Secondly, of two maxilla (c c), each in the form of a more or less flattened and villous lobe, provided with a palp or jointed appendage (d) projecting more or less from the mouth, and terminated sometimes by pincers as in the scorpions, sometimes by a simple Manes of insects (epimera) forms the back-part of the thorax of spiders ; the other piece (epistemum) already in a rudimentary state in the c.ustaceans, has completely disappeared from the thorax of the arachnidans, each segment of which consequently consists only of two pieces, the sternum below, the epimera above.