389 BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. Petrop. vol. v. Noot, De structura ct usu vesica? urinaria? atque ureterum, 4lo. Lugd. Bat. 1767. Bveckhoven de Wind, De urcteribus et vcs. urin. 4to. Lugd. Bat. 1784. Richerand, Mem. sur 1'ap- pareil urinaire, in Mem. de la Soc. Med. d'Emulat. An viii. Bell on the muscles of the ureters, Med. Chir. Trans, v. iii. Wilson, Lectures on the struc- ture and physiology of the male urinary organs, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1821. See aho the different systems of anatomy, the Tabula: Septendecim of Santorini and his Observationes anatomies, and the recent Memoir of Mr. Guthrie on the anatomy and diseases of the neck of the bladder, &c. 8vo. 1834. (R. Harrison.) BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE URINARY.—Under this deno- mination it is proposed to include all variations from the natural condition of the organ, whe- ther the particular variety be a congenital vice of conformation or a consequence of extra- uterine disease. Numerical In the following synopsis may be seen the several affections included, as well as the order in which they will be described in the present article. Changes Congenital Of conformation i Abs< ( Plur ]e> Acquired Of conformation Absence. jrality. Septa. Extrophy or extroversion. Jersislance of the urachus. /• Sacculi or cysts. \ Capacity, increase of. \ decrease of. (.Introversion. f Hernia?, inguinal. •1 Of position Of structure Of function To some persons, the introduction of two functional diseases, paralysis and spasm, in an article on pathological anatomy, may appear objectionable ; but as they are sometimes con- sequences of structural change, we hold that we have a perfect justification for their ap- pearance. CONGENITAL CONDITIONS. Numerical changes.—Absence.—Among the single organs of the body, one degree of nu- merical diminution only is possible, namely, their absence. Such an anomaly, if we except true cases of monstrosity, should be extremely rare, and indeed it is so; for as all unique portions of the organization are called upon to perform functions, to which they are more or less exclusively devoted, it is rarely that any other can supply their place, and in conse- quence, when the organ is wanting, the func- tion is also wanting. There are upon record a certain number of instances of absence of the urinary bladder; in some of these cases the ureters have been found to terminate directly in the urethra, in others they have been inserted into the rectum, in others they have communicated with the vagina. Of the first species we have the fol- lowing examples: Lieutaud * mentions the case of a man, aged thirty-five, in whom the ureters, the capacity of which was much aug- * Hist. Anat. Med. Liber primus. Obs. 1361. femoral, •perineal, vaginal. "Inflammation with its consequences. Idiopathic softening. Rupture. Fistula?. Hamiorrhage. Fungoid tumours. Varices. LScirrhus. « Paralysis. ■'.""( Spasm. merited, terminated immediately below the pubis near the orifice of the urethra. Binnin" ger* describes the case of Abraham Clef, in whom there was no urinary bladder, and the ureters opened upon the urethra. A stylet, introduced into the urethra, passed alternately into the one and the other ureter ; the ureters were afterwards separated from the kidneys, and the stylet, introduced in the opposite di- rection, met with no obstacle to its passage into the urethra. Of the second species we have, in the se- venth volume of the Philosophical Trans- actions, the history, given by Richardson, of a lad residing in Yorkshire, who lived to the age of seventeen, without ever having passed urine through the urethra, and who had still enjoyed good health. The only inconvenience he suf- fered was a consequence of the passage of the urine into the rectum, by which a troublesome diarrhoea was kept up. Camperf speaks of five similar cases, one of which was that of a female. Klein| also speaks of a case. In the Nov. Acta Acad. Nat. cur. ann. i. obs. 38, there is another in which " ureter in rectum intestinum insertus fuit." And in the Hist, de l'Acad. ann. 1752, n. 4, there is one de- * Obs. Med. 24, cent. 2. t In Mem. pour le Prix, &c. 8vo. edit, tome v, P-9- X Rachit. congenit. Nov. Eph. Ac. Nat. Cur„ vol. i. obs. 38.