BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. 301 than those in the corresponding coat in most of the other hollow viscera, being intermediate in these respects to those of the stomach and oesophagus ; this tunic, however, presents great diversity as to colour and density in different individuals. In the contracted state of the bladder, it of course appears more dense than in the distended ; in the latter, but particularly in the over-distended state, it appears thin and imperfect in some places, in consequence of the fasciculi being separated from each other. In the young, cceteris paribus, it is stronger than in the old, and in the female than in the male ; but long-continued irritation at any age and in either sex has the effect of thickening it, as also any disease which causes obstruction to the flow of urine. If the bladder be removed from the body, slightly distended and sub- jected to maceration for a few hours, this tunic will admit of more distinct examination ; its fibres will then be seen to take such different diiections as to admit of a tolerably easy, though not a perfectly natural separation into distinct lamina, the fibres in the first or super- ficial of which have a longitudinal course ; be- neath this is a second stratum, whose fibres are transverse or circular; and in some situa- tions even a third lamina can be distinctly seen, the fibres of which are by some des- cribed under the name of oblique, but the term reticular would appear more correct: in general these three lamina; can be made dis- tinct, particularly on the anterior part of the bladder. Tfie first or longitudinal lamina con- sists of the longest, strongest, and most nu- merous fasciculi; many of these are connected superiorly to the urachus, thence they descend principally on the fore and back part of the bladder, a few only along the sides; inferiorly they terminate about the neck. These fibres are very parallel, and much stronger on the an- terior and posterior aspects than upon the sides, where they run more obliquely or irregularly, and decussate with one another. The inferior attachment of these fibres in the male subject may be ascertained by careful dissection to be as follows:—those on the fore part of the bladder are connected chiefly to the anterior ligaments, or to the reflections of the fascia from the pubis on this organ ; these appear as shining and dis- tinct as tendons, and have been by some con- sidered as such to these muscular bands. Above this insertion these longitudinal fibres appear very numerous, and those on the right and left of the median line distinctly decussate or interlace. Several here also take a transverse or an arched or semicircular course; some of these are very distinct and are inserted laterally ; they must serve to strengthen and to bind down the longitudinal fasciculi. The latter in this situation can be divided into layers, the superficial of which only are inserted, as has been described, into the anterior ligaments of the bladder, and through these into the pubis. The deeper set are inserted, some into the dense cellular tissue about the upper surface of the prostate, and some pass deeper, and intermingle with that circular mus- culo-cellular tissue which surrounds the cervix, and which constitutes the true sphincter. Some of those longitudinal fibres, particularly more laterally, pass so deep in this situation as to be very distinctly seen, when the bladder is opened, through the mucous lining of the orifice of the urethra. This disposition of the longitu- dinal fibres we consider as important, as it must enable them during their contraction to draw out or expand the sphincter, so as to allow of the escape of the urine. Laterally these longi- tudinal fibres are attached, a few of them to the margin of the prostate, while others expand over the lateral lobes of this gland, and are in- serted into the fascia which covers it. Poste- riorly these fibres are very distinct, particularly near the inferior surface of the bladder between the two ureters; to these last-named tubes seve- ral of these fibres are connected : some ascend upon them in arches concave upwards; these we have traced several inches along the ureters ; while others descend in the same course with them, and are inserted into the trigone of the bladder. The longitudinal fibres collect into a strong flat band between and beneath the two vesicular, over which however no fibres pass as they do over the prostate, which circum- stance clearly separates these vesicles from, while the contrary disposition rather connects the prostate with, the urinary excretion. This band of fibres can be followed near to the base of the prostate; some of its fibres are then in- serted into the submucous fibrous tissue in this situation, others into the base of the gland itself; and very generally one long delicate but distinct band enters the notch in the base of the gland, passes beneath the uvula and middle lobe of the prostate, into which it is sometimes insert- ed, but it can frequently be traced nearly an inch further forward to be inserted by a delicate tendon beneath the seminal caruncle or the verumontanum, which is partially covered over by a fold of mucous membrane or by a sort of prepuce. The effect of this band of the longitu- dinal fibres must be to depress the uvula, and thus to open the orifice of the urethra, and also to depress and to draw the seminal caruncle (a sort of organized glans) downwards and back- wards within the prepuce or sinus pocularis, which covers it, and thus protects it from the irritation of the urine. In the female the lon- gitudinal fibres are inserted anteriorly and late- rally into the cellular, glandular, and vascular tissue which surrounds the neck of the bladder, and posteriorly into a more dense tissue which connects the urethra to the vagina; some fibres also pass in deep, as in the male, to be attached to the sphincter. This muscular lamina is de- scribed by the older authors as a distinct mus- cle, the ' detrusor urinee,' arising from and around the urachus by numerous fibres, winch thence descend and expand over the whole surface, and again concentrate towards the neck of the bladder to be inserted by one or two tendons into the ossa pubis. This account, however, is by no means perfectly correct; for on attentively examining this muscular lamina, we frequently find strong transverse fasciculi crossing superficially to the longitudinal fibres, most frequently on the anterior region, but also