726 CRANIUM. laterally, rough surfaces and processes for the attachment of muscles concerned in deglutition, also some of the foramina already referred to, for the transmission of the vessels and nerves of the throat to and from the interior of the skull, as well as the surfaces on which the lower jaw moves. The upper surface of the base conforming to the base of the brain, there are larger depres- sions on it for the anterior and middle lobes; a deep pit or cavity for the cerebellum, and in the centre a broad sulcus, which glides into that pit, for the medulla oblongata, as well as strong ridges and processes to afford attachment to the membranous partitions which severally exist between the cerebrum and cerebellum, the he- mispheres of the former and the lobes of the latter organ. Thebonesinto which the cranium is separable or of which it is immediately formed, are eight, viz. the sphenoid, the frontal, the ethmoid, the occipital, the two temporal, and the two parietal. The first named bone is so placed as to be in connexion with all the others, and to have them grouped around it; so that the frontal (F, jig. 370) and ethmoid are in its front, the Fig. 370. occipital (O, jig. 372) is behind it, the two temporal (T, Jig. 370) are on its sides, and the two parietal (P, fig. 370) are above it. The sphenoid bone (from atynv, cuneus, os sphenoidale; Germ. Sphenoidal-knochen, Keil- knochen) comprehends the quadrilateral mass which forms the centre of the frame-work, the anteriorribs which supportthe frontal and partly the lateral domes, and the depending pillars which form the boundaries of the face; it extends to each temple, is behind and in part forms the orbits and the nose, and is also behind but in close connexion with the bones of the face. The central portion is called the body, and the diverging processes are named alae majores and alae minores. The body is of a quadrilateral figure, hollow and divided by a partition into two chambers (the sphenoidal cells, s, fig. 371), which open through the medium of the posterior ethmoidal cells into the superior meatus of the nose. On its upper surface is a deep depression fephip- pium, sella turcica,fossapituitaris) for the lodge- ment of the pituitary gland. The posterior bor- der of this depression presents a crest, the corners of which are slightly tumid, (posterior ephip- pial, or clinoidprocesses,) for the attachment of the tentorium, and this crest is prolonged down- wards and backwards under the name of the basilar process, to join the process of the same name of the occipital bone; on each side there is a depression (sulcus caroticus) for the reception of the internal carotid artery, and which also marks the situation of the cavernous sinus. On its under surface may be seen, on the median line, the processus azygos (rostrum), which is wedged into the base of the vomer, and on each side of it a line indicating the articulation of the two plates of which the vomer is formed. Still more out- wardly there is a groove which is converted into a canal by the application against it of the in- ferior orbitary or sphenoidal process of the pala- tine bone. Fig. 371. The anterior surface exhibits the openings of the sphenoidal cells, having, between them, and apparently a continuation of their septum, a prominent ridge which articulates with the ver- tical plate of the ethmoid, and, below them, the triangular curved processes denominated the turbinated processes of the sphenoid bone. Ex- ternally to these foramina and turbinated pro- cesses on each side is a rough line for the arti- culation, in its two superior thirds, of the orbital plate of the ethmoid, and, in its inferior third, of the orbitar process of the palatine bone. To the outer side of this rough line is a smooth surface which contributes to the formation of the orbit. The posterior surface is rough, quadrilateral, and at an early age becomes indissolubly united to the basilar process of the occipital bone {d, fig. 371); for which reason Soemmerring and Meckel have regarded as one, the occi- pital and sphenoid bones, and as such have described it under the name of os basilare. This surface is bounded superiorly by the basilar process before mentioned, which is