ABSORPTION. 21 of the fluid which they contain, the lymphatics, was posterior to that of the lacteals. The trans- parency of their contents rendered them less conspicuous and less easy of detection, so that, although certain parts of them appear to have been seen by Fallopio, and afterwards by Aselli and others, yet it was not until the year 1650, that they were distinctly recognized, and their connexions ascertained. The discovery of the lymphatic system was the subject of a warm controversy between Bartholin and Rud- bek, on the merits of which we are, after so long an interval, scarcely able to decide. It appears, however, to have been the opinion of Haller, and the most distinguished anatomists of the last century, that the lymphatics were detected, in the first instance, by Rudbek ; that Bartholin had some intimation of the dis- covery, that he then took up the subject, and pursued it much farther than it had been done by Rudbek* There is a third individual, on whose behalf a claim of priority has been made, which pos- sesses at least considerable plausibility. We are informed by Glisson, that an English ana- tomist of the name of Joliffe distinctly re- cognized and exhibited the lymphatics of many of the abdominal viscera, previously to the alledged discovery of either Rudbek or Bar- tholin.f But even if we allow Joliffe the full merit both of discovering these vessels, and being aware of their specific nature, it does not appear that he published his discovery, so that it will scarcely affect the rival claims of the former anatomists. The discovery of the ab- sorbent or conglobate glands, as they have been termed, was made, for the most part, at the same time with that of the vessels, as a ne- cessary consequence of the intimate connexion which subsists between them. After the existence of the lacteals had been clearly announced by Aselli, and of the lym- phatics by Rudbek and Bartholin, the atten- tion of anatomists was very generally directed to these organs, and discoveries were suc- cessively made, by various individuals, of the presence of the latter in almost every part of the body, and in connexion with almost every one of its organs. The labours of William and John Hunter, of Monro sec , and of flewson, were among the most important in their re- sults, while we are indebted to Cruikshank, and still more to Mascagni, for their minute descriptions and accurate representations of the absorbent system, in all its parts, and with its various relations and connexions.J * El. Phys., ii. 3. 1 ; Bibl. Anat., t. i. ยง. 378 and 415; and Not. 4. ad 121. Boer. Prael. Bartholin's statement of his claim is contained in his " Anat. Reform." p. 621, 2 ; see also his trea- tise, " Vas. Lymph. Hist. Nov." and Rudbek's " Nova Exerc. Anat." For the historical part of the subject we may refer to Mascagni, Prolegomena, and to Meckel, Manuel d'Anat. par Jourdan et Breschet, t. i. ch. 2. p. 179 . . 202. t Anat. Hepat. c. 31. See Haller, Bibl. Anat., t. i. p. 452 ; also Mascagni, Prolegomena. t For the most original and correct desciiption of the lacteals, the reader is referred to Haller, El. Phys. xxv. 1. 4 . . 8 ; Mascagni, Vas. Lymph. Corp. With respect to the minute anatomy of the lacteals, we are informed that they originate from certain small projecting bodies, termed villi, which are attached to the interior surface of the intestines, styled from this circumstance the villous coat. These villi are described as consisting of a number o( capillary tubes, which terminate with open mouths, and that by the union of these tubes the branches of the lacteals are composed, which are suffi- ciently large to be visible to the eye. We must remark, however, that although these villi, as constituting the mouths of the lacteals, have been minutely described, and even figures given of the appearance which they exhibit in the microscope, yet that considerable doubt is still entertained of their existence, and that they are even entirely discredited by some anatomists of the first eminence.'* Upon the whole we may conclude that the opinion, which has been generally adopted, respecting the capillary termination of the lacteals, is somewhat theo- retical, rather derived from the supposed ne- cessity of such a formation to cany on the functions of the vessels, than from any actual observations that have been made upon them. When the lacteals have acquired sufficient magnitude to become visible to the eye, they are seen to proceed along the mesentery, the small vessels running together to form large brandies, and these again forming others that are still larger, until the whole of them unite into a few main trunks, which terminate in the receptacle at the lower extremity of the thoracic duct. During their progress, the small vessels Hist., p. 1. ยง. 7. art. 8. tab. 1. fig. 7; Sheldon,"on the Absorb. Syst. ch. 2. pi. 3, 4, 5; Samorini, Tabula;, No. 13. fig. 3 ; Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 158 . . 0. The translation of Mascagni's work, with copious notes by Bellini, may be advantageously consulted ; it is not accompanied by plates. For the lymphatics we may refer to Haller, ii. 3. 2 ; Meckel, Diss. Epist. de Vasis Lymphaticis ; Hew- son, Enq., ch. 3. pi. 3, 6 ; Mascagni, ps. 1. sect. 7. tab. 4 et seq. ; Cruikshank, on the Absorb., p. 143 et seq. ; Soemmering, Corp. Hum. Fabr. t. v. p. 388 et seq. ; many of Mascagni's plates are transferred into Cloquet's valuable " Manuel." Art. " Inhalation," par Rullier, in Diet, des Sc. Med. t. xxv. 3. Art. " Lymphatique," par Chaussier et Adelon, ibid, t. xxix. p. 249, 260 ; Meckel, Manuel, sect. 6. ch. 2; Quain's Elem. of Anat. p. 560. .574. In Elliotson's Physiol, ch. 9. p. 140 .. 2, we have a "short account of the first discovery of the absorbent system." Soemmer- ing's treatise, De Morbis Vasorum Absorb, con- tains a most ample and learned catalogue of the various works on absorption, from the earliest period to the date of its publication in 1795. * See Lieberkuhn, Diss, de Fabr. Vill. Intest. passim, cum tab. 1, 2; Hewson's Enq., c. 12, pt. 2 ; Cruikshank's letter to Clare, p. 32 . . 4 ; Shel- don on the Absor. Sys., p. 32. . 8, tab. 1,2; Hedwig, Disq. Ampull. In opposition to these and other authorities, on the affirmative side of the question, we have the strong negative evidence of Mascagni, whose plates do not sanction the description of Lieberkuhn, tab. 1. fig. 1. 3; and tab. 3. fig. 1,2,3, 5; and the decided opinion of Magendie, Journ. de Physiol, t. i. p. 3 et alibi. On this sub- ject see the remarks of Haller, not. 9. ad 91. Boerhaave, Prad. et not. 4. ad ยง. 103. The ob- servations of Du Vernoi, Mem. Petrop. t. i. p. 262 et seq., seem scarcely to have been confirmed.