AVES. 296 the preceding and situated beneath it, which arises from the outer margin of the ilium, and is inserted into that part of the femur which corresponds to the lesser trochanter, is regarded by Meckel as the Iliacus internus, which Cu- vier states to be wanting in Birds. It is, how- ever, present in most, and is seen highly deve- loped in the Ostrich. The muscles analogous to the Pyramidalis and Gemellus superior exist in Birds. There are most commonly three adductors of the thigh. The inferior, external, and posterior one arises from the middle of the external sur- face of the anterior margin of the ischio-pubic bone, and is inserted into the greater part of the lower half of the femur at 38. The second and third adductors are situated internally to the preceding; the latter of these may be compared to the Pectineus. The Sartorius (39) arises from the anterior point of the ilium, and passes down to be attached to the head of the tibia; it is an ex- tensor of the leg upon the thigh. The Rectus femoris (40) arises by a thin but wide aponeurosis from the spines of the sacrum, after a short course it joins the Crurmis and Vasti (42), and is inserted into the head of the fibula. It corresponds according to Meckel with the Tensor vagina femoris and the Gluteus magnus. The Gracilis (41) arises from the superior part of the pubis, descends along the inner side of the thigh and towards the lower extre- mity of this part, is continued into a long and strong tendon, which passes in front of the knee-joint, and over the extensor tendon of the leg to the outer side of the fibula, whence it pro- ceeds inwards, anterior to the tendon of the pero- neal flexor, to become united to the outer origin of the flexor perforatus of the toes. Meckel con- siders that the muscle now described represents the Rectus femoris of mammalia, and regards as the Gracilis a small and thin muscle, whose origin has been transferred lower down, from the pubis to the femur, from the internal side of which it passes to the internal and superior part of the tibia. Be this as it may, the disposition of the former muscle is such, passing, viz. first, over the convexity of the knee-joint, and after- wards over the projection of the heel, that from its connection with a flexor of the toes, these must necessarily be bent simultaneously with every inflection of the joints of the knee and ankle. As these inflections naturally take place when the lower extremities yield to the superincumbent weight of the body, birds are thus enabled to grasp the twigs on which they rest whilst sleeping, without making any muscular exertion. There are three flexors of the leg : one (43) which, although single, is from its insertion into the back of the fibula, analogous to the Biceps flexor cruris of the human subject: ano- ther on the inside is attached to the tendon of the extensors of the foot as well as the tibia ; this muscle mightbecalled the Semimembranosus (44): the third flexor is in the middle (45), it comes from the ischium, and as it descends it receives a broad fleshy slip from the back of the femur. It is inserted on the back of the tibia, the tendon covering those of the extensors of the heel. The muscles of the feet present in Birds essential resemblances to the same parts in Reptiles. They are divided into muscles of the tarsus, of the metatarsus, and of the toes, the latter being subdivided into long and short. The principal points in which they differ from the same muscles in Reptiles and the Mammalia are the following: their origins and carneous portions are not situated on the foot but higher up on the tibia and even on the femur. The great length of the metatarsus occasions the smaller muscles to be of a greater proportional length than in other animals. The muscular portions are most developed in the Raptores, Scansores, and Natatores ; the Insessores and Rasores present an intermediate proportion ; the Cursores and Grallatores have the longest tendons. The Gastrocnemius (46) has three distinct origins : two of these are superficial, one from the outer, the other from the inner condyle of the femur; the third origin is lower down from the inner side of the tibia and fibula (47). They unite to terminate in a thin and broad aponeurosis, which after becoming closely con- nected with a fibro-cartilage appertaining to the flexor digitorum, proceeds to be inserted into both the outer and inner margins of the tarso- metatarsal bone. The Tibialis anticus (48) arises from the an- terior part of the upper extremity of the tibia, below which its tendon passes through an aponeurotic loop extended from the outer to the inner margin of the tibia. It has also a second origin, by means of a slender tendon, from the anterior part of the external condyle of the femur. It is generally inserted pretty high up into the tarso-metatarsal bone between the outer and inner margins; but in the Psit- tacida it is attached lower down to the internal border, so as to turn the foot inwards as well as raise it, a disposition which is extremely favor- able for the act of climbing. The Peroneus (49) is a much smaller muscle ; it extends from the lower region of the fibula, and the outer and anterior edge of the tibia to the tarso-metatarsal bone, into the outer side of the base of which it is inserted. The Flexor perforatus seu longus digitorum (50) forms the superficial and external mus- cular mass of the leg: it arises by one mass from the posterior part of the external side of the femur, immediately in front of the outer head of the gastrocnemius; another portion arises from the outside of the lower extremity of the femur ; these two heads unite below the middle ofthelegand constitute one fleshy belly which gives off three tendons; these proceed to the proximal phalanges of the three outer toes where they bifurcate to give passage to the ten- dons of the flexor perforans. The Flexor pollicis (51) arises, by its anterior head, from the anterior and upper part of the tibia, and by its posterior head from the ex-