CARNIVORA. 470 penetrate the side of the sac, and so become extensively diffused through the surrounding cellular membrane, involving the whole anterior and lateral portions of the joint. In such a case the practitioner is very liable to be de- ceived as to the true character of the abscess, and to confound it with those which originate in the cellular membrane. There are certain cases in which acute inflam- mation of a bursa becomes even a more serious disease than that just alluded to. In the syno- vial sheaths of the flexor tendons, for example, the progress and termination of the inflamma- tion are often modified in a remarkable manner by the anatomical peculiarities of that part. In that form of the paronychia affecting the ante- rior part of the finger, and seated in the synovial sheath of its flexor tendon, the inflamed mem- brane is closely bound down by a dense and unyielding fibrous layer: hence not only death of the contained tendon may be produced, but even extension of the disease to the bone itself. Such are the morbid changes usually met with in the contents of inflamed buisae; but if the disease have been of long standing, changes scarcely less remarkable are produced in the structure of the bursa itself. Instead of the delicate synovial membrane we have above described, it is frequently found converted into a firm gristly substance, sometimes half an inch in thickness. In such cases no tact, how- ever delicate and experienced, could, previously to operation, have detected the piesence of matter. Monro seems to regard, in certain cases at least, the communication above alluded to be- tween certain bursse and the neighbouring joints as the result of rupture or of friction: he even considers it remarkable that in such instances neither lameness nor pain had been complained of during the lifetime of the individual. It ap- pears to us, however, much more probable that in those instances the synovial membrane of the joint and that of the bursa have been ab initio but different parts of one and the same structure; at least, in our dissections of the subcrureus bursa in young subjects, we have more than once observed it communicating freely with the joint. For Bibliography, see that of SYNOVIAL MEM- BRANE. CJohn E. Brenan.) CARNIVORA (caro, camis, and voro,) an interesting and highly important group of the mammifera, constituting the typical order of that great division of the class which feed upon animal aliment. Whether the present group can with propriety be considered as en- titled by its organization to the ordinal rank which we have assigned to it above, or whether it does not rather form a subdivision of a great order, answering nearly to the Carnassiers of Cuvier, is a question which, as it is variously viewed by different naturalists, may be safely left undecided in a work like the present, in which structure rather than arrangement is the principal ol ject of research, and in which the nomenclature of a system is of little importance, compared with the developement of anatomical and physiological truth. The Carnassiers of Cuvier (excluding the Marsupiata, which may unhesitatingly be considered as a distinct order,) includes a natural and tolerably well defined assemblage of animals, to which the term Zoopuaga may with propriety be applied as the classical equivalent to the French phrase of that distinguished zoologist; but however the stricter rules of zoological arrangement may render it difficult to divide this group into the three orders of Cheiroptera, Insectivora, and Carnivora, it has appeared to the author of this essay as more convenient on the present occasion to assign that designation to each of these divisions, and to make the structure of each the subject of a separate article. The characters of the Carnivora as distinct from the rest of the digitate animals possessing the three distinct classes of teeth, (which, be- sides the other Zoophaga, include the Quadru- riiana and the Marsupiata,) are such as point them out as especially formed for the pursuit and destruction of vertebrate animals. They possess in the upper and in the lower jaw six incisive teeth, a large, strong, and pointed ca- nine tooth on each side, and molar teeth which partake in a greater or less degree of the charac- ters distinctive of the class, according to the habits of the different genera. These molars con- sist of three distinct kinds: the anterior, which immediately follow the canine, are more or less pointed, and are termed false molars; the next class, formed especially for cutting in pieces the flesh on which the animals feed, are termed by M. Frederick Cuvier Carnassiers; and the posterior are tuberculated. The proportion which these different classes of teeth bear to each other in number or developement, accords with the degree of the carnivorous propensity in the animal. In agreement with these characters of the teeth, the feet are digitate, the toes furnished with claws, which in some are retractile ; the stomach is simple, the intestines are short, and the ccecum is either very small or altogether wanting. The animals of this order differ in the form and position of the posterior feet; in some, hence termed plantigrade, the whole foot rests on the ground; in others, called digitigrade, the toes only touch the ground, the heel being considerably raised. Of the former structure the bears exhibit the type, and the cats of the latter. A third and most remarkable form of the extremities is shown in the Seal tribe, in which the anterior as well as the posterior feet are formed for swimming, being spread into fin- like paddles. The families of which this order is com- posed are perhaps as follow :— 1. Ursidje, typical genus Ursus, bear. 2. Mustelidje, do. Mustela, marten. 3. Canidje, do. Canis, dog, wolf. 4. Felidje, do. Felis. cat. 5. Phocidje, do. Phoca, seal. Of these families the Felid* constitute the type of the order, possessing the carnivorous