CETACEA. 588 A comparison of the ear-bone of Balama Australis with that of Balana Mystketus cor- roborates by differences, slight indeed, the dis- tinction of species between them. " The cavity of the tympanum (a, a, Jig. 276) is lined with a membrane, which also covers the small bones with their muscles, and appears to have a thin cuticle. This membrane renders the bones, muscles, tendons, &c. very obscure, which are seen distinctly when that is removed. It appears to be a continuation of the periosteum, and the only uniting substance between the small bones. Besides the general lining, there is a plexus of vessels, which is thin and rather broad, and attached by one edge, the rest being loose in the cavity of the tympanum, somewhat like the plexus choroides in the ventricles of the brain. The cavity, we may suppose, intended to increase sound, pro- bably by the vibration of the bone ; and from its particular formation we can easily conceive that the vibrations are conducted, or reflected, towards the immediate organ, it being in some degree a substitute for the external ear. " The external opening being smaller than in any animals of the same size, the membrana tympani is nearly in the same proportion. In the Bottle-nose Whale, the Grampus, and Por- poise, it is smooth and concave externally; but of a particular construction on the inner sur- face ; for a tendinous process passes from it to- wards the malleus, converging as it proceeds from the membrane, and becoming thinner till its insertion into that bone. I could not dis- cover whether it had any muscular fibres which could affect the action of the malleus. In the Piked Whale, the termination of the external opening, instead of being smooth and concave, is projecting, and returns back into the meatus for above an inch in length, is firm in texture, with thick coats, is hollow on its inside, and its mouth communicating with the tympanum; one side being fixed to the malleus, by a part similar to the tendinous process which goes from the inside of the membrana tympani in the others.''* In the figure fjig.276), which represents the internal ear in the Balaena Mysticetus, the let- ters c, d, e indicate the extent of the membrana tympani, the letter e being placed on the part which forms a convex projection into the tym- panic passage : /'shows the triangular ligamen- tous process which attaches the handle of the malleus (g) to the membrana tympani. This connection between the membrane and the ossicles of the tympanum is denied by Sir Everard Home, who wrote a paper and pub- lished two plates in support of his opinion.f After quoting Mr. Hunter's description of the attachments of the membrana tympani in the Piked Whale, Sir Everard observes, " the fact is, that there is no connexion whatever between the membrana tympani and the malleus, as will be explained; but as that circumstance forms the great peculiarity in the organ of this species of Whale (Bulana mysticetus, L.) * Hunter in Philos. Trans. 1787, p. 432. f Philos. Trans. 1812, p. 88, pis. I. and II. Fig. 276. Internal car of the Mysticete Whale. I thought it right to quote what he had stated on this subject." So remarkable an anomaly as an absence of any communication between the membrana tympani and the ossicula audi- tus, would of itself, independently of our inte- rest for the character of Hunter as an accurate observer, have induced us to spare no pains to test the conflicting statements with the facts themselves; fortunately in this instance the preparations figured by Sir Everard are pre- served ; we have carefully examined them, and find the following to be the true structure of the parts in question. The membrane marked c in Sir Everard Home's second figure is con- tinuous at d, with e the convex projection of the membrana tympani; whereas the edge of the shadow is so strong in the figure as to make it appear as if c and e were separate membranes, as indeed Sir Everard de- scribes them to be : they are, on the contrary, parts of the same membrana tympani, the at- tachment of which is extended inwards beyond the circumference of the termination of the bony meatus auditorius. The triangular liga- ment /j which is common to all the Cetacea, is attached not only to the plane portion of the ear-drum, but to the whole of one side of the convex portion which projects into the meatus, and is affected by every motion of that part. It is a thick opaque aponeurosis, and not, as it is represented in the plate, a semitransparent membrane passing clear over the convex part of the drum. " A little way within the membrana tym- pani, are placed the small bones, which are three in number, as in the quadruped, mal- leus (g), incus (h), and stapes (iJ; but in the Bottle-nose Whale (Hyperoodon) there is a fourth, placed on the tendon of the stapedius muscle. These bones are as it were suspended between the bone of the tympanum, and that of the immediate organ. " The malleus has two attachments, besides that with the incus; one close to the bone of