DEATH. 795 respiratory. We cannot enter into the discus- sion, and therefore refer to the article Sym- pathy. But we beg to state that we have no where seen the subject treated with more eru- dition and acuteness, than in Dr. Fletcher's Rudiments of Physiology.* But while there can be no question that all the organs are more or less related in the man- ner above indicated, it is not less evident that the connection between some is of a far more intimate nature than between others. It is almost needless to instance the brain and the stomach, the brain, spinal marrow, and the heart, the heart and every part of the system, &c. &c. By overlooking the sympathetic re- lation between the brain and the heart, Bichat fancied that when he had proved the functional independence of the latter organ, he was com- pelled to search in some third part for the link between the death of the one and that of the other.f It cannot be denied that in a large proportion of cases, the syncope which follows lesions of the cerebro-spinal system, is not a direct consequence, and that there is an in- termediate suppression of the function of the lungs,—that in other words the syncope is the effect of asphyxia.]: (see Asphyxia.) It is somewhat remarkable that the illustrious phy- siologist just mentioned should have forgotten certain pathological facts which afford con- vincing evidence that cerebral injury may pro- duce death without developing the phenomena of asphyxia; the " apoplexie foudroyante," for example, and the concussion of a blow or a fall. Nor is it less surprising that in his numerous experiments upon animals he should not have noticed what was afterwards fully demonstrated by Legallois and W. Philip, that both the heart and the capillaries may be imme- diately paralysed by violence done to the brain and spinal marrow. It must be remembered, however, that this result is much affected both by the extent and by the nature of the injury. Thus the brain may be sliced and the spinal cord divided, with no other influence upon the circulation than that which depends upon the interference with the respiratory actions; but laceration or crushing of the cerebral matter is immediately felt by the heart and capil- laries. In these cases the circulation ceases, not because the cerebro-spinal axis takes any •part in that function, but because it is con- nected with the heart in the same manner as we have stated that all the parts of the body are more or less connected,— in bonds of alliance though not of dependence. We have reason, however, to believe that the intimacy of the alliance between the brain and the heart * Part ii. chap. vi. t Recherches snr la Vie et !a Mort, art. xii. §2. | We must not forget that even in many of these cases there is no immediate communication of injury from the part primarily affected to the organs of respiration. Thus, when a slight hemorrhage in one of the hemispheres of the brain occasions asphyxia, we are bound to believe that there is in the first place a sympathetic communication of de- rangement to the medulla oblongata, unless the hemorrhage has been so considerable as to cause compression of the whole encephalic mass. is scarcely equalled by that of any other organs in the system. The anatomical characters of syncope by nervous lesion are determined by the modus operandi of the injury. If the latter arrests the action of the heart only by obstructing the lespiratory movements, the appearances are those of asphyxia, (see Asphyxia.) But if the operation be immediately upon the heart, there will be a difference in the appear- ances, — a difference which likewise be- longs to all cases in which the circulation ceases without previous obstruction of respi- ration. The blood, instead of being accumu- lated in the right cavities of the heart, and in the pulmonary arteries, is more equally dis- tributed between these and the left cavities, and the pulmonary veins. There is generally a perceptible difference in the colour of the blood in the two sides of the heart, but some- what less than might at first be expected. The defect of arterial tint in the coagula of the left side may be fairly attributed to the drain- ing away of the serum, and consequently with it of the saline particles upon the pre- sence of which the red colour depends. Blood is found in the aorta and in many of the ar- teries. The signs produced by venous con- gestion, such as engorgement of the liver and spleen, turgescence of the cerebral veins and of those of the mucous membranes, are want- ing, as well as the tumefaction of the face, the puffing of the lips, the projection of the eyes, and the deep lividities characteristic of that condition. We must remember that the appearances are considerably modified if syn- cope has taken place gradually. In such in- stances the heart is generally found empty. The cause of this condition is obvious. In the first place, as the degree of the diastole must be proportionate to the systole, it is obvious that when the latter is enfeebled, less blood will be received into the cavities; and, secondly, as less blood is driven into the pul- monary artery and the aorta, there will be less to return' in a given space of time, and con- sequently there will be less impetus in the returning currents. It is easy to perceive that before the final and feeblest contraction, which must be succeeded by a correspondently slight dilatation, the current of blood pressing for admission must be very trifling. 3. Syncope by injuries of the heart itself— This is of too obvious a nature to require comment. 4. Syncope by injuries of other organs and tissues.—When death follows quickly upon a lesion which does not necessarily implicate tire vital organs, properly so called, we say in ge- neral terms that a shock has been given to the nervous system, in consequence of the strong- probability that some portion of this system is the agent of sympathy. If violent pain at- tends the injury, and to this succeeds loss of consciousness, and then cessation of the heart's action, it is fair to infer that the brain was first operated upon through the nerves of sensation, and that the derangement of this organ affected the circulation. But there are 3 f 2