353 AVES. closing the external part, which is of a conical form ; the latter extends from the base of the bulb, and gradually diminishes to a point where the shaft is completed and the barbs begin to expand. Its office is to deposit the pitli within the shaft, and it is absorbed in proportion as this is effected. The internal part or case also commences at the base of the bulb, and adheres closely to the cone, with which, indeed, its substance is continuous; it increases in thickness as the cone diminishes, its margins are beautifully scolloped or crenate, and the crenations are lodged in the interspaces of the oblique lamina; or moulds, and dpposit in them the material of the vane. The horny sides of the shaft are lodged and formed in the grooves between the external and internal parts of the bulb, and correspond in degree of formation to the depths of those grooves, and being progressively brought into contact from above downwards, the shaft is thus completed, leaving the longitudinal line at the internal side. When all the grooves, (wherein are formed the barbs, and the portion of the shaft which carries them) are filled by the horny matter, and the barbed part of the feather is finished, this horny matter lastly expands uni- formly around the medulla, and forms the quill of the feather. When the quill of the feather has acquired the due consistence, the internal medulla be- comes dried up, and is resolved, as before, into membranous cones arranged one upon the other; but these latter never pass out, for the quill, which is now hardened and closed by the shaft at the opposite extremity to the lower umbilicus, will not permit their egress; they remain, therefore, inclosed, and constitute the light dry pith which is found in the interior of the quill. The last remains of the bulb are seen in the ligament which passes from the pith through the lower opening of the quill and attaches it to the skin. Cuvier has justly observed that notwith- standing the complexity of the process just de- scribed, the formation of a feather differs only from that of a tooth in the nature of the substance which is deposited between the two tunics which constitute its mould ; but a tooth takes many years to be perfected, and there are but two series produced in one part of the jaw, and only 01.e in the other, in any warm-blooded animal. Feathers, on the other hand, are de- veloped in the course of some days; they attain a length of from one to two feet or more in many birds, and they are almost all re- newed every year,—in many species even twice a year. It may be conceived, then, how much vital energy the organization of birds must exercise, and how many dangers must accom- pany so critical a period as that of the moult. The plumage is commonly changed several times before it attains that state which is re- garded as characteristic of the adult bird. The time required for this varies from one to five years, and several birds rear a progeny before they acquire the plumage of maturity. When the male bird assumes a vestment VOL. I. differing in colour from the female, the young birds of both sexes resemble the latter in their first plumage ; but when the adult male and female are of the same colour, the young have then a plumage peculiar to themselves. Mr. Yarrell states a third law in addition to the preceding, viz. that whenever adult birds as- sume a plumage during the breeding season decidedly different in colour from that which they bear in winter, the young birds have a plumage intermediate in the general tone of its colour compared with the two periodical states of the parent birds, and bearing also indica- tions of the colours to be afterwards attained at either period. " There are three modes," the same author observes," by which changes in the appearance of the plumage of birds are produced :— " By the feather itself becoming altered in colour. " By the bird's obtaining a certain number of new feathers without shedding any of the old ones ; and " By an entire or partial moulting, at which old feathers are thrown off and new ones pro- duced in their places. " The first two of these changes are ob- served in adult birds at the end of spring, in- dicating the approach of the breeding season ; the third change is partial in spring and entire in autumn. " A fourth mode may be noticed, though its effects are limited. It is observable in spring, as the breeding season approaches, by the wearing off of the lengthened lighter- coloured tips of the barbs of the feathers on the body, by which the brighter tints of the plumage underneath are exposed, as was no- ticed by Sir William Jardine and Mr. Blyth. The effect is most conspicuous in the Bioilings, Finches, and Warblers."* The experiments detailed in the Memoir above quoted, some of which we witnessed, prove incontestably, that notwithstanding the extravascular nature of feathers, they are subject to influences, apparently of a vital nature, which occasion a change of colour in them after they are completely formed. In yearling birds the winter plumage which suc- ceeds the autumnal moult gradually assumes the brighter tints characteristic of the adult without a change of feather. The new colour commences generally at that part of the web nearest the body of the bird, and gradually extends outwards till it pervades the whole feather. Organs of generation. — The few varieties of structure which these organs present in the Class of Birds, are principally met with in those of the male, which we shall first de- scribe. The male organs of generation exhibit all the essential characteristics of the oviparous type of structure. The testes are situated high up in the abdomen, whence they never descend into an external scrotum. The intromittent * Yarrell, Zool. Trans, i. p. 13. 2 A