315 AVES. 3 and 4. extremities in Man. mechanical assistance which they afford to the muscles of the wings. This was first suggested to us by observing that an inflation of the air- cells in a Gigantic Crane (Ciconia Argala) was followed by an extension of the wings, as the air found its way along the brachial and anti-brachial cells.* In large birds, therefore, which, like the Argala, hover with a sailing motion for a long-continued period in the upper regions of the air, the muscular exertion of keeping the wings outstretched will be les- sened by the tendency of the distended air-cells to maintain that condition. It is not meant to advance this as any other than a secondary and probably partial use of the air-cells. In the same light may be regarded the use as- signed to them by Hunter, of contributing to sustain the song of Birds, and to impart to it tone and strength. It is no argument against this function that the air-cells exist in birds which are not provided with the mechanism necessary to produce tuneful notes; since it was not pre- tended by Hunter that this was the exclusive and only office of the air-cells. The latest writer on this subject has indeed proposed this suggestion of Mr. Hunter as a novel idea.f Air-passages.—The air-passages in birds commence by a simple superior larynx, from which a long trachea extends to the anterior aperture of the thorax, where it divides into the two bronchi, one to each lung. At the place of its division there exists, in most birds, a complicated mechanism of bones and carti- lages moved by appropriate muscles, and constituting the true organ of voice : this part is termed the inferior larynx. The tendency to ossification, which is ex- emplified in the bony condition of the costal cartilages and tendons of the muscles, is again manifested in the framework of the larynx and the rings of the trachea, which, instead of being cartilaginous, as in Reptiles and Mam- mals, are in most birds of a bony texture. The superior larynx (fig. 151, 174, 175,) is situated behind the root of the tongue, and rests upon the uro-hyal element of the os hy- oides, to which it is attached by dense cellular texture. It is composed of several bony and cartila- ginous pieces, varying in number from four to ten. The largest of these pieces constitutes the anterior part of the larynx. It is of an oval or triangular form, according as its superior termination is more or less pointed : it is regarded by Cuvier as analogous to the anterior part of the cricoid cartilage, (Lecons d'Anat. Comp. iv. p. 489,) but by Carus it is considered as representing the thyroid cartilage (f, fig. 151). The cricoid cartilage in birds consists of the three osseous pieces, which are situated at the posterior * On relating this fact to Mr. Clift, he suggested another use of the air-cells which is more generally applicable, namely, that of assisting the actions of the muscles by compressing and bracing them, in a manner analogous to the action of the fascia? of the t Jacquemin, Mcmoire stir la pneumatieite des ciseaux, 1835. and inferior part of the upper larynx; the middle one (g,fig- 151) is of an oblong form, and varies in size, being larger than the lateral ones in the Anatid<c, but smaller in the In- sessores. The lateral pieces are connected at one extremity with the thyroid piece, and at the other to the middle oblong piece above described, which completes the circle of the laryngeal frame-work posteriorly. Carus re- gards the first two incomplete tracheal rings (gg) as the anterior part of the cricoid. The arytenoid bones (h) rest upon the middle ob- long portion of the cricoid, and extend for- wards, being connected at their outer edge by means of elastic cellular substance to the thy- roid bone, and attached by their anterior ex- tremities to the uro-hyal bone by means of two small ligaments :* they form, by their inner margins, the rimu glottidis or laryngeal fissure. This fissure (i,fig. 152) being thus bounded by inflexible rigid substances is only susceptible of having its lateral diameter varied according to the degrees of separation or approximation to which the arytenoid bones are subject. These different states are produced by (appropriate muscles, one pair of which may be regarded as analogous to the Thyreo-arytenoidei, and the other may be termed Constrictores glottidis. The former of these muscles (k k, fig. 174,) arise from the sides and posterior surface of the thyroid bone, and are inserted into the whole length of the inner edge of the arytenoid cartilages, which they draw out- wards, and consequently open the laryngeal fissure. The constrictores glottidis in the Gigantic Crane arise from the middle of the in- ternal or posterior surface of the thyroid bone, and are inserted into the extremi- ties of the arytenoid pieces. According to Mr. Yarrell, from whose Memoir the subjoined figures are taken, the constrictors of the glottis {I, fig AT b) " pass from the upper portion of the cricoid (thyroid) cartilage along the crura of the ary- tenoid cartilages, upon each outer edge of which they are inserted."y In either case these muscles are enabled to close the la- ryngeal opening with con- siderable force, and with such accuracy as to super- sede the necessity of an epiglottis. From the sim- plicity of the structure just described, from the situation of the superior larynx with relation to the rictus or gape of the bill, and from the absence of lips by which this might be partially or * Linn. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 306, pi. 17, figs. + This description is taken from the Gigantic Crane. — Ciconia Argala. Fig. 175.