BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. 428 mention Dr. Turner, M. Lecanu, and Dr. O'Shaughnessy. Cholera blood, according to these authorities, contains less water and more albumen and haematosine than healthy blood, and its salts are in unusually small quantity, or almost entirely wanting. Dr. O'Shaughnessy, who has detected urea in cholera blood, states that the summary of his experiments denotes a great but variable deficiency of water in the blood of four malignant cholera cases; a total absence of carbonate of soda in two ; its occur- rence in an almost infinitessimally small propor- tion in one ; and a remarkable diminution of the other saline ingredients : lastly, the micro- scopic structure of the blood and its capability of aeration are shewn to be preserved. The cause of the dark colour of the blood in cholera is a point which we are told by Dr. Turner is by no means decided. Dr. Thomson and Dr. O'Shaughnessy are at variance on the question of Its susceptibility of arterialization. Dr. Stevens rather unphilosophically makes its dark colour to depend primarily on the poi- sonous cause of contagion, yet attributes it also to a deficiency in the proportion of saline matter. It is probably not owing to either of these causes, but to a defective circulation through the lungs, from which the blue livid tint frequently observed over the surface of the limbs likewise originates. The corresponding diminution of animal heat gives countenance to this supposition. Chlorosis.—Among other changes which oc- cur in the progress of chlorosis, there is none more constant than an impoverished condition of the blood, which is thin, light-coloured, and weakly coagulable, being deficient in fibrine, and still more so in the proportion of the red par- ticles. To the latter cause is to be attributed the diminished temperature of the surface, to- gether with the universal pallor and waxy ap- pearance which those who are the subjects of this disease generally exhibit. The deficiency of colour in the catamenia, and the pale stain which haemorrhages from the nose leave on linen, are also referable to the same cause. In aggravated cases, if blood be drawn from the arm, the crassamentum is observed to be of a pale rose colour, and small in proportion to the serum. We have to regret that in this, as in most other cases of morbid blood, pathologists have contented themselves with a general ob- servation of facts without attempting to inves- tigate them with that degree of precision which can alone lead to a further advancement of our knowledge respecting their causes. The only analyses of chlorotic blood of which I can find a record are given by Mr. Jenkins in two well- marked cases of chlorosis ; the one of a girl aged fifteen, the other of a young woman aged twenty-one. In these the blood contained 871 and 852 parts in a thousand, of water, respec- tively, instead of 780, the healthy standard; and the colouring matter amounted to 48-7 and 52, instead of 133. The albumen and salts were in the usual proportions. Melanosis.—Although it would be foreign to my present object to treat of the various morbid products which may be supposed to have their origin in a diseased state of the blood, yet there is one which seems so evidently to be the result of an accidental change in that fluid, that it must not be passed over without a brief notice. The similarity of chemical composition in the blood and in the matter of melanosis is such as to leave little doubt that the material of which the latter is composed has its origin in the circulation, and is afterwards deposited in the various parts in which it is found. The different analyses of melanosis, says Andral, all concur in one important point. They all shew that the accidental production called melanosis is formed of the different elements of blood, and especially of a colouring matter which more or less resembles that of the blood, but which is, nevertheless, not identical with it. M. Foy, in his analysis, calls this altered cruor. Dr. Carswell, to whom we owe the most detailed and best account of melanosis which we possess, states that he has fixed its seat in the blood, not only because it is seen there, but because his anatomical researches shew that it is there formed. He makes a grand division of melanosis into true and spurious; the former of which occasionally makes its appearance in the circulating system, a fact which is well established, while the latter is more decidedly the result of chemical action. Whenever healthy blood comes in contact with an acid, whether in or out of the body, its colour changes from red to brown or black, in proportion to the strength and abund- ance of the acid employed. It is to this cause that we are to attribute the appearance of brown or black ramifications, patches, or points, as ob- served after death in the stomach and intestines. To this cause also are owing the accumulations, during life, of black pitchy matters in the ali- mentary canal, and it is by the acidity of the black vomit and its power of reddening litmus paper, as we learn from Dr. Stevens, that it can alone be distinguished from blood rendered black by defective decarbonization or the ab- sence of saline ingredients. Where a haemor- rhage occurs, whether by the rupture of a large vessel or by a general oozing from the mucous membrane into the stomach or bowels, we shall find the fluid ejected assume the appearance of red blood or of brown or black matter, accord- ing to the presence or absence of the gastric juice in an acid state. Upon this almost acci- dental circumstance, then, will it depend whether we are to designate the disease haemalemesis or melasna, there being in reality no essential dif- ference between the two diseases. The black discolouration of blood which occurs whenever it becomes stagnant from retarded or interrupted circulation, will, by those who follow the views of Dr. Stevens, be attributed to a similar cause. According to that author it is the presence of carbonic acid which acts like other acids in ren- dering venous blood dark, and it is its abstrac- tion by oxygen which, combined with the action of the saline matters it contains, restores it to its scarlet hue. The foregoing are among the more pro- minent diseases in which the blood has been observed to undergo changes either directly