307 AVES. semilunar tendinous sheath, having no express or fixed insertion. The second muscle, called Pyramidalis nictitantis, (h, fig. 139,) arises from the sclerotica from the lower and nasal side of the eye-ball; its fibres con- verge as they pass to the upper side of the optic nerve, and there terminate in a small round tendon, which glides through the pulley at the free margin of the quadiatus, and wind- ing round the optic nerve, passes along a cellu- lar sheath at the lower part of the sclerotica, and is inserted into the lower part of the mar- gin of the third eye-lid, along which it is continued for some distance, and is gradually lost. By the simultaneous action of the two mus- cles, the membrana nictitans is drawn forcibly outwards and with an oblique inclination down- wards over the anterior part of the eye.* The tendon of the pyramidalis gains the due direc- tion for that action by winding round the optic nerve, and it is restrained from pressing upon that nerve during the action of the pyramidalis muscle by the counteracting force of the qua- diatus, which thus augments the power of the antagonist muscle, while it obviates any incon- venience from pressure on the optic nerve, which its peculiar disposition in relation to that part would otherwise occasion. To examine this singular and beautiful me- chanism, it is necessary to remove the muscles of the eye-ball, especially the recti. Lachrymal Organs.—There are two glands which secrete a fluid to lubricate the ball of the eye, and facilitate the movements of the eye-lids ; one of these relates more especially to the movements of the nictitating membrane, and is called from its discoverer the Harderian Gland; the other corresponds to the ordinary Glandula lachrymalis. Fig. 140. * This oblique motion is most remarkable in the Owls, in which the nictitating membrane is ac- companied by the upper eye-lid in its sweeping movement across the eye-ball. The Glandula Harderiana (i, fig. 140) is a conglomeration of mucous follicles, which compensates for the absence of Meibomian glands in Birds; it is generally of large size, situated at the internal angle of the eye, and pours out a thick viscid secretion by a small duct which opens beneath the nictitating membrane. The surface of the gland is di- vided into many small lobules, which, when injected with mercury, are seen to be com- posed of still smaller vesicles. It is interesting to find that some of the Rodentia, which manifest so many affinities to the Class of Birds, have a corresponding- gland ; in the Hare, for example, it is of large size and bipartite, situated at the internal angle of the orbit, and opening beneath the internal eye-lid. The true lachrymal gland is situated at the external angle of the eye. In the Goose it is of a flattened form, about the size of a pea, opening upon the inside of the outer angle of the eye-lids by a short and wide duct. Its secretion is less viscid than that of the Har- derian gland : but this is not uniformly the case. The lachrymal duct consists of a wide mem- branous canal commencing by two apertures at the nasal canthus of the eye, and terminating below and a little before the middle or great turbinated cartilage. In the Ostrich there is a glandular prominence at the commencement of each of the lachrymal canals; these seem analogous to the caruncula lachrymalis. In other birds this structure is wanting. Nasal gland. (k, fig. 140.)— Besides the lachrymal glands, or those which furnish a fluid for the purpose of lubricating, defending, and facilitating the movements of the eye-ball, there exists another gland, which, from its position within or near the orbit, seems at first sight to appertain to the preceding series, but the secretion of which is exclusively employed in lubricating the pituitary membrane of the nose. This gland, which corresponds to the nasal glands of serpents, and those described by Jacobson* in Mammalia, is situated in many aquatic and marsh birds above the supra-orbital ridge in a depression noticed in the description of the skull, (p. 278.) In most birds it is lodged within the orbit itself; in some it is found under the nasal bone, or in the cavity analogous to the maxillary sinus. In the Woodpeckers it is found in the sub- ocular air-cell. It appears to be present in every order of Aves.f In the Anserine Birds this gland is so situ- ated as to complete the superior margin of the orbit, (k, fig. 140,) and is inclosed in an ex- tremely dense fibrous membrane. Its duct (I, fig. 140) is long, and passes to the nose along an osseous groove, behind the lachrymal bone. Its structure is simple, like that of the salivary glands in the same class, being com- posed of ramified follicles from which the * Nouv. Bullet, des Sc. par la Soc. Philomath, iii. an 6. p. 267. t Nitzsch, Meckel's Archrv. vi. p. 234. x 2