165 ANNELIDA. &c., but is not received by all zoologists of the present day. M. De Blainville, in his metho- dical distribution of the animal kingdom, has adopted another plan. Taking the exterior organs for the base of his system, this naturalist divides the articulate animals, which he terms " Entomozoaires," into seven classes, of which the penultimate, viz., the " chetopodes," com- prehends the Annelidans provided with loco- motive bristles, and of which the last, viz, the " apodes," is composed of the Annelidans des- titute of those organs, together with the planariae and intestinal worms.* The general plan of organization exhibited in the animals which are grouped together by Cuvier under the name of " vers intestinaux," and the numerous affinities which connect the planariee and several helmintha to the Annelida, appear to us fully to justify a partial adoption of the innovations introduced by M. De Blain- ville, and to indicate that the natural position of the white-blooded worms is by the side of those with red blood, at the bottom of the sub- kingdom of articulate animals; whilst in the system of Cuvier the Annelida are placed at the head of that great division of the animal kingdom, and the entozoa are left among the zoophytes. But, on the other hand, similar reasons appear to us to oppose the adoption of the divisions which M. De Blainville has proposed for the articulate animals. That zoologist, in fact, establishes a distinction between his che- topoda and apodaas wide as between the former and the insecta, arachnida and Crustacea, and thus separates from the setiferous annelidans to place among the intestinal worms the hirudines, which approximate to the former and deviate from the latter in many of the most important points of their organization ; for example, in the existence of a gangliated nervous system. This arrangement does not appear to us to accord with the spirit of a natural classification, in which the several divisions ought to be in- dicative of the different degrees of importance which the modifications of the animal organiza- tion present. In the present state of science the class An- nelida ought in our opinion to be preserved nearly as it was established by Cuvier, but should be joined with the entozoa and rotifera, to form a great division of the sub-kingdom articulata, distinct from the natural group, con- sisting of insecta, myriapoda, arachnida, and Crustacea. The affinities, indeed, between the setiferous annelidans and the hirudines are too close to admit of their being arranged in sepa- rate classes; and, on the other hand, every day discloses new facts of a nature which demon- strate that the vermiform animals pass from one to another by almost insensible gradations. Thus the researches of M. Duges on the planariae show how closely their structure ap- proaches that of certain red-blooded worms, and the distinction founded on the colour of the nutritious fluid no longer suffices to separate * See the Bulletin de la Soc. Philomathique, 1818 ; De l'Organization des Animanx par M. de Blainville, torn. i. table 7 ; and the article ' Vers' of the Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturellcs, torn. lvii. them ; for on the one hand it is proved that the colour of the blood is yellow and not red in some of the annelidans properly so called ; while on the other hand I have recently ob- served on the shores of the Mediterranean an animal which differs from the genus prostoma only in the possession of red blood. We now know intestinal worms which have a circulation and a vascular system as well formed as that of the annelida, which they already resemble so much by their outward form. The absence o{ a rudimentary nervous system in the entozoa is called m question by skilful anatomists. Lastly, the excellent works of Ehrenberg on the in- fusoria of the class rotifera prove the analogy that exists between these minute beings and the articulate animals generally, but more espe- cially to the annelida. The differences which the annelida present among themselves have necessitated their di- vision into many secondary groups or orders. In the latest work* that has been published on the classification of these animals, they have been divided into four orders, under the names of Annelida errantia, Annelida tubicola, Anne- lida terricola,and Annelida snctoria (suceuses). This classification is based on the combination of the modifications which exist in the struc- ture of these beings, and does not materially differ from that proposed by M. Cuvier in the Regne Animal, and by M. Savigny in the great work on Egypt. The following; is a table of the principal characters which distinguish these groups. First Order.—Annelida errantia. Body, with soft appendages (cirri, branchiae, or antennae), generally disposed over the whole length of the animal, and not collected towards the cephalic extremity. Feet generally very distinct, armed with setie or bristles, which have very rarely the form of hooks. Head generally distinct, and provided with eyes, antenna?, and a retractile proboscis, often with jaws. (This order, which nearly corresponds to that of the Annelida dorsibranchiata of Cuvier, com- prehends the genera Aphrodita, Polyno'e, Polyo- dvntes, Acoetcs, Sigaliun, Palmyra, Amphinome, Chloeia, Euphrosyrie, Hippono'e, Eunice, Onu- phis, Diopatra, Lysidice, Lumbrincreis,Aglaura, OEnone, Nereis, Syllis, Hesione, Alciope, Myri- ana, Pliyllodoce, Nephtys, Ooninada, Glyce/a, Aricia, Aunis, Ophelia, Cirrhatulis, Periputus, Chetopterus, Arenicola.) Second Order.—Annelida tubicola. Body, with soft appendages, for the most part collected together at the cephalic extremity. Feet, almost always of two kinds, generally de- prived of cirri, and armed with hooked bristles, Head not distinct, without eyes, antennae, pro tractile proboscis, or jaws. (This order corresponds to that established by Cuvier under the same name, and includes the * See Classification des Annelides et description des especes qui habitent les cotes de la France, par MM. Audouin et Milne Edwards, torn. ii. des Recherches pour servir al'Hist. Nat. du littoral de la France.