AVES. 342 are partially covered by a slight projection of membrane. The pulmonary artery divides, almost im- mediately after its origin, into two branches, one to each lung; the ramifications of each artery form plexuses upon the air-cells, and freely anastomose with the pulmonary veins; these leave the lung by a single trunk, and the two pulmonary veins unite into one belore terminating in the left auricle. The thoracic-abdominal cavity is subdivided and intersected by a number of membranes; the greater part of the cells thus formed are filled with air. The texture of their parietes possesses considerable firmness in the larger birds, as the Ostrich and Cassowary, in which they were described by the French Academi- cians as so many distinct bags. The innermost layer of the air-receptacles can be separated from the outer layer, and is a continuation of the lining membrane of the bronchial tube; the outer layer is a serous membrane, and appears to form the cells by a series of reflections of what may be regarded as the pleura or peritoneum. These large membranous receptacles into which the extremities of the bronchial tubes open are disposed with sufficient general regu- larity to admit of a definite description and nomenclature. Fig. 173. Air-receptacles of a Swan. The first or inter-clavicular air-cell (a, Jig. 173) extends from the anterior part of each lung, forwards to the interspace of the fur- culum, anterior to which it dilates in the Gannet and many other birds into a large globular receptacle. In the Vultures it is di- vided into two lateral receptacles, between which the large crop is situated. A thin fan- shaped muscle is extended from the anterior edge of the furculum, over the interclavicular air-cell in these and some other birds The anterior thoracic cell (6) contains the lower larynx and bronchi, and the great vessels with their primary branches to the head and wings. It is traversed by numerous mem- branous septa, which connect the different vessels together, and maintain them in their situations. The air passes into the posterior part of this receptacle by two openings at the anterior part of the lungs. The deep-seated air-cells of the neck are continued from it anteriorly. The lateral thoracic cells (d) are continued on each side from a foramen on the inner edge of the lung, situated just opposite the base of the heart; they are covered by the anterior tho- racic air-cell, and from them the air passes into the axillary and subscapular cells, into those of the wing, and into the humerus (e). They also communicate with the cellula cordis posterior (c), behind the heart and bronchi, which cell is often subdivided into several small ones. The cellula hepatica are of much larger size; they are two in number, of a pyramidal figure, with their bases applied to the lateral thoracic cells, and their apices reaching to the pelvis: they cover the lower portions of the lungs and the lobes of the liver ; they receive air from several foramina situated near and at the external edge of the lungs. The cellula abdominales commence be- neath the cellulae hepatica? at the inferior ex- tremity of the lungs, where the longest branches of the bronchia open freely into them. (A bristle is passed through one of these openings in the figure.) They are distinguished into right (f) and left (h); the former is gene- rally the largest receptacle in the body; it ex- tends from the last ribs to the anus, and covers the greater part of the small intestines, the supra-renal gland, and kidney of the same side. The left abdominal cell (A) contains the intestines of its own side, and is attached to the gizzard. In some large Birds, as the Gannet, it is separated from the right recep- tacle by a mediastinal membrane {g) which is continued from the gizzard to the anus. Both the abdominal receptacles transmit air to the pelvic cells (i, k) of their respec- tive sides, and to several small and extremely delicate cells between and behind the coils of intestine. One of these is continued round the fold of the duodenum and pancreas to the gizzard, and has been termed the duodenal cell. From the inguinal cell are continued the in- termuscular glutaal and femoral cells, which surround the head of the femur, and commu- cate with that bone by an aperture (/) situated