484 CAROTID ARTERY. Externally the carotid artery is bounded by the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gas- tric nerve, both of which are contained within its sheath ; the vein when distended advances in front of it and partly conceals it; the nerve lies in the posterior part of the sheath, behind and between the artery and vein, more closely attached to the latter vessel; on the left side the internal jugular vein lies closer to the ca- rotid, in front of which it passes at the lower part of the neck in its course to the vena inno- minata; on the right side the jugular vein is separated from the carotid inferiorly by a small intervening space, principally occupied by cel- lular tissue, in consequence of the vein of this side descending to join the commencement of the superior cava in a perpendicular course further from the mesial line than the point at which the carotid is given off from the arteria innominata. Internally the carotid is bounded by the trachea at its lower part; higher up by the thyroid body and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, by which it is separated from the cricoid and thyroid cartilages; the recurrent nerve also lies on its inner side, but separated from it by a quantity of loose cellular tissue; in addition to the foregoing relations, the left carotid lies in contact with the oesophagus. The varieties to which the origins of the carotid arteries are subject are the following : 1. the right carotid sometimes arises separately from the aorta ; this variety occurs when there are four large trunks arising from the arch of the aorta, of which the right carotid is the first, and the right subclavian the last in order ; 2. sometimes the arteria innominata gives origin to the left carotid, in addition to the right ca- rotid and right subclavian, in which case the left carotid has to cross in front of the lower part of the trachea to enter upon its cervical course ; 3. the right and left carotids some- times spring from a common trunk, which arises from the arch of the aorta between the right and left subclavian arteries; in this variety as well as in the preceding, the situation of the carotids in front of the trachea exposes them to the danger of being wounded in the operation of tracheotomy, in performing wmch the sur- geon should always be prepared to meet with the existence of such irregularities of distribu- tion: 4. the left carotid sometimes arises from a left arteria innominata, which also gives off the left subclavian. (See Aorta.) The bifurcation of the primitive carotid most frequently occurs opposite the superior margin of the thyroid cartilage, in front of the third cervical vertebra; it may, however, take place above or below that point. It sometimes bifur- cates opposite the cornu of the os hyoides, or, which rarely happens, behind the angle of the lower jaw; in cases where the bifurcation is higher than usual, the primitive carotid often furnishes some of the branches ordinarily arising from the external carotid. The high bifurcation is an approximation to that condi- tion of the carotid in which no bifurcation takes place, but where the primitive carotid, after having given all the branches which the external carotid usually supplies, enters the cranium and becomes the internal carotid. 2. The primitive carotid sometimes bifurcates lower down in the neck than usual. I have seen such a bifurcation occurring on both sides in an old female subject, as low as the inferior border of the thyroid body. The bifurcation of the carotid has the same relation to the larynx at all periods of life: it is more distant from the angle of the jaw in the infant than in the adult; the depth of the lower jaw in the former being much less, owing to the non-development of the roots of the teeth and alveolar processes: in old persons who have lost their teeth, and whose alveolar processes have been absorbed, the jaw being in the edentulous condition, the angle of the jaw is carried forward and thus removed farther from the bifurcation of the carotid. By de- pressing the head the angle of the jaw is brought nearer to the bifurcation; while the distance between these parts may be consi- derably increased by throwing the head back- wards. The bifurcation of the primitive carotid gives origin to the external and internal carotids; the former of these supplies the larynx, thyroid body, pharynx, throat, face, and external parts of the head; the latter is distributed to the brain and the internal parts of the organs of hearing and vision. These two vessels lie close together at their origins. The internal is at first more superficial and more external in situation than the external, but becomes the more deeply situated of the two as they ascend. They are nearly of equal size in the adult when the bifurcation occurs at the usual place; while in the infant the internal is larger than the external. The external carotid, (arteria carotis externa, snperficialis vel anterior, Samm. Ja- ciale of Chaussier,) extends from the bifurca- tion of the primitive carotid to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, where it terminates by dividing into the superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. In this course it describes a curve, the concavity of which is outwards and a little backwards, as it ascends between the ear and the ramus of the lower jaw. At first it is superficial, merely covered by the integuments, platysma and cervical fascia; it then ascends under the ninth or hypoglossal nerve and the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and buries itself in the substance of the parotid gland. In- ternally it rests at first on the commencement of the internal carotid, then over the middle con- strictor of the pharynx, the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve and the styloid process of the tem- poral bone; the superior and inferior pharyn- geal nerves coming from the par vagum also pass under it in their course to the pharyngeal plexus. The part of the parotid gland which the external carotid first enters is the internal surface of its lower extremity, consequently the whole thickness of the gland covers it at