299 AVES. are equally obvious in the brains of reptiles. They are, however,differently disposed in birds; the optic lobes, which in reptiles intervene and are visible between the cerebrum and cerebel- lum, being in birds displaced, as it were, by the hemisphere and cerebellum coming into close contact, so that the optic lobes are pushed downwards and to one side. The transverse convolutions of the cerebellum at once distin- guish, however, the brain of a bird from that of any reptile and most fishes; but it is a curi- ous fact that the cerebellum in the sharks is similarly composed of a vermiform process only, transversely folded or convoluted. The cerebral hemispheres sometimes present the form of a flattened oval, as in the Parrot tribe, but in general are of a convex cordiform shape, with the apex directed forward. The optic lobes (b, jig. 135) are rounded tubercles, situated be- low and behind the hemispheres, in the la- teral interspace betv/een these and the cerebel- lum. The cerebellum is , , composed of the middle Base of the brain of a , . r , , • r Pigeon. *°"e onV> and ls ol a compressed arched form. The medulla oblongata presents neither a tuber annulare nor corpora olivaria or pyrami- dalia, but is a large uniform tract situated be- tween and behind the optic lobes. On the lower part of the side of each cere- bral hemisphere there is a depression which corresponds to the fissura magna Sylvii, and is the only appearance which the hemispheres present of a division into lobes. Elsewhere there are no traces of convolutions, the cere- brum in this respect resembling that of Rep- tiles and Fishes, and some of the least intel- ligent orders of Mammalia, as the Rodent ia, Marsupiata, and Edentata. The optic lobes are also devoid of the transverse fissure which bisects the optic lobes of mammalia. The cerebellum is marked by close and transverse anfractuosities, such as characterize the corresponding portion of the cerebellum in mammalia, called the vermiform process. Fig. 136. Brain of a Pigeon. When the cerebral hemispheres are divari- cated from each other, (Jig. 136,; they are i seen to be disunited through the whole of their vertical extent, and to be joined only by the round anterior commissure of the brain (k,Jtg. 136.) In fact both the corpus callosum and fornix are wanting ; or at most a rudiment only of the latter part can be perceived in the brains of some birds, as the Eagles, Vultures, and Parrots. The mesial surfaces of the hemispheres, which are in contact with each other, present a few strise which diverge from the commissure. These surfaces are composed of an extremely thin layer of medullary substance, (g,) forming the internal parietes of the ventricle, and ex- tended outwardly over the corpus striatum (i.) This body is of very great size in birds, consti- tuting of itself almost the entire substance of the hemisphere, projecting into the ventricle, (h,) not only from below, but from the anterior and outer sides of the cavity, and being covered by a smooth layer or fold of medullary matter, (J\) which increases in thickness anteriorly. The ventricle does not extend below the corpus striatum to form an inferior horn; and, as in most mammalia there is no extension of the cavity backwards to form a posterior horn, there is consequently no cornu ammonis. The vessel forming the plexus choroides penetrates the ventricle beneath the posterior part of the thin internal wall, and the lateral ventricles communicate together there, and with the third ventricle. They are continued anteriorly to the root of the olfactory nerve, which is itself a continuation of the apex of the hemisphere. Just above the orifice of communication there is a smooth flattened projection, rounded exter- nally, which advances into the ventricle from the internal wall; this is a rudiment of the fornix. The round anterior commissure (7c) is pro- longed on either side into the substance of the hemispheres, as in man and quadrupeds. The optic thalami (I) are of small size, and not united by a soft commissure: between them is the cavity called third ventricle (m); and above and behind they give off the peduncles of the pineal gland. This body does not hang freely suspended by the pedicles, but seems to form a rounded and thickened anterior border of the valvulaVieussenii orlamelliform commis- sure of the optic lobes. Cams describes the pineal gland as adhering firmly to the conflu- ence of the great veins situated at the anterior orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius. In Pigeons he states that it is composed of many segments, but that in general it is of a simple and conical form; the figure which he gives of it, from the Turkey, exhibits a pyriform shape.* The valve which closes the upper part of the passage from the third to the fourth ventricle, is a thin lamella of great width, in consequence of the distance to which the optic lobes are sepa- rated from one another. Anteriorly the third ventricle communicates with the infundibulum. The fourth ventricle (n) resembles that in the brain in mammalia, but is of less width ; its floor is indented with the longitudinal fissure called calamus scriptorius. Besides the cavities or ventricles above men- tioned, there are also two others situated in the optic lobes (o), or bigeminal bodies, each of which, when laid open, is seen to be occupied by a convex body (p) projecting from the posterior and internal side of the lobe; these ventricles communicate with the others in the aqueduct of Sylvius. As there is no transverse furrow in the optic lobes, they cannot be distinguished into the protuberances called ' nates' and ' testes ' in fig. 6 Anat. Comparce, nouv. ed. i. p. 88, pi. xv.