763 CRUSTACEA. as finally to constitute a single continuous mass only. The same thing happens in re- gard to the fifth and sixth, which soon form no more than a single ganglion. As to the other pairs they always remain completely distinct, and some way parted from one another. Thus the study of the gradual evolution of the nervous system in the Astacus fluviatilis, al- though by no means belonging to the type in which this system is most completely developed, presents us with three distinct and successive facts, which we shall find reproduced in the most perfect manner in the natural series of genera, and which will put us into a position to give a satisfactory explanation of those very striking variations in the organization which we shall encounter. These are, in the first place, the isolated for- mation of the nervous centres, independently one of another. We now acknowledge this independence of the several organs at the moment of their appearance, and their ulterior conjunction is one of the most interesting and important facts with which modern science has been enriched; it constitutes the law of centri- petal development, as it has been established by M. Serres. .In the second place a tendency to conjunc- tion by a motion transversely. Lastly, a second motion in the line of the axis of the body, the effect of which is the concentration definitively of a greater or smaller number of nervous centres primarily indepen- dent of one another. The Talitrus exhibits in the Fig. 391. most striking manner the first of «s the three dispositions which we have mentioned from the mo- _ ment at which the nervous sys- °~~ tem appears. In this genus, in fact, we perceive on either side |gs of the median line a ganglionic chain, formed by the conjunc- _ tion of the nervous centres, extremely simple in their struc- & ture, and flattened and some- what lozenge-shaped in their outline.* There are thirteen ,_. pairs thus constituted, corres- ponding to the thirteen seg- ments which enter into the com- IP position of the whole body. The two nuclei of each pair com- <^ municate together, in the same manner as each pair is con- 'Hftf= nected with that which succeeds, J(jl and with that which precedes it, *inp by means of medullary cords in Ar the first instance, and longitu- v i , . ,' , 3 _ or the lulitrus. dinal cords in the second. In ... i i i a, cephalic ean- all essential particulars each pair gjia . b> 5me_ is a counterpart of any and dullary 'cords every other pair, without even uniting the first excepting the cephalic ganglion, and second pair and it is with difficulty that the of SanSlia- * Vide Recherches Anatomiques snr le Systeme Kerveux des Crustaces, par M M. Audouin et Milne Edwards, Annales des Sciences Naturelles, torn. 14. thoracic pairs are seen to be in a slight degree larger than the others. At a somewhat greater distance forward from the oesophagus, too, than usual, we observe the cephalic ganglion, which sends branches to the antennae and eyes, and the nervous cords by means of which it commu- nicates with the ganglions of the first thoracic rings. These cords, having the oesophagus inter- posed between them, are held a little farther apart than the other branches, which establish com- munications between the different succeeding pairs of ganglions in the longitudinal direction. Already in the Oniscus asellus* and in the Cy- amus ceti\ we find the ganglionic cord, double in its middle portions, simplified at its opposite extremities in such wise that the ganglions of the first and of the last pairs are single. This commencement of approximation coincides in other respects with an incipient approximation in the longitudinal direction, for, to the four- teen segments of which the whole body consists, we find no more than ten pairs of ganglions apportioned. This tendency to centralization is still more conspicuous in the Phyllosoma.J Here we discover the two cephalic nuclei united by their internal angle, without, however, their state of doubleness being thereby obscured. It is the same with the first pair of thoracic ganglions, from which they are separated by the whole length of the great oval lamina which supports the cephalic appendages and is traversed lengthwise by the nervous filaments which embrace the oesophagus. The ganglions of the second pair, although rudimentary, are still united immediately, as are those of the third pair also. Those of the six suc- ceeding pairs, on the contrary, Fig. 392. only communicate by means of a transverse but thick and short commissure, so that it gives to the connexion established be- tween the nuclei of the several ^{f3^ pairs, the appearance of a more immediate conjunction than ac- tually exists. To conclude, the abdominal ganglions are perfectly distinct, and those of the several pairs are only connected by means of extremely slender fila- ments. In the Cymothoa the union of the medullary nuclei in the trans- verse direction is complete, and all we perceive is a single series extended along the median line through the whole length of the body. This is similar to the nervous system of the Talitrus conjoined longitudinally; with this difference, that the longitudinal filaments uniting the ganglion have continued distinct, as if to testify, by their doubleness, to the mode of formation of the single ganglionic cord. * Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie comparee, t. ii. p. 314. V t Treviranus.VermischteSchriften anatomischer und physiologischer inhalts, Band 2. Heft I. t Audouin et Edwards, loc. cit. 3 d 2 Nervous system oftheCymothoa.