240 ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. of actual loss of blood, it is not easy to pro- cure a dissection which can satisfactorily shew the condition of the vessel at the moment it begins to bleed, and no subsequent examination can be relied on, because the pressure or other means used to stop the bleeding may in the course of a very few days alter the appearances completely. I have availed myself of every opportunity that occurred, and state the results, not with the presumptive hope of being able to establish any general principle, but to excite others to inform themselves on every case fa- vourable to the further prosecution of the in- quiry, and, perhaps, in some respects to justify the opinions I have formed. It is worthy of re- mark, that secondary haemorrhage occurs much more frequently in the arteries of the lower than of the superior extremities or of the neck, and all the specimens I have examined were of the femoral that had been tied from half an inch to an inch and half below the profunda. In all, the portion of the artery above the ligature gave indications of inflammation extending nearly as high as the common iliac; the lining membrane more or less vascular; the portion of the vessel between the ligature and profunda of its natural size or slightly diminished; its cavity occupied by the remains of a coagu- lum. Above that point the calibre of the trunk was evidently increased, and the texture of its coats less resisting. The inferior por- tion resembled a vessel simply cut across, its calibre diminished, its internal coat dis- coloured, its divided edge smooth and even, not rough, jagged, or irregular, as would pro- bably be the case if it had been the seat of ulceration. When a ligature is tied tightly round an artery, every thing included within its noose is killed, but this is only a very small ring of the cellular coat, the internal and middle being as completely divided as if it had been done with a knife. When the absorbents have de- tached the connection of this ring with the remainder of the cellular coat, there is nothing (so far as the vessel is concerned) to retain it farther, nor is it of use in preventing haemor- rhage : it might be withdrawn, only that being entangled in lymph or granulations from the adjacent parts, such a proceeding would dis- turb the divided vessel before the curative process was complete. This process is in some instances, perhaps, never attempted in the inferior portion, although such a deviation from the usual course is probably not frequent; when it does happen, the cure is more tedious and longer of accomplishment, and when inter- terrupted prematurely, of course it is from this portion that the blood is poured out. Whatever the process is by which the ex- tremities of the two segments are closed, it is certainly not the same in both. This fact I •was enabled to verify in one of the cases al- ready alluded to,—namely, that of the man who died on the sixteenth day after the operation for popliteal aneurism, and whilst the ligature still remained undetached from the artery. The vessel was carefully removed from the body, and on being slit up, the lining mem- brane of the portion at the cardiac side of the ligature was of a pale yellow colour and nearly of its natural appearance, with the exception of one or two broad spots of a very light pink colour. A large coagulum extended upwards from the seat of the ligature, the base of which was attached to the lymph situated there. The ligature was still firm, but on attempting to tear it away, the lower portion of the vessel easily separated from it, leaving it still fixed firmly on the upper section: a circumstance which explained a fact I had frequently wit- nessed, that of secondary haemorrhage occur- ring before the final separation of the cord. Below the spot where it had been tied the vessel appeared to be of a deep pink colour approaching to carmine, the seat of which colouring matter was in the cellular tissue between the fibrous and internal coats. This cellular substance seemed to be hypertrophied and largely congested with blood, whilst it caused the lining membrane to be thrown into transverse rugae or folds. On pulling off this membrane, it was pale, transparent, and colour- less—devoid of any proper vascularity : and on looking along the slit-side of the vessel the fibrous coat and the internal membrane were seen like white lines with the congested cellu- lar tissue between them. There was not a particle of coagulum either of blood or lymph in any portion of the vessels below the liga- ture. It may be objected that in this very dissec- tion, the appearances would warrant a belief that a more active form of inflammation was present in the distal portion of the vessel, because of the deeper tint of colour and the superior thickness of the cellular tissue there observed. Such, however, was not the im- pression of those who witnessed the dissection. There was no result of inflammation visible after seventeen days, neither adhesion, nor sup- puration, nor ulceration : there was merely a congested condition of the part—a condition not found in other structures or situations to lead to any of the usual products of inflam- mation. An artery, the coats of which have been divided by a ligature, is subject to the same conditions as if it had been severed with a knife: its cavity must be obliterated from the wounded spot to the next collateral branch above and below. Now, the constitutional causes that can delay or impede this oblite- ration, if any, are not sufficiently known; but it is obvious that any local interference may (as in a case of open haemorrhage) prove sin- gularly perilous. During the first few days, whilst the continuity of the cellular coat is still unbroken, there is no cause for apprehen- sion ; but afterwards, any irregularity of diet, any excitement of the circulation, auy unwary motion, any injudicious meddling with the ligature; in short, any one circumstance that can interfere with or disturb the operations of nature within the part before they are perfect and complete, will have a much more intimate connexion with the production of secondary haemorrhage than any of the causes hitherto