256 ARTICULATION. an angle with each other, the motion is that of flexion, the restoration to the direct line is ex- tension. These two motions belong to what Bichat calls limited opposition ; the flexion and extension of the fore-arm on the arm illustrate it. Sometimes a motion of this kind takes place in four directions, indicated by two lines which cut at right angles. This is best under- slood by a reference to the motions which take place at the hip-joint: there it will be seen that the thigh-bone may be brought forward so as to form an angle with the trunk, flexion—or it may be restored, extension ; it may be sepa- rated from the middle line of the body so as to form an angle with the lateral surface of the trunk, abduction—or it may be restored and made to approximate the middle line, adduc- tion. Bichat terms this " opposition vague." It is evident that a joint, which is suscepti- ble of these four motions, may also move in directions intermediate to them. When these motions are performed rapidly, one after the other, it appears as one continuous motion, in which the distal extremity of the bone describes a circle indicating the base of a cone whose apex is the articular extremity moving in the joint; this motion is called circumduction. Rotation is simply the revolving of a bone round its axis. It is important to bear this definition in mind : through losing sight of it many anatomists have attributed rotation to a joint which really does not possess it. The varieties of the diarthrodial joint are as follows: a. Arthrodia (urticulatio plana or plani- formis.J—In this species the surfaces are plane or one is slightly concave, and the other slightly convex: the motion is that of gliding, limited in extent and direction only by the ligaments of the joint or by some process or processes con- nected with the bones. The examples in man are, the articular processes of the vertebra, the radio-carpal, carpal, carpo-metacarpal, infe- rior radio-ulnar, superior tibio-fibular, tarsal and tarso-metatarsal, temporo-maxillary, acro- mio-clavicular and sterno-clavicular joints. This last articulation and the wrist-joint possess a greater latitude of motion than the others; the former, in consequence of the shape of its articular surfaces: each surface is convex in one diameter and concave in the other, so that the gliding that takes place in this joint is in the direction of the long and short diameters, which intersect each other at right angles. It is capable, therefore, of vague opposition in those lines, but certainly not in the interme- diate directions, the nature of the surfaces being calculated to prevent this. The wrist owes its mobility to the laxity of its ligaments, which permit it to move as well in its transverse as in its antero-posterior diameters, as also in the in- termediate directions; it consequently admits of vague opposition and circumduction. The articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, is also an arthrodia very similar to the sterno-clavicular, but with a greater degree of motion. Arthrodial joints are generally provided with ligaments, placed at the extremities of the lines in the direction of which the gliding motion takes place. b. Enarthrosis(diarthrosisorbicularis—ball- and-socket joint.)—This is a highly developed arthrodia. The convex surface assumes a glo- bular shape, and the concavity is so much deepened as to be cup-like, hence the appella- tion ball and socket. The ball is kept in appo- sition with the socket by means of a capsular ligament, which is sometimes strengthened by accessory fibres at certain parts that are likely to be much pressed upon. The best example of enarthrosis is the hip-joint, and next to it the shoulder: in the latter the cavity is but imper- fectly developed. All the quadrupeds have their shoulder and hip joints on this construc- tion, and the same common plan is observed in the vertebrata generally whose extremities are developed. In birds and reptiles the bodies of the vertebra? are articulated by enarthrosis, and the solid calcareous spines on the external surface of the shells of echinida are adapted to round tubercles on which they move, thus ex- hibiting a very complete form of enarthrosis* This species of joint is capable of motion of all kinds, opposition and circumduction being the most perfect, but rotation limited. Indeed what is called rotation at the hip-joint, is effected by a gliding of the head of the femur from before backwards, and vice versa in the acetabulum; it is not a rotation of the head and neck, but of the shaft of the femur. c. Ginglymus {yiyyKv^oi;, cardo, urticulatio cardiniformis, articulation en charniere, enge- nou, hinge-joint.)—The articular surfaces in the hinge-joint are marked with elevations and depressions which exactly fit into each other, so as to restrict motion in all but one line of direction. They are always provided with strong lateral ligaments, which are the chief bonds of union of the articular surfaces. The elbow and ankle joints in man are per- fect ginglymi; the knee also belongs to this class, but is by no means a perfect specimen, for in a certain position of the bones of this joint, the ligaments are so relaxed as to allow a slight rotation to take place. The phalangeal articulations, both of the fingers and toes, are ginglymi. This form of joint is most exten- sively employed among the lower animals. In quadrupeds, most of the joints of the extremi- ties come under this head. In amphibia and reptiles, too, there are many examples of the hinge-joint. The bivalve shells of conchiferous mollusca are united by a very perfect hinge, and a great number of the joints of Crustacea and insects are of this form. The true ginglymus is only susceptible of limited opposition: hence the knee-joint can- not be regarded as a perfect example ; in fact, in the perfect ginglymus there is every possible provision against lateral motion. d. Diarthrosis rotatorius (commissura tro- choides.)—A pivot and a ring constitute the mechanism of this form of joint. The ring is * Vide fig. 9 in Grant's Comp. Anat. p. 21. See also the article ECH1NODERMATA.