344 AVES. The air-holes of the vertebral ribs are situated at the internal surface of their vertebral extre- mities, and appear like tnose of the contiguous vertebrae to have an immediate communication with the lungs. The sternal ribs, or ossified costal cartilages, have also internal cavities which receive air from the lateral thoracic cells by means of orifices placed at their sternal ex- tremities. The orifices by which air is admitted to the sternum are exceedingly numerous, but are principally situated along the mesial line of the internal surface, opposite the origin of the keel, forming a reticulation at that part; the largest foramen is near the anterior part of the bone; some smaller ones occur at the costal margins. All these orifices commu- nicate with the thoracic air-receptacles. The scapula is perforated by several holes at the articular extremity, which admit air into its cancellous structure from the axillary cell. The coracoid has small air-holes at both ex- tremities ; the largest is situated on its inner surface, where it is connected with the clavicle or furculum. The furculum receives air principally by a small hole in the inner side of each of its scapular extremities, which communicates with the clavicular air-cell- The air-hole of the humerus is of large size, and situated at the back part of the head of the bone, below the curved inferior process. It communicates with the axillary air-cell, and transmits the air to the cavity of the bone by several cribriform foramina. The air-holes of the pelvic bones are situated irregularly on the inner surface upon which the kidneys rest, and must therefore receive air from continuations of the abdominal receptacles around the kidneys. The air-hole, or rather air-depression of the femur, is situated at the anterior part of the base of the trochanter; it receives air from the glutaal cell, and transmits it by several small foramina into the interior of the bone. In the Ostrich, the air-holes are situated at the posterior part of the bone at both of its extre- mities. The cavities of the long bones into which air is thus admitted are proportionally larger than in the corresponding bones of Mammalia, and are characterized by small transverse osseous columns which cross in different di- rections from side to side, and are more nu- merous near the extremities of the bone ; they abut against and strengthen, like cross-beams, the parietes of the bone. We have sometimes succeeded in filling with fine size-injection the minute arteries which ramify on the membrane lining these cavities, but the vascularity of this membrane is by no means very remarkable. The lower jaw receives its air by means of an orifice situated upon each ramus behind the tympano-maxillary articulation. Mr. Hunter was in doubt as to whether the lower jaw derived its supply of air from the Eustachian tube or the trachea where it passes along the neck.* In a Pelecan which we dissected for the purpose we found it to be supplied by an air-tell which surrounded the joint, and was con- tinuous with the upper cervical air-cells. The bones of the cranium and upper jaw have com- munications with the Eustachian tube, but not with the nasal passages, which are every where lined with an impervious pituitary membrane. Various explanations have been given of the final intention of the condition of the respiratory system above described. The extension of this system by means of continuous air-receptacles throughout the body is subservient to the function of respiration, not only by a change in the blood of the pulmonary circulation effected by the air of the cells on its re-passage through the bronchial tubes, but also, and more especially, by the change which the blood undergoes in the ca- pillaries of the systemic circulation, which are in contact with the air-receptacles. The free outlet to the air by the bronchial tubes does not, therefore, afford an argument against the use of the air-cells as subsidiary respiratory organs, but rather supports that opinion, since the inlet of atmospheric oxygenated air to be diffused over the body must be equally free. A second use may be ascribed to the air- cells as aiding mechanically the actions of respiration in Birds. During the act of inspi- ration the sternum is depressed, the angle between the vertebral and sternal ribs made less acute, and the thoracic cavity proportion- ally enlarged; the air then rushes into the lungs and into the thoracic receptacles, while those of the abdomen become flaccid : when the sternum is raised or approximated towards the spine, part of the air is expelled from the lungs and thoracic cells by the trachea, and part driven into the abdominal receptacles, which are thus alternately enlarged and dimi- nished with those of the thorax. Hence the lungs, notwithstanding their fixed condition, are subject to due compression through the medium of the contiguous air-receptacles, and are affected equally and regularly by every motion of the sternum and ribs. A third use, and perhaps the one which is most closely related to the peculiar exigences of the bird, is that of rendering the whole body specifically lighter; this must necessarily follow from the dessication of the marrow and offier fluids in those spaces which are occupied by the air-cells, and by the rarefaction of the contained air from the heat of the body. Agreeably to this view of the func tion of the air-cells, it is found that the quantity of air admitted into the system is in proportion to the rapidity and continuance of the bird's motion; and that the air is especially distributed to those members which are most employed in loco- motion ; thus the air is admitted into the wing- bones of the Owl, but not into the femur; while in the Ostrich the air penetrates the femur, but not the humerus or other bones of the wing. A fourth use of the air-receptacles, which has not hitherto been suspected, relates to the * Loc. cit. p. 93.