211 ARACHNIDA. the valve certain organs of a singular structure which are called combs, pectines, (fig. 84, d,) on account of the disposition of a series of small appendages of which they are formed, and which are arranged on the lower surface one beside the other, like the teeth of a comb. Many speculations have been offered respecting their uses. Many naturalists believe that they render some assistance in the act of impregna- tion. Some suppose that they are extended during progression, and prevent the abdomen of the scorpion from trailing on the ground : others, again, regard them as hygrometrical organs, by means of which the animal judges of the humidity of the atmosphere. These are, however, all mere gratuitous hypotheses un- supported by any observation ; and the fact is that we have yet to learn the use of these pec- tinated appendages. Of the female generative system.—It has been long known that the orifices of the gene- rative organs in female spiders are situated at the base of the abdomen. We observe on that part yfthe body two distinct cavities, (f g.103, a, a,J which are closed by opercular pieces of Fig. 103. a more or less solid texture, and it is at this part that the oviducts terminate. In the tege- naria domestica, these oviducts (b, b) are con- tinued internally in an insensible manner with the ovaries, which consist of a kind of bags (c,c) situated on each side of the intestinal canal, and to whose parietes the ova are attach- ed in a racemose manner. In the epeira diadema the ovaries are divided by two longitudinal membranous septa, and each is again subdivided by a transverse septum. The longitudinal sep- tum has no orifice, but the transverse one is perforated. There is, therefore, no communi- cation between the principal chambers of each of these ovaries, but there is a passage from the anterior to the posterior division, and the ova which are in the former must pass into the lat- ter before being extruded. This structure ex- plains how it happens that the epeira diadema lays its eggs at two distinct periods. Another spider (theridion quadripunctatum, VYalck.) presents a very analogous organization. The female generative apparatus of scorpions has not hitherto been studied with that degree of care which it deserves; and there is a consi- derable difference among authors with respect to this subject; it therefore requires farther ex- amination. Treviranus and Leon Dufour have described these organs as consisting of three elongated tubes ; of these, two are lateral and mutually communicate at their apices, the third is mesial and communicates with the lateral by three branches which we observe on either side. All of them, lastly, terminate at the vaginal orifice which is concealed by a more or less rounded plate, and is situated on the middle line of the body anterior to the pectines and between the coxae of the fourth pair of legs, at the same point where the penis is placed in the male (jig. 84, c.J Copulation, oviposition, and development of the ova. Metamorphosis, and reproduction of the extremities.—Natural observers have hitherto given but very few details respecting the man- ner in which the male spider approaches the female, in accomplishing the sexual act: and wehave already observed that they have been de- ceived in considering a preliminary step as the entire process. The preliminaries are accom- panied with very curious circumstances, the account of which may be found in all the me- moirs and works which treat of the animals of this class. It will be there seen with what precaution and fear the male makes his ap- proaches to the female, who is always ready to attack and devour him, whether before or after copulation. The majority of the arachnidans deposit their eggs in great numbers. The female guards them with the utmost care, some- times carries them about with her, and always prepares a silken nest for them which is fre- quently covered with a solid exterior. Some arachnidans, as the scorpions for example, are ovo-viviparous; the ova are developed in the interior of the body of the female who brings forth her young possessing the faculty of loco- motion ; but they rest for a certain time at- tached to the back of the mother, who guards and feeds them, and gives them a kind of edu- cation. The changes which occur in the ova of spiders (araneae) have been studied with much care. We are indebted to M. Heroldt for highly interesting observations on this subject, published in the work entitled " Exercita- tiones de animalium vertebris carentium in ovo formatione," folio, Marburg, 1824, from which an extract is given in the Annales des Sciences Naturelles, first series, vol. xiii. p. 250. From the importance of these re- searches we here present an analysis of them. The exterior covering of the ovum is formed by a very delicate and transparent membrane, in the, composition of which no pore or fibre can be distinguished on microscopical in- spection. Within this membrane there is a liquid matter in which Heroldt has distinguished several essential parts, which in relation to their functions appear to us to correspond to the vitellus, the albumen, and the cicatricula of the egg in birds. An idea of the disposi- tion and size of these parts may be formed by inspecting the subjoined figure (fig. 104), p 2