CEPHALOPODA. 530 Fig. 216. Muscles of the Poidp, Octopus Vulgaris. Fasciculi of muscular fibres (b, b, 216,) are continued from the ventral pair of feet and the back part of the cranium, across the base of the funnel to the muscular septum, which divides longitudinally the branchial cavity. Other fibres descend to join the muscular tunic enveloping the liver and oesophagus (d, d); but the fibres of this part rise principally from the posterior part of the cephalic cartilage. The septum of the branchial chamber above- mentioned is the strongest and most complete in the genus Ekdone, where, with the excep- tion of a very small part of its posterior termi- nation, it is muscular throughout.* In the Poulp, in which this septum (c, jig. 216) is well described by Cuvier as the " bride ante- rieure qui lie la bourse a la masse viscerale," a greater proportion of the posterior part is membranous. In the Argonaula the muscular part of the septum is reduced to two narrow and delicate fasciculi, which arise from the back part of the cranial cartilage, descend ob- liquely forwards, intercept the termination of the rectum and ink-duct, to which they serve as a sphincter, and then expand in the vertical direction to be inserted along the middle line of the inner surface of the anterior part of the mantle. A membrane is continued from the upper margin of the muscular septum to within * See Cams' original figure, Vergleich. Zooto- mie, pi. iv. fig. 4, g, in Octopus (Eledunu) Mos- chatus. a short distance of the anterior margin of the mantle, and another from the lower margin ex- tends downwards, and terminates opposite the base of the gills; the branchial chambers in- tercommunicate both above and below this septum. In Sepiola the muscles corresponding to the " bride anterieure" of the Octopus are developed in the same degree as in the Argo- naut, arising not from the back of the funnel, but from the cranial cartilage; the septum is completed below by membrane. In the Cuttle- fishes and Calamaries these muscles and the septum of the branchial chamber are wanting. The muscular parietes of the funnel are formed by an external longitudinal (e) and an internal transverse (f) layer, strengthened by the insertion of the extrinsic muscles of this part. The principal of these are the lateral muscles (g, Jig. 216,) which in the Poulp take their origin from the capsules of two small styles, hereafter to be described, at the sides of the mantle, and are inserted into the sides of the funnel and the muscular tunic of the liver. In the Cuttle-fishes and Calamaries they are at- tached to the cartilaginous articular cavity at the sides of the base of the funnel, as well as to its fleshy parietes. These muscles serve to retract and depress the funnel; it is raised and drawn forwards by two pair of muscles (h) which descend from the under and lateral parts of the head to be inserted into its back part. But neither of these muscles pass through a sheath, as do the corresponding muscles in the Nautilus. A pair of muscles, whose important charac- ter is only perceived by tracing them through their successive stages of development to the Nautilus, are those small fasciculi which Cuvier terms " la bride laterale qui joint la bourse a la masse viscerale." (i.) They arise in con- junction with the fibres of the fleshy tunic of the liver, but soon quitting these, extend, as distinct fasciculi, downwards and outwards, being perforated in their course by the great lateral nerve, and are inserted into the upper part of the capsule of the rudimental shell, which the styles above-mentioned represent. In the Sepia they are proportionally larger, corresponding to the greater development of the shell. They are not inserted, in the Octo- pus, into the cartilaginous substance of the in- closed style; nor, in the Sepia, into the calca- reous substance of the cuttle-bone; neither are they attached to the calcareous matter of the shell in the Nautilus, where they acquire their maximum of development. They termi- nate in this, as in the preceding genera, in the epidermic capsule of the shell, which has a much closer and more intimate adhesion to the testaceous substance in the Nautilus than to the internal rudiment of the same part in the naked Cephalopods. It is well known that zoologists are divided in opinion as to whether the shell called Argo- nauta is formed by the cephalopod which in- habits it or not. Having traced out the mus- cles in the naked Cephalopods which are ana- logous to those of the shell in the Nautilus, we next examined the Oci/thde, with the view of