730 CRANIUM. The orbitar portion by its upper surface supports the anterior lobes of the brain, and its under surface forms the root of the orbits. It is divided into two processes by a longitu- dinal notch, which corresponds to the roof of the nose. The orbitar process of either side is convex in both directions on its upper surface, and the mammillary eminences and digital im- pressions formed by the intergyral spaces and convolutions of the brain are of a decided character. On its under surface it is concave and triangular, the base being directed for- wards ; at its anterior and outer part there is a J'ossa (fossa lachrymalis) for the lachrymal gland, and which is overhung by the external orbitar process; at its anterior and inner part, near to the internal orbitar process, and be- tween it and the foramen supra-orbitarium, there is a small pit (fossa trochlear is) to which is fixed the cartilaginous pulley in which plays the tendon of the superior oblique muscle of the eye; at the middle of its inner edge there is a notch, which, applied to a similar notch of the ethmoid bone, constitutes the foramen orbitarium internum unticum, through which pass the ethmoidal twig of the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and the an- terior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic artery; and a little behind this there is another notch, which by a like contrivance forms a hole (the foramen orbitarium internum posticum) for the passage of the posterior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic artery and corres- ponding vein. The notch which is between the orbitar pro- cesses is the hiatus ethmoidalis (incisura ethmoidalis), and in the cranium it is filled up by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Its longitudinal is twice the length of its trans- verse diameter; anteriorly, it is bounded by the notch which, in part, forms the foramen ccecum and the posterior surface of the nasal process; posteriorly, it is open; and its sides are bounded by the commutual edges of the orbitar processes, the tables of which are sepa- rated in such a manner as to communicate with the ethmoidal cells and close them at the upper part, and at the anterior part of the notch to communicate also with the frontal sinuses. The frontal sinus is formed by the separation of the two tables of which the bone is com- posed, and by the absorption of the diploe; they are usually separated by a septum, and they communicate on each side with the mid- dle meatus of the nose in the manner indi- cated above. The posterior and upper border of the bone as far down as the posterior extremity of the inferior margin of the fossa temporalis, is arti- culated to the parietal bones; and it will be remarked that rather more than the middle third of it advances upon and secures those bones at the expense of their outer table, while the inferior portions of it are in their turn grasped by each parietal bone respectively, the outer table of the latter advancing, at this part, upon the inner table of the former. Behind the external angular process, be- tween the temporal fossa on the one hand and the orbitar process on the other, there is a triangular rough surface which is implanted on a similarly-disposed surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. The posterior margin of this surface is in apposition with the edge of the thin extremity of the small wing cf the sphenoid, to which also is articulated the re- maining portion of the posterior border of the orbitar process; but with this difference, that, while in the former instance the edges are plain and simply applied to each other, in the latter the margins are denticulated, the sphenoid overlapping the frontal so as to render the roof of the orbit secure. Thus the frontal bone articulates by the pos- terior borders of its two portions, with the parietal and sphenoid; by the inner edges of its orbitar processes, with the ethmoid ; by its nasal process, with the nasal; by its internal angular process, with the lachrymal; by the surface between the nasal and internal angular processes, with the superior maxillary ; and by its external angular process, with the malar bones. This bone in the foetus, and for nearly two years after birth, consists of two pieces, the first deposit in each being at the prominence already indicated. From this point the ossific matter radiates, and approaching that from the opposite side, the two combine so as to form on the median line a suture which is speedily effaced. Nevertheless it occasionally happens that complete union does not take place, and then the suture persists through life. The ethmoid bone (jjfi^os*^?, *)9|U.o?, cribrum, osethnioideum; Germ.Ethmoidal-knochenJcom- pletes that portion of the base of the cranium? anterior to the sphenoid, which is not supplied by the frontal. It is however devoted less to the skull than to the face, with many of the bones of which it is connected; and it con- tributes greatly to form the nostrils and their septum, as well as both of the orbits. As an element of the cranium it is very simple, being merely a plate connecting the two orbitar processes of the frontal bone, and having on its median line a ridge, which joins the frontal spine before, to the body of the sphenoid bone behind. This plate is the cri- briform plate or process; it is notched poste- riorly where it receives the ethmoidal process of the sphenoid bone, the apex of which pro- cess is applied to the posterior extremity of the central ridge. Advancing forwards, this ridge quickly springs upwards as a pyramidal pro- cess (the crista galli, or processus cristatus), to which the falx cerebri is attached; its pos- terior edge is long and oblique, its anterior is shorter, more vertical, and it terminates in- feriorly in two slightly divergent plates, so as to form by their articulation with the frontal bone thefbramen catcum. On each side of the crista galli, more especially towards the fore- part, the cribriform plate is channelled for the reception of the olfactory nerves, and each channel is perforated by numerous foramina for the transmission of the ramifications