CEPHALOPODA. Genus Eledone, Leach. The arms pro- vided with a single series of sessile acetabula. Ex. Eledone cirrosa, Leach. Internal cartilaginous parts, or Endo- skeleton.—In the Gasteropodous Mollusks the cerebral orsupra-cesophageat ganglions are pro- tected by a dense membrane which has been compared to a dura mater, hut which may be regarded with more propriety as representing the membranous condition of the skull in the embryo of the vertebrate animal; and which, in fact, assumes a cartilaginous texture in some of the higher organized Pectinibranchiata, forming in them the unquestionable rudiment of a true internal skeleton. In the present class a thick cranial cartilage not only protects the cephalic masses of the nervous system ; but it is enlarged and extended in different directions, so as to afford a basis of attachment to the principal muscular masses of the body: thus fulfilling the second important function of an internal skeleton. In the Nautilus it consists of one principal cartilage, (jig. 211,) which is situated on the ventral aspect of the oesophagus; two pro- cesses (a a) extend from the posterior or dorsal angles on each side of the oesophagus as far as the optic gan- glions. A deep semi- circular groove (b) extends along the an- terior part of these processes for the lodg- ment of the optic ganglions and the an- terior nervous collar surrounding the oeso- phagus. Two other processes (c c) arise from the ventral angles of the cartilage and give support to the sides of the base of the funnel. A middle process is extended some way between the two great muscles which are inserted into the shell. The central part or body of the cartilage (d) is excavated for the reception of the venous blood returned from the head and funnel, and from this sinus the great dorsal vein commences. In the Dibranchiate Cephalopods the inter- nal cartilaginous skeleton consists of a greater Gualtieri, when he first separated it generically from the Chambered Nautilus. In either case, as the grounds for constituting the new family of Oc- topoda now proposed are derived from important organic differences, as manifested in the structure of the funnel and the branchial hearts, the claims of the Cephalopod to form the type of such a group would not be destroyed by the proof of the shell forming no part of its structure. We cannot, how- ever, retain both the genera Argonauta and Ocy- thoe, as in the Families Naturelles du Regne Animal of Latreille, p. 168 ■, since, if the shell in question be not secreted by the Cephalopod, its analogy to that of the Carinaria would indicate its real con- structor to belong to the Heteropodous Mollusks. Internal Cartilage or Skeleton of the Nautilus. number of pieces, and has a more important share in the organization and functions of the animal. We shall describe it principally as it exists in the Cuttle-fish (Sepia Officinalis). The cranial cartilage (A, Jig. 212) is no longer limited in its position to the under side of the oesophagus, but completely surrounds that tube, which, together with the inferior sali- vary ducts, and the cephalic branches of the aorta, traverses a narrow passage in the centre. It is expanded above into a cavity, which en- closes and protects the brain ; while, below the oesophagus, the dense cartilage is excavated to form the two vestibular cavities of the organ of hearing; at the sides it is developed into broad and thick concave processes, which form the back part of the orbits. In the subjoined figure A is the cranial car- tilage as seen from above:— a is the superior part which protects the brain. b, b, are the two large optic foramina. c, c, the posterior and inferior thick ex- panded orbital process. d, d, the thin and long anterior and inferior cartilage which supports the eye-ball, and is analogous to the cartilaginous eye pedicle of the Rays and Sharks : these processes are com- pared by Meckel to the superior maxillae ; they do not exist in the Octopods, and are compa- ratively much smaller in the Calamaries than in the Cuttle-fish. e, the anterior aperture of the canal through which the oesophagus passes. f, a process, continued from the anterior part of the cranial cartilage, which expands into a broad transverse plate, with a slight con- cavity directed forwards, and gives attachment to the muscles of the arms: this cartilage Meckel compares to the lower jaw, but the analogy is not more satisfactory than in the preceding instance. The infundibular or nuchal cartilage (B), which is a process of the cranial cartilage in the Nautilus, is in the Dibranchiates, and es- pecially the Cuttle-fish, a distinct piece, of large size, and of a flattened triangular figure, situated above the base of the funnel, with its apex directed forwards and its posterior angles turned backwards : it has a moderately deep furrow along the middle of its upper surface. In the Sagittated Calamary this important car- tilage consists of three portions, a middle elon- gated one, having on its dorsal surface a mesial longitudinal groove, and two lateral longitudinal ridges which are adapted to a corresponding ridge and two grooves in the under part of the sheath of thegladius, which sheath here assumes a dense cartilaginous consistence : from the an- terior extremity of the middle nuchal cartilage two flattened cartilages extend outwards and backwards, and then curve slightly inwards. These correspond to the dilated base of the carti- lage in the Sepia, protect the great lateral nerves of the mantle, and give origin to the lateral muscles which are perforated by the nerves. On each side of the base of the funnel there is a smooth oblong articular cavity which is formed by a distinct cartilage (C); it is adapted to receive a corresponding cartilagi-