CILIA. 609 Gleiehen,* in 1778, described the currents produced by the vorticellse. In an earlier work he ascribed an agitation of small bodies, which he had observed in the neighbour- hood of one of the Infusoria, to an electric or magnetic force, not having perceived the cilia.f FontanaJ described the rotatory apparatus of the Rotifer and its use; he conceived that its apparent rotation was produced by the succes- sive elevation and depression of the cilia which encircle it. Of the more recent writers who have inves- tigated or described these phenomena in the Infusoria, I may mention Dutrochet,§ Gruit- huisen,[| Agardh,H Raspail,** and Ehren- berg.frf Raspail denies the existence of cilia, attributing their appearance to an optical de- ception, an opinion which is undoubtedly erroneous. Ehrenberg, who, of all recent ob- servers, has contributed most to the knowledge of the economy and natural history of the Infusoria, has particularly investigated the structure and mode of action of their cilia. The substance of his observations has been already given. The ciliary motion has been recently ob- served in the embryoof Infusoria while enclosed in the ovum .J J 2. Polypi and Sponges.—a. Fresh-water polypi. The phenomena in question have not been discovered in the Hydra, which is the largest and best known of the Fresh-water Polypi; but they have been seen and described by many observers in another sort, viz. that known by the names of the Polype a panache, or Plumed Polype of Trembley, the Bell- flower animal of Baker, and Plumatella, Cris- tatella, Alcyonella, &c. of other naturalists. The Polypes of this kind are connected in groups on a common stock or stem, (a, a, fig. 291, which represents the animal magnified,) and each is furnished with a tube (b, b ), into which it can wholly withdraw itself. From time to time they advance a little way out of the tubes and display a double row of arms or tentacula (c) ranged round the mouth in the figure of a horse-shoe. When the arms are spread out in this manner, cur- rents appear in the surrounding water, which are made evident by the motion of any small particles that may accidentally or intentionally be suspended in it. The currents pass along the tentacula, the water being drawn towards * Abhandlung ueber-die Saamen -und Infusions Thierchen, 1778. f See M'uller, Infus. p. 87. % Traite sur le venin de la Vipere, etc. 1781, torn. i. p. 87. § Sur les Rotiferes, Ann. du Musee d'Hist. Nat. 1812, torn. xix. et 1813, torn. xx. |l Salzburg. Med. Chir. Zeitung, 1818, iv. p. 222. H Ueber die Zauberkraft der Infusorien, Nov. Act. Acad. Ca?s. Leop. torn. x. p. 127. ** Hist. Nat. de l'Alcyonella Fluviatile, etc. Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. torn. iv. and Chimie Organique, 1833. H Abhandl. d. Akad. der Wiss. zu Berlin fiir 1831. it Wagner, Isis, 1832, p. 383. them from every side, and the main stream at last issues from the midst of them, appearing as if it came out of the mouth, from which, however, it really is not derived. The arms are fringed on their two borders with a mul- titude of cilia, (see A, a single arm mag- nified,) set close together, which vibrate in regular succession, their motion appearing like progressive undulations along the ten- tacula. When one of the arms is cut off, it affects the water in the same way as when con- nected with the animal, its cilia impelling the fluid in a current, or carrying the separated arm through it, according as it is fixed or free. As to the use of these motions, it may be stated that they serve undoubtedly for renew- ing the water in respiration, and probably also to convey food to the animal. Steinbuch, however, remarked that the currents were most lively in pure water, and that the extraneous matters which they conveyed seemed rather to incommode the animal, which endeavoured to avoid them ; and from this he inferred that the currents served chiefly if not solely for respiration. Trembley* and Bakerf observed the currents produced by this polype, but both erroneously conceived them to be caused by agitation of the tentacula. RoeselJ correctly remarked that, during the production of the currents, the tentacula were motionless, but not perceiving the cilia, nor being aware that the arms when detached still produced motion in the water, he supposed that the currents were occasioned by a stream issuing from the mouth. At length Steinbuch§ discovered that separated tentacula retained the power of impelling the water; he distinguished the cilia and their motion as the cause of the impulsion, and * Mem. pour servir a l'Hist. d'un genre de Polype d'eau douce, 1744, p. 212. •f Of Microscopes, ii. p. 309. j Insecten Belustigungen, torn. iii. 1755, p. 458. § Analecten neuer Beobachtungen und TJnter- suchungen fiir die Naturkunde, 1802, p. 89.