707 CONCHIFERA. between them. It is a circumstance worthy of remark that the siphons are observed to be- come elongated and thickened in proportion as the lobes of the mantle are more extensively united. This circumstance, however, is only true in a general way, for it would be easy to quote many striking exceptions to it. 2. Sip/ions.—-We have already had occasion to see the siphons commence in certain genera by simple perforations; they increase in length in the succession of genera; and in a certain number they always continue unconnected through their entire extent (g, h, Jig. 346 ; b, c, fig. 355). In other genera, however, the siphons are seen at first united towards their base, then conjoined nearly to the middle, co- hering almost to their ends, and finally blended through their whole length, so as to form a single elongated subcylindrical fleshy mass, pierced through its entire length by the canals of the two siphons, one of smaller size, situ- ated superiorly for the anus, the other larger, situated under the former, and destined to transmit the water to the branchias. Whether connected or not, the superior siphon is always characterized as the anal, the inferior as the branchial siphon. The structure of the siphons is entirely mus- cular, so that their free extremities are capable of contracting and of being elongated to a very considerable degree. They are beset around their external orifices with a great number of papilla, (n, o,Jig. 347), occasionally truncated at their extremities and of exquisite sensibility. The water has to pass over these papillae before it can enter the mantle, and un- doubtedly they apprise the animal of the pre- sence of every foreign body that might injure it. In a few genera the siphons contract by means of their component muscular fibres; but in the greater number they have a parti- cular retractor muscle running on each side of the animal, and in relation, in point of mag- nitude, &c. with the length and degree of con- tractility possessed by the siphons (p,Jig. 347). The existence of this muscle, and consequently of siphons, is manifested on the interior of the shell by a posterior sinuous furrow of various depth, and indicating upon a narrow line the point of implantation of the retractor muscle of the siphons. In some of the acephalous mollusks the siphons are too large to be received within cover of the shell, in which case the retractor muscle is generally small, inasmuch as it is then of little use (Mya, Glycimeris); but in those species in which the siphons are of mid- dling size, or not so large as to be incapable of entering the shell, the retractile muscle is of considerable size and power (Tellina, Psammobia). 3. The shell.—The lobes of the mantle appear to be the efficient parts in determining the form of the shell, and it is by their thick edges that this covering is in great part secreted. The whole of the Conchiferous acephala,without exception, are included within a bivalve shell, the two parts of which are joined by a point in their upper edge, to which the title of hinge has been given by naturalists, and very pro- perly, because it is in truth upon it that the motions of the valves take place. General structure.—When examined with due attention, the shell is found to be composed of two kinds ot laminae very distinct from one another (a, b, Jig. 363) ; the one, secreted from within outwards by the edges of the mantle, present themselves under the form of greatly elongated cones, the thick parts of which are turned towards the outer surface (a, c, c, Jig 363); the other, in parallel layers, secreted by the central and posterior parts of the mantle, line the interior of the shell, and in many species at length fill up the cavity of the hooks. These two layers of the shell are frequently found in cer- tain fossil species almost com- pletely separated from one an- other. At other times the inner layer is seen to have been dissolv- ed away, whilst the external one continues without appearing to have undergone any great change. It is in the genera Chama, My- tilus, Pinna, Spondylus, more es- pecially that the two lamina? of which a bivalve shell is formed can be studied to greatest advantage, and this study is of importance as leading to a more accurate knowledge of certain fossil genera, in regard to the charac- ter of which some uncertainty has always pre- vailed, by reason of one of the constituent portions of their shell always being found dis- solved, as in Patillus. In some genera the ex- ternal layer is very readily distinguished, from having a fibrous structure (a, a, Jig. 369), a structure observed more especially in the shells of the Pinna family and those of the Malleacea. The two layers of the shell are in the inverse ratio of one another in point of thickness: the external layer, extremely thin towards the hook, increases continually towards the edges, whilst the inner layer, thick at the hook, becomes thinner and thinner as it ap- proaches the edges, around which it is usually exceeded a little by the outer layer. A fact well deserving of attention is this :—that the muscular impressions and the whole articular aspect of the hinge are formed in the substance of the inner layer of the shell, and these parts, of so much consequence, do not leave a trace upon the external layer when this alone is pre- served. It is only from having neglected to study the structure of the shell with sufficient attention that naturalists have found themselves at a loss to discover the true characters of certain fossil genera, as Podopsis, Spherulites, which, in consequence of their position in porous chalky beds, never occur with more than the outer layer of their shell in a good state of preser- vation. The hinge.—The part of the edge of a shell by which the two valves are conjoined, is, as we have already had occasion to state, deno- minated the hinge. This part is entirely formed by the inner layer of the shell. The part of