ANIMAL. 126 similar in their outward appearance, resemble one another in their intimate structure. The tissues that enter into the composition of animals are much more numerous than those of vegetables. The most universally distributed of these in the more perfect species of animals are the cellular, the vascular, the nervous, and the muscular, to which must be added the tendinous or fibrous, the osseous, the cartila- ginous, and the horny, which are less uniformly diffused among the individuals composing the animal kingdom. The cellular is the tissue the most universally encountered among animals ; it is demonstrable from the very lowest to the very highest. Its general appearance is that of a soft, homo- geneous, whitish, semi-transparent, extensible, and during life slightly contractile substance. It is permeable to air and liquids, and is easily distended by either of these, when it forms a series of continuous cavities or cells, strangers at first to its constitution, but so readily pro- duced as to have given the tissue its distin- guishing title. The cellular tissue is dispersed abundantly through every part of the animal body ; it enters as a principal element into the composition of many other tissues; it pervades the innermost parts of almost all organs, and in a modified shape forms a covering for them externally ; it may be said to constitute the frame-work of the organs generally, supporting them in their particles as it does in their masses ; it connects them together also, includes and accompanies the bloodvessels that supply them with nourishment, fills the intervals between them, and establishes continuity betvveeu every part of individual organized beings. The cellu- lar tissue consists of filaments and lamina?, mingled and entangled together; the interstices it contains, and which may be blown up into cells, appear to be moistened during life by a thin vapour, or a variable quantity of serous fluid* The cellular substance appears to constitute the element of the various membranes encoun- tered in animal bodies : the fibrous membranes, the skin, the mucous membranes, the serous membranes, and the synovial membranes, are all readily resolvable into cellular tissue; they in fact appear to consist of this tissue in dif- ferent states of condensation. The vascular is another tissue extensively distributed among animals. Three modifica- tions of the vascular tissue have been reckoned by anatomists, occurring respectively in arteries, veins, and lymphatics. The third tissue which is peculiar to animals is the nervous. This may be held the most eminently distinctive of this class of organized beings, as it is by its intermedium that they exhibit almost all the faculties which place them so immeasurably above vegetables in the * Rudolphi assigns as a distinction between animal cellular tissue and that of vegetables, that the latter exhibits cells of a more or less regular form with firm walls, nothing of which kind exists in the former : Rudolphi Anat. der Pflanzen, S. 26, quoted in Tiedemann, Phvsioloeie, lstcr Band, S. 182. scale of creation, and as, generally speaking, they may be reckoned by so much the more perfect as particular portions of this system are more fully developed. The element of the nervous tissue is a soft, whitish, and little consistent substance, composed of mi- nute globules surrounded by a semifluid sub- stance, and connected together by a tissue of cellular membrane of extreme tenuity. The globules are mostly disposed longitudinally, when they form the medullary fibres of the brain ; surrounded by denser sheaths, they take the form of nerves. In all the higher animals at least, two orders of nerves are distinguished, each, however, being intimately connected with the other,—the nerves of animal, or, better, of phrenic life, and the nerves of organic or vege- tative life. The nerves of the first order are connected in the higher classes of animals with a brain and spinal cord ; those of the second proceed from small bodies of a reddish grey colour, and irregular shape, named ganglions. The functions of the first take place with con- sciousness, those of the second without this mental phenomenon.* The fourth tissue peculiar to animals is the muscular. In several of the very lowest tribes of these, indeed, the existence of this tissue cannot be demonstrated; yet its actions begin to be manifested at a very low grade in the scale. The element of the muscular tissue is a fibre, on the ultimate constitution of which there have been many disputes. The ultimate muscular fibre would appear to consist of a series of solid globules longitudinally disposed, and connected into larger and larger fasciculi, which at length compose the distinct bundles denominated muscles. Fibrine is the organic element of the muscular tissue. Its peculiar and distinguishing property is its capacity to contract or to become snorter, and to relax again or return in its quiescent state to its first lentgh. The muscles, like the nerves, are divided into two classes or orders, the one under the influence of the will, the other independent of it. The texture is different in each of these two orders : in the voluntary muscles, the fibres and bundles of which the peculiar tissue con- sists are very regularly disposed, and generally in straight and parallel lines relatively to one another; in the involuntary muscles again, the fibres appear of different degrees of density, run parallel or obliquely with regard to one another, are superposed in layers, intermingled and entangled like a kind of felt, &c. * Some physiologists have gone so far as to suppose a rudimentary nervous system among vegetables, which would imply consciousness on their parts of their existence. This, at least, is a very doubtful presumption, but we are not with- out abstract arguments which might be adduced in favour of the supposition. How immensely would the sphere in which the bounty of the Creator had displayed itself then appear enlarged ! The number of beings conscious of the joys of exis- tence would be increased a thousand fold ; and it is even delightful to imagine these lower parta- kers of organization with ourselves and animals, also enjoying the light and sunshine, the sequence of day and night, the freshness of spring, and the fulness of autumn.