AMPHIBIA. 04 verse processes are only found on a few of the most anterior vertebras. The spine of the proteus is not sufficiently different from that of the siren to require any particular description. The construction of the members, both an- terior and posterior, especially the latter, will be found to be arranged on very different plans, according to the habits and requirements of the different groups, and particularly their mode of progression. In the apoda, as the c«dZi'a,'there are not even the rudiments of limbs. In the other orders they exist under very different degrees of development, according as they are constructed for leaping and swimming, as in the frogs, toads, &c, or for creeping, as in the salamanders; or they are rudimentary, and without any very apparent use, as in the am- phiuma. It will be necessary to give a cursory description of these forms. Of the anterior extremity in the anoura.— The shoulder of the frog (fig. 16, f. fig. 17.) consists of the scapula, the clavicle, and the coracoid bone, which all combine to form the glenoid cavity for the head of the humerus. The scapula is composed of two very distinct portions. The upper, (fig. 17, a,) which is Fig. 17. permanently cartilaginous, at least at its mar- gin, is articulated moveably to the inferior and more solidly ossified piece, (fig. 17, b,) at the inferior and posterior part of which is the arti- cular surface forming its portion of the glenoid cavity, immediately anterior to which it is at- tached to the clavicle, (fig. 17, c.) This bone is slender and straight, and is connected beneath with its fellow in the median line. The coracoid bone (fig. 17, d) is considerably larger than the clavicle, and is also connected with its fellow by its broad median margin. The sternum consists of several pieces, ex- tending from before the clavicles to some dis- tance behind the coracoid bones; the latter terminates in a broad xiphoid cartilage. These parts differ considerably in their relative pro- portions in different genera. The arm is developed in a very inferior de- gree compared with the hinder extremity. The humerus (fig. 17, g) is short and thick, having a rounded head, received into the glenoid ca- vity of the shoulder-joint. The opposite extre- mity forms an almost globular surface for its articulation with the bone of the fore-aim, which is still shorter, and consists of the radius and ulna united, (fig. 17, h,) having only a slight groove to show their line of union. The carpal bones (fig. 16, i) are six in number, supporting the four metacarpal bones, (fig. 16, k.) The index and middle finger have each two phalanges, the others three. The index is particularly large in the male. The thumb is merely rudimentary. The posterior extremity is greatly developed in the frogs, for the purpose before mentioned, of enabling them to take long leaps, and to swim with great rapidity and energy. The pelvis consists of the three essential bones of this part, the ilium, ischium, and pubis on each side. The iliac bones, (fig. 16, d,) di- verging above, are moveably articulated with the sacrum. They then extend backwards, and form, together with the small ischiatic and pubic bones, (fig. 16, I,) the cotyloid cavities for the reception of the femur. This bone (fig. 16, m) is nearly twice as long as the humerus, cylin- drical, and having a slight double curve. The leg consists, like the fore-arm, of but one bone, the tibia and fibula being anchylosed through their whole length. This bone (fig. 16, n) is even a little longer than the femur. It is succeeded by two bones of considerable length, (fig. 16, o,) having very much the aspect of a tibia and fibula, but which must be considered as bones of the tarsus greatly modified, and are most probably the os calcis and the astragalus. Between these elongated bones and the metatarsal are four small tarsal bones. The metatarsal bones (fig. 16, p) are much elongated, as are also the phalanges, (fig. 16, (],) for the purpose of forming strong oars or paddles with the intervention of a broad web of integument. The inner toe is consi- derably developed, and the whole structure of the foot and leg thus combines to furnish a pow- erful and efficient organ of progression. The elongated forms of the aquatic sala- mander, the proteus, the siren, &c, in which the vertebrae are developed to so great an extent, present the opposite extreme in the structure of their limbs. These are small, feeble, and ap- pear as it were abortions. In the genus triton and in the salamandra, which possess both an- terior and posterior extremities, they differ but little in their general form and development. The bones of the fore-arm as well as of the leg, instead of being respectively anchylosed into a single piece, as in the frogs, are permanently separate, consisting of a distinct ulna and radius in the former, and an equally distinct tibia and fibula in the latter. The toes are four, both before and behind; they are short, slender, and of slight construction. This imperfect development of the extremi- ties is, however, as we have seen, admirably compensated by the extraordinary extent of the spine both in the body and the tail; and while the limbs afford but very imperfect means of progression on land, the structure of the spine