27 ABSORPTION. was any direct communication between the organs of digestion and the bloodvessels except by means of the lacteals. For this purpose they mixed with the food of an animal various substances, which by their colour, odour, or other sensible and physical properties, might be easily detected in the fluids of the body. After some time the animal was examined, and the result was that unequivocal traces of the substances were not unfrequently detected in the venous blood and in the urine, while it was only in a very few instances that any in- dication of them could be discovered in the chyle. The colouring matters employed were various vegetable substances, such as gamboge, madder, and rhubarb ; the odorous substances were camphor, musk, assafcetida, &c.; while, in other cases, various saline bodies, such as muriate of barytes, acetate of lead and of mercury, and some of the prussiates, which might be easily detected by chemical tests, were mixed with the food. The colouring matters, for the most part, were carried out of the system without being received either into the veins or the lacteals; the odorous substances were generally detected in the venous blood and in the urine, but not in the chyle, while of the saline substances many were found in the blood and in the urine, and a very few only in the chyle.* The conclusion, which we are disposed to regard as the fair inference, from the facts and arguments that have been adduced on the subject of venous absorption, is that, although there are strong analogies and various patho- logical considerations which would induce us to confine the function of absorption to the lacteals and the lymphatics, yet that the result of the experiments, although not uniform, is upon the whole in favour of venous absorption. It only remains for us to inquire how far the state and actions of the parts on which the experiments were made, were so far neces- sarily deranged by the process to which they were subjected as to render the results inapplicable to the natural condition of these organs. Now this certainly appears to be the case in the experiments of MM. Magendie and Delille, where the poisonous substance was introduced into the blood; and the same remark may probably be applied to a number of pathological occurrences that have been supposed to afford a proof of venous absorp- tion, such, for example, as the ease of ulcerated surfaces, where pus has been detected in the veins, and still more extraneous bodies, which may have been either accidentally or designedly inserted into the ulcerated part.f But it is * Ed. Med. Journ. vol. xvii. p. 455 et seq. On the absorption of foreign bodies sec the early experiments of Lister and Musgiave, Ph. Trans, for 1683 and 1701 ; also Lowthorp's Abrid. vol. iii. p. 101 . .5, and La Motte's Abrid. par. 2. ch. iv. p. 75,6'; with Haller's sanction of their accuracy, £1. Phys. xxiv. 2. 3 ; see also J. Hunter, in Med. Com. p. 44 et seq., and Cruickshank, ch. viii. On the other hand, the experiments of M. Magendie and his friends would lead us to form an opposite conclusion ; Elem. t. ii. p. 168, 9. See Elliotson's Physiol, p. 126. t See the experiments of Mr. Key, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xviii. p. 212, 13. not unreasonable to suppose that in these in- stances, in consequence of the erosion and partial destruction of the organs, the small branches of the veins will present an external orifice, through which the pus or other ex- traneous substance may be immediately re- ceived into the sanguiferous system, nearly upon the same principle as in the experiments related above. The experiments of MM. Magendie and Flandrin, the results of which were so opposite to those of Hunter, do not indeed lie open to the same objection; but even here there is perhaps some ground for inquiry, before we implicitly adopt the conclusion that has been deduced from them. The experiment, as origi- nally performed by Hunter, necessarily implies a degree of mechanical violence, which must produce a considerable derangement of the actions of the parts concerned. Acute inflamma- tion of a peculiarly irritable and sensitive organ must have ensued, the vessels of all descriptions must have become much distended; rupture and extravasation may have been not an impro- bable consequence of this inflammation and distention, and, in short, a general derangement both of structure and functions may have oc- curred, which must prevent us from drawing any positive inference respecting their natural condition. These observations will apply with much greater force to a subsequent variation of the experiment, which consistedrin entirely detach- ing a portion of the intestine from the remainder of the tube, and filling this divided portion with the fluid, which, as in the former case, was detected in the vein of the mesentery. This arrangement was supposed to afford a still more decisive proof of venous absorption than the ex- periment in its original state, and if we con- sider the mechanical disposition of the organ only, we may admit that this would be the case. But it is obvious, on the other hand, that the vital actions of all the parts concerned must have been much more deranged, and that, on this account, we ought to be proportionally cau- tious in the application of such experiments to our physiological theories. We would venture to suggest, that the re- markable discrepancy which exists between the experiments of Hunter and of the French phy- siologists may perhaps be reconciled, by having recourse to the supposition, that in the former case there was less violence used to the parts, and that they were left more in their natural condition; whereas M. Magendie, as we pre- sume, from a desire to render the effect more certain or more decisive, either produced a greater degree of distention of the intestines, or, in some other way, caused a greater derange- ment of the parts, so as to produce a difference in the results. But this idea is offered merely as a conjecture, from which we do not venture to deduce any of our conclusions. Upon the whole we feel disposed to regard the experimentsof MM.TiedemannandGmelin, and those of an analogous kind, in which extra- neous substances were found in thevenous blood, and in some of the secretions, when they could not be detected in the chyle, as more directly