23 ABSORPTION. exists between them during their course, and we are not aware of any physiological cause of this arrangement. With respect to the mouths or origin of the lymphatics there is even more uncertainty than with respect to that of the lacteals; no anato- mical investigation has hitherto been able to detect them, and although numerous facts of constant occurrence would seem to prove that their capillary extremities are distributed over all the surfaces of the body, it is from various pathological observations and from the analogy of the lacteals that we arrive at this conclu- sion.* The thoracic duct is a vessel of considerable size, which is situated near the spine, and which extends from about the middle of the dorsal vertebra to a short distance above the left subclavian vein; here it assumes an arched form, and is bent down until it enters the vessel near its junction with the jugular vein of the same side.f The duct, in its passage along the spine, is deflected in various ways, and proceeds in a somewhat irregular or tortuous course. For the most part it consists of a single trunk, but occasionally there are two trunks, either of the same 01 of different sizes, and we have not unfrequently partial appen- dages, which are added to the main trunk in different parts of its course.J Besides what is properly considered as the thoracic duct, in which all the lacteals and the greatest part of the lymphatics terminate, a portion of these latter, especially those which proceed from the upper part of the body and from the superior extremity of the right side, are generally col- lected into a separate trunk, named the great right lymphatic vessel, or right thoracic duct, which is connected with the right subclavian vein.§ These irregularities in the disposition and form of the thoracic duct may be consi- dered as in no respect affecting its physiological uses, and to be no more than an anatomical variation of structure, probably depending * Sec Magcndie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 175 Watson, however, conceived that he had detected their open mouths on the surface of the bladder, Phil. Trans, for 1769, pi. 16. Monro, in speaking of the lym- phatics of fishes, remarks that there is " no doubt that they begin by open mouths," p. 30. t For descriptions and plates of the thoracic duct the following works may be referred to; Haller, Prim. Lin. c. xxv. § 565; Op. Min. t. i. p. 586 et seq. tab. 11, 12 ; and El. Phys. xxv 1. 10 . . 3 : Albinus, Tab. Vas. Chylif. ; liolius and Saltzmann, in Haller, Disp. Anat. t. i. ; Cheseldcn, Anat. pi. 26; Portal, Mem. Acad, pour 1770 ; Sabatier, ibid, pour 1786; Haase, De Vas. Cut. et Intest. Abs. tab. 2. and tab. 3. fig. I ; Mascagni, ps. i. sect. 7. art. 8. tab. 13, 15, 19; Sheldon, pi. 5; Cruikshank, p. 166. . 176 ; Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 160; Meckel, Manuel, § 1698. t In Mascagni, tab. 15, we have an example of this irregularity. § This is said to have been discovered by Stenon in 1664; Meckel, Manuel, § 1703. See Haller, Prim. Lin. § 766 and Hewson's Enq. pt. 2. p. 61 . . 3, pi. 4. Cruikshank, p. 176, 7, conceives that Hew- son was the first who described the lymphatics of the right side as being collected into one trunk. For the figure of this part, see Mascagni, tab. 19. nos. 185, 187. upon some mechanical cause. It is, however, a circumstance of considerable importance in respect to the pathological conclusions that have been sometimes drawn from the obstruc- tions of this organ, as well as from the experi- ments that have been performed upon it.* The structure and properties of the thoracic duct appear to be similar to those of the large trunks of the lacteals and lymphatics; its coats are comparatively thin and transparent, yet it is possessed of considerable strength, and is ca- pable of being distended much beyond its ordinary bulk; it is furnished with numerous valves, and exhibits a great degree of con- tractility. The lymphatic or conglobate glandsf com- pose a very important part of the absorbent system, if we may judge from their number and their general diffusion over every part of the body. They are of various sizes, and are grouped together in various ways; occasionally they are single, but more frequently connected together in masses of considerable extent. They are found in almost every part of the body, always connected with the lacteals and lympha- tics, and it is asserted that each one of these ves- sels, in some part of its course, passes through or is connected with one or more of these glands.£ There are certain parts of the body in which they are more numerous, and are connected in larger masses; the lacteals are furnished with numerous glands in their passage along the mesentery, while the glands that belong to the lymphatics are found in the greatest number and largest masses in the groin, the axilla, and the neck. It is necessary to remark that this account of the distribution of the lymphatic glands applies only to the animals which belong to the class of the mammalia; in birds they are much more rare, and still more so in fish, while among the lower animals, where we have suffi- cient evidence of the existence of an absorbent system, the glands have not yet been satisfac- torily demonstrated.§ With respect to the structure of these glands, as well as that of glands of other descriptions, a controversy has long existed among anato- mists, whether they consist of a series of cells or follicles, as they have been termed, or whe- ther they are composed simply of a congeries of vessels. The question may be regarded as still at issue; but it may be remarked that whereas the older anatomists generally leaned to the opinion of the follicular structure of the * See on this subject Sir A. Cooper, in Med. Rec. and Res. p. 86 et seq., and Magendie, Journ. t. i. p. 21. t Some of the late French physiologists prefer the term lymphatic ganglions, upon the principle that the term gland more properly belongs to an organ of secretion. | Mascagni, ps. 1. sect. 4. p. 25: but this h s been doubted by some anatomists; see Hewson, pt.2. p. 44, 5. § See Fleming's Zool. t. i. p. 338; Blumenbach's Comp. Anat. by Lawrence, ch. xiii. p. 256; Diet, des Sc. Med. art. " Lymphatique," par Chaussier et Adelon, p. 249; Breschet, art. " Lymph. Syst.," Diet, de Med. t. xiii. p. 397. Hewson in- forms us that birds have lymphatic glands in the