ARTERYs PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 232 and, lastly, a large and important vessel in this condition has been tied without its being crushed or broken down short, and being fol- lowed by consecutive haemorrhage. From these observations some reasonable doubt may be entertained of these deposits being the result of inflammation, more particularly as, at the period of life alluded to, there is an evident disposition to the formation of earthy deposits in many structures and organs as well as in the arteries. When a large aneurism runs its course with great rapidity, an opportunity is frequently afforded of observing a condition of the vessel most favourable to the production of the dis- ease, and which therefore may be considered as one of its direct or immediate causes. The vessel in this case, on being slit up, exhibits its internal lining membrane less smooth and polished than in its natural state; its colour is changed to a deep roseate carmine, and it sepa- rates from the subjacent fibrous coat with com- parative facility. This latter structure is also changed in colour, but not to so bright a red as the other. Between these coats, but more closely attached to the internal, (for they peel off with it,) are numerous specks of a soft steatomatous material of a white or pale grey colour, presenting, on a superficial inspection, somewhat of the appearance of the calcareous deposit already spoken of. An artery in this condition has lost more or less of its elastic properties; it is distended, and its calibre increased equally around. As the arteries are always full, the impulse of every new wave of blood driven on the greater quantity con- tained within the distended vessel increases its apparent pulsation, for it is in the diastole or expanded condition of the artery that the pulse is felt. This loss of elasticity must obviously weaken the vessel, and cause it to be less re- sisting : a fact that can be proved by expe- riment after death, when an artery so circum- stanced will be found to yield and tear under a distending force that would have little effect on it if in health, and will explain how an apparently trifling exertion may produce aneu- rism in one man, whilst numbers of others exposed to similar or even greater violence escape safe and unharmed. If arteritis can be justly considered as an immediate cause of aneurism, it follows that any thing tending to produce this condition of the vessel will predispose to the disease. An investigation of the natural history of this affection would, therefore, prove equally useful and interesting, but as yet a sufficient num- ber of facts have not been collected from which any useful practical induction can be drawn. The experience of an individual cannot be sufficient to establish a fixed and general posi- tion, but may be valuable if it induces others to a similar line of investigation, in order to its being verified or contradicted; and from a minute attention to the previous history of several cases, I have frequently been able to connect intemperance, particularly in the use of spirituous liquors and repeated or ill-con- conducted courses of mercury, with the pro- duction of arteritis. How far these can explain the comparative infrequency of the disease in females and its prevalence amongst men sub- ject to exposure, and too often of reckless and dissolute habits, must be determined by future observation ; but, in corroboration of the latter part of this opinion, it may be remarked, that few old persons are subjected to a course of mercury that do not perish shortly after by the bursting of a bloodvessel,—of apoplexy, or hremoptoe most frequently. When arteritis has proceeded to the extent of producing these steatomatous deposits, if aneurism is not inevitable, it is certainly very likely to ensue. In some instances the loss of elasticity is so great as to cause all the coats of the vessel to yield and become distended into the sac of a true aneurism: in others, (and far more frequently) the process of ulce- ration commences, the lining membrane cover- ing one of these spots first becoming soft, then exhibiting a distinct ulcer which proceeds from within, eroding the middle coat either through its entire thickness to the cellular, which is then easily distended into the aneu- rismal sac ; or so far as that it shall be likely to give way and tear under a trifling shock, even under the impulse of the circulation. In the pathological collection of the medical school of Park-street, Dublin, there are pre- parations exhibiting these forms of aneurism and the different stages of dilatation, of soft- ening, and of ulceration in the most satisfactory manner. Circumscribed false aneurism. — When a person experiences a sensation as if something had given way or been torn within his limb, or even without such previous warning, per- ceives a small hard, pulsating tumour situated somewhere immediately on the course of a large or leading artery, it is to be suspected that an aneurism has formed. And this suspicion is confirmed, if the tumour becomes larger or smaller, according to the diastole or systole of the artery, or is diminished by pressure, or almost disappears if the patient should happen to faint. If pressure be applied on the trunk of the artery between the tumour and the heart, its pulsation ceases, its size is sensibly diminished, and it becomes soft and flaccid ; if on the farther or distal side of the tumour, its size is increased, and its throbbing rendered far more evident. The pulsation is said to become more faint in proportion to the growth of the tumour, and this, though generally true, is not so universally, for this symptom will presently be found to be influenced by a num- ber of circumstances, such as the blood within the sac being fluid or coagulated, the situation and depth of the tumour within the limb, and the coverings of fascia it may possess. In most instances there is a peculiar whizzing sound, plainly perceptible on applying the ear or a stethoscope to the tumour, termed by the French the " bruit de soufflet;" but its pre- sence or absence is by no means pathogno- monic, for it may be artificially produced by pressure on the trunk of any large artery. On examining a circumscribed aneurism