119 ANIMAL. stances,* besides the imponderables — light, caloric, and electricity. The whole of these are met with in the mineral or inorganic world; but no more than nineteen of them have been detected in the constitution of organized bo- dies, f Six of this number, indeed,—oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, azote, phosphorus, and cal- cium, occur in such abundance as to compose almost the whole mass of organized bodies; the remaining thirteen are met with but spa- ringly distributed, and some of them even appear to be adventitious, and by no means essential to the constitution of the bodies in which they are encountered. Speaking generally, the chemical composi- tion of inorganic objects may be stated to be the more simple, many of them consisting of a single element only, and when more com- pound generally presenting binary, and at most ternary combinations of known elements. Organized bodies, on the other hand, are never made up of single elements, they are not even binary combinations, vegetables in the aggre- gate being at least ternary, and animals at least quaternary compounds. Though the elements which compose inanimate objects, therefore, are more numerous, the combinations they enter into are less complex than those they form in the constitution of living things. Another difference in the chemical consti- tution of unorganized and of organized bodies consists in the mode or form in which the che- mical elements exist in each. In the former they present themselves immediately as it were, the chemist in his analyses coming upon them at once; in the latter they occur under two forms, the one immediate as in minerals, the other mediate, or arranged under a variety of new and peculiar shapes, which, with reference to the bodies they mainly constitute, are con- veniently and fairly spoken of as elements, with the prefix organic, they being exclusively the products of life and organization; these are also frequently spoken of as the immediate principles of vegetables and animals. In the inorganic world, again, the con- stituent elements of bodies are always united by virtue of, and in liurmony with, the general laws of chemical affinity, whilst in the organic the compounds formed are very often even the opposites of those that would have been originated under the dominion of these laws. From this it comes that, whilst the chemist finds almost as little difficulty in recomposing * Oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sul- phur, borium, silrnium, iodine, fluor, chlorine, bromine, azote, silicium, zirconium, aluminium, yttrium, glucynium, magnesium, calcium, stron- tium, baryum, potassium, sodium, lithium, man- ganese, zinc, iron, tin, arsenic, molybdenum, tung- sten, columbium, chromium, antimony, ciranium, cerium, cobalt, titanium, bismuth, cadmium, cop- per, tellurium, lead, mercury, nickel, osmium, silver, gold, platinum, palladium, rhodium, and iridium. t Oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, azote, phosphorus, sulphur, iodine, bromine, chlorine, fluor, silicium, aluminium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, cal- cium, manganese, iron, and copper. as in disintegrating inorganic objects, he has hitherto failed in compounding any one of the higher organic products or immediate prin- ciples of plants and animals.* Chemical analysis we may therefore imagine to be a process of a very different nature as applied to inorganic objects from what it is when ap- plied to organic substances. With reference to the former it, signifies a simple disintegra- tion, with an inherent capacity in the elements separated to reunite into the compound ana- lysed ; in the latter it constantly implies de- struction, without any such continuing power of recombination among the constituent ele- ments. Chemical synthesis, consequently, is an expression that can only be logically used in connection with inorganic objects. Considered with reference to their intimate texture, organized beings are no less strikingly different from unorganized bodies. The last are either solid, or fluid, or gaseous ; they never occur commingled, each subserving the ex- istence of the other. The water of crystalli- zation, and the globules of this and other fiuids occasionally found included within the sub- stance of minerals, are but adventitious, being in the first instance entangled among their component molecules,in the second imprisoned within accidental cavities in their substances but contributing in nowise to the existence or duration of the matter that surrounds them. Organized bodies, on the other hand, consist, uniformly of solid and of fluid parts: whilst the vegetable has its woody fibre and constituent parenchyma, it has its sap also ; and animals with their firmer bones, muscles, cellular sub- stance, &c. have likewise blood circulating through their bodies, or various fluids de- posited within their tissues, which are just as essential to their constitution and continuance as the containing parts themselves. It is even by the mutual play of the solids and fluids which enter into the composition of organized beings that they manifest themselves in action or exhibit the phenomena which are peculiar to them, and which we denominate vital. It were indifferent whether we took away the solids (were such a thing possible) or the fluids of a vegetable or an animal ; in either case it must perish. The solids and fluids of organized beings consequently are in intimate and inseparable relationship one with another. Consistence.—From this admixture of solids and fluids in the world of organization results the variety of consistence which its objects pre- sent. In the inorganic kingdom, rigidity,— rigidity, too, which is uniform,—is one of the distinguishing characteristics. In the organic, on the contrary, pliancy and softness, which vary as well in every individual as in almost * The exceptions to this position are scarcely worth noticing—one or two of the more simple organic elements, oxalic acid and urea, for ex- ample, have been formed synthetically, and a substance bearing a remote affinity to fat has also been produced. No one, however, lias ever suc- ceeded in forming fibrinc, neurine, fecula, gum, &c. synthetically.