291 AVES. spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae and from the anterior part of the cervical vertebra, and these slips diverge to be inserted into the transverse processes, and their appended styles or spurious ribs. A superadded muscle, which may be re- garded as a continuation of the preceding, and which corresponds to the increased number of the vertebras of the neck, passes from the transverse processes of the five superior ver- tebrae to the anterior spines of the vertebrae immediately anterior—a portion of this muscle is shown at 5. No. 6 indicates one of the most remarkable muscles in the cervical region of Birds; it is analogous to the Biventer cervicis of mam- mals, but has a much longer and more distinct middle tendon, a. 6. Its lower or pos- terior venter, b. 6, arises by a tendon, most com- monly from the short spinous processes of the lowest cervical vertebra, the anterior fleshy part c is inserted into the squamous spine of the occiput. This muscle is well developed in the Ostrich, where it arises as low clown as from the last lumbar vertebra, by a long ten- don, which is continued to the cervical region before it joins the fleshy portion, the whole muscle affording a striking example of the peculiar development of the tendinous over the carneous part which characterizes the mus- cular system of Birds. In the Parrots and Raptorial birds, however, the carneous exceeds the tendinous part of this muscle. The Complexus (7) arises from the articular and transverse processes of a variable number of the superior cervical vertebrae, and passes obliquely backwards to be inserted into the occiput, crossing exteriorly the upper belly of the preceding muscle. The Trachelo-mastoideus (8) arises from the articular processes of the cervical vertebra from the second to the sixth, and is inserted into the posterior part of the basis cranii. Anterior to the preceding muscle a portion of the Rectus capitis ariticus major may be seen at 4. This muscle is largely developed, arising from the anterior part of the sixth, seventh, and eighth vertebrae, and inserted into the basis cranii. There are also muscles ana- logous to the Rectus capitis anticus minor, the Recti postici majores et minores, the Obliquus externus or superior, and in the Penguin, a strong tendon is given off from the Trachelo- mastoideus which represents the obliquus in- ferior of the neck. When it is remembered that the cervical re- gion of the spine in Birds is subservient and essential to all the movements and functions of the bill, as a prehensile instrument, and a cleanser of the plumage, we cannot sufficiently admire the endowments of length, flexibility, and muscularity, by which it is enabled to fulfil the important functions of an additional extremity. In the caudal region of the spine the fol- lowing muscles present themselves. On the dorsal aspect, the Levator coccygis (10) ex- tends from the transverse processes and lower extremity of the sacrum to the superior spines of the coccyx and the base of the last or plough-share vertebra. This muscle may be regarded as a continuation of the spinalis dorsi. Beneath it are found strong Interspinals mus- cles. The Quadralus coccygis (11) arises from the transverse processes of the coccygeal vertebrae and is inserted into the shafts of the rectrices or tail-quills, which it separates and raises. On the lateral aspect we find the Fubo-coccy- geus (12) arising from the posterior margin of the pubis, and inserted also into the shafts of the exterior rectrices; it is by means of these muscles in conjunction with the two preceding that the Peacock spreads its gorgeous tail. The Ilio-coccygius (13) extends from the posterior margin of the ilium to the last coccy- geal vertebra, and to the small inferior tail- feathers. On the ventral or inferior aspect of the tail, the muscles are in general more feebly developed than on the opposite side, except in the Wood- peckers, where the tail, by means of its stiff and pointed quill-feathers, serves as a prop to sup- port the bird on the perpendicular trunks of trees on which it seeks its food. In these the Iscliio- coccygeus (14) is of large size, extending from the lower edge of the ischiadic tuberosity, and from the transverse processes of the anterior coccygeal vertebrae to the inferior spines of the posterior coccygeal vertebra, and to the sides of the last compressed or plough-share bone. The Depressor coccygis (15) extends from the ventral aspect of the bodies of the anterior coccygeal vertebra to the inferior spines of the posterior and to the base of the last vertebra. Of the Muscles of the head those which are attached to it for its general motions have already been described; the remaining mus- cles of this part are devoted to the movements of the jaws, the tongue, the eye, and the ear. The cutaneous muscles of the face are usually described as being entirely deficient, and the only ones that can be regarded as belonging to this series are the slips of pannieulus car- nosus, analogous to an occipito-frontalis (16), which are chiefly developed in order to elevate the crest-feathers in those birds which possess that ornament; there are also cutaneous slips which belong more properly to the organs of hearing, and which raise the auricular circle of feathers in the Owls, Bustards, &c. The muscles of the jaws are chiefly mo- dified in relation to the moveable condition of the upper mandible and tympanic bone, and the subserviency of the latter to the actions of these parts. The Temporalis (17) fills the temporal fossa, which consequently indicates the bulk of that muscle in the dry skull. It arises from a greater or less extent of the temporal and parietal bones, and, as it passes within the zygoma, becomes closely blended with the Masseter; the united muscles derive an acces- sion of fibres from the lower part of the orbit, and are inserted into the raised superior margin, representing the coronoid process; u 2