254 ARTICULATION. pears as a consequence of paralysis, and hence also the greater liability to luxation which exists in a debilitated state of the system. Articular or capsular muscles thus placed, have also the effect, as it is said, of preventing the pinching of the capsule or synovial mem- brane between the articular extremities of the bones in the different motions of the joint. The joints are very generally copiously sup- plied with blood, and are remarkable for the arterial anastomoses which take place around them. The best examples of these are met with in each of the joints of the extremities. The parts supplied with blood are the synovial membranes, the ligaments, the fat, and the extre- mities of the bones; but the cartilages cer- tainly do not receive vessels carrying red blood : I believe there is no fact in anatomy, more generally admitted or better determined than this. The vascular ramifications which proceed from these vessels may be seen, par- ticularly in young subjects, advancing in the subsynovial cellular tissue, and forming a vas- cular net-work there, as far as the margin of the articular cartilage where they stop abruptly ; this is what VV. Hunter described under the name of circulus articuli vasculosus. Of the forms and classification of the arti- culations.—It is not difficult, by passing in review the various motions which take place between any two segments of a limb, to form an idea, a priori, as to the kinds and shapes of the articulations by which these segments will be united ; it is only necessary not to lose sight of the fact, that in the construction of a joint regard is had not to its mobility alone, but to its security, its durability, and the safety of the neighbouring parts. We may expect to find joints varying in the degree of motion, from the slightest perceptible quantity, to the freest that is compatible with the maintenance of the segments in their proper relation with each other, and also in extent of motion, from that which is so slight as to admit of almost no appreciable change in the position of the parts, to that which allows of the most ample variety of relation between the segments, consistent with the integrity of the articula- tion. It will appear, then, that the most simple kind of articulation is that by which two parts are so united as that the slightest appreciable degree of motion only shall exist between them. This constitutes the first great division of joints —the Synarthrosis (aw, cum, and ag0§ov, urti- catus )—where the parts are continuous, i. e. not separated from each other by an intervening synovial cavity. Some anatomists consider all synarthrodial joints to be immoveable; which, although not far from the truth, cannot be said to be strictly accurate. Had immobility been the object to be obtained, I imagine that that might have been more effectually accomplished by the fusion of the extremities of the segments together, as in anchylosis. In the second class of joints, motion is enjoyed freely and fully: this class is designated by the term Diarthrosis (J(a, per, and afl^ov): the segments are interrupted completely in their continuity; the extremities of the bones can only be said to be contiguous. Synarthrosis.—The general characters of the articulations belonging to this class are, 1. that they are very limited in their motion, insomuch as to be considered by some as im- moveable ; 2. that their surfaces are continuous, i. e. without the intervention of a synovial cavity, but with that of some structure different from bone. The following varieties may be noticed among synarthrodial articulations. a. Suture (Germ. Nath or Naht. Com- missura cranii, Vesal.).—When the margins of two bones exhibit a series of processes and indentations (dovetailing) which are received and receive reciprocally, with a very thin car- tilaginous lamina interposed, this is the ordi- nary kind of suture, sutura vera, of which three kinds are distinguished : sutura dentata, where the processes are long and dentiform, as in the interparietal suture of the human skull; sutura serrata, when the indentations and processes are small and fine like the teeth of a saw, as in the suture between the two por- tions of the frontal bone ; sutura lirnbosa, when there is along with the dentated margins a degree of bevelling of one, so that one bone rests on the other, as in the occipito-parietal suture. When two bones are in juxta-position by plane but rough surfaces, the articulation is likewise said to be by suture, and this is the false suture, sutura nolha, of which there are two kinds : sutura squamosa, where the be- velled edge of one bone overlaps and rests upon the other, as in the temporo-parietal suture, and harmonia (ocga, adapto), where there is simple apposition: this last kind of articulation is met with, as Bichat* observes, wherever the mechanism of the parts is alone sufficient to maintain them in their proper situation, as may be seen in the union of most of the bones of the face. It is in the articulation of the bones of the skull and face of animals, as has been already noticed, that we see the best examples of su- tures. In the chelonian reptiles, as the tortoise, the bodies, laminae, and spinous processes of the vertebrae are united by suture, and the same mode of articulation unites the elements of the sternum of the land-tortoise to each other.f The bones of the head of birds and fishes are united chiefly by the harmonic and squamous sutures. In the lateral parts of the heads of fishes, and in the opercula of their gills, as between the opercular and subopercular bones, there is a species of articulation, most re- sembling the squamous suture, but differing from it in admitting a considerable latitude of motion by which these bones can glide on one another.} To descend still lower in the scale, we may observe a mode of joining very similar to suture, between the tubercular and * Anat. Gen. t. iii. p. 63. t Sec Giant's Comp. Anat. p. 83, fig. 43. X Cuvier, Lecons d'Anat. Comp t.. i. p. 125.