ANUS. 184 ions from other causes. Ulcers in this region are very generally difficult and slow to heal, owing to the irritation to which they are exposed from the passage of the feeces, and from the motion, pressure, and changes of form to which the parts are necessarily subject. Syphilis frequently appears here in the form of fissures, clefts, rhagades : these are very distinct, and different from the fissures attending the irri- table anus. The syphilitic fissure is chiefly in the integuments; it seldom extends to any distance within the anus : the edges are some- what elevated and thickened, and the surface secretes an adhesive pus, which forms crusts or scabs. Although in some instances these fissures or rhagades are attended with pain in de- falcation, yet we have met many cases in which they caused very little uneasiness, and thus contrasted remarkably with the simple or the irritable fissure. Warts, condylomata, or ex- crescences about the anus are also frequent effects of syphilis in this region. These are generally on the cutaneous side of the anus, and very rarely, I believe, extend within it: they are not, therefore, difficult to distinguish from those vascular excrescences which are of mucous origin, and which so commonly pro- trude at the anus. Syphilitic warts and con- dylomata have generally a broad base; their surface is flattened by pressure against the op- posite nates, soft and moistened with an offen- sive sero-purulent fluid. In these cases the surrounding skin is often excoriated, and clefts and superficial ulcers frequently exist in the vicinity of the anus. Cancel' is a disease to which the rectum is very liable, and may attack any part of the intestine, but usually exists at some inches above the anus. This opening, however, may become implicated by the extension of the dis- ease. We occasionally see that form of cutaneous cancer called " cancer scroti" extend along the perinatum and involve the circumference of the anus. Its parietes may, however, be prima- rily affected by cancer, in which case the ' disease will commence by a chap or fissure, or more frequently by a tubercle, which, gra- dually increasing in size and in breadth, at length ulcerates and shoots out a cauliflower mass of granulations which protrude through the opening, causing great uneasiness, pain, and dif- ficulty in defalcation : the surrounding parts in time become involved, ulceration extends, and a bleeding surface, very unhealthy, sloughy in some parts, and fungoid in others, discharging sanious and unhealthy matter, is an almost in- cessant source of pain and irritation, which in time wastes the health and strength of the patient. As no local application or consti- tutional treatment has yet been able to arrest this disease, it has been proposed to extirpate the anus and the lower end of the rectum when in this condition. Unfavourable as this opera- tion may appear, and rarely as it has been undertaken in this country, it has been fre- quently performed in France, and with some success.* * See Velpeau, Med. Oper. t. Hi. p. 1033. The anus is often affected with warty ex- crescences, which by a superficial observer might be condemned as cancerous, yet these are not of a malignant character, and may be cured by local remedies and due attention to the gene- ral health. I have seen a warty tubercular appearance about the anus, extending through it, and even involving the mucous surface for some height, and contracting the orifice so much as to cause great pain and difficulty in defalcation, and also materially impairing the general health by continual irritation; yet this state of parts is not malignant, nor is it prone to ulceration. Attention to the consti- tution, to the functions of the bowels, with local applications, will effect a cure. The anus is also frequently affected, and even incon- venienced by the growth of common warts ; these, however, can be speedily removed either by the scissors or by caustic. Excrescences frequently protrude through the anal opening, which are not warty or cutaneous growths, but elongations of the mucous mem- brane from a little distance above the anus. The anatomical disposition of these parts, before alluded to, together with a very relaxed state of the mucous membrane, accounts for the fre- quency of this occurrence. In some these pro- trusions only appear during defalcation, in others they are permanent, but much increased in volume during that act; and, indeed, in some they are so large and fill up so much of the canal, that they must be extruded before the faeces can escape. These excrescences are soft, and very vascular; they often appear without any assignable cause, though frequently they are attributed to haemorrhoids, to constipation of the bowels, to violent straining efforts in de- falcation, to fistula, or to long-continued irrita- tion from any cause. Prolapsus ani, or procidentia ani, although a term in somewhat common use, is rather an incorrect one, as the anus itself is too well maintained in its situation to descend, at least to any appreciable distance; the term rather implies a protrusion of a considerable portion of the relaxed mucous membrane of Xhe rectum, or a portion of the large intestine itself, which must have become " invaginated or introsuscepted," and then protruded through the anus; in these conditions the anus is rather dilated, the mu- cous membrane sometimes remains protruded after defalcation, but in others it returns after this process, or it can be returned by the gentle pressure of the hand: this is not uncommon in children and in elderly persons. This disease has been ascribed to a relaxation of the sphincter; a circumstance which, however, does not seem to be proved, for in paraplegia and in paralysis of the sphincter, we do not find that the mem- brane protrudes, although the anus is often in these cases very dilatable; the condition refeired to ought perhaps rather to be considered as one of the effects, than as the cause of the disease; moreover in some other instances the sphincter appears rather irritable, and painfully and dan- gerously constricts the protruded mass, which must then, in order to save the intestine from gangrene, be reduced by pressure properly