642 CIRCULATION. tinct respiratory apparatus; and that, amid the immense varieties of form which the circulatory organs present in different animals, the course of the blood bears a more close relation in all to the form of their respiratory apparatus than to any other part of their organization. This general law of the relation between circulation and respiration, satisfactorily established by the extended researches of modern comparative anatomists, receives farther confirmation from many facts connected with the performance of these functions in the adult human body, and is illustrated in a peculiar manner by the re- markable changes which take place in the cir- culatory and respiratory organs of the child before and after birth. In treating of the varieties in the course of the blood in different animals, we are at once freed from any embarrassment regarding the order proper to be pursued, by the circumstance that the form of the circulatory organs consti- tutes one of the principal bases upon which the modern classification of animals is founded; so that, in following the zoological arrange- ment, we take the order best adapted for our present purpose. As our object in giving this sketch is principally to illustrate the structure and functions of the human organs of circula- tion, we shall begin with the consideration of the course of the blood in those animals which * most nearly resemble man; and trace the varie- ties in this function, as far as our knowledge permits, through the descending series of the animal chain. 1. Course of the blood in warm-blooded animals.—In Mammalia and Birds, the form of the organs of circulation and the course of the blood are essentially the same as in Man, for in all of these animals the heart contains four distinct cavities,—two auricles and two ventricles, and there is consequently a double circulation and a complete respiration. Some considerable varieties in the form of the circulatory organs, which seem to have a relation to peculiarities in habits or mode of life, occur in certain mammiferous animals, such as the Cetacea, Amphibious Garnivora, the Sloths, Hybernating Animals, &c; but we shall not at present enter upon the considera- tion of these varieties, because they do not amount to any deviation from the type or general plan of construction of the human organs of circulation, and consequently are not accompanied by any material difference in the course of the blood, but seem rather to have the effect merely of modifying the quantity of blood sent to particular organs, or of influen- cing its velocity and force.* In the organs of circulation of the various tribes of Birds, we observe the same remarka- ble uniformity of structure which pervades the rest of their internal organization. It may be remarked that, as in Birds a cer- tain respiratory action takes place in the large air-cells distributed over the trunk of the body, and as the pulmonary vessels seem in most birds not to extend to these cells, but to be * Sec p. 678. confined to the thoracic lungs, the blood con- tained in the small branches of the systemic arteries and veins, ramifying upon the lining membrane of the air-cells, must be made to undergo some respiratory alteration of its com- position ; but we have not as yet obtained the means of judging accurately of the extent to which such a respiratory change may be effect- ed in the vessels of the systemic circulation, nor how far the minute branches of the pulmo- nary vessels may in some instances be pro- longed from the lungs into the air-cells.* Very frequent anastomoses take place among the veins of Birds. We may here mention one of these which induces an important modifica- tion in the portal circulation. By means of a communicating branch which passes from the united caudal, hemorrhoidal, and iliac veins to the vena porta?, the blood of the viscera of the abdomen and of the posterior part of the body may flow indifferently either into the vena cava inferior or the vena ports, a disposition which may have for its object to prevent congestion of blood in the parts from which these veins pro- ceed .f A still more remarkable modification of the venous circulation in Birds was supposed to exist by Professor Jacobson of Copenhagen, consisting in the distribution of branches of the vena cava inferior to the interior of the kidneys and their subdivision in these organs, in the same manner as the vena portae subdivides in the liver. Such veins transmitting venous blood to the kidneys, in the manner of a vena ports, have been ascertained by Professor Jacobson,J and are admitted by others making subsequent researches, to exist in Reptiles and Fishes; but Nicolai§ has shewn that the lower veins, described by Jacobson in Birds as vena advehentes of the kidney, do not differ from the other branches of the vena cava, and serve to carry away from these organs, like the superior renal veins of Birds and the renal veins of Quadrupeds, the venous blood derived from the arteries. Course of the blood in cold-blooded vertebra- ted animals.—Of cold-blooded vertebrated ani- mals, some, as the adult Batrachia, Chelonia, Ophidia, and Sauria, breathe air by means of lungs, while the rest, as the young Batrachia, the Protean, and Siren-like Reptiles and Fishes, are constant inhabitants of water, and breathe the air contained in that medium by means of gills or branchiae. Of the aquatic cold-blooded animals, Fishes breathe by gills only, while the aquatic Reptiles or Amphibia are furnished with lungs as well as gills during the greater part of their aquatic life. * See the article Aves, p. 330. t It is a remarkable fact that there have been found, between the hemorrhoidal veins in Man and some branches of the vena ports, anastomoses by small branches, which correspond in some respects with the disposition of the veins referred to above. These anastomoses were known to Haller, and are lately described by Retzius. See his Researches in Tiedemann's and Treviranus' Zeitschrift, vol. v. 1. X Meckel's Archiv. vol. iii. p. 147. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xix. p. 78. § Isis, 1826, p. 414.