15 ABDOMEN. wall of the inguinal canal between the two rings; it is distributed in the integuments and fasciaof the iliac and umbilical regions, and anas- tomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and by deep branches which pierce the aponeuroses, with the deep epigastric artery. In the epigas- trium and hypochondria the superficial fascia and integument are supplied by cutaneous branches from the internal mammary and the inferior intercostals. The deep-seated parts of this region are likewise supplied from the last- named arteries ; the largest and most constant of which is the abdominal branch of the internal mammary, which in the sheath of the rectus supplies that muscle, and establishes an im- portant communication with the epigastric: this anastomosis is said to have been known to Galen, who by it proposed to account for the sympathy which exists between the uterus and the breasts* Another branch of the mammary supplies the muscles external to the rectus; it runs between the obliquus internus and trans- versalis, and-is lost in anastomosing with the inferior intercostal, the lumbar, and the circum- flexa ilii arteries. Inferiorly, the abdominal wall is supplied by two considerable and very constant arteries, viz. the epigastric, which may be distinguished from the artery that supplies the integuments by the appellation deep, and the circumjiexa ilii. The epigastric artery arises in general from the external iliac a little way above Poupart's liga- ment ; it at first inclines downwards to that ligament, and then turns upwards, and directs itself forwards and inwards, crossing the iliac vein; it then runs along the posterior surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen, inclosed be- tween the peritoneum and fascia transversalis, at first situated between the external and inter- nal abdominal rings, and on arriving at the rectus muscle, the sheath of which it enters about two inches above the pubis, it gives off branches from either side to the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, and behind the linea alba, establishes a very free inosculation with its fellow of the opposite side. As it lies behind the inguinal canal, the epigastric artery is much nearer to the internal than to the external abdo- minal ring, being to the pubic side of the former; here the vas deferens, as it passes up from the pelvis to the inguinal canal, hooks over it, and receives one or two small branches from it. In passing to the rectus muscle, this artery lies internal to the linea semilunaris. It enters the sheath of the rectus, and then termi- nates by anastomosing with the internal mam- mary. The course of this artery demands par- ticular attention from the surgical anatomist in reference to the operations for inguinal hernia?, and to that for paracentesis abdominis, when the abdomen is perforated in the linea semilu- naris. The trunk of the artery is so distant from the linea alba in its whole course, that it is free from danger m any operation performed in that line, or in the internal half of the rectus muscle, and its security in such operations is increased under the altered state of parts con- * Diet, de Medecinc, art. Abdomen. sequent on pregnancy, ascites, or any abdomi- nal tumour pressing similarly on the abdominal wall. In these cases the distance of the artery from the linea alba is increased by the flattening of the rectus muscle, which results from its compression. — (See Groin, Region of; Hernia; Iliac Artery.) The circumjiexa ilii artery comes likewise from the external iliac, near to the origin of the epigastric; it passes upwards and outwards to- wards the spine of the ilium, runs along the line of junction of the fascia iliaca with the fascia transversalis, covered by the fascia, and follows the circumference of the iliacus internus muscle to end in anastomosing with the iliolum- bar artery. From that part of the artery which intervenes between its origin and the spine of the ilium, come the principal branches which it supplies to the abdominal muscles. The lateral and posterior walls of the abdo- men are supplied by the inferior intercostals, the lumbar, the iliolumbar, the circumflexa ilii arte- ries; the superior walls by the phrenic branches of the internal mammary and by those of the aorta. It is in cases where the aorta has been obliterated that we can see best the extent of arterial ramification on the abdomen, and can appreciate the benefit of these numerous anas- tomoses, and the connexion which they esta- blish between the upper and lower portions of the aorta.* b. The veins.—The veins of the abdominal parietes are much more numerous than the arteries ; each artery has its accompanying vein or veins, but those which are especially de- serving of attention are the tegumentary veins which accompany the superficial epigastric artery, and those which ramify along with the deep epigastric and mammary. The subcuta- neous veins demand attention in consequence of the considerable size which they sometimes attain; this enlargement is commonly attendant on ascites and on pregnancy, and is occasionally, to a remarkable extent, a consequence of some irregularity, obstructionf or retardation of the circulation, in the deep-seated veins of the ab- domen, more especially the inferior vena cava. The veins which accompany the superficial epigastric artery empty themselves by one or more trunks into the vena saphena at the upper part of the thigh. Two veins generally accompany the deep epigastric artery, which empty themselves into the external iliac vein. These veins are equally subject to enlargement with the preceding, and from similar causes, and they are often found in a varicose condition in women who have borne many children. Some curious anomalies have been observed in the venous circulation of the anterior abdo- minal wall, which, as being calculated to in- terfere with the operator, the practitioner would * See the interesting case of obliterated aorta re- corded by Messrs. Crampton and Goodissen. Dub. Hosp. Reports, vol. ii. t As in the case of obliteration of the infeiior vena cava from the pressure of an aneurismal tumour observed by Reynaud. Journal Hcbdom. de Med. vol. ii. p. 110.