582 CETACEA. Fig. 270. 4 section of one of the lobes or venules of the kidney of a Dolphin. The Nervous System.—The nervous system, like the greater part of the other organic sys- tems, has in many species of the Cetacea been the subject only of superficial observations. Formed on the plan of that of Mammalia in general, it has followed in its deve- lopment that of the other organs, in all cases in which it was naturally de- pendent on such modifications. Thus the lumbar and sacral nerves do not give origin to those of abdominal members, whilst, on the other hand, the coccygeal nerves are found nume- rous and powerful. The olfactory nerves do not exist, unless, as some authors say, it is in the form of almost imperceptible threads. What appears certain is, that in the common Dol- phin, and in the common Porpesse there are no traces of ethmoidal openings; and if there are holes in the ethmoid of the Whale, they are in very small number, and nothing proves that they give passage to nerves.* In the common Dolphin and Porpesse, the brain is found as richly developed as in any Mammi- ferous quadruped whatever. To judge from the capaciousness of the skull, the other species of this family of Cetacea have not been less liberally gifted than the common Dolphin. The brain of the Cachalots and the Whales has not been made a subject of study, or has been so only in a very super- ficial way. To judge of it by the cranial cavity, one may conclude that in them this organ is reduced to very small dimensions. [The illustrations of the brain of the Cetacea (Jig. 271, 272, 273) are taken from the ex- cellent figures of the brain of the Dolphin ( Delphinus Delphi*), published by Tiedemann in the second volume of his Zeitschrift fur Physiologie, (pi. xii. p. 251.) The following description embodies the observations of the same author on the brain of the Dolphin, and of Hunter on that of the Balanoptera (Piked Whale). In a young specimen of the Balana rustrata, which measured seventeen feet, Hunter Fig. 272. Fig. 271. Brain of tlie Dolphin, Delphinus Delphis * M. F. Cuvier seems here to have overlooked the fact that Hunter had established the existence of an organ of smell in the Balaenida:. , He observes, Base of the brain of a Dolphin, Delphinus Delphis. found that the brain weighed four pounds eight ounces. In a young Bulana mysticetus nineteen feet long, Scoresby found the weight of the brain to be three pounds twelve ounces. From analogy we may suppose that the brain had here acquired nearly its full development, which gives us, taking the weight of the full grown whale at 11,200 pounds, the ratio of the weight of the brain to that of the body as 53*55. In the smaller Cetacea, however, the brain is not dimi- nished to a proportionate size, but exhibits a development which may be said to be extraordinary, even in the Dolphin of six feet in length. In tracing the brain according to Tiedemann's method from below upwards, we first observe the " In many of this (the Whale) tribe, there is no organ of smell at all; and in those which have such an organ, it is not that of a Fish, therefore