CETACEA. 589 the tympanum, which, in the Porpoise, is only by contact, but in others by a bony union; the other attachment is formed by the tendon, above described, being united to the inner surface of the membrana tympani. Its base articulates with the incus. " The incus is attached by a small process to the tympanum, and is suspended between the malleus and stapes. The process by which it articulates with the stapes is bent towards that bone. " The stapes stands on the vestibulum, by a broad oval base. In many of this tribe, the opening from side to side of the stapes is so small as hardly to give the idea of a stirrup. " The muscles which move these bones are two in number, and tolerably strong. One arises from that projecting part of the tym- panum which goes to form the Eustachian tube, and running backwards is inserted into a small depression on the anterior part of the malleus. The use of this muscle seems to be to tighten the membrana tympani; but in those which have the malleus anchylosed with the tympanum, we can hardly conjecture its use. The other (o) has its origin from the inner surface of the tympanum, and passing backwards is inserted into the stapes by a tendon, in which I found a bone in the large Bottle-nose. This muscle gives the stapes a lateral motion. What particular use in hearing may be produced by the action of these muscles I will not pretend to say; but we must suppose whatever motion is given to the bones must terminate in the movement of the stapes. " The immediate organ of hearing is contained in a round bony process, and consists of the cochlea and semicircular canals, which some- what resemble the quadruped; but besides the two spiral turns of the cochlea, there is a third, which makes a ridge within that continued from the foramen rotundum and follows the turns of the canal. " The cochlea (k, jig. 276) is much larger when compared with the semicircular canals, than in the human species and quadruped." Besides its greater relative size, the coch- lea of the Delphinida differs from that of the human subject in the greater pro- portional extent, and especially the form and disposition of the scala vestibuli, which, in- stead of being one compartment of a single tube divided in the direction of its axis, is a complete conical tube. It also forms an oblique sigmoid curve before commencing its spiral turns, which are two and a half in number. The semicircular canals have the same dis- position as in Mammalia, but are relatively smaller. Cuvier, in correcting the error into which Camper had fallen when he denied the existence of the semicircular canals in the Whale, appears to have overlooked the fact that they had previously been discovered in the Cetacea by Hunter. And it is simply be- cause they do not possess any difference of note as compared with other Mammalia, (ex- cept in their relative volume to other parts of the labyrinth which Hunter is careful to point out,) that they are not described by him with the same minuteness and detail as the cochlea and other parts of the organ. It may also be observed that the more extensive researches of Hunter preserved him from the error into which Cuvier has fallen of ascribing to the Cetacea a structure of the cochlea which is peculiar to a small part only of the order. The depression of the gyrations of the cochlea to nearly the same plane, and their limitation to one and a half in number, is certainly not applicable to the Delphinida, and it may be doubted how far it can be with accuracy asserted of the Baltfrns.* The canals which establish a communication between the labyrinth and the interior of the cranium, viz. the aqueductus vestibuli and aqueductus cochlea;, are very large in the Del- phinidtB, especially the latter.] Taste.—This sense probably exists in the Herbivorous Cetaceans, whose tongue, although but slightly moveable, has notwithstanding a complicated and delicate structure. But has this sense a special organ in the Spouting Ce- taceans ? Some doubts may be allowed to exist on this subject. The tongue of the Dol- phin and that of the Porpoise have neither fossulate papillae nor conical papillse ; they only present on their surface slight elevations, of which the middle appears to be perforated, and their edges are fringed, as if for multiplying the sensations of touch. Touch.—The general organ of touch, the skin, has formed, in the Spouting Cetaceans, the subject of important researches, which have given a more extended knowledge of this organ in general than was before possessed. According to the observations of MM. Breschet and Roussel de Vauzeme, there may be distinguished in the skin of the Cetaceans, as in that of other Mammals, six principal constituents which either penetrate or are superimposed on one another, but which are severally destined to fulfil a special function. 1. The derm or corium (le derme), a dense fibrous cellular texture, which contains and protects all the other parts of the skin. In the Whale it is constantly white and opake, and its peripheral surface presents a series of papilla, the intervals of which are occupied by the epidermis, which forms for each a sheath. 2. The papillary bodies (les corps papil- laires) consist of papillae covered by the derm. They have a nacrous lustre, and are several lines in length in the Whale, but are much shorter in the common Dolphin and Porpesse. These papilla; are composed of fibres pene- trated by vessels; they originate from the sub- cutaneous nervous plexus and return back again to the same; the derm serves merely as a sheath to the papillre, the extremities of which exercise the sense of touch. 3. The sudorific apparatus (Vappareil sudo- rifique) consists of soft, elastic, spiral canals, which extend through the entire thickness of * See Ossem. Foss. vol. v. pt. i. p. 300, and Lc?ons d'Anat. Comparee, vol. ii. p. 467.