BONE, NORMAL ANATOMY. 435 membrane. The artery is erroneously called the nutritious vessel of the bone. It is ob- viously intended for the marrow. A vein is seen to accompany it; and nerves may also be demonstrated. The medullary membrane is possessed of sensibility. This was long ago shown by Du- verney.* According to Bichat it enjoys a very high degree of sensibility in the centre, but much less towards the ends. Anatomists do not agree with him in this observation, nor is it found very sensible in any part. Patients seldom complain of pain when, in amputations, it is rudely lacerated by the teeth of the saw ; but sometimes they do complain loudly, and in those cases especially where the operation is performed below the entrance of the nerve ; in the opposite case the nerve is probably di- vided with the soft parts, and the sensibility, of course, destroyed. The marrow and the medullary canal vary much in different periods of life, and under different circumstances. No medullary cavity exists in the cartilage which precedes bone; but Bichat asserts that the membrane is pre- sent, filled with gelatine of the same ap- pearance as the rest of the cartilage. An assertion so improbable a priori, and so con- trary to all observation, seemed to require some proof to support it, yet he offers none. When a cavity is formed at a later period, it is at first occupied entirely by the artery; a membrane soon shows itself which contains a reddish watery substance, of a gelatinous appearance, not fatty : it may be dried away before the fire and will not stain paper. To this the true marrow succeeds, more unctuous and more abundant as the individual advances in years. In subjects, however, which have been wasted by slow disease, and in the very aged, the marrow again becomes watery, though not so red as in the foetus. In the cells of the verte- brae there never is well-formed marrow. It there remains through life sanguineous and almost destitute of oil. The use of the medullary membrane seems to be to act as an internal periosteum, or a bed in which the vessels may ramify before they enter the osseous substance. Its destruction to any extent is followed by the death of the bone. But is the adeps contained in it of any use ? Doubtless it is to the general system a store of nutriment, which is absorbed, in cases of wasting or marasmus, for the general good ; but to the bone itself perhaps it is of no more use than so much of any other soft animal substance would be—it fills a space which in the mechanism of the bone was not to be occupied with calcareous matter. Marrow was lighter than the heavy earth of bone, and could at any time be used for the necessities of the animal. We see young bones filled with a gelatinous fluid, and in birds air takes its place—a proof that marrow is no wise essen- tial to the existence of the osseous system. Various other uses have been assigned to the marrow, which will not bear examination. Blumenbach, Haller, and their predecessors conceived that it rendered bones more flexible; but the bones of children, which have little or no marrow, are much more flexible than those of adults. Burning a bone renders it brittle, and this was said to be owing to the destruc- tion of its oily part; but it is occasioned, clearly, by the destruction of all its animal ingredients. Some were of opinion that it contributed essentially to the growth and nu- trition of bone and to its union when fractured, but bones are far advanced in growth before it appears at all, and they unite faster in the young than in the old. They unite also readily in birds. Others looked on it as the source of synovia; but the very same objec- tions hold to that supposition, and indeed the two fluids are quite dissimilar. According to the law of development, so generally observed, we find fishes and amphi- bia, like the human foetus, for the most part destitute of a medullary canal. The crocodile and other lizards are, however, exceptions. Some of these have considerable cavities. Birds, when young, have an imperfect medulla in all their bones, but at a later period the canal in many of them becomes remarkably developed, and then no longer contains mar- row ; air takes its place, and fulfils important offices in the economy of the class. In mam- malia the internal structure coincides with that of the human bones, except in those species which have fins. These approximate to fishes, and either contain no cavity or a very small one filled with fluid oil. The medulla of car- nivorous animals generally is softer than that of herbivorous. Organization of bone as a part of the living system.—The physical properties of bone are so very peculiar that we cannot much wonder at the mistakes of the ancient anatomists re- specting its organization. Some classed it it amongst the bloodless organs; others even supposed it to be destitute of vitality; and superficial observation might countenance the supposition, for no pain is excited by sawing, scraping, or cauterizing a bone ; but experi- ment and observation, analogy and disease, all convince us that it possesses well-developed systems of arteries, veins, nerves, and most probably lymphatics, not differing essentially from those of the soft parts. These are ob- scured by the presence of calcareous matter, not obliterated. " Scrape a bone, and its ves- sels bleed ; cut or bore a bone, and its granu- lations sprout up; break a bone, and it will heal ; or cut a piece away, and more bone will readily be produced ; hurt it in any way, and it inflames ; burn it, and it dies; take any proof of sensibility but the mere feeling of pain, and it will answer to the proof."* Animal sen- sibility was unnecessary, it would even be incon- venient ; it is, therefore, not to be found, ex- cept in diseased bone, where it sometimes exhibits itself too acutely. The presence of bloodvessels may be shown in various ways. 1st. The colour of healthy * Memoires de l'Acad. des Sc. 1700. * Bell's Anatomy. 2 F 2