316 AVES. bands from the lower and internal edge of the lower jaw; these unite and surround the cerato- hyals or cornua of the os hyoides ; and as they draw forward the os hyoides, protrude the tongue from the beak. 4th. The Cerato-hyoideus passes from the cerato-hyal to the uro-hyal, and is therefore subservient to the lateral movements of the tongue. 5th. The Sterno-hyoidei are replaced by a slip of muscle which extends from the anterior surface of the upper larynx to be attached to the base of the glosso-hyal. 6th. A small and short muscle is single or azygos; it passes from the basi-hyal to the under part of the glosso-hyal; it depresses the tip of the tongue and elevates its base. 7th. A short muscle which arises from the junction of the basi-hyal with the cerato- and uro-hyals, and is inserted into the upper and outer angle of the base of the glosso-hyal. All these muscles are remarkably large in the Woodpecker, in which there is a singular pair of muscles that may be termed Ceralo- tracheales, (k, Jig. 154.) They arise from the trachea about eight lines from the upper larynx, twist four,times spirally round the trachea, and then pass forward to be inserted into the base of the cerato-hyals. This is the principal re- tractor of the singular tongue in this species. Salivary glands.—The salivary organs, being in general developed in a degree corresponding to the extent of the changes which the food undergoes in the mouth, and the length of time during which it is there detained, are by no means so conspicuous a part of the diges- tive system in Birds as in Mammals. Glands which pour out their secretion upon the food prior to deglutition are, however, met with in every bird, but vary in number, position, and complexity of structure. In some species, as the Crow, they are of the simplest structure, consisting of a series of unbranched, cone-shaped follicles or tubules, opening separately upon the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, along the sides of which cavity they are situated. They pour out a viscid mucus, and are the only traces of a salivary system met with in this bird. In many other birds, and especially in the Scratching, Wading, and Swimming Orders, glands of the conglomerate structure are found beneath the lower jaw, analogous to the sub- maxillary glands of quadrupeds. In the Goose they occupy the whole of the anterior part of the space included by the rami of the lower jaw, being of an elongated form, flattened and closely united together at the middle line. On either side of this line the mu- cous membrane of the mouth presents inter- nally a series of pores, each of which is the terminal orifice of a distinct gland or aggre- gate of ramified ducts. A third and higher form of salivary gland, in which the secretion of the conglomerate mass is conveyed into the mouth by a single duct, is found in the Woodpeckers and some species of the Rapacious Order. In the latter birds these glands are termed, from their situ- Torujue and salivary ylands, Woodpecker. ation, anterior palatine: in the Pica they correspond to the parotid and sublingual of Quadrupeds. The sublingual glands of the Woodpecker are of extraordinary size, extending from the angle to the symphysis of the lower jaw. The single ducts of each gland unite just before their termination, which is a simple orifice at the apex of the mouth. The structure of these glands is shown at i, k, Jig. 154. Besides the preceding, which may be con- sidered as the true salivary glands, there are numerous accessory follicles in different parts of the oral apparatus of birds. In the Water- hen ( Gallinula chloropus) there is a series of coecal glandular tubes along each side of the tongue ; and it is interesting to note that glan-