770 CRUSTACEA. modifications, and even Fig. 403. immediately into contact with the optic nerve. These eyes are obviously made up by the con- junction of several stemmata under a common cornea. The Apus, besides its pair of simple eyes, presents another compound pair, behind and at some distance from these. The Amphihoe Prevostii and some other Edriophthalmians present the transition from the form last described to that of truly com- pound eyes,having distinct facets. The cornea in these is formed of two transparent laminae, the external of which is smooth and without divisions, whilst the internal is divided into a variable number of hexagonal facets, each of which is a distinct cornea, superposed upon such a conical crystalline lens, as we shall have occasion immediately to describe when speaking of compound eyes properly so called, or eyes with simple facets. Tn these the two membranes, external and internal, the union of which constitutes the cornea, present simultaneously the division into facets, each of which forms anteriorly an ocular compartment proper to it. These facets, always hexagonal in insects, are of various forms in the Crustacea: thus in the Astacus fluviatilis, the Peneas, the Galatheae, and the Scyllari, they are square (Jig. 399), whilst the Paguri, the Phyllosoma, the Fig. 399. Squillae, the Gebiae, the Calli- anassas, and the Crabs, have them hexagonal (Jig. 400). The crys- talline that succeeds them imme- diately is of a conical form, and is followed by a vitreous humour Fig. 400. having the appearance of a gelati- nous filament, adhering by its base to the optic nerve. Each of the columns thus formed is, more- over, lodged within a pigmentary cell, which likewise covers the bulb of the optic nerve. But the most remarkable circumstance is, that the large cavity within which the whole of these parallel columns, every one of which is in itself a perfect eye, are contained, is closed posteriorly by a membrane, which ap- pears to be neither more nor less than the middle tegumentary membrane, pierced for the passage of the optic nerve; so that the ocular chamber at large results from the sepa- ration at a point of the two external layers of the general envelope. Fig. 401. Longitudinal section of the Eye of the Lobster. The gelatinous or vitreous elongated pro- cesses which succeed the conical crystallines have been looked upon by several anatomists as ramifications of the optic nerve; but we do not imagine that they are so in reality. In the Lobster, for instance, we have even seen the surface of the bulb isolated from the masses in question, divided into compartmenU Fig. 402. corresponding to those of the cornea itself, and lined with a layer of pigmentum perfectly distinct. The most remarkable modification of facetted eyes consists in the presence of a kind of sup- plementary lens, of a circular shape and set within the cornea in front of each proper crys- talline lens {Jig. 402). These small lenticular bodies exist independently, and are perfectly distinct from the small corneal facets. In some cases they might be mistaken (in the Idotea?, for example, where they may be perceived singly, and with their distinct circular forms), and the incau- tious observer led to conclude that the cor- neal facets are merely these lenticular bodies so much enlarged that their hexagonal or square forms result from their agglomeration in a point; but there are Crustacea, such as the CallianassEe, in which these two elements of the external cornea may be perfectly dis- tinguished, the lenticular body being of insig- nificant dimensions and occupying the centre of the corneal facet only (Jig. 402). In general, however, the diameter of the lenticular body is equal to that of the corneal facet itself, so that their edges blend. Farther, the lenticular bodies are most commonly evolved in the sub- stance of the cornea; but there are cases in which, under favourable circumstances, they may be detached from it. Although the existence of these different modifications must not be understood as being exclusive, inasmuch as there are certain Crus- tacea which exhibit more than one of them at the same time, for instance, stemmata and compound eyes, the latter only are the species of visual organ encountered in the great ma- jority of cases. Their general number is two; but these are occasionally united, so as to form a single mass, and make the animal appear at first sight as if it had but a single eye. This peculiarity of organization can even be followed in the Daphnia, in the embryo of which the eyes are first seen isolated; with the progress of the development, however, they are observed gradually to approach each other, and finally to become united. Stemmata are always immoveable and sessile; the com- pound eyes with smooth cornea?, however, although in the majority of cases they present the same disposition, now and then occur moveable : sometimes they are supported by a pedicle, moveable in like manner, and pro- vided with special muscles. The eyes with facets present the same supply important charac- ters in classifying these animals: thus in the Edriophthalmia the eyes are always immoveable and sessile, (Jig. 403,) whilst in the Decapo- da and the Stomapoda (Jig. 404) they are sup- ported upon moveable