AVES. 326 it bears a proportion of one-tenth, in some of the latter of one-tvventy-ninth part of the entire body. The liver (m m, fig- 163,165) is situated a little above the middle of the thoracic-abdo- minal cavity, with its convex surface towards the abdominal parietes,and its concavity turned towards the subjacent viscera: the right lobe covers the duodenum, pancreas, and part of the small intestines; the left lobe covers the pro- ventriculus and part of the gizzard; and the apex of the heart is received between the upper ends of these principal lobes. The liver is, as it were, moulded upon all these parts, and pre- sents corresponding depressions where it comes in contact with them. It is generally divided into two nearly equal lobes, which are often separated for a short extent, and connected together by a narrow isthmus of the glandular substance. In some birds, however, as in the Pigeon, Cormorant, Swan, and Goose, there is a third, smaller lohe, situated at the back of the liver between the lateral lobes, which from its situ- ation appears analogous to the lobulus Spigelii of Mammalia. In the Common Fowl the left lobe is occasionally cleft so deeply as to form two lobes on that side. In some species the right lobe exceeds the left in size; this is most remarkable in the Bustard, in which the right lobe extends into the pelvis. In the Eagle, however, the left lobe has been observed to be the largest. Each lobe is invested by a double membranous tunic, one embracing it closely, the other surrounding it loosely, like the peri- cardium of the heart. They are formed by laminae of the peritoneum, which seems to split at the exterior thin edge of the liver into four layers, two being continued upon the anterior and posterior surfaces adhering to them, the other two forming the loose exterior cap- sule. The principal ligament of the liver is formed by a large and strong duplicature of the peri- toneum, which divides the abdomen longitu- dinally like the thoracic mediastinum in Mam- malia. It is reflected from the linea alba and middle line of the sternum upon the pericar- dium, and passes deeply into the interspace of the lobes of the liver ; it is attached to these lobes through their whole extent, and connects them below to the gizzard on one side and to the duodenal fold on the other: the lateral and posterior parts of the liver are attached to the contiguous air-cells; and the whole viscus is thus kept steady in its situation during the rapid and violent movements of the bird. The ligament first described is analogous to the fal- ciform ligament of Mammalia; and, although there is no free margin inclosing a round liga- ment, yet the remains of the umbilical vein may be traced within the duplicature of the membranes forming the septum. As the mus- cular septum between the thorax and abdomen is wanting, there is consequently no coronary ligament; but the numerous membranous pro- cesses which pass from the liver to the sur- rounding parts amply compensate for its ab- sence. The liver is of a lighter colour in Birds of flight than in the heavier Water-fowl. Each lobe has its hepatic artery and vena porta?. The hepatic arteries are proportionally small, but the portal veins are of great size, being formed not only by the veins of the intestinal canal, pancreas, and spleen, but also by the inferior emulgent and sacral veins. The blood, which has circulated in the liver, is returned to the inferior cava by two venae hepaticae. There are occasionally some smaller hepatic veins in addition to the two principal ones. The coats of the portal and hepatic veins ap- pear to be equally attached to the substance of the liver. The biliary secretion is carried oat of the liver by two and sometimes three ducts; one of these terminates directly in the intestine, and is a 'he- patic duct' n,fig. 165); the other enters the gall-bladder, and is a' cyst-hepatic duct' (o',fig. 165); the cystic bile is conveyed to the duo- denum by a ' cystic duct' (o, fig 165). Where, as in a few instances, the gall-bladder does not exist, both hepatic ducts terminate separately in the duodenum (n, n, fig. 163); but in no case is there a single ductus communis cho- ledochus as in Mammalia. The gall-bladder (p, fig. 165) is situated near the mesial edge of the concave or under side of the right lobe, and is commonly lodged in a shallow depression of the liver; but some- times, as in the Eagle, Bustard, and Cormorant, only a very small part of the bag is attached to the liver. It lias the same structure as in Mamma- lia, manifesting no visible muscular tunic, and having its inner surface delicately reticulated. The gall-bladder is present in all the Rap- tores, lnsessores, and Natatores. It is want- ing in a great proportion of the Scansores, as in the Genus Rhamphastos and in the whole of the Psittacidcc and Cuculida. Among the Rasores the gall-bladder is constantly deficient in the Columbid/e or Dove-tribe alone, in which the coeca are shorter than in any other vege- table feeder: (n n, fig. 163, are the two he- patic ducts terminating apart from one another in the Pigeon.) The gall-bladder is occasion- ally absent, according to the French Acade- micians, in the Guinea-fowl; and they also found it wanting in two out of six Demoi- selles (Anthropoides Virgo). The gall-blad- der is small and sometimes absent in the Bittern: it is always wanting in the Ostrich. The bile, as before observed, passes directly into the gall-bladder, and not by regurgitation from a ductus choledochus ; the cyst-hepatic duct arises from the right lobe, and is con- tinued in some birds along that side of the bag which is in contact with the liver, where it penetrates the coats of the cyst and terminates about one-third from the lower or posterior end. In the Horn-bill we found it passing over the upper end of the bladder to the anterior or free surface, and the cystic duct continued from the point where the cyst-hepatic duct opened into the bladder; so that the cystic duct had a communicaton both with the reservoir and the cyst-hepatic duct; being somewhat ana- logous to the ductus communis choledochus;