AVES. 270 also their neck. Their dense plumage is oiled and lubricated by the secretion of the coccy- geal glands, which are remarkably developed for that purpose. In general the males have many females, and in harmony with this spe- ciality the young are hatched in a condition which renders the cooperation of both parents for their support unnecessary, being able to take to the water and swim about in search of food the instant that they ave liberated from the egg-coverings. The families of Swimmers are the Anatida, Swan, Goose, Duck; Co- lymbidw, Divers; Alcada, Auks ; Pelecanida, Pelican, Cormorant, Gannet; Larida, Gulls. 1. Osteology.—The skeleton of Birds is re- markable for the rapidity of its development and the light and elegant mechanism displayed in the adaptation of its several parts. The osseous substance is compact, and exhibits more of the laminated and less of the fibrous texture than in the other vertebrate classes. This is more especially the case in those parts of the skeleton which are permeated by the air. The bones which present this singular modifi- cation have a greater proportion of the phosphate of lime in their composition than is found in the osseous system of the mammalia, and they are whiter than the bones of any other animal. In the bones where the medulla is not dis- placed or dessicated by the extension of the air-cells into their interior, the colour is of a duller white. In the Silk or Negro-fowl of the Cape de Verd Islands (Gallus Morio, Temminck) the periosteal covering of the bones is of a dark brown, and in some parts almost black colour; but this ought to be re- garded as a peculiarity of the cellular rather tlian of the osseous texture, which does not differ in colour from that of other birds; indeed the thin aponeurosis covering the lateral tendons of the gizzard of the Silk-fowl is observed to have the same dark hue as the membrane which invests the bones. Although in the disposition of the parts of the osseous system of birds the plan which pervades the vertebrate type of structure is nowhere absolutely violated, yet the variations from that plan required by the peculiar exigen- cies of the class are of the most striking and interesting kind. We shall successively con- sider the relations of these modifications to the powers and habits of the bird as they present themselves in the vertebral axis, in the bones of the head and thorax, and in those of the anterior and posterior extremities. Fig. 125. Skeleton of the Topaz Humming Bird ( Ti The vertebral axis or spine is divisible into a cervical (Jig. 125, a), dorsal (6), sacral (c), and caudal (d) region ; the vertebras immediately succeeding those which bear ribs have a lateral anchylosis with the iliac bones, and therefore there is no part of the spine which possesses the characters of the lumbar vertebrae of mam- malia and reptiles. The vertebras are the first parts of the osseous : system which make their appearance in the development of the embryo, and they are of all parts of the skeleton the most constant in their existence and general characters. The doi'sal or costal vertebras in birds rarely form more than a fourth part of the entire vertebral column, and in some of the long- necked Grallatorcs, as the Stork, form only an eighth part of the spine; they have not been observed to be fewer than six nor more than eleven in number throughout the class: the latter obtains in the Swans (Cygnus canorus et olor) and Sheldrake; the most common numbers are seven or eight. The dorsal vertebrae are short, as compared with the cervical: they appear broad when viewed superiorly, in consequence of the great development of the transverse processes; but their bodies are much compressed in the lateral direction, so as to be reduced almost to the form of vertical laminae towards the sacral region. This is especially observable in the Penguins (Aptenodytes, Catarrhactes) ; but in the Ostrich the bodies of the dorsal ver- tebrae retain their breadth throughout. The bodies are not united by intervertebral substances, but by capsular ligaments and synovial membranes; the anterior articular cartilaginous surface is convex in the vertical direction, and concave in the transverse; the posterior surface is the reverse. The Penguins, however, present a remarkable exception to this rule. The posterior surface of the third dorsal vertebra is uniformly concave, to which the opposed end of the fourth vertebra presents a corresponding convexity: the ball and socket joint is continued between the several ver- tebrae to the last dorsal, which is anchy- losed to the sacrum. This is an interesting affinity to the Reptilia, in addition to numerous others displayed in the construction of these, singular birds. In most birds the bodies of some of the middle dorsal vertebrae are an- chylosed together; and in general those which are nearest the sacrum. In the Flamingo we have observed this anchylosis extending from ,the second to the fifth dorsal vertebra. In the Sparrow-hawk the second, third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebrae are conso- lidated into one piece, while the sixth enjoys con- siderable lateral motion both upon the fifth and seventh, which last is an- chylosed to the sacrum; so that the body can be rapidly and extensively in- flected towards either side