CELLULAR TISSUE. 516 to escape but imperfectly on a puncture being made; and in other cases, as in the diffused swelling so often occurring in bad constitutions after serious local injury, compound fractures, poisoned wounds, &c. the effused fluid is of an acrid character. The effusion is often restricted to a particular region, (oedema ;) at other times it is more extensive, and may even occur in all parts of the body (anasarca). In all instances in which effusion takes place, it ought to be regarded simply as an effect, resulting from some previous change in the vessels of the cellular tissue, which stands in the relation of a cause. This change consists, I believe, in the great majority of cases, if not in all, in a preternatural con- gestion of the bloodvessels, which may be induced by inflammation, debility, mechanical obstruction to the free return of the venous blood, or the suspension of any of the great secretions of the body. c. Air.—Emphysema, in its usual form, arises from an unnatural communication being formed between some part of the air-passages and the cellular tissue (traumatic emphysema) : it is thus an occasional consequence of fracture of the ribs, in which the neighbouring portion of the lung is lacerated ; of penetrating wounds of the chest; of rupture of the air-cells by violent exertions; of ulceration of the air- cells ; of rupture of the membrane of the larynx, and even of the lachrymal sac and windpipe, and of fractures in the vicinity of the frontal sinuses, causing a laceration of their mucous membrane. Emphysema has been likewise known to arise spontaneously, the air appear- ing to be secreted from the bloodvessels ; and it is also a frequent attendant on gangrene, in which case the effused air is the result of the decomposition of the fluids previously col- lected. d. Urine.—Effusion of urine may arise from a wound or ulceration of any of the organs through which the urine passes; usually, how- ever, it is a consequence of an injury of the bladder or urethra. The accident particularly demands notice on account of the destructive effects which result from it. These effects are extensive mortification of the cellular tissue, and, in a somewhat less degree, of the skin, followed by profuse suppuration, attended with constitutional symptoms of so serious a nature as often to cause the death of the patient. III. Induration.—Induration occurs as a special disease in new-born infants, and in a large proportion of those who are attacked, there is a fatal termination from the sixth to the thirtieth day; in very severe cases, and in infants prematurely born, death may- take place in two, three, or four days. Some idea of the mortality in this disease may be formed from the following facts: in the Foundling Hospital in Paris, the mortality of late years has been one in three ; out of twenty- seven cases occurring in 1809, at La Charite in Berlin, only two were saved; in fifteen cases seen by Lobstein, four recovered. The disease is very prevalent in the large foundling hospitals on the continent, as many as 240 cases occurring in one year in the Hos- pice des Enfans Trouves of Paris, out of 5392 received into the institution. In this country, where, fortunately for humanity, no such establishments exist, and where conse- quently new-born infants are but rarely deserted by the mother, the disease is very rare. Dr. Copland states that he has not met with an instance of it in the Queen's Lying-in Hospital, and that even in the Infirmary for Children, such cases are very rarely presented. I have made inquiries of several very extensive prac- titioners of midwifery, some of whom are con- nected with public institutions, and they have very rarely or never seen the disease. The parts which are attacked, usually the legs, hands, and face, are more or less swollen, hard, and rigid to the touch ; and the skin assumes a red or violet colour in consequence of the respiration being imperfectly performed. The affection consists of an cedematous state of the cellular tissue, the areola; being loaded with a concrete albuminous matter and a sero- sanguineous fluid, which oozes out when a section is made and quickly coagulates ; it is this infiltration that is the cause of the peculiar hardness, for according to M. Billard, who has carefully investigated the characters of the dis- ease, the cellular fibres and layers preserve all their flexibility, and present no signs of having undergone any organic change. According to M. Chevreul, in this disease the serum of the blood contains an abundant quantity of a matter distinct from fibrin, but which spontaneously coagulates; this substance is perfectly identical with the material to which the cellular tissue owes its apparent induration. The history of this disease, and the results obtained by dissection, prove that venous con- gestion is a very constant morbid appearance; and it is a question that has not hitherto been decided, how far this congestion is the exciting cause of the disease. IV. Morbid growths. — These are of very common occurrence and of very various characters; some consisting of the trans- formation of the cellular membrane into other tissues, the fibrous and osseous for example; whilst others are entirely new productions, and occasionally prove of a malignant nature, such as cysts, vascular sarcoma, scirrhus, melanosis, &c. We do not often meet with bony or fibrous formations in the common cellular structure, although I have occasionally seen growths with these characters. From an ex- amination of many specimens, I am induced to believe that the ossific deposits not unfre- quently observed in connection with the fibrous and serous membranes, as the dura mater, pleura, &c. are formed in the cellular tissue of these structures. V. —Foreign bodies are sometimes intro- duced into the cellular tissue from without, such as bullets, needles, &c. Certain para- sitic animals, the origin and characters of which are very obscure, are also occasionally met with in the substance of the human body, and especially in the cellular tissue. At the present day it is generally admitted that hy-