BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. 424 extraneous circumstances, such as the form of the vessel in which the blood is received, the time allowed for the contraction of the clot, which it is well known goes on for many hours, and even the quantity abstracted, that no accu- rate deduction can be drawn from its appear- ance. The collection of the fibrine itself is easily effected, and it will thus be perceived that, under inflammation, it is more abundant than in the normal state. Scudamore has made numerous experiments on the relative quantity of fibrine contained in healthy and diseased cras- samentum, and the following short, list selected from them satisfactorily establishes this fact. In 1000 grs. of clot as deduced from eight specimens of healthy blood, average of dry fibrine 3-53 grs. Maximum 4-43, minimum 2-37 Slight pleurisy, blood slightly buffed 7'05 Pain in the side, ditto 11-37 Cough 7-24 Acute gout, blood not buffed, firm texture 5-88 Disease not named, clot compact, buffed, and cupped 12*41 Ditto 1373 Average 9-62 Mr. Jennings, in his report on the blood in the Transactions of the Provincial Medical As- sociation for 1834, likewise gives a table, the result of which is, that in eight cases of in- flammation, the proportion of fibrine in the blood was increased from 2-l, which is Le- canu's standard of health, to 9, 8,11, 6, 5-3, 7, 6'9, 7 ; average 7*525, and that the alkaline salts were diminished from 8-37, the healthy standard, to 4-9, 4-8, 5"1, 4-3, 4-2, 4-4, 4, 5-6; average 4-61. Among all the varieties of inflammation it is in acute rheumatism where we find Jhe blood most decidedly loaded with fibrine. •'Owing to the powerful action of the heart and arteries, it is intensely arterial in character, and sometimes issues from the vein with a distinct pulsation. Fever.—In those fevers which arise from marsh miasmata or from contagion, it is an opinion held by Dr. Stevens, and supported at great length in his work on the blood, that a diseased condition of that fluid is the first in the train of symptoms which occur, and the immediate cause of those which follow. The blood itself, says Dr. Stevens, is both black and diseased even before the attack. During the cold stage it is very dark. When first drawn it has a peculiar smell, and coagulates almost invariably without any crust. There are black spots on the surface of the crassamentum, the coaguluin is so soft that it can easily be separated by the fingers, and during its forma- tion a large quantity of the black colouring matter falls to the bottom of the cup. In the hot stage it becomes more red, and, in some cases, it is even florid for a time, but during the remission it is darker in colour than the blood of health, and decidedly diseased in all its properties. In milder cases, the blood which is drawn may coagulate without a crust on the surface; but in the more severe forms of this fever, when the blood was drawn at an advanced period of the disease, a part of the albumen coagulated on the surface of the fibrine, and formed a diseased mass, which in appearance had a greater resemblance to oatmeal gruel than to blood drawn from a healthy person. The serum which separated was also diseased ; it had a brownish colour, and in some cases an oily appearance, which is never met with in the clear serum of healthy blood. In the climate or seasoning fever of the West Indies, which is not considered contagious, but a fever of excitement, the blood drawn in the first stage flows from the vein with great force, but is neither cupped nor buffed. It is so florid, being charged with salts which ought to have been removed by the organs of secretion, that it resembles arterial blood. The fibrine coagu- lates firmly, and in some cases the serum which separates from it has a bright arterial colour, the colouring matter being not merely diffused through, but combined with the serum. During the progress of this kind of fever the blood loses a large proportion of its fibrine and albumen, and becomes so thin that it oozes from the mu- cous membranes without any abrasion of sur- face, and in the last stage turns quite black from a diminution in the proportion of its salts. Such are the appearances which the blood presents in the more severe fevers of hot cli- mates. In this country, at the commencement or stage of depression the blood is dark and tarry, coagulates quickly, and forms a large clot with but little serum. As the stage of excitement advances, the blood becomes thinner and more florid, and flows more freely. Coa- gulation takes place more slowly, and a buffy crust is frequently formed on the surface of the clot. In the latter stage, when the powers are giving way, the blood becomes thinner, darker, and more dissolved. It scarcely coa- gulates at all, and is deficient in saline matter, and probably also in fibrine, thus nearly re- sembling menstrual blood, or the fluid mixture of serum and red particles, already mentioned as often found in the larger vessels after death. Such are the alterations which the blood usually undergoes in the different stages of simple con- tinued fever, but in its more malignant forms, as in typhus, the blood is generally very watery, even from the commencement. As the disease advances, it gradually loses its power of coagu- lation, and in the last stage seems almost en- tirely deprived of fibrine. Magenclie has artificially produced an analo- gous state of blood by injecting putrid liquids into the veins of animals, and the speedily fatal disease which he thus caused had a strong ana- logy with typhous fever.* To Dr. Stevens belongs the merit of having especially directed general attention to the cir- cumstance that the saline matter of the blood gradually disappears in the progress of fever, and is almost entirely lost in its last stage. This he ascertained by direct experiment^ and his facts have since been confirmed by Jennings, who in the interesting report already alluded to, gives an analysis of the blood in six cases of continued fever, in which the * Journal de Physiologie, torn. iii. p. 83. t On the Blood, &c. page 209.