225 ARTERY. the station which the principal trunk had held in the circulation while in its normal condition. Several distinguished anatomists and physiolo- gists have considered the property of elasticity of the arteries sufficient to account for all the phenomena of the circulation of the blood through these vessels. This opinion has been principally insisted on by Haller,Bichat,Nysten, and, at the present day, by Magendie; elasticity, however, can only account for contractions taking place in consequence of previous dis- tension, and is equally evident after death as during life : but observation and experiments have shewn that, in the living body, the arteries possess an additional power of contraction, by which their calibre may be diminished in various degrees; in some instances even almost to obliteration. And this power of contraction has been considered by many anatomists to indicate the existence of a property of irritability in the arteries, similar to, if not identical with muscularity. The existence of irritability in the arteries was denied by Haller in conse- quence of his not having succeeded in render- ing it evident by the application of chemical or mechanical stimuli. Bichat, Nysten, and Ma- gendie, embraced a similar opinion, on the strength of the following facts :—mechanical or chemical stimuli, even the galvanic fluid, ap- plied to the surfaces of the arteries, produce no motions; when the fibres of the middle tunic are dissected off in successive layers ia living animals, they are not observed to display that quivering motion visible among the fibres of muscles similarly treated. When cut longi- tudinally, the inner surface of the arteries does not become everted like that of canals, such as the intestines, which have a decidedly muscular tunic : they do not contract when separated from the heart. The finger introduced into a living artery is not constricted; stimuli applied to the nerves of particular arteries, or to the nervous system generally, do not produce con- tractions ; strong acids applied to arteries pro- duce a corrugation or crisping of their struc- ture, not a contraction, like that of muscular structure. The contrary opinion as to the existence of irritability in the arteries has been maintained by some of the most distinguished and accurate anatomists and physiologists, among whom are Hunter, Soemmerring, and Versehuir. It may be stated in a general manner, as an objection to the arguments of Bichat, founded on the circum- stance of the arteries not having contracted when stimuli were applied to them in some experiments which he performed, that other irritable parts, even the muscles themselves, do not at all times contract on the application of stimuli. In fact, most of the experiments de- tailed by Bichat,' as proving the absence of irritability in arteries, have been performed by Hunter, Versehuir, and Hastings, and with results directly contrary to those obtained by that very distinguished anatomist. Versehuir* found that the arteries contracted when stimu- * Bissertatio de arteriarum ct venarum vi irrita- bili. Gronigcn 1766. vol. r. lated by the mineral acids, by electricity, and the application of the point of a scalpel. Dr. Thomson * also saw them contract on the ap- plication of ammonia, and when punctured with the point of a fine needle in the living body. Irritating the nerves by the galvanic fluid or by caustic alkalies has been fol- lowed by contraction of the arteries.f Mr. Hunter]; found that the exposure of arteries to the air was followed by their contraction to such an extent as to produce their obliteration. An instance of this we have twice witnessed in the brachial artery when exposed during the progress of an operation for traumatic aneurism at the bend of the elbow. The contraction of divided arteries is well known to be an efficient means of arresting haemorrhage, in op- position to the force with which the blood is propelled through them by the heart's action. In conclusion, we may observe that the arteries are proved to be both elastic and irritable; that elasticity predominates in the large trunks, and irritability in the smaller branches; that their irritability, like that of muscles, is under the influence of the nervous system, and obeys the immediate application of chemical and mechanical stimuli, the effects of which must, however, be very much modified by the influence of the elasticity with which they are endowed. (See Circulation.) In men the arteries are said to have their tunics thicker, and to possess greater density and a higher specific gravity than in women. The arteries are larger, more numerous, and their coats are softer in young persons : they become more fragile, and their elasticity di- minishes, in advanced life. In the progressive development of parts the arteries appear before the heart; but in the chick, during its evolution, the veins of the yolk precede them in their development, as ascer- tained by the researches of Malpighi,§ Haller,|| Wolff,<ff Pander,** and Rolando.ft BIBLIOGRAPHY. — Hebenstreit, Progr. de arte- riarum corp. human, confirms, 4to. Lips. 1739 (Rec. in Haller'sColl. Bisp. Anat. vol. ii.); Ejus, Progr. de vaginis vasorum, 4to. Lips. 1740 (Rec. in Haller, &c. vol. ii.); Ejus, Progr. de flexu arteri- arum, 4to. Lips. 1741 (Rec. in Haller, &c. vol. ii.) Monro, on the coats of arteries and their diseases, in Ej. Works, 4to. Edinb. De la Sone, Sur la structure des arteres in Mem. de Paris, 1756 and 1702. Van Swieten, Be arteria? fabrica et efficacia incorp. human. 4to. Lugd. Bat. 1725. Albinns, Be arteriae mcmbrunis et vasis in Ej. annotat. academic, lib. iv. * Lectures on Inflammation. Edinburgh, 1813. p. 75-89. t Vide a paper by Sir E. Home on the Influence of the nerves upon the action of arteries, Philoso- phical Transactions for 1814. f Treatise on the Blood, p. 114. § Be formatione pulli in ovo. [| Opera Minora, t. ii. li Theoiia Generationis. ** Journal de Progres des Sciences et des In- stilut. Medicales, t. v. and Journal de Physique, t. lxviii. also his Beitrage zur Entwickelungsges- chichte des Hunchens im Eie. Wu'rtzburg, 1817. tt Journal Complementaire du Bict. des Sc. Med., t. xi. p. 323, et t. xii. p. 34. Q