262 ASPHYXIA. arterial blood so greatly promotes the flow of blood through the capillaries of the lungs, and how the presence of venous blood in the begin- nings of the pulmonary veins can so effectually retard it, that the action of the right ventricle of the heart, though continuing vigorous for a time thereafter, fails of its wonted effect, and the blood stagnates in those capillaries. The common expression employed on this subject is, that arterial blood is a stimulus peculiarly adapted to excite the capillaries of the lungs and pulmonary veins; and that venous blood stagnates in those capillaries for want of power to excite them. But it must be remembered that we have no distinct evi- dence of the existence of coats, still less of irritable coats in the minute capillaries of the lungs ;* that although the circulation there has been often examined with the microscope, no contraction of the vessels has ever been ob- served ; that the only vital power of contrac- tion which experiments authorize us to ascribe to any arteries, is a power of permanent or tonic contraction on their contents, which, when called into action, lasts for some time, and while it lasts must obviously impede the flow of fluids through these vessels ; that on these grounds Magendie and other eminent physio- logists believe the only power, which arteries can exercise over their contents, to be simply a power of either relaxing, so as to give them a free passage, or contracting so as to lessen and re- tard their flow ;f and that, conformably with these views, it was found by Wedemeyer, that when he injected stimulating liquids into the arteries of living animals, they were much longer of making their way into the veins, than mild liquids were J These considerations evidently point to the conclusion, that, if the difference depend on any vital action of vessels, venousblood,which makes its way so slowly through the capillaries of the lungs, must be the stronger stimulus to them, and that arterial blood,which is transmitted so readily, must act as a sedative, to the only vital action of which these vessels are susceptible. But this conclusion is again strongly opposed by the fact, that in all other instances, in relation to muscular contraction, to the functions of the nervous system, and of secreting organs, arterial blood, and the oxygenated fluids in general, manifestly possess the stimulating power, and venous blood or carbonized fluids the sedative. In this difficulty it is important to remember, that we have many facts to indicate the exist- ence of powers which move the blood and other organized fluids in living animals, inde- pendently of any contractions of moving solids. It would appear that the power by which any texture is nourished, or secretion or excretion is formed from the blood, in any part of the circu- lation, is, to a certain degree, a cause of move- ment of the blood towards that part,and that any stimulus given to such act of nutrition or secre- * See Marshall Hall on the Circulation, p. 47. t Physiology, translated by Milligan,- p. 409-10. Mayo's Outlines, (2nd edit.) p. 87 et seq. J Edinburgh Medical Journal, July 1829, p. 90. tion, although applied at the extremity of the capillaries, produces an effect on the circulation which, as Sir C. Bell expresses it, is retrograde along the branches of the arteries. Thus, the flow of blood to the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels during digestion, to the uterus during gestation, to the mamma? during lactation, to any part of the body during inflammation, sup- puration, or the growth of a tumour, is excited by causes acting at the extremities of the arte- ries of these parts ; although there is the same difficulty in all these cases, as in the case of the lungs, in understanding how a cause acting there, and exciting the only vital power which arteries can be shewn to possess, should in- crease the flow of blood through them. It is always to be remembered, that pre- cisely analogous phenomena are observed from the application of heat, or other stimuli, to single branches, or roots, of vegetables, where there is no evidence of the existence, either of a structure or of a contractile power, in the vessels or cells through which the fluids pass, capable of giving them a determinate direction towards the parts, which are thus stimulated ; and where the movement of fluids that can be seen, (in the case of those plants that have milky juices,) is not only unattended with any visible contraction of solids, but is of a kind, (as the recent observations of Schultze, Amici, Raspail, and otheis indicate,) which no contractions of solids appear capa- ble of producing. It is farther to be observed, that when venous blood becomes arterial, it acquires an increase of fibrin,* and that its tendency to coagulation is decidedly inereased,+ which implies such an increase of an attraction of aggregation in the particles of the fibrin, as may be held to be strictly vital. And on the other hand, when arterial blood becomes venous, according to the microscopical observations of Kalten- brunner, its globules seem to separate some- what from one another, and its whole bulk ap- pears somewhat increased.J Lastly, it is to be remembered, that when a vessel is opened in a living animal, and the blood exposed to the air, the consequence is, a movement of derivation of the blood, in all directions, towards the aperture ; which is cer- tainly altogether independent of the heart's action, and which the elaborate investigations of Haller led him (and apparently with good reason) to think inexplicable likewise by any contraction of vessels.ยง The consideration of all these facts may lead us strongly to suspect, that the stimulus to the circulation which is given by the arte- rialization of the blood, and which we have found to act chiefly in the capillaries of the lungs, is of the nature of an attraction of the venous blood towards the part where it is to * Prevost and Dumas, An. de Chimie, t. xxiii. + See particularly Schrocder Van der Kolk, Com. de Sanguine Coagulante. } Experimcnta circa Statuin Sanguinis, &c. $ 281 & 357. ยง Mem. sur lc Mouvcment du Sang, p. 336 et seq.