ANIMAL. 122 stead of obeying the universal law of gravita- tion, vegetables, for instance, shoot upwards, and propel their juices from the roots to the leaves; animals also distribute their blood in opposition to the laws of gravitation, and by their powers of motion overcome the universal physical law that tends to fix them in one place. The force of cohesion is not a merely passive property in the organized as it is in the unorgan- ized world, and the laws of chemical affinity are espec ially set at nought both by plants and animals, their constituent elements being even generally united into combinations the con- trary of those which these laws ordain. Animals and vegetables are farther abstracted from the general law of caloric, the more perfect of them at least having a specific temperature, inde- pendent of that of the medium which sur- rounds them, and which varies in conformity with changes in the peculiar actions of which in them it is the product. There is even a distinction between the organized and unorganized world to this extent, —that while the physico-chemical laws do- minate the inorganic world rigorously, and the bodies that belong to it seem to have begun to be as they continue to exist through, or in harmony with, their prescriptions, no organized body known has either sprung into being or continues to exist through the agency of purely physical or purely chemical forces. The whole of the special properties of organized beings consequently must be held to be effects of the agent denominated life, and of the laws which this agent originates. The organized world is, therefore, a creation within a creation, a some- thing superadded to the material universe and to the generally pervading forces that keep its parts in their places, and endow them with what may be called their necessary pro- perties. Nor is it only whilst endowed with life that organized differ from unorganized beings. Many of the distinguishing and peculiar pro- perties of these remain for a season at least after life has left the organization it had built up. The extensibility and elasticity of the tissues of animals especially, were held by the distinguished Bichat as even independent of life, which he owned increased their energy, but which he denied as their cause, seeing that they continue to exist after death. These pro- perties are undoubtedly peculiar, and are at all events effects of forces which life has called into play, both the tissues which possess elasticity and contractility, and these qualities themselves having been engendered under the influence of vitality. In these properties, forces or capacities of action common to all the objects of nature, unorganized as well as organized, we see the objection to the old denomination of inert, which was applied to one of the great classes. Nothing that exists is inert or inactive ; but organized have an infinitely wider field of action than unorganized bodies. Let us, in illustration of this position, examine in succes- sion the various actions by which bodies gene- rally originate, continue their existence, un- dergo such modifications as they present in the course of their existence, and by which they come to an end or die. Origin.—Unorganized bodies, minerals for example, commence their existence from the instant that circumstances exterior to them- selves detach them from the mass of some other mineral, precipitate them from a state of solution in a fluid, or bring their constituent elements into a position in which they can combine together. In this, it is evident, there is nothing like generation, as the term is applied to organized bodies, which all alike, vegetables as well as animals, spring from a molecule, an atom, which has once belonged to, and which has proceeded from, a being similar to themselves. Vegetables spring from seeds, animals from eggs. Organized beings, therefore, are engendered, their existence is a consequence of that of other beings like themselves ; and in their succession they depend one upon another. Minerals, on the contrary, have no powers of reproduction; they cease to be, if at any time they originate another mineral, and they are individually in a state of perfect independence.* In the mode in which organic and inorganic bodies continue their existence, there is also a striking dissimilarity. In the inorganic world we observe no actions tending to preserve the individual, other than those which have pre- sided over its formation : it continues to exist through the continuing agency of the affinities and of the attraction of cohesion which called it into being. Animals and vegetables, on the contrary, have special powers for their pre- servation superadded to those by the peculiar * It were long to enter here into the discussion of what has been called equivocal generation, which, if admitted, militates against several of the in- ferences just deduced. It is quite certain that infusions of any organized substance do speedily become filled with animals distinct in their kinds and lately shown to be much more complicated in their structure than was long supposed. It is almost as difficult to conceive that these infusory animals proceed from eggs contained in the fluids in which they appear, as to imagine that they proceed from the combination, per se, of their con- stituent elements. Did we incline to admit the reality of equivocal generation, it is certain that its occurrence must be referred to other than the general laws of nature, with which we have al- ready had occasion to show the laws of life to be in opposition, much rather than in harmony. It would be absurd to believe that these general physico-chemical laws, absolutely inimical to life, should at any time call it into being. Equivocal generation being acknowledged, therefore, it would seem necessary to infer a third order of laws be- sides the physico-chemical and the vital, the nature of which is altogether unknown to us. The number of creatures which were presumed to owe their being to equivocal generation, has been very much curtailed by the progress of science in modern times ; and it is not impossible that the mystery which still overhangs the genesis of the infusoria may one day be dissipated, and their pro- duction demonstrated to be in harmony with those laws which arc known to preside over the origin of higher classes of vegetables and animals.