CIRCULATION. C59 refer the phenomena of the circulation, as far as we can, to hydraulic principles, which, when correctly applied, must form the only sure guide in conducting a physiological inquiry of this nature. The flow of the blood, as it is expelled from the left ventricle, may be said to be intermit- tent, for it moves only at the time of the ventri- cular systole. Farther on in its course, in the larger as well as the middle sized arteries, the flow of blood is remittent, or is more rapid after each beat of the heart, and by the time it arrives at the capillary vessels and commence- ment of the veins, the velocity is rendered per- fectly uniform. The effect, therefore, produced by the arterial tubes is to convert an intermittent, first into a remittent, and afterwards into a uni- form force. When an opening is made into one of the larger arteries, the jet of blood which issues is regularly increased in velocity at every systole of the ventricle. In the very small ar- teries, this acceleration of the stream becomes less perceptible. We know that it has altoge- ther disappeared in the smallest vessels or ca- pillaries, from microscopic observation of the flow of the blood in them, and the uniformity of the velocity of the stream in the veins is clearly shewn in all instances in which a vein is opened, as in the common operation of bleeding from the arm. Various circumstances shew that in the living body the blood forms an uninterrupted column of fluid in the bloodvessels, and that the whole vascular system is kept in a state of forced dis- tension by the reiterated impulses communi- cated to the blood by the ventricular contrac- tions. Besides the general fulness of the blood- vessels and their connection with the heart, we may mention as proofs of the distended state of the vascular system, the facts, 1st, that, on opening any of the bloodvessels, the blood issues with greater force at the first moment than afterwards; and 2d, that when we imitate the propulsion of the blood through the arteries and veins by artificial injection of fluids in a dead animal, we observe that the jet from an opened vessel continues to flow for some time after we have ceased to drive the piston of the syringe. The arteries being much stronger than the veins, re-act with greater power than they do against the distending force of the heart. Were the arteries rigid tubes, it is ma- nifest that in a given time just as much blood would pass from their remote extremities into the commencement of the veins, as enters them by the mouth of the aorta; but the arteries must be fuller at one time than another, for the quantity of blood expelled from the ventricle at each systole, must pass suddenly into the first part of the aorta, while an equal quantity of blood, which must necessarily pass from the remote arteries into veins, as it moves uni- formly, must employ the whole period of time occupied by a complete action of the heart in its passage; and consequently it is manifest, that the arterial system must be fuller just after than immediately before the contrac- tion of the ventricle. The arteries are distensi- ble and elastic, they yield a little to every suc- cessive stroke of the ventricle, and during the diastole they re-act by their elasticity, so as to keep up the flow of blood. We have already said, in speaking of the heart, that the muscular contraction of that organ is the chief, if not the only source of the power propelling the blood. It is only in those arteries which are nearest to the heart, however, that the blood can be said to be propelled by the direct impulse of the ven- tricle, for in the rest of the arterial system, the progression of the blood is immediately effected by the elastic power of the arteries, called into operation in consequence of their distension by the action of the heart. In the experiments of artificial injection of the bloodvessels in dead animals already mentioned, as long as we con- tinue to drive the piston of the syringe, and to propel fluids through the arteries into the veins, the arteries are kept in a state of forced disten- sion ; in consequence of this, the fluid issues from an opened artery with a jet accelerated after each successive stroke of the piston, and continues to flow for some time after the pro- pelling power has ceased to act. The unifor- mity of the stream of fluid from the veins, which occurs in the same experiment, is a proof that the continued flow of blood in these tubes may, in the living body, be owing to an impul- sion from the heart, transmitted by the arteries, and that it is caused by the elasticity of the coats of the vessels themselves. a. Velocity of the blood in different arteries. The space of the aorta filled up by the blood propelled from the ventricle at each systole, divided by the time occupied in its propul- sion, constitutes the velocity of the blood in the first part of the aorta. The diameter of the aperture of the aorta at the ventricle being taken as on an average 1-12 of an inch,* its area would be one square inch, and consequently 1£ oz. which equal 2-45 cubic inches of blood, would occupy a little more than 2-5 inches of the aorta, supposing its size to be for such an extent of a uniform diameter. As it is satisfactorily ascer- tained by actual measurement, that the blood contained in the smaller vessels is in much greater quantity than that in the larger trunks; or, in other words, as the capacity of the smaller vessels taken together is greater than that of the larger, it will at once be apparent, that the velocity of the blood must diminish in passing from the larger to the smaller vessels. The arterial and venous vessels may in fact be re- garded as two hollow cones, curved so as to be joined at their apices to the heart, and at then- bases to one another. The veins, being more numerous and wider than the arteries, must be represented by a wider cone. The section of these cones at any place is supposed to give the combined area of the section of the vessels at a corresponding distance from the heart. The estimates made by different authors of the relative velocity of the blood in the larger and smaller vessels, differ in a great degree, * The aperture of the aorta is somewhat less than one inch in diameter in most persons; we may, however, adopt the above estimate of its size, as the sinus of the aorta is much wider than its aperture.