332 AVES. ago that the extremities of the semilunar valves in Birds were connected to small, firm, and sometimes ossified styles imbedded in the fibrous coat of the vessels. The arrangement of the muscular fibres of the ventricle in Birds is such that the right ventricle appears to be formed by a partial secession of the outer from the inner layers of the parietes of the left ventricle at the anterior and right side of that cavity. See the transverse section, (Jig. 169.) Arteries.—The distribution of the arterial system has been described in a general man- ner by Cuvier, Tiedemann, and Nitzsch, and has subsequently been very completely elu- cidated by Barkow in the 12th Volume of Meckel's Archives of Physiology ; where the different varieties which various species of birds present in the course of individual arteries are laboriously pointed out. In our own dis- sections we have been guided by the excellent description long ago given by Dr. Macartney, {Art. Birds, Rees' Cyclopaedia) which we shall here give verbatim, with some general remarks and additional particulars afforded by the re- searches of Barkow and our own dissections. The description will be aided by the subjoined beautiful figure taken from Barkow's Mono- graph (fig. 170). The arterial system in Birds is essentially distinguished from that of Mammals by the following differences :— 1st. The division of the aorta into three principal branches, almost immediately at its origin. 2d. The course of the arch of the aorta over the right instead of the left bronchus to become the descending aorta. 3d. The origin of the arteries of the posterior extremities, which do not come off from a single branch analogous to the external iliac of Mam- malia, but from two arteries which are detached successively from the aorta at a great distance from each other, and pass from the pelvis by two separate apertures. The arteries of the systemic circulation proceed, Macartney observes, " from a single trunk, which arises from the left ventricle of the heart. This trunk, the aorta, (Ufig- 170) is so short that it is concealed by the other parts on the basis of the heart, and is only brought into view after the reflections of the pericardium and the adjoining vessels are de- tached by dissection. It is from thence that as the parts are commonly beheld, there appear to be three great arteries issuing together from the middle of the heart, which are the primary branches into which the aorta is divided. The first branch is to the left side, and after it is sent oft", the trunk affects to turn over the au- ricle before it gives the branch of the right side; these two branches pass in a curved manner from the heart towards the axilla in the form of horns, and each is analogous to the arteria innominata of the human subject, so that instead of one there may be reckoned two arteria innominate in Birds (t t, jig. 167, 168). After these branches are parted with, the arterial trunk (s, Jig. 167, 168, 2, Jig. 170) is continued over the auricles," and the right bron- Fig. 170. Arteries oj the Trunk, Grebe. chus, " and, on reaching the back part of the heart, becomes the descending aorta. " The arteria innominata (3) first sends off the common trunk of the carotid and vertebral arteries (4), which before its division gives off one or two small branches; one of these runs down upon the lungs in company with the par vagum, and appears to supply branches to the aponeurosis of the lungs, and the air-cells at the upper part of the thorax; the other branch, after supplying the lymphatic gland of the neck with several small arteries, ascends upon the side of the oesophagus, to which, and the inferior larynx, the divisions of the trachea, and to the parts and integuments of the side of the neck, its branches are distributed, anasto- mosing with the superior oesophageal and tra- cheal arteries. This branch is often not sent off until the trunk divides into the vertebral and carotid, in which case it comes from the latter artery. Sometimes in the Duck, the supra- scapular artery, which is usually divided from the vertebral, is a branch of the common trunk.'' The carptjd arteries (4, 4, fig. 170, u u,fig. 167) are frequently of unequal size; in the Dab- chick the left is by much the largest; in the Emeu we found it the smallest. " In the Com- mon Fowl, each carotid, after parting from the vertebral artery (6), proceeds to the middle of the neck and soon disappears; becoming covered by the muscles of the anterior part of the neck, and entering the canal formed by the inferior spinous-'