670 CIRCULATION. motions of the red globules principally, for it is very rarely indeed that the current of fluid which carries the globules along can be recog- nized in the ordinary modes of observation. The capillary circulation is most easily seen in cold-blooded and in young animals, both on account of the large size of the red glo- bules and the small number of the vessels. Since the first discovery of the capillary circu- lation by Malpighi, the transparent web be- tween the toes of the hind feet of the frog has been universally adopted as the most con- venient situation for observing this beautiful spectacle with transmitted light. The fins and tail of fishes, the tail of the larva of the Frog and Newt, the external gills of the same ani- mals as well as of cartilaginous fishes, the mesentery of the Frog or of small warm- blooded animals, the wing of the Bat, the lungs and urinary bladder of Reptiles, the liver of the Frog and Newt, the membranes of the incubated egg, the yolk of the Skate's egg, are all situations favourable for the ob- servation of the capillary circulation. The capillary circulation has been viewed in only a small number of warm-blooded animals, and in very few of their textures; but the minute injection with coloured fluids of all parts of the bodies of Quadrupeds and of Man leaves little doubt that in them also, whatever vari- eties there may be in the size, number, and distribution of the small vessels, the blood passes in every organ from the small arteries into the returning veins by minute continuous tubes of the same nature as those more easily observed in the situations above-mentioned. Some are inclined to consider the minutest or proper capillary vessels as destitute of vas- cular parietes, and consisting of mere passages through the texture of the organ in which they exist without any lining membrane. This opinion is founded on the impossibility of seeing the coats of the vessels, the rapidity with which new capillaries may be developed, and some other circumstances. The extreme degree of minuteness of the smallest capil- lary vessels must render futile any attempts to decide this question by direct observa- tion. Besides the general analogy between the larger and smaller vessels, there are several circumstances known which seem to be strongly in favour of the view that the capil- laries do not differ in this respect from other vessels. 1st, It is allowable to suppose that the active properties of the capillary vessels belong to parieties as in the larger vessels. 2d, In many transparent parts of animals in which the terminal arteries and veins do not diminish to a very small size, the coats of the vessel may be seen with the microscope, as in the external gills of the Amphibia, and in the vascular rete of the ear of birds and reptiles, in which the capillary vessels may, after having been injected, be separated from the neighbouring soft texture. 3d, The conver- sion of small into larger vessels with visible coats in those instances in which the course of blood through the vessels of a part has un- dergone an alteration, is in favour of the pre- vious existence of parietes in the smaller vessels. And 4th, The constant and regular distribution of the minutest vessels in many parts of animals appears to support the same view. The argument in favour of the non- existence of capillary parietes deduced from the alleged facility with which the blood occa- sionally passes out of the regular vessels and takes an irregular and indeterminate course through the non-vascular parenchyma of an organ, we believe to be founded, in some in- stances, in peculiarities belonging to a few parts only, and in others in inaccurate observation; for in almost all those situations in which the capillary circulation may be seen with ease and distinctness, the constancy of the minute passages which the blood permeates is un- doubted. From the more accurate means of making minute anatomical researches that have been introduced in modern times, the existence of serous, exhalent, and white vessels has become a matter of great doubt, for vessels of this description which do not admit the red glo- bules and liquor sanguinis together cannot be made obvious to the senses by the most de- licate injections or dissections; and the ob- servation of the capillary circulation in the transparent parts of animals affords the most convincing proof that the smaller arteries have no visible terminations excepting in the capillaries and small veins. In observing attentively the web of the frog's foot and other Fig. 331. Capillaries in the web of the Frog's foot magnified. transparent parts in which the motion of the blood is easily seen, we occasionally see glo- bules of blood run into passages of the tissue which we did not perceive before ; but a suf- ficient acquaintance with the structure and dis- tribution of the smallest of the capillaries in these situations will soon convince the careful observer that the vessels into which the blood was seen to pass, apparently for the first time, existed fully formed before, that the fluid part of the blood passed in part through them, and that the stoppage of the red particles was to