131 ANIMAL. its existence,—namely, among the higher tribes of living things, the absorption or ingestion of food or alimentary matter; the preparation of this food by the processes of digestion and respiration ; the distribution of the nutritive matter fitted for its ends, to every part of the system by means of a circulation; the conver- sion of the nutritive matter into the solids and fluids or proper substance of the indi- vidual, and finally the depuration and rejection of the worn-out parts and particles by means of certain secreting organs. These various pro- cesses in themselves will be particularly con- sidered in the article Nutrition, to which the reader is referred. Meantime let us contrast these different functions as they manifest them- selves in each of the two grand divisions of the organized world. Assumption of aliment. — The earth and the atmosphere, and the carbonic acid and water they contain, are the sources whence vegetables derive their food. Here they find aliment ready prepared for their use, or rather, as passive agents, they depend on the earth and the atmosphere for a supply of the elements required for their continuance. Those physiologists are now admitted to have been mistaken who supposed that the food of ve- getables was furnished by the inorganic earth, air, and water, with which their roots and leaves are in relation ; more accurate experi- ments have shown that plants are as dependent as animals on supplies of substances that have once had life for their support. When plants are made to grow in pure earth and in distilled water, they appear to do so by a kind of de- composition of themselves, one part perishing and affording food to that which continues to live. To base a distinction between animals and vegetables, consequently, on the presump- tion that the one lived on organic, the other on inorganic substances, was incorrect: animals and vegetables are alike in this respect; both feed upon organized matter, and this not al- ways or necessarily in a state of decomposition, as we observe among parasitic tribes, which subsist on the living juices of the individuals they cling to. Die food of animals, however, may be stated generally to be both more various and also more complex in its chemical com- position than that of vegetables, and whilst vegetables take all their food in a liquid shape, animals much more commonly live on a mix- ture of solids and fluids. The assumption of food by vegetables and animals takes place under very different cir- cumstances. In vegetables it is necessary and independent of the individual; it is also in- cessant ; and, farther, it takes place from the external surface, inasmuch as it is with this that the materials which supply the nutriment are in contact. Animals, however, have not generally their food prepared for their use brought into con- tact with their bodies, neither are they passive in its assumption; they have mostly to search for it abroad, and are provided with special organs for this purpose. The act by which they take it is not necessary, neither is it in- cessant. They have also to select their food, and are, therefore, furnished with faculties which guide them in their choice; namely, taste and smell. Lastly, the absorption of the truly nutritious matter is accomplished from their interior, the crude material assumed as food having been first prepared by elaboration in a cavity called a stomach. As organized living beings, the soundest philosophy and best ordered experiments lead us to infer that there is little if anything me- chanical in the mode in which either vegetables or animals absorb nutriment. The absorption of their aliment by vegetables is influenced by the seasons, their state of health or disease, their age, and external circumstances gene- rally,—the temperature, state of dryness or moisture, &c. of the air with which they are surrounded ; the cause of the absorption of their food by vegetables is, therefore, some- thing different from what is called capillary attraction, or the law by which fluids ascend in tubes of small calibre. The proper passage of the nutriment into the bodies of animals occurs from their interiors, and in a very large proportion (probably in every somewhat perfect member) of the class, by means of a special set of vessels denomi- nated lacteals or lymphatics, no system cor- responding to which exists among vegetables. The very lowest tribes of the animal king- dom, the entozoa, acalephae, polypi, &c. having no proper vessels of any kind, the cellular membrane of which they consist absorbs, and by virtue of a peculiar vital process, distributes the nutritive juices extracted from the matters received into the stomach and alimentary canal to all parts of their bodies. Those tribes of animals which have naked skins have the faculty of absorbing by their exterior also. Still less than in vegetables, can we suppose that the process by which in animals nutriment is ultimately absorbed into the body, whether from the exterior or the interior, is akin to mechanical or capillary attraction. The tissues of which animal bodies consist are, indeed, permeable to fluids, but this does not explain the collection of these fluids in so many tribes into particular canals, and still less does it solve the problem of the continued motion onwards in determinate directions within these channels. Absorption of alimentary and other matters, therefore, in both of the grand divisions of the organized world, must be held as a vital act,— as one of the particular laws superadded in organized beings to the general system of phy- sico-chemical ordinances that rule the universe and its parts. This quality is common to vegetables and animals. By far the greater number of animals have one or more special openings,— a mouth or mouths, by which they take in such sub- stances as are fitted for their nourishment. Even the greater number of animals as low in the scale as the infusoria, have been recently demonstrated (by Ehrenberg) to be provided with an opening of this kind. Several, how- ever, seem to receive aliment by the way of k 2