233 ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. after death or the removal of the limb, the artery should, if possible, be always slit up on the side opposite to that from which the tumour springs. The appearances of inflam- mation will probably depend on whether the aneurism be recent or of long standing, and obviously on whether it has been the result of accident or disease. Also, if it be recent, the aperture leading into the sac is generally well defined, circular, and circumscribed, its edges remarkably thin and fine: if, on the contrary, it is old, the aperture is large, smooth, and so even as to present an appearance as if the lining membrane had been prolonged from the artery into the sac. On cutting into the sac some fluid blood is usually found, and always a quantity in a state of coagulation. Besides, there is always more or less of fibrine, the remains of former coagula deposited in irre- gular laminte, and varying in colour from a pale red or grey. The most external layers are closely fastened to the internal wall of the sac by means of large depositions of flaky lymph, from which, however, they can be separated by careful washing or maceration. This lymph thickens the walls of the sac, and imparts to them considerable firmness and resistance. The sac, itself, is most generally of an oval form, but to this there are some exceptions, amongst which the occasional oc- currence of a dissecting aneurism is the most curious. This happens when the internal and middle coats having ulcerated or given way, the blood insinuates itself between the fibrous and cellular coats, detaching them from each other to a considerable extent, whence the dis- ease has derived its name.* Such is an outline of the appearances on dissection, but they will avail little in explaining the nature of aneu- rism, unless combined and compared with the phenomena of the disease during life. And, in the first instance, it must be recol- lected that the tumour is pulsatile, a quality that proves the entrance of a quantity of fluid blood, and its return back again into the artery by the resistance or reaction of the sac. It was this circumstance that principally led Fer- nelius to believe and to teach that aneurism consisted in a dilatation of all the coats of the artery, inasmuch as he could not understand how pulsation occurred if the tumour did not possess an elastic covering, and moreover imagined that if the blood was driven into a sac otherwise constituted, it must of neces- sity remain there and become coagulated. It is, however, unnecessary now to discuss the question as to whether the sac of an aneurism possesses elasticity or not, when it is daily observed that any tumour (an enlarged gland for instance) situated on an artery, and re- ceiving an impulse from the heart, may com- municate the sensation of pulsation, provided the skin and other elastic tissues covering it are sound. Nay, farther, it may be remarked that the pulsation of an artery, even with its elastic coat uninjured, is much more apparent * See Dissections of Aneurism, by John Shckcl- ton, Dub. tlosp. Rep. vol. iii. than real, and when felt ab externo, is greatly influenced by the skin and its other coverings. It is a fact too well known to every operating surgeon to be for a moment controverted, that an artery when exposed exhibits nothing like the force of pulsation that it did before the skin was divided ; sometimes it is difficult to ascertain it satisfactorily at all. The late Pro- fessor Todd has strongly pointed out this circumstance in his case of axillary aneurism, published in the third volume of the Dublin Hospital Reports, where he says, " For some time I could not be convinced that the feebly pulsating vessel, to which the point of my finger was applied, was really an artery of such magnitude as the subclavian ;" and similar observations could be adduced, if necessary, from other sources. It is of little consequence, then, whether the aneurismal sac possesses an elastic covering proper to itself or not, the resistance of the external structures being sufficient to explain the phenomenon of pulsation, and the impor- tance of the integrity of these structures in the progress and termination of the case is ex- tremely interesting. If even a small quantity of blood was thrown at each pulsation of the heart into a yielding, unresisting bag, it must of necessity remain there, and in a very short space of time the accumulation would be enormous; but if there is a re-acting force capable of returning a portion of this blood and restoring it to the circulation, the accumula- tion and consequent growth of the tumour will be measured by the quantity of blood thus left behind. The volume of blood sent into an aneurismal sac must be proportioned to the aperture through which it has to pass, while the actual quantity lost must depend not so much on this as on the non-resistance of it and its covering's, and their incapability of return- ing the fluid back into the circulation. Hence the growth of external aneurisms is in general rapid or slow according as they have existed a greater or less length of time; for in old aneu- risms the aperture into the sac is generally large, and the elasticity of the external coverings is weakened by over-distension. The pathology of aneurism arranges itself under two distinct orders, one having relation to the open and bleeding artery, the other con- sequent on the haemorrhage being internal. This latter circumstance is interesting to the surgeon, because the presence of the blood in the limb, the position it occupies, and the pressure exercised by it on the adjacent structures and organs, very often form the most prominent and important features of the disease, and nearly as frequently cause the destruction of the patient as the bursting and bleeding of the tumour. But the consideration of this part of the sub- ject does not immediately belong to the patho- logy of the arterial system, to which these re- marks are more particularly directed. To re- turn, then, to the open or ruptured artery. The condition of the vessel is scarcely different from that of one wounded by a knife. It is a bleeding artery, and the same principle that is applicable to haemorrhage under any other