416 BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. Andral* justly remarks, we can draw no definite line of demarcation between the blood and the solids. Physiologically speaking, we cannot conceive that of these two facts which form a single whole, the one can be modified without affecting the other. Since the blood nourishes the solids, they must necessarily be influenced by its state; and since the solids furnish ma- terials from which the blood is formed, and abstract materials by which it is decomposed, any alteration in the nature or quantity of these must necessarily have its influence on this fluid. Suffice it then to observe that the further we extend our knowledge of pathology, the less shall we feel inclined to admit the exclusive claims either of fluidism or solidism, and the more shall we strengthen our belief that the animal structure is composed of parts, every one of which may not only partake of disease, but, under certain circumstances, become its cause. Quitting, therefore, all unprofitable specu- lations on this subject, we proceed at once to a detail of facts, and to such observations in elu- cidation of them as occasion may suggest. Blood may be excessive in quantity, thus constituting a state of plethora in which the circulating system is supplied more abundantly than is needed for the due performance of the functions of nutrition and secretion. A ten- dency to accumulation in the capillaries and in the different internal organs is induced, and con- gestion with its consequences, or actual rupture of the bloodvessels, is the result. Drowsiness, vertigo, headache, epilepsy, apoplexy, mark this state as existing in the head; dyspnoea, and a livid or purple hue of the skin, as affecting the lungs; palpitation and irregular action with syncope mark the ineffectual struggle of the heart to propel its contents. Hemorrhages from the mucous membranes of the nose, the lungs, or the intestines, are often the consequence of congestion in the vessels which ramify on their surface; while indigestion, torpor, and biliary redundancy, are connected with a plethoric condition ol the abdominal viscera. Although the existence of such a state, as deducible from the symptoms just enumerated, as well as from the effect which depletion has in removing them, admits of no doubt, it has, nevertheless, not been made the subject of direct proof. The proportion which the circulating blood, even in a healthy animal, bears to its total weight has not been, and, perhaps, cannot be ascertained with precision. Haller collects together many authorities at variance with each other on this point, and at length comes to the conclusion, " Neque dissimulandum est, obiter hec et vage definiri. Infinita enim procul dubio in ratione sanguinis ad reliquam corporis molem varietas est." f Fat men and animals have less blood than lean, old than young; and yet plethora is oftener found in the former than the latter, obviously on account of the mechanical im- * Pi-ucis d'Anatomie Pathologique, p. 526._^;f^- t Elemcnta Physiologic, torn. ii. p. 5,-'r"i pediment which the encumbered tissue or the rigid fibre offers to the circulation. The state of anemia, or a deficiency in the quantity of circulating blood, whether induced by natural or artificial causes, is no less detri- mental to health than its excess. Its symptoms are general pallor, weak circulation, languor, syncope with palpitations, oppressed respi- ration, flatulency, general cedema, and, in extreme cases, effusion into all the serous cavities. Neither plethora nor anemia necessarily imply, though they are generally complicated with some morbid change in the blood itself. We therefore pass them over with this slight notice, referring for further information to the excellent observations of Andral, in his work on Pathological Anatomy. The circulating blood consists essentially of a homogeneous fluid and red particles, and the former, when removed from the body or from the circulation, separates into a fluid and a solid portion. The solid, when washed and freed from the serum and red particles which are mechanically entangled in its substance, consti- tutes the proximate animal principle called fibrine. The fluid contains water, albumen, oil, animal extractive, and salts, alkaline, earthy, and metallic. With the exception of the oil and fatty matter, which, in a healthy state of the blood, do not amount to four parts in a thousand, its constituents are all heavier than water, and something is to be learned by ascertaining its specific gravity. In the information thus gained, however, we are limited to the al- ternative, either that some one or more of these constituents is in a state of excess or of de- ficiency, the proportion of water remaining normal, or that the water itself is either su- perabundant or deficient. The specific gravity of healthy blood has been variously stated by different authors. Haller makes it on the average 1,052; Blu- menbach, 1,054; Berzelius, from 1,0527 to 1.057; Denis, 1,059; but none of these au- thors note the temperature at which it was taken, although, from their manner of ascertain- ing it, there must have been considerable variety in this respect. By experiments which I have often repeated with an accurate specific gravity bottle holding 1,000 grains of distilled water, I find that with that fluid four degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer corresponds with a difference of -001 of specific weight, water being 1,000. Consequently, if one author states the specific gravity of blood at its circu- lating temperature 98째 Fahrenheit, while an- other states it at 60째 Fahrenheit, the usual standard, the former will make it -0095 lighter than the latter. The heaviest blood of which I find a record among my own observations was that of a man suffering under diabetes mellitus. At a tempe- rature of 87째 Fahrenheit it was of specific gra- vity 1-0615, while that of the serum was under the average standard of health, namely, 1-027 at,60째 Fahrenheit, and of the medium propor- tioiV% tfee. crassamentum, being, after twelve