AVES. 323 is only twice the length of the body, except in the fish-eating Osprey, in which the intestines are very narrow, and are to the length of the bird itself as eight to one. In the Insessores the scolloped folds of the small intestine are narrower and longer than in the Rapto?-es, and the ileum generally adheres to the duodenal mesentery and pancreas in- stead of to the stomach, prior to passing down to form its last fold and to terminate in the rectum. In the Raven the small intestines are disposed at their commencement in concentric folds. Among the Scansores the Cuckoo presents the following disposition of the intestinal canal: after the usual long and narrow duo- denal fold, the ileum* makes a fold which is widened at the end, it then forms a close fold upon itself, at the termination of which the rectum commences. In the Maccaw the course of the small intestine is somewhat peculiar: after forming the duodenal fold, it is disposed in three distinct packets of folds : the intestine, after forming the first two, passes alternately from one to the other, de- scribing shorter folds upon each ; it then forms the third distinct fold, which is a long one, at the termination of which the ileum adheres closely to the right side of the gizzard, and then passes backwards and dilates into the rectum. In the Rasures the Dove-tribe have the small intestines disposed in three principal folds ; the first is the duodenal fold (fj\ fig. 163); the second is along and narrow fold, coiled and doubled upon itself, with the turns closely connected together, (k, fig. 163); the third is also a long fold, which is bent or twisted, (k; fig. 163.) In the common Fowl the duodenum is disposed in a long simple loop; the ileum passes towards the left, and is disposed in loose folds on the right and lower edge of the mesentery; the ileum before its termination passes up behind the preceding folds, and is accompanied as far as the root of the mesentery by the two cceca, which there open into the commencement of the large intestine. The Ostrich presents the most complicated course of the intestinal canal in the whole class of birds. The duodenal fold is about a foot in length, and the returning part makes a bend upon itself before it reaches the py- lorus ; the intestine then turns down again behind the duodenal folds and gradually ac- quires a wider mesentery. The ileum after a few folds ascends towards the left side, accom- panied by the two long cceca, and becomes again connected with the posterior part of the duodenal mesentery; beyond which the cceca enter the intestine behind the root of the me- sentery, and the large intestine commences. This part differs from the rectum in other biids in its great extent, being nearly double the length of the small intestines, and being disposed in folds upon a wide mesentery. It terminates by an oblique valvular aperture in a large urinary receptacle. In the Bustard the * There is seldom any part of the small intestine empty so as to merit the nime of jejunum. rectum is a foot in length, which is the nearest approach to the Ostrich which the rest of the class make in this respect. The small intestines in the Grallatores are characterized by their small diameter and long and narrow folds; these are sometimes ex- tended parallel to one another, as in the Crane and Coot; or folded concentrically in a mass, as in the Curlew and Flamingo. In the latter species the duodenal fold is four inches in length; then the small intestines are disposed in twenty-one elliptical spiral convolutions, eleven descending towards the rectum and ten returning towards the gizzard in the interspaces of the former. Many of the Natatores present a concentric disposition of the folds of the small intestines similar to the Flamingo. Home* has given figures of this structure in the intestines of the Sea-mew (pi. cviii.) ; the Gannet or Solan Goose (pi. cvi.); and the Goose (pi. cxi.). It likewise obtains in the Pelecan and Cor- morant. The arrangement of the muscular fibres of the intestine is the same as in the oesophagus, the external layer being transverse, the internal longitudinal. The villi of the lining membrane manifest an analogy with the covering of the outer skin, being generally much elongated, so as to pre- sent a downy appearance when viewed under water. There are, however, great varieties in the shape and length of the villi. In the Emeu they consist of small lamellae of the lining membrane folded like the frill of a shirt. In the Ostrich the lamella? are thin, long, and nu- merous. In the Flamingo they are short and arranged in parallel longitudinal zig-zag lines. In many birds a small diverticulum is ob- served in the small intestine, which indicates the place of attachment of the pedicle of the yolk-bag in the embryo (m, fig. 157). We have found this process half an inch in length in the Gallinule, and situated seventeen inches from the pylorus. In the Bay Ibis (Ibis falei- nellaJ the vitelline ccecum is an inch in length. The birds in which the caca colt have been found wanting are comparatively few, though such examples occur in all the orders. These exceptions are most frequent among the Scan- sores, in which the coeca are absent in the Wry- necks, the Toucans, theTouracos, the Parrot tribe, and according to Cuvier in the Woodpeckers.t In the Insessores the coeca are deficient in the Ilombill and the Lark. Among the Gral- latores, we have found them wanting in a Spoon- bill. In the Natatores they are absent in the Cormorant. The Herons, Bitterns, and, occa- sionally, the Grebes afford the rare examples of a single coecum, which is also remarkably short. In the Raptores the diurnal and nocturnal tribes differ remarkably in the length of the cceca. They are each less than half an inch in length in the Eagles and Vultures, but are occa- sionally wanting in the latter. Cuvier states * Comparative Anatomy, vol. ii. t In the Poppinjay (Picusviridis, Linn.) we have found two small coeca, so closely adhering to the intestine as easily to be overlooked. Y 2