CEPHALOPODA. 549 which they perforate, but there are no columns prolonged backwards from the lateral parts of the brain to form pallial ganglia as in the higher Cephalopods; the structure and func- tions of the cloak to which these ganglia are subservient, not being enjoyed by the shell- clad Nautilus. The nerves corresponding to the large visceral nerves of the Dibranchiates are, however, proportionally developed; for in the organs of plastic life the Nautilus is upon an equality with its naked congeners. These nerves, which combine the functions of the sympathetic and par vagum, consist of a large pair derived from the lower part of the pos- terior oesophageal collar, and extending back- wards on each side of the vena cava; and of smaller twigs (17) coming off between the origins of the preceding nerves, and forming a plexus upon the parietes of the vein. The larger chords swell into ganglions at the termi- nation of the vena cava, (16,16,) and send off ramifications to the branchiae, (15, 15,) the contents of the pericardium, and the viscera of digestion and generation. In the Dibranchiate Cephalopods which possess instruments for varied and active loco- motion, where the visual organ is of large size, and attains a complexity of structure equal to that of the Vertebrate animals, where a distinct acoustic organ is developed, and where the whole surface of the body is the seat of sensi- ng. 232. Nervous system of the Cuttle-fish, bility, the centre of nervous impression and volition is proportionally developed, and exhi- bits the highest conditions which the brain pre- sents in the Invertebrate series of animals. Except in some of the smaller species, as the Sepiola, in which the surrounding sub- stance still retains the consistency of a mem- brane, the brain, together with the anterior and posterior oesophageal collars, is entirely surrounded by a thick cartilage. The portion of oesophagus which is thus enclosed is sepa- rated from the surrounding medullary matter by a thin layer of softer substance. The cere- bral cavity is larger than the brain itself, and the intervening space is filled with a gelatinous fluid. In the Cuttle-fish the supra-oesophageal mass is transversely shortened, as compared with the Nautilus, and supports a smooth, rounded, heart-shaped medullary mass, slightly divided into two lateral lobes by a mesial lon- gitudinal furrow (1, fig. 232); from the lower and lateral parts of this body proceed the broad bands of cerebral substance which afterwards dilate into the large reniform optic ganglions (2, 2); upon each of these bands is placed a small spherical medullary body (k, k). These bodies, which we first discovered in the Sepia, we have since ascertained to exist in Loligo. From the anterior apices of the cerebral lobes small nerves are continued, which almost immediately dilate into a round flattened gan- glion (a, fig. 233) ; this is closely applied to the back part of the fleshy mass of the mouth above the pharynx; it sends off nerves to the oral appa- ratus (i, i, fig. 233), and two fila- jnents descend and form a pair of small closely approximated ganglions (8, 8, fig. 232) below the mouth, analogous to the labial ganglions of the Nautilus. From the inferior, lateral, and an- terior parts of the brain two large chords (k, fig. 233) descend, and unite and dilate below the oesopha- gus to form the anterior subceso- phageal ganglion, or pes anserinus of Cuvier, from which the nerves of the feet and tentacles arise. Two still larger bands (I, fig. 233) descend from the brain behind the preceding to form, by a similar enlargement and union, the posterior oesophageal gan- glionic collar. From a comparison of these with the corresponding gan- glions of the Nautilus, it will be seen that by their approximation in the transverse direction the distinction of the ganglions at the lower part of the collar is lost; and a corre- sponding approximation in the antero- posterior direction, being accompa- nied by an additional accumulation of nervous substance, has produced a blending together of the four gan- glions into one large continuous sub- cesophageal mass. The portions of this mass corresponding to the four ganglions and double oesophageal