422 BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. the valve itself, which had taken place at the time of the sudden surprise. This kind of growth, as well as that which is formed on the inflamed surface in endocarditis, has a suffi- ciently evident origin. We can also readily account for organized structures arising from aneurisms of the heart or arteries, accidental wounds of the latter vessels, ruptures of their inner membrane by ligatures, or its destruction by inflammation. I can, however, imagine nothing more unlikely than that an insulated mass of fibrine owing its origin to the mere coagulation of the blood from rest, and there- fore only by gravitation brought in contact with the sides of the vessel which may contain it, should assume an organized structure, and that, too, at a time when the powers of life are so much enfeebled that the heart itself ceases to perform its office. I have looked carefully for unequivocal signs of vitality in these false polypi, and I confess that I have never been able to satisfy myself of its existence. The albumen has not been demonstrated to be subject to alteration in quality. Its distin- guishing characteristic of coagulating by heat is preserved even after it has become in the high- est degree offensive from putridity.* It may be excessive or defective in proportion, and M. Gendrin has shewn that under inflammation of the system, the serum contains twice as much albumen as in the healthy state. Andral affirms that even by the touch, we may, from its vis- cidity, recognise serum that is surcharged with albumen. Its specific gravity, however, of which the French writers seem to take little note, would be a far better guide, and would indicate alike the defect as the excess of this principle. M. Gendrin has occasionally ob- served a mucous layer either at the bottom of the serum, or suspended in it. This is, in all probability, a minute portion of fibrine se- parating in the form of a flocculent cloud ; for serum is capable of holding a certain portion of fibrine in solution, which after a time separates from it. This was first proved by Dr. Dowler,f who, on pressing the buffed coat of blood, ex- tracted from it a liquid serum, which, on being allowed to rest for some time, exhibited signs of coagulation. With regard to the relative proportions of the serum and the clot, I have proved elsewhere J that this depends much on the vessel into which the blood is received. I shall show experimentally, however, in treating of diseased kidney, that an opposite state to that above alluded to as occurring, according to M. Gendrin, in inflammation, takes place under certain forms of disease where albumen is passing out of the system by the urinary pas- sages. Thackrah lays it down as a law, to which he has found no exception, that in all cases in which the proportion of fibrine is con- siderably above the normal standard, the solid matter in the serum is below it. He cites ten examples in proof of his assertion, and puts it * See a paper by M. Vauquelin, in the 16th vol. of the Ann. de Chimie, new series, p. 363. f See Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 89. t Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 296. as a question whether we may not hence sup- pose that the albumen is taken from the serum for the formation of fibrine ? The fact itself, however, requires confirmation, being in direct opposition to M. Gendrin's statement, that the proportion of albumen is greatly increased in an inflammatory condition of the system, which is precisely that condition when in general we find buffed blood, and therefore, according to Thackrah, an increase in the proportion of fibrine. The hsematosine is the least destructible of all the elements of the blood, retaining its quali- ties in that fluid after having been kept for several years. It is liable to much variety in its proportion, and in all those diseases and states of system in which hemorrhages occur, it gradually diminishes, at least to a certain point, in proportion to their extent and duration. In what part of the system the red particles are elaborated remains for the present a mys- tery. That they are reproduced slowly is manifested by the fact that those who have suf- fered large losses of blood, remain exsanguine for many months or even years afterwards. The same conclusion may also be deduced from the circumstance that women have a smaller proportion of red particles than men, the difference having been shewn by M. Le- canu to be attributable to the monthly loss which they habitually experience. Besides change of colour, to which the red particles are liable during disease, and which, among other causes, may arise from an altered proportion in the saline matters contained in the blood, they also appear to undergo structural alterations. In fevers, in malignant diseases, in sea-scurvy, in cases of poisoning, and of asphyxia from light- ning, a permanently liquid state of the blood occurs, wherein the colouring matter of the globules appears to have lost its character of insolubility in the serum, and to be capable of percolating those tissues which are otherwise destined to contain it. Passive hemorrhages, petechia?, and ecchymoses, are the results during life ; and, after death, a stained condition of the lining membrane of the heart, the arteries, and veins, which has often been mistaken for vas- cular congestion of these parts. The oil or unctuous soft solid which is now ascertained to be one of the constituents of healthy blood,* is liable to morbid increase under various forms of disease. Morgagni cites two cases of malignant fever in which the serum was milky. Ilewson, besides enumerating in- stances to be met with in authors, gives three cases sent him by medical friends: one of amenorrhrea with dyspepsia and vicarious dis- charge of blood by vomit and stool; another of violent and continued epistaxis, and a third of dyspepsia with slight asthma. In all three cases there were symptoms of plethora; but milky serum is by no means necessarily connected with this state. The most marked instance that I have met with was in a case of diabetes, where bleeding was several times repeated at long in- tervals, and on each occasion the same morbid * Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 46.