729 CRANIUM. work, which will be afterwards more fully ex- plained. The convexity of these domes is turned outwards and forwards in such manner that the circumference may abut against the longitu- dinal rib internally ; and, behind against the anterior rib in the base and a portion of the circumference of the lateral dome in the vault. That portion which is in the base is, as it were, pressed upwards to increase the space of the orbit, but not so much so as, at first sight, might appear; for on the external surface of the junction of the two portions there is an extraordinary development of the bone, which projecting over the face destroys the uniformity of surface and causes the orbitar portion to appear more elevated than it is in reality, and even to puss backwards at right angles with the other. Fig. 372. The external surface of the frontal portion in its upper two-thirds is smooth, of an equa- ble convexity and directed backwards; its inferior third is more vertical, and its convexity is interrupted by prominences. On the me- dian line it exhibits evidence of its original division into two parts, and this generally by a slight ridge, although in some instances there is a linear depression of equal indistinctness. This line is terminated by the nasal prominence, which has immediately above it a smooth tri- angular surface (glabella), and below it a rough notch for the articulation of the nasal and superior maxillary bones. From the centre of this notch there is a projection (pro- cessus nasalis), on the fore part of which are fixed the nasal bones, and to its back part, which is grooved, the ethmoid bone is ap- plied. On either side of the median line there is, at about the distance of an inch where the middle joins with the lowest third of the bone, the frontal eminence (eminentia frontalis, pro- cessus primi genii), which marks the centre of ossification, and the prominence of which is inversely as to the age of the subject. Be- low this eminence, bounding the glabella, and inclining downwards and inwards towards the nasal prominence (with which, in fact, it is ultimately confounded), is a pyramidal protu- berance, varying very much in distinctness in vol. t. different individuals, (processus frontalis,) more evident below than above, and indicating the situation of the frontal sinus. There is a slight depression underneath and to the outer side of this process, and, finally, the super- ciliary ridge terminates the frontal portion of the bone. This ridge is more prominent at its outer than at its inner side ; its extreme points are called external and internal angular pro- cesses, to the former of which the malar bone is articulated, to the latter the os unguis; at the junction of its inner and middle thirds there is a hole (foramen supra orbiturium), or otherwise a notch, for the passage of the frontal branch of the ophthalmic vessels and of the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair of nerves. Behind the external angular process there is a depression (fossa temporalis) which forms part of the temporalfossa ; a part of the temporal muscle is attached to it, and it is bounded above by a line (linea temporalis) which is continuous with the outer margin of the external angular process, and to which is attached the temporal aponeurosis. Fig. 373. The posterior or cerebral surface of the frontal bone is concave, is marked by depres- sions which correspond with the convolutions of the brain, and by sulci for the lodgement of the arteries of the dura mater, and is conti- nuous inferiorly with the orbitar portion ; cor- responding to the eminentiae frontales there are two depressions, and on the median line there is a sulcus (sulcus longitudinalis) for the re- ception of the longitudinal sinus, on the edges of which sulcus may sometimes be seen the fossa? Pacchionii for the glands of the same name. This sulcus as it descends is generally replaced by a dense crest, which projects con- siderably into the cavity of the cranium ; to it and to the edges of the sulcus, the falx cerebii is attached ; and at its lowest point it is bifid, so that, by its being applied against a similar bifurcation of the processus cristatus of the ethmoid bone, it contributes to form the fora- men ccecum. 3 B