562 CERUMEN—CETACEA. Firussac, M. le Baron, If A. D'Orbigny, Mono- graphic des Cephalopodes Acetabuliferes, folio, Paris, 1835. This splendid work is published in numbers, of which eleven have appeared. As yet the letter-press extends only to the general intro- duction. Broderip, (W. J.) Observations on the animals hitherto found in the shells of the genus Argonauta, Zoological Journal, vol. iv. p. 57. Richard Owen, Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus (Nautilus Pompilius, Linn.) 4to. 8 plates, 1832. This work contains, besides the description of the structure which characterizes the lower or Tetra- branchiate order of the class, some additional par- ticulars on the structure of the infundibulum, and of the brain, and on the function of the superadded branchial hearts, in the Dibranchiate order of Cephalopods. Descriptive and illustrated Catalogue of the Physiological Series in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, 4to. vol. iii. contains an account of the organs of sight and hearing in the Cephalopods, 1835. Description of a new genus of Cephalopoda (Rossia). Appendix to Sir John Ross's Voyage, 1835. Descriptions of some new species ; and anatomical characters of the Orders, Families, and Genera of the class Cephalopoda, Proceedings of the Zoological Society, March, 1836. (Richard Owen.) CERUMEN, (Germ. Ohrenschmalz.)— This secretion, formed by the glands of the ex- ternal ear, has been examined by Fourcroy and Vauquelin, and more in detail by Ber- zelius.* According to Vauquelin it consists of 0 625 of a brown butyraceous oil, soluble in alcohol, and 0-375 of an albuminous sub- stance, containing a peculiar bitter extrac- tive matter. Berzelius observes, that, when first secreted, cerumen appears as a yellow milky fluid, which gradually acquires a brown- ish colour and viscid consistency. Digested in ether it imparts to it fatty matter, which re- mains when the ethereal solution is distilled off water; it has a soft consistence, is nearly co- lourless, and contains stearin and elain sepa- rable by alcohol; it is easily saponified, and the soap which it forms has a rank unpleasant smell and taste; and when decomposed by mu- riatic acid, the fatty acids separate in the form of a white powder, which rises with difficulty to the surface, and fuses at about 105*. The portion which remains after the action of ether imparts a yellow colour to alcohol, and on its evaporation there remains a yellow-brown ex- tractive matter, soluble in water, and leaving after the evaporation of its aqueous solution a yellow, transparent, and shining varnish, which is viscid and inodorous, but intensely bitter; when burned, it exhales a strong animal odour, and leaves an ash of carbonate of potash and carbonate of lime, without any trace of a chlo- ride. It is completely precipitated from its aqueous solution by neutral acetate of lead. That part of cerumen which is not soluble in alcohol yields to water a small proportion of pale yellow matter, which, when obtained by evaporation, has a piquante taste; it is not precipitable by salts of lead, corrosive subli- mate, or infusion of galls, and contains no traces of phosphoric or chlorine salts. The residue of the cerumen, insoluble in water and * Lehibuch der Thierchemie. alcohol, gelatinises in acetic acid, but is only partially dissolved by it; that which is taken up appears to be albumen; and the undis- solved portion is brown, viscid, and transpa- rent; digested in dilute caustic alkali it imparts a yellow colour, but a small portion only is dissolved; and as nothing is thrown down by supersaturation with acetic acid and ferrocy- anate of potash, it is not albumen that is taken up : the acid solution, however, is copiously precipitated by infusion of galls, so that it contains some peculiar principle. The residue which resists the action of dilute alcali, when boiled in concentrated solution of caustic pot- ash, becomes brown, and smells like horns imi- larly treated; a part of it seems to form a compound with the alkali insoluble in the ley, but soluble in water, in which respect it re- sembles horn, but it differs from it in not being precipitated from its solution by muriatic acid, nor ferrocyanate of potash, and scarcely by infusion of galls. It appears, therefore, that cerumen is an emulsive combination of a soft fat and albumen, together with a peculiar substance, a yellow and very bitter matter soluble in alcohol, and an extractive substance soluble in water: its saline contents appear to be lactate of lime and alkali, but it contains no chlorides and no soluble phosphates. When cerumen accumulates and hardens in the ear so as to occasion deafness, it is easily softened by filling the meatus with a mixture of olive oil and oil of turpentine, by which its fatty matter is dissolved. ( W. T. Brande.) CERVICAL NERVES. See Spinal Nerves. CETACEA; Gr. x»t», SiXQmi, Aristotle; Eng. Whale tribe, Cetaceans; Fr. Cetac'ts; Germ. WaM-fische. [An order of mammiferous animals, distin- guished, as regards outward characters, by the absence of hinder extremities, neck, hair, and external ears; and by the presence of a large horizontal caudal fin, and the fin-like form of the anterior extremities, the bones of which are shortened, flattened, and enveloped in a thick unyielding smooth integument. With this con- figuration the Cetaceans are fitted only for aquatic life, and reside habitually in the waters of the sea or of large rivers: their resemblance to the true Fishes is so close that many natu- ralists, since the revival of literature, and the vulgar in all ages, have regarded them as mem- bers of the same class. Aristotle, from his anatomical knowledge, was aware of the essen- tial differences between the Whales and Fishes, but it is not absolutely necessary to seek for internal characters to establish the real distinc- tion which subsists between these different de- nizens of the deep; the horizontal position of the tail-fin at once distinguishes the cetacean from the fish, in which that fin is vertical. This difference relates to the different nature of the respiration of Ihe Whale, which is by lungs, and consequently necessitates a frequent rising to the surface of the water to breathe the