ANIMAL. KINGDOM. Ill rate, and the genital organs, slow in their development, are highly complicated in the perfect state. These animals generally pass through a series of metamorphoses, and throw off their exuvial covering five or six times during their development. This class is the most numerous in the animal kingdom, com- prehending about a hundred thousand species. The greater part of their life is spent in the larva state, during which they are generally most voracious, like the young of other classes. In the adult state the masticating organs and the digestive apparatus vary much according to the kind of food in the different species, as is seen in comparing the alimentary canal of a carnivorous cicindela campestris (Jig. 37.) with Fig. 37. that of a phytophagous melolontha vulgaris, (fig- 38.) In the carnivorous insect (Jig. 37.) the intestine passes nearly straight through the body with few enlargements in its course, and the glandular organs have a simpler struc- ture. The oesophagus passes down narrow from the head, and dilates into a wide glandu- lar crop («), which is succeeded by a minute gizzard, and this is followed by the chylific stomach (b,c), which is covered like the crop with minute glandular cryptae or follicles. At the pyloric extremity of the chylific stomach, the liver, in form of simple biliary ducts, pours its secretion into that cavity by two orifices on each side (rf). The short small intestine (e) opens into a wide colon (J), which terminates in the anus (g). In the vegetable-eating insect, (Jig. 38) the alimentary canal is more lengthened, con- voluted, and capacious, with more numerous dilatations, and the glandular organs are more developed. The crop (a) of the melolontha is Fig. 38. succeeded by a minute rudimentary gizzard, and to this succeeds a long and sacculated glandu- lar or chylific stomach, which becomes narrow and convoluted below, and terminates in a small pyloric dilatation, which receives the four terminations of the biliary organs. The succeeding part of the intestine is also con- voluted, and has three enlargements in its course to the anus (c). The liver (c c) is here of great magnitude, and has its secreting surface much extended by the development of innumerable minute coeca from its primary ducts. Insects also often present distinct urinary organs, and numerous glands in both sexes connected with the organs of generation. (See Insecta.) 12. Arachnida, with the head and thorax united, generally four pairs of legs ; with- out antenna?, or compound eyes, or wings, or metamorphosis ; the trunk divided into a cephalo-thorax and abdomen ; the head is often provided with two pairs of chiliform manduca- tory organs ; the eyes are simple. The respi- ration is aerial, sometimes performed by tra- chea, and sometimes by pectinated pulmonary sacs opening on the sides of the abdominal surface of the trunk. In their nervous, res- piratory, and circulating systems they indicate a higher grade of development than insects, and like them are generally inhabitants of the land, attaining considerable size and strength, with cunning, cruel, carnivorous habits, and often provided with poisonous instruments. (See Arachnida.) 13. Crustacea, with the head and thorax generally united, two pairs of antenna?, two