326 AVES. The species in which the absorbent system has been investigated are the Buzzard, Wood- pecker, Turkey, Common Fowl, Bittern, He- ron, Stork, Duck, Swan, Wild and Tame Goose, but especially in the latter. The absorbents of Birds differ from those of Mammals in having fewer valves, which are also less perfect, being so loose as fre- quently to permit for a certain extent a retro- grade passage of the injected fluid. The lacteals, lymphatics, and thoracic ducts have very thin parietes, so as easily to be ruptured, but they are composed, as in Mammals, of two tunics, of which the internal is the weakest. The lymph resembles that of Mammals, but the chyle differs essentially in its trans- parency and want of colour. The lacteals have, however, been observed to contain an opake white fluid in a Woodpecker that had been killed after swallowing a quantity of ants. With respect to the disposition of the ab- sorbents, they do not form in Birds two strata, as in Mammals; at least those only have been observed which correspond to the deep-seated absorbents which accompany the large vessels. The lymphatic glands or ganglions are also much less numerous in Birds than Mammals, being in the former generally restricted in their position to the anterior part of the chest or the root of the neck. In the Penguin, however, a femoral and two axillary absorbent glands have recently been described.* They have the same structure as in Man,but are softer. In other parts of the body the absorbent glands are replaced by plexuses of lymphatic vessels surrounding the principal bloodvessels. It frequently hap- pens, as in Mammalia, that two large absor- bents form by their union a trunk, which is of smaller diameter than either of the vessels composing it. The absorbents of Birds terminate principally by two thoracic ducts, one on either side, which enter the jugular veins by several orifices. But besides these communications, Tiedemann, Fohman, Lauth, and Lippi state that the lym- phatic plexuses of the posterior part of the body communicate with the contiguous sacial and renal veins. And Lauth describes several intercommunications in other parts of the body; these, however, are denied by Panizza, whose careful and elaborate researches seem to prove that the passage of the lymph into the venous system takes place in Birds only in two places in the pelvic region in addition to those by the two thoracic ducts in the neck. The lymphatics of the foot unite to form the vessels which are found running along the sides of each toe (1, 1,fg- 166). In the Pal- mipedes there are anastomosing branches which pass from the lateral vessel of one toe to that of the adjoining toe, forming arches in the uniting web (2). These branches form a small plexus (3) at the anterior part of the digito- metatarsal joint, from which three or four lymphatics are continued. The anterior and internal branches (4) accompany the blood- vessels, and form a network around them; the posterior and external branches (5) receive * Reid, in Proceedings of Zool. Soc, Sept. 1835. Fig. 166. Absorle?its of a QooseJ* the lymphatics of the sole of the foot, then ascend along the metatarsus, and form at its proximal articulation a close network (6); all the vessels then ascend the tibia, forming a plexus (7) around it as far as the middle of the leg; then they unite into two branches, of which the smaller passes along the anterior part of the depression between the tibia and fibula as far as the knee-joint, where it joins the other branch which accompanies the blood- vessels. The trunk formed by the union of the two preceding branches accompanies the femoral vessels, forming plexuses in its course * From Lauth's Monograph, Annales dcs Sciences Nat. t. iii. pis. 23 and 25.