786 CRUSTACEA. elongated lamina, the free end of which is turned forwards, and before long advances nearly to the labium. In the space included between the mandibles and the fold formed by the abdominal lamina of the embryo, of which we have just spoken, we now perceive the rudiments of two pairs of jaws and of the first pair of maxillary extremi- ties, then of the second pair of these latter or- gans, and soon afterwards of the third pair. These appendages appear in the same man- ner as the antennse, and in proportion as they are evolved, the fold that marks the origin of the caudal lamina of the embryo recedes from the anterior part of the body; by little and little the basilar portion of the lamina becomes straightened, so as to gain the same plane as the remainder of the blastoderma, whilst its terminal portion continues bent underneath against the former. The five pairs of ambula- tory extremities make their appearance succes- sively in the same manner as the antennae and the oral appendages; the same may be said with regard to the abdominal extremi- ties; and whilst this formation is going on, the annular divisions of the abdominal portion of the body are observed to be evolved. The carapace at length begins to be formed in the manner already indicated, and the ex- tremities, as they sprout, alter their shapes, and become more and more unlike one another, as they approach the term of their embryotic development. The alimentary canal begins to be formed by its two opposite extremities. The earliest traces of the oral aperture are perceived nearly at the same time as the labrum, under the form of a small cavity, which becomes continually deeper and deeper. Some short time after- wards, and before the appearance of the jaws, we distinguish towards the summit of the ab- dominal tubercle, a slight depression which grows rapidly deeper in order to form the anus. About the same period a very delicate and gelatinous-looking membrane begins to be formed between the inner aspect of the middle portion of the blastoderma and the vitellus ; this increases rapidly, and sends prolongations towards the mouth and anus, which soon be- come hollowed out into a cavity, and are fi- nally converted into two small perpendicular canals. The one of these canals terminating at the mouth is the commencement of the oesophagus and stomach ; the other,with which the anus is soon found to be in connexion, is the rudiment of the intestine. The rest of the membrane in question is observed to extend rapidly and at length completely to envelope the vitellus. At this epoch of the develop- ment of the embryo, the sac thus formed covers the blastoderma, incloses the yolk, and towards its lower part presents two funnel-like portions by which it is made to communicate with the gastric and intestinal portions of the digestive canal, the formation of which we have just had occasion to speak of. These two portions of the digestive canal as they increase in size approach one another; the rest of the sac folds inwards upon itself, and diminishes more and more in size until it disappears entirely, and the stomach and in- testine form one perfectly continuous tube. At the point where the intestine is connected with the sac inclosing the yolk, two small thickenings are seen, which by-and-by acquire the form of appendages and become covered with little warty-looking enlargements; this is the liver beginning to be formed. The enlarge- ments of which we have spoken constitute its lobuli, and these slowly divide into a mul- titude of long slender vessels. The heart begins to be developed about the same time as the intestinal canal. It makes its appearance towards the dorsal part of the body, a short way above the commencement of the abdomen, and shows itself at first under the guise of a small pyriform cavity hollowed out of a membrane supplied by an inner la- mina of the blastoderma. The arteries begin to show themselves towards the same period in the substance of this same blastodermic lamina, and in the beginning present neither ramifications nor any communication with the heart. We have already spoken of the develop- ment of the apparatus of respiration and of that of the nervous system at such length as to render it unnecessary to enter farther upon these parts of the subject here. The greater number of the Crustacea do not escape from the membranes of the egg until they have attained such a perfect state of develop- ment, that they possess the whole of the organs they will ever exhibit, and have attained a form which differs but little from that which is to distinguish them when arrived at matuiityor become adult. The case, however, is different as regards some of these animals; these are born in some sort prematurely, and only attain their distinctive formation after their exit from the egg. The changes which they undergo between the term of their birth and that of their perfect growth are sometimes so great that they are every way deserving of the name of metamorphoses. These changes, whatever their amount, may depend on the following circumstances:—1. the continuation of the normal work of development, which has not been completed in the ovum ; 2. the unequal growth of different parts of the body; and, 3. the atrophy and complete ulti- mate disappearance of certain parts. It is among the lower Crustaceans that tliis kind of premature birth takes place most fre- quently : thus the sugient Crustaceans and the Entomostraca quit the membranes of the ovum at a stage of development which corresponds with one of the earlier of those under which the Decapoda present themselves to our notice; they are all of an oval figure, and only appear provided with a very limited number of styli- fbrm extremities. The common Cyclops, for instance, does not show the posterior part of the body at the time of its exclusion from the ovum, although this subsequently forms an elongated tail; it is nearly spherical at first, and is provided with no more than two antennas and four extremely short feet. It continues