ACALEPHiE. 44 the other. They then terminate in another annular vessel, which surrounds the mouth. In their course they give off numerous branches. From the oral circle of vascular structure arise two large vessels, which run along the walls of the gastric cavity, and ap- pear to unite with the other circle at the anal extremity. These last Eschscholtz regarded as veins, and the eight external vessels as arteries. He supposed that the veins, passing along the walls of the stomach, absorbed the nutri- ment, and then carried the circulating fluid to the cilia for aeration. In the course of his observations on the Ber'ue ovatus, Dr. Fleming* distinctly saw a fluid moving " backwards and forwards" in the external vessels ; and he states that " while the animal was active, there were numerous small spaces in the different vessels where the contained fluid circulated in eddies." Dr. Fleming failed to detect any structure in the vessels which could produce these partial motions. In cestum naiadis, Eschscholtz thought that he saw the system of vessels more dis- tinctly than in any other of the acalephoe. He thus described it: " From the base of each of the two tentacules, a vessel takes its rise, and goes towards the bottom of the stomach. Here the two vessels unite, and form a little vascular circle around the water-canal (intestine). From the upper margin of this circle, four straight vessels arise, which go towards the two rows of cilia-bearing organs placed on the dorsal sur- face. Under these they run, two in one di- rection, and two in the other. At either extremity of the body, these unite with certain vessels running superficially along the sides, and which complete the circulation by entering the first set of vessels just before they begin to run beneath the ciliated organs. All these vessels are simple canals, of the same diameter throughout, without any visible branches. They contain a colourless watery fluid, in which mi- nute yellowish globules are seen to move. In the vessels which arise from the bases of the tentacules, the globules mount upwards ; they assume a rotatory motion in the vascular circle; and, in the four dorsal vessels, they seem to move, some in one direction, others in the other. It is probable that what appears to the eye as one vessel, is, in reality, composed of two vessels, running parallel and close together."f Seeing that the radiating vessels which arise from the gastric cavities of the pulmograda seem to carry out the nourishing material to all parts of the body, and that they are, in some species at least, connected with other vessels which form a complete circle, we are disposed to class them under this head along with the vascular structures already described. The exact analogies of their functions, however, have not yet, we conceive, been distinctly made out. From the stomach of rhizostoma, formerly described, sixteen vessels arise, and pursue a straight course outwards to the margin of the disc, near which they all enter, at equal dis- * Mem. Worn. Soc. iii. 401. t Op. cit. p. 14. tances, a circular vessel, which passes com- pletely round the circumference of the animal. Four of the radiating vessels correspond with the four fleshy pillars of the process supporting the arms, and there exists on the internal sur- face of each of these pillars, a groove, which establishes a direct communication between the corresponding vessel, and one of the large vessels of the central process. The other twelve are distributed by threes in the intervals between the first four, and arise from those parts of the stomach which are closed by the plaited membranes. The space intervening between the circular vessel and the margin of the disc is occupied by an innumerable multi- tude of little vessels which form a net-work like the finest lace.* In medusa aurita, there are also sixteen radiating vessels, four of which arise from each of the four sacs, into which the gastric cavity in this species is divided. Two of the four vessels in each group are simple, the other two are several times bifurcated; both the simple main trunks and all the branches so formed, enter a circular vessel sur- rounding the disc, which seems to be connected also with the tubular cavities of the numerous cilia which surround the margin like a fringe, and which are capable of elongation and con- traction/)- Carus remarks with regard to the circular vessel, that " it may be considered as an extremely simple rudiment of the great cir- culation of superior animals, in case we view the radiating as chyliferous vessels."]; V. Respiration.—It is probable that the air- bladders of the physograda, the swimming organs of the diphyda, and the cilia of the ciliograda are all subservient, in a greater or less degree, to the respiratory function, as well as to locomotion. The vessels in the last men- tioned class, which have been described above as appertaining to the circulating system, are regarded by some as respiratory organs; and by Lamarck were compared to the tracheae of insects. They have been called aquiferous trachea. Those who consider them in this light believe that they are open at two points, so as to admit the circumambient fluid to pass freely through them. The most recent and accurate observations, however, leave it doubt- ful whether this really takes place in the ciliograde acalephae. With regard to the pulmograda, several parts and organs have been pointed out by different observers as being, in all probability, the seats of the respiratory function. Cuvier thought that the delicate plaited membranes which exist between the fleshy pillars of the central process in rhizostoma, and which form in part the walls of the stomach, might be re- garded as the organs of respirarion. Eisenhardt supposed that he saw them in certain tentacu- lated processes attached to the membranous partitions which divide the gastric sacs of some species from one another ; while Gaede looked upon the four small sacs which overlie the * Cuvier, Journ. de Phys. xlix. 430. t Gaede, Anat. der Medusen. % Cams, Comp, Anat. (by Gore,) ii. 266.