773 CRUSTACEA. Fig. 413. Fig. 414. Fig.4\5 Fig. 412, Ventral aspect of the cephalu tlioracic portion of the Dichelestion. a, trunk or sucker ; b, maxillae. Fig. 413, Th; trunk or sucker magnified, a, the labrum ; b, the mandibles. Fig. 414 # 415, The maxilla:. nultimate articulation (the claws, pincers, or cheliferous extremities). The extremity occasionally terminates in two articulations presenting no kind of unusual development, but the last of which, termi- nated by a sharp point and armed with teeth or serrae, returns upon the preceding one, so as to form a kind of hook or pincer, opening in the opposite direction, (the sub-cheliform extremities of the Squillce and Crevcttinac). Lastly, these extremities frequently terminate in a simple acute angle of which the animal can make no use save in locomotion. In the Sucking Crustacea, which live parasi- tically on other animals and feed by sucking their blood, the structure of the oral apparatus is extremely different.* Certain pieces which must be considered as analogous to the labium and languette, are elongated, so as to form a trunk or cylindrical tube, of variable length, adapted for sucking, and in the interior of which are lodged the mandibles, now pro- longed so much that they form two slender and pointed processes the extremities of which serve as a lancet. The appendages which in the masticating Crustacea constitute the jaws, here continue rudimentary, and the three pairs of limbs which in the Decapoda complete the oral apparatus, under the name of maxillary extremities, are here transformed into organs of prehension, of different forms, by means of which the parasite attaches itself to its victim. In the whole of the Crustacea the intestinal canal presents two openings, the mouth and * See our " Recherches sur l'Organization de la Bouche des Crustaces Succurs," Ann. des Sc. Nat. t. 28 ; Burmeister's Beschreibung einiger neuen schmarotzer Krcbse, in the Acta Acad. Caes. Leop. Nat. Cur. vol. xvii. p. 1. the anus, always separated from each other by the whole length of the body. The mouth is the mere an- terior and outward expansion of the oesophagus; it is fur- nished with nothing that can properly be compared to a tongue; the horny and la- mellar organ which writers have sometimes spoken of under this name is nothing more than the lower lip, which has already been de- scribed. The oesophagus itself is short; it rises vertically and runs to terminate directly in the stomach. Its general structure, as well as that of the stomach and whole of the intestinal canal, bears a very close resemblance to what we observe among the superior animals. They each consist of two membranous layers separated by one of muscular fibres, always of greatest thickness in those points in which the most energetic contractions take place, and especially at the entrance into and passage out of the stomach. The stomach is of a globular form, and of very great capacity ; it fills a considerable extent of the cephalic cavity, and presents two portions very distinct from one another; the cardiac region, vertically surmounting the mouth and oesophagus, the axis of which is lost in its own ; and the pyloric region, situ- ated behind the former, and forming a right angle with it. But the most remarkable feature presented by the stomach of the Crustaceans is the very complex masticatory apparatus it contains. This consists of a considerable number of pieces, the form and disposition of which vary, and are always singularly in harmony with the kind of food taken and the general habits of these animals. The apparatus, as well from the important office it fulfils, as from its being no where else encountered in so perfect a state of development, were worthy of a description which would swell this article to too large a size; we shall therefore be brief, and merely state generally that it consists of a great number of pieces, so connected as to constitute a kind of solid frame armed in- ternally with tubercles or sharper teeth situated around the pylorus, and capable of being- moved so as to bruise or tear in pieces the alimentary matters subjected to their action, and as they are about to pass through this opening.* The different pieces composing this appa- ratus vary considerably in the different genera, * Vide Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee, t. iv. p. 126, and Milne Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crustaces, t. i. p. 67, for further details.