494 CAROTID ARTERY. 2. With the knowledge of this freedom of communication between the carotids, no sur- geon will look for uniform success after the application of a ligature, in cases of wounds of either carotid or of one of its branches, if the ligature be applied only below the situ- ation of the wound. Nevertheless, experience tells us, that such a plan of treatment has been successful in several instances; and it is wor- thy of notice that in almost all the successful cases the primitive carotid was tied very shortly after the infliction of the wound, at a time when the collateral branches could not have become sufficiently enlarged to admit of the full circulation in them; while, on the other hand, in two unsuccessful cases, the primitive carotid was not tied for some days after the receipt of the wound, and secondary hemor- rhage ensued in each case. 3. The free anastomosis of the two internal carotids with each other and with the sub- clavians through the vertebrals within the cra- nium, sufficiently evinces that the circulation of the brain after the obliteration of either carotid, by ligature or otherwise, may be easily maintained ; and experience fully confirms this inference from anatomy. That a disturbance of the cerebral circulation does occur occa- sionally after the operation of tying the carotid is fully proved ; but it would appear that it is an occurrence much more rare than might, a priori, be expected. Of seventy cases, col- lected by Berard,* in which this operation was performed, symptoms arising from cerebral affection appeared only in a very few, and in two only of these instances the patients died from the effect produced upon the cerebral cir- culation. One of these cases occurred in the practice of Mr. Aston Key; the patient fell into a deep sleep after a severe fit of coughing, and died shortly afterwards without awaking. On examination it was found that the carotid of the opposite side was obliterated by a co- agulum nearly as low as its origin from the aorta, so that the cerebral circulation could only have been maintained by the two vertebral arteries, which in this case were smaller than usual. In the second case, which was ope- rated on by Langenbeck,f immediately after the application of the ligature the patient be- came motionless, with closed eyes, without speaking, except when addressed several times in succession; he sank gradually, and died in thirty-four hours after the operation.]: In three of the cases collected by Berard, some disturbance or indistinctness of vision, on the same side as that on which the artery was tied, followed the operation; in one of these the impairment of sight was accompanied by syncope, and a sensation of cold affecting * Diet, de Medecine, art. Carotide. t Arch. Gen. de Med. t. xix. p. 118. $ Dr. Mussey, of New Hampshire, in America, has recorded a case in which he tied both primitive carotids within twelve days of each other, and without any untoward result. The reader will find the case quoted at length in Mr. Guthrie's valuable work on the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, p. 350. the whole of that side of the face; in a second, related by Mr. Mayo, the impaired vision was only on the right side, the carotid of which side had been tied, and the sense was perfectly restored in a few hours. In the third case one eye was completely deprived of sight, and the sense of hearing greatly weakened in the ear of the same side. Berard remarks that the loss or impairment of vision on one side is un- favourable to the opinion that such an occur- rence is to be attributed to disturbed cerebral circulation ; it is sufficiently accounted for by the fact that there is a considerable diminution in the quantity of blood sent to the eye; for that organ is supplied by a direct branch of the internal carotid, viz. the ophthalmic, which anastomoses at its termination with several of the terminal branches of the arteries of the face; and it is not improbable that in the cases above referred to, the branches which form this anastomosis, as well as those forming the circle of Willis at the base of the brain, were much smaller than usual. In other cases hemiplegia, more or less ge- neral and perfect, followed the operations after a longer or shorter period. In a case related by Magendie, that of a young girl, in whom the lift carotid was tied, there appeared on the sixth day paralysis of the right arm, of the pharynx and larynx, and numbness of the right lower extremity. The paralysis gradually di- minished, but the intellect was so far impaired that the patient lost the power of reading* In Sir A. Cooper's first case, the right arm and leg were deprived of sensation and in part of motion on the seventh day after the operation ; and a man, in whom Mr. Vincent tied the right carotid for aneurism, was attacked with com- plete hemiplegia of the left side in half an hour after the operation, and continued in that state till his death on the seventh day. It is re- markable that, in all these cases, the paralysis was situated on the side opposite to that on which the artery was tied ; a fact which alone would indicate that the cause of the paralysis was seated in the brain. Aneurisms do not occur so frequently in the carotid arteries as in the aorta or in the large arteries of the extremities. They are most frequently found situated at the bifurcation of the common carotid, where also calcareous and atheromatous deposits are very often met with. In the lower part of the common ca- rotid an aneurism is, of course, a more for- midable disease than if it were situated high up, in consequence of the impossibility of applying a ligature between the artery and the heart. Sometimes an aneurism of the aorta projects upwards into the neck, compressing and obliterating the carotid, and simulating all the characters of aneurism of its lower portion. I am not aware that there is on record any instance of aneurism of the internal carotid artery in its cervical portion, although our mu- seums are not without specimens of aneurismal dilatations of it after it has entered the cranium, and as it lies by the side of the sella Turcica. * Journal de Physiol. April, 1827.