AVES. 333 processes of the cervical vertebrae, within which it lies hidden, and in close contact with its fellow of the other side, to very near the head." In the Bittern the two carotids are situated one behind the other, and adhere so intimately to- gether in this situation that they have been erroneously described as a single trunk. " The carotid artery emerges from between the muscles of the neck, at about the third or fourth vertebra from the head (9); and after giving a branch (10,11), Arteria cutanea colli /(iterates, downwards, to the lateral muscles and integuments of the neck, it runs along the outer edge of the rectus major anticus muscle to behind the angle of the jaw, where it divides into its several branches. " An artery {arteria occipitalis) first goes off posteriorly, which passes a little forwards under the branch of the os hyoides, and after sending some blood to the muscles of the neck, makes a turn backwards, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the second vertebra, and terminates by a singular anastomosis in the vertebral artery.* " The nt xt branch is analogous to the internal cai-otid; it goes forward also under the os hyoides, and passes behind the muscles of the jaws close upon the lower part of the skull, at which place it sends a branch upwards, which appears to penetrate the bones on the outside of the ear, and supply the organ of hearing, sends a branch into the skull and another through the articulation of the jaw, to unite with the ophthalmic, and contribute to the plexus at the back of the orbit (Rete oph- tlialmicum of Barkow). The internal carotid then enters an osseous canal, which runs along the basis of the cranium, between the tables of the bone; and at the lower and back part of the orbit, the artery receives a remarkable anastomosing branch of the inter- nal maxillary, which almost equals in size the carotid itself, and these two vessels produce by their union one which passes almost directly into the cranium at the usual place for the entrance of the carotid artery. This vessel forms within the skull an anastomosis similar to the circle of Willis; but the branch which occupies the place of the basilar artery is very small, and appears to be furnished entirely from the anastomosis of the carotids, and de- signed only to supply the medulla oblongata and spinal marrow. The branches of the in- ternal carotid are thickly spread in an arborescent form upon the surfaces of the brain ; some on the outside and others on the internal super- ficies of the ventricles, and the fissure between thetwohemispheres." Theorbital plexus formed by the carotid sends off the inferior palpebral, ethmoidal, lachrymal, and ophthalmic arteries. The ophthalmic artery forms two remarkable plexuses at the posterior part of the globe of the * Dr. Barkow has subsequently established the accuracy of this observation, having found this singular anastomosis of the occipital with the ver- tebral artery in all the birds which he has injected. Tiedemann is therefore inaccurate in saying that the vertebral artery has the same termination in birds as in man. eye; the first is situated close beside the inner side of the optic nerve, and is formed by an artery analogous to the arteria centralis retina, and gives off the artery to the base of the marsupial membrane; the second plexus is situated more exteriorly, and gives off the ciliary arteries. "After the trunk of the carotid has sent off the internal carotid, it passes for a little way down- wards and forwards behind the angle of the jaw, and divides at once into different branches, cor- responding to those of the external carotid in mammalia; the first of which might be called the oesophageal or laryngeal artery. This vessel sends a branch to the muscles upon the horn of the os hyoides, and then turns downwards and divides into two branches, one to the trachea (G,fig. 170), and the other to the oeso- phagus, upon the side of which parts they descend to near the thorax," forming a series of arches (11, 11), and ultimately inosculate with the tracheal and oesophageal branches of the common trunk of the carotid and vertebral arteries. " The external maxillary artery (12) dips in between the pterygoid muscle and that which is situated at the back of the lower jaw for open- ing the mouth; it then passes behind the tympanic bone, and gives twigs upwards to the muscles of the jaws, and to the plexus at the back of the orbit: upon emerging from behind the tympanic bone, it lies under the zygo- matic or jugal bone, and sends an artery up- wards, which is distributed to the temporal and masseter muscles, and proceeding under the triangular tendon that comes from the inferior margin of the orbit to the lower jaw, it divides into two principal branches; one of these passes along the side of the upper jaw, gives a branch upwards to the fore part of the orbit which unites with the ophthalmic artery, and is lost at the top of the head. This branch is very large in birds with combs, as in con- junction with the ophthalmic, it furnishes numerous vessels to these vascular parts. The artery then goes on and supplies branches to the sides of the head before the orbits, and to the integuments and substance of the upper mandible,inosculatingwith thepalatinebranches of the internal maxillary artery. The second portion of the external maxillary proceeds to the lower jaw, to which, and the lower part of the masseter muscle, it is distributed. The external maxillary supplies the place of the temporal, labial, angular, nasal, and mental arteries of mammalia. " The laryngeal or posterior palatine artery is a little branch of the external carotid, which is sent off posteriorly opposite to the external maxillary artery. Its branches are exhausted upon the back part of the fauces, the mus- cles for moving the upper jaw, and posterior nares. " The lingual or submaxillary artery (13) passes under the muscles which connect the os hyoides to the lower jaw, and close upon the back of the membrane of the lower part of the mouth, it sends a branch to the oesophagus and trachea, supplies the muse'es of the os hyoides (F),