310 AVES. the orbit, the external terminates behind the middle turbinated lamina in a cul-de-sac. These olfactory lamina differ in regard to tex- ture. In the Cassowary and Albatross they are said to be membranous. Cuvier states that they appeared to him to be bony in the Horn- bill and Toucan. We have found this to be the case in the recent Toucan. The organ of smell in this singular species is confined to the base of its enormousbeakjf d,e,fig. 150.) The canal, which is traversed by the air and odorous particles in inspiration, forms a sigmoid curve in the vertical direction. The external orifice is on precisely the same perpendicular line as the internal, or, as it is generally termed, the posterior nasal aperture. The external nostril (d, fig. 150) being situated on the posterior surface of the upper mandible, where it is raised above the level of the cranium, is consequently directed backwards, secure from all injury to which it might be exposed while the bill was used in penetrating dense and interwoven foliage. The olfactory canal is at its commencement of a cylindrical form, and about two lines in diameter. It passes forwards for about half an inch, receiving the projection of the first spongy bone, then bends downwards and backwards, and is dilated to admit the projections of the two other spongy bones. From this point it descends vertically to the palate, at first con- tracted and afterwards dilating to form the in- ternal or posterior orifice, (e,jig. 150.) The first or outermost spongy bone is almost hori- zontal, and has its convexity directed outwards. The second is nearly vertically placed, with its convexity directed backwards : it terminates in a narrow point below. The superior spongy bone is about the size and shape of a pea. All these bones are processes from the inner and posterior parietes of the nasal passage; they are cellular, and air is continued into them from the cranial diploe ; but the parietes of the nasal passage are entire and smooth, and lined by a delicate pituitary membrane, so that there is no direct communication between the cells, the turbinated bones, or of the man- dible and the nasal passages. In most birds the nasal cavities communicate with the pharynx by two distinct but closely approximated apertures. In the Cormorant, however, these join into one before their termi- nation posteriorly, which is consequently by a single aperture. The olfactory nerves are dis- tributed exclusively to the pituitary membrane covering the septum narium and the superior spongy bone. The pituitary membrane is of the most delicate structure, and is most vas- cular, where it covers the superior turbinated lamina, and becomes thicker and more villous as it descends upon the middle one. It every- where displays numerous pores of muciparous glands, which bedew it with a lubricating secretion. According to Scarpa the acuteness of smell is exactly in proportion to the development of the superior turbinated lamina, to which the size of the olfactory nerve corresponds. The following is the order in which, according to his experiments, birds enjoy the sense of smell, beginning with those in which it is most acute: Grullatores, Natatores, Ruptores, Scanso?'es, Insessores, Rasores. There is still, however, much obscurity with reference to the extent to which Birds make use of their olfactory organs. It has been generally asserted that birds of prey are gifted with a highly acute sense of smell, and that they can discover by means of it the carcass of a dead animal at great distances; but those who have witnessed the rapidity with which the Vultures descend from invisible heights of the atmosphere to the carcass of an animal, too recently killed to attract them by putrefactive exhalations, have generally been led to consider them as being directed to their quarry by sight. " That this is the case," Dr. Roget observes, " appears to be now suffi- ciently established by the observations and experiments of Mr. Audubon, which show that these birds in reality possess the sense of smell in a degree very inferior to carnivorous quadru- peds, and that so far from guiding them to their prey from any distance, it affords them no indication of its presence even whencloseathand. The following experiments appear to be perfect- ly conclusive on this subject. Having pro- cured the skin of a deer, Mr. Audubon stuffed it full of hay; after the whole had become perfectly dry and hard, he placed it in the mid- dle of an open field, laying it down on its back in the attitude of a dead animal. In the course of a few minutes afterwards he observed a vulture flying towards and alighting near it. Quite unsuspicious of the deception, the bird immediately proceeded to attack it as usual in the most vulnerable points. Failing in this object, he next with much exertion tore open the seams of the skin where it had been stitched together, and appeared earnestly intent on get- ting at the flesh, which he expected to find within, and of the absence of which not one of his senses was able to inform him. Find- ing that his efforts, which were long reiterated, led to no other result than the pulling out large quantities of hay, he at length, though with evident reluctance, gave up the attempt, and took flight in pursuit of other game to which he was led by the sight alone, and which he was not long in discovering and securing. " Another experiment, the converse of the first, was next tried. A large dead hog was concealed in a narrow and winding ravine, about twenty feet deeper than the surface of the earth around it, and filled with briers and high cane. This was done in the month of July, in a tropical climate, where putrefaction takes place with great rapidity; yet, although many vultures were seen from time to time sailing in all directions over the spot where the putrid carcass was lying, covered only with twigs of cane, none ever discovered it; but in the meanwhile several dogs had found their way to it and had devoured large quantities of the flesh."* * See Roget, Bridgewater Treatise, vol. ii. p. 406.