279 AVES. cave or flattened. Anterior to this part the cranium in the Parrot presents the moveable junction of the upper mandible, but in other birds a continued osseous surface converges more or less gradually to the end of the beak, only interrupted by the anterior orifices of the nasal cavity. The skull in the Raptores, especially in the nocturnal division, is short, broad, and high, in proportion to its length, and the cranium is large compared with the face. The posterior facet is convex, and remarkably extended up- wards and laterally, and is continued insensibly at an obtuse angle with the upper surface. The occipital foramen is almost horizontal. The temporal fossae are not very deep, and do not meet above at the middle line. The cere- bral convexities are not strongly marked ; the frontal region is flat. A longitudinal furrow extends along the whole upper surface of the cranium, and is especially remarkable in the Owls. The cranium and face are separated by a sudden contraction. The orbits are very complete, on account of the development and complete junction of the frontal, ethmoidal, ungueal, and palatine boundaries. The cranium of the Warblers presents a more regular sphericity, but the interorbital space is very concave. The anterior parietes of the orbits are large and very complete from the size of the lachrymal bone and of the trans- verse lamina of the ethmoid; the internal and posterior bony parietes are, on the other hand, remarkably defective; the optic foramina are indeed commonly blended into one, and con- tinuous with the larger fissures above. The distinctive characters of the skull of the Scansores are the most remarkable, especially in the Parrots and Toucans. In the former the upper surface of the cranium is flattened or slightly convex, and greatly extended in breadth between the orbits. These cavities are very complete ; and the nasal inlets on the sides of the skull are much limited in size by the extent of ossification. However, the breadth of the posterior part of the base of the cranium and the large size of the pterygoid bones occasion a very considerable interval between these and the body of the sphenoid. In the Toucans the cranium slightly in- creases in breadth to the anterior part where it is joined to the enormous bill. Its superior surface presents an equable convexity. The temporal fossae, like those of the parrots, are small, and wholly confined to the lateral aspects of the cranium. The posterior sur- face, which is absolutely concave in the Mac- caws, from the backward extension of the mastoid processes, is slightly convex in the Toucans, where it is separated from the upper surface by a regularly arched ridge. The cerebellic prominence extends over the occi- pital foramen, the plane of which inclines forwards and downwards from the horizontal line at an angle of 45°. The circumference of the orbit is uninclosed by bone at the pos- terior part, the postorbital processes of the frontal not being developed as in the parrots. The zygomatic process of the temporal, with the ligament extending between it and the malar bone, forms here the posterior boundary of the orbit. The septum of the orbits is very incomplete. The ungueo-maxillary fissure and the external nasal apertures are very small, and situated on nearly the same perpendicular line, the nostrils open on the posterior part of the upper mandible, and the remainder of the lateral facet is, therefore, a smooth entire osseous surface formed by the thin parietes of the dilated cellular mandibles. In the Hornbills the skull presents the same characters as in the Toucans, with the exception of that extraordinary species the Ilelmeted Ilornbill (Buccros Galcutus.) In this bird the whole outer surface of the skull is sculptured with irregular furrows and risings, a character which it presents in no other bird, and which can only be compared to the surface of the skull in the Crocodiles. The posterior surface is concave, and separated by a strongly deve- loped ridge from the temporal furrows, which almost meet at the vertex. The bony rim of the orbit is completed by the extension of the zygomatic process of the temporal to that of the malar bone, which, however, are not an- chylosed, but joined by a ligamentous union. The bony septum of the orbits is complete, and formed by two strong plates, separated by an intermediate cellular diploe, except at the pos- terior part. The optic foramen is directed transversely outwards. In all the Hornbills the malar bone is moveably connected with the maxillary as well as the tympanic bones, as in other birds. In the Wood-peckers the cranium is round- ed, the temporal fossae shallow, the internal wall or septum of the orbits incomplete, but the anterior boundary is well developed. The posterior facet of the cranium is raised. The superior surface is traversed by a wide furrow extending longitudinally forwards, generally to the right, but sometimes also to the left, as far as the lachrymal bone. It is in this furrow that the elongated cornua of the os hyoides are lodged, which relate to a peculiar mechanism hereafter to be described. In some of the larger species of Wood-pecker, as the Picus major, L. the cranial furrow is more symme- trical. In the Humming-birds it is double, the hyoidean furrows being separated at first by the cerebellic protuberance, and afterwards by a mesial longitudinal ridge. The skull in the Rasorial birds is narrow, but slightly raised, and without ridges. In the Capercailzie (Tetrao Urogallus) it is almost square, flattened on the posterior and superior surfaces, and impressed with a con- siderable longitudinal furrow anteriorly. The orbit is very incomplete, the anterior pa- rietes being almost entirely wanting, and the ungueo-maxillary vacancy being consequently continuous with the orbit. In the Bustards the posterior boundary of the ungueo-maxillary fissure is complete, but in other respects the cranium resembles that of the Rasorcs. The skull is remarkable for its length in the majority of the Waders. In the Herons and Bitterns the occipital region is low, and inclines