BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 451 secreted, and partly because it seldom takes the shortest route to the surface, but proceeds by devious and intricate windings. At length the tumour, at one limited and almost circum- scribed spot, becomes soft, then assumes a dark red or purple colour, finally a small slough forms on the surface and it bursts, giving exit in general to a greater quantity of matter than the size of the abscess would have led us to anticipate. The abscess does not collapse, and although the discharge may continue in pro- fusion for months, the size of the tumefaction is never proportionally diminished. After it has burst, a small papilla of very red granu- lation (a most unfailing symptom of the exis- tence of a diseased bone underneath) is pushed out through the aperture. From the centre of this a small drop of matter can generally be pressed, and through it the discharge flows; never for obvious reasons profusely at a time, but still so constantly as to- soil the dressings and the bed-clothes extensively in a single night. When a probe is passed down to the bottom of this ulcer, which it is not easy al- ways to accomplish, the bone is felt completely denuded, soft and rotten, and the instrument sinks into it with very little resistance. Most frequently the earthy material of the bone is removed by the absorbents ; sometimes a small portion of it thus detached is washed off by the discharge, and is occasionally found block- ing up the little orifice, occasioning a good deal of irritation and pain, and almost always an access of fever. Sometimes the remains of the bone come away in a larger mass, quite dead, light, and porous, and, when dried, per- fectly friable. Previous to the formation of the matter, however, the pathological state of the bone has undergone a remarkable change. Hitherto we have seen that an increase of vascularity oc- curred at an early period, and preceded the deposition of the soft and cheesy substance; but in proportion as this deposit is increased in quantity, the vascularity decreases, and with it the vitality of the bone. " If a scrofulous bone be injected at an early period," says Mr. Lloyd, " or before the whole of its cancellous structure is altered, the injection very freely enters its vessels ; but if it be injected at a more advanced period, there evidently appear to be fewer vessels, though it is very probable that a fine injection may be forced into vessels which had previously ceased to carry blood." In the correctness of this observation Sir B. Brodie coincides, as well as in the opinion " that this diminution of the number of ves- sels, and, consequently, of the supply of blood, is probably the proximate cause of those exfo- liations which sometimes occur, where the disease has existed for a considerable length of time, especially in the smaller bones."* Although carious ulceration, or, as it would be more correctly termed, absorption of bone, is so frequently attended by the formation of matter and abscess, yet such is by no means a * See Lloyd on Scrofula, p. 123, and Brodie on the Joints, last edition, p. 195. necessary consequence—at least, we have ex- amples of the removal of large portions of bones without any such unfortunate accompa- niment. These principally appear under two distinct forms : one, where such absorption is the result of inflammatory action within the bone itself, the most familiar illustration of which is to be found in the caries of the spine attending on some cases of angular curvature : the other, where the absorption has been occa- sioned by the pressure of an aneurism, an abscess, or other tumour in the immediate neighbourhood. Mr. Pott, and others who have described this caries of the spine, mention that, at first, the bodies of the vertebrae seem to spread so as absolutely to become larger than in a state of health; that the ligaments are loose and detached, and the intervertebral cartilages sepa- rated from the bone. The first part of this description is certainly not correct, for in all the subjects we have had opportunities of ex- amining, nothing like an enlargementorswelling of the bone appeared. It must be recollected that dissections of this disease at an early period are rarely met with—never unless the patient had been accidentally seized by some mortal affection soon after the spine had been attacked. It may, therefore, be supposed that these early descriptions were taken from ana- logy with what other bones suffer in scrofulous disease, and it is well known that, until a com- paratively recent period, it was a universally received opinion that the heads of bones be- came actually enlarged under similar circum- stances. Sir B. Brodie, who has given the clearest as well as the most succinct description of caries of the spine we have met with, considers that its pathological history may be arranged under three heads. 1. " It has its origin in that peculiar sof- tened and otherwise altered condition of the bodies of the vertebra;, which seems to be connected with what is called a scrofulous state of constitution. In these cases ulceration may be^in on any part of the surface, or even in the centre of the bone, but in general the first effects of it are perceptible where the interver- tebral cartilage is connected with it and in the intervertebral cartilage itself."* As this is an instance of scrofulous caries, such as has been already noticed, it should perhaps have come more legitimately under consideration in that part of our article. We prefer, however, to take a distinct and separate view of caries of the spine, because the locality invests the disease with some peculiarities. For instance, this scrofulous caries is almost invariably attended by abscess, and we find these collections to be much larger in quantity of contents, and, if possible, more sluggish in approach to the surface than when situated elsewhere. Their existence, therefore, may not only not be suspected, but the symptoms occa- sioned by them during life may be attributed to a totally different cause. They are least * Brodie on the Joints, p. 243. 2 G 2