CARNIVORA. 474 tain species, in Ph. vitulina for instance, and ap- pears to harmonize with the tendency to scanty deposition of bony matter, which characterizes the whole cranium in this family. The con- dyles in these animals are also very much larger than in the other carnivora. The sphenoid bone has nothing very remark- able in its structure, excepting the greater developement of its alse in these than in most others of the mammalia, and the small com- pressed triangular form of the pterygoid pro- cesses which in the cats are long and hooked backwards. The superior maxillary bone consists of the true or posterior maxillary (c) and the intermax- illary (a) portions. For the sake of clearness they may be described as distinct bones. The body of the maxillary bone extends very high up in the cats, and is remarkably strong and compact. In the seals it is encroached upon by the nasal opening, so as to leave only a narrow neck be- tween that opening and the orbit. The infra- orbitar foramen is remarkably large in the cats and in ihe seals, in which animals the long elastic setaceous whiskers are so useful as feelers, and are supplied with large filaments of the infra-or- bitary branch of the fifth pair of nerves. The length of the body of this bone depends on the number and nature of the teeth which are imbedded in it, and is shorter in proportion to the predominance of the strictly carnivorous appetite. The canine teeth and the molares are those which occupy this bone, the incisores being placed in the intermaxillary; and in the cats the body of the bone is remarkably short, being occupied only by four molar teeth, the first of which is small and rudimentary, as well as the posterior one, which is small and tubercular ; the two middle ones are formed for cutting asunder the flesh, and are exceedingly strong. In the bears the teeth assume more of a tubercularform,and are, infact, adapted for mas- ticating vegetable substances as well as animal matters; the jaw-bone is, therefore, much longer than in the cats. In the dogs, which hold an intermediate place in this respect, the molar teeth are six in number, and the two posterior ones are more or less tubercular. The anterior part of the jaw is enlarged and rounded for the location of the large and powerful canine teeth. In the Walrus (fig. 195,J the anterior part of this bone is greatly enlarged for the enormous canine teeth, which form powerful weapons, with which the animal strikes directly down with immense force. The intermaxillary bones contain each three small incisor teeth : these in the cats are very small, excepting the external one, which is somewhat larger than the others. In the seals they are pointed. These bones are con- siderably smaller in the carnivora than in most other orders. The nasal bones (b) are smaller in this order than in many others. In the cats they are rather broad anteriorly, but short; they are longer in the dogs and bears, agreeably to the greater length of the face generally. In the seals they are much shortened, in order to allow of the great expansion, in an upward direction, Fig. 195. of the nasal aperture, by which, when in the water, they more readily raise their nostrils to the atmo- sphere for the purpose of breathing. The malar bone (h) per- forms a very important office in the carnivorous group, as the zygoma re- quires to be very exten- sively developed for the protection of the enormous masses of mus- cle which are needed in tearing the food of these animals, as well as for the attachment of the masseter. The zygomatic arch in this order is convex upwards as well as curved outwards, by which form a great increase of strength is acquired in the direction of the muscular force. The lacrymal bone is said to be wanting in the seals. I believe I have seen a trace of its existence in a rather young cranium of Phoca vitulina. The remarkable vacancy which oc- curs in some of this tribe in the orbito-temporal fossa, between the frontal, the maxillary, and the sphenoid bones, has been supposed by Meckel to indicate the place which the lacry- mal bone should occupy; but as this hiatus does not exist in several species, in which the absence of this bone is equally evident, this supposition is probably not correct. The inferior maxillary bone (i) follows of course the general structure of the superior. It is remarkably short in the typical forms of the carnivora, and more elongated in the others, particularly in the bears. Indeed this bone, like the upper jaw, is shortened exactly in pro- portion to the carnivorous propensity of the animal. The ascending plate is also remarkably developed, and offers a surface of great extent for the insertion of the elevators of the lower jaw. The character of the vertebral column in the Carnivora offers some interesting varieties of form, depending principally on the degree of exertion, of activity, or of flexibility re- quired by the habits of the different genera. The strength and size of the two first cervical vertebrae, the atlas and dentata or axis, have already been alluded to. The first is exceed- ingly broad and robust, with strong transverse processes; the second is long, with an enormous spinous process. The remainder of the cervi- cal vertebra are generally rather elongated in most of the genera, but in the seals they are short and but little developed. In general, also, the spinous processes are considerable, and either