ANIMAL. 137 of infusory animals within its bosom. Many tribes of insects shine in the dark. The phe- nomenon is not certainly known to be mani- fested by any of the class of reptiles, birds, or mammalia. It appears to depend, in insects particularly, on the presence of a peculiar matter, secreted by their bodies and stored up in particular points, which, under the influence of a temperature elevated in a certain degree, and the contact of atmospheric air, enters into a kind of combustion during which light is emitted. Is the phenomenon dependent on one common cause in both vegetables and animals, supposing that it does really occur among the former ? Electrical phenomena are extensively ex- hibited by the objects composing the unor- ganized and the organized world. In fact, wherever there is composition and decompo- sition going on, there are electrical phenomena manifested. The action of the immense mass of vegetables on the air, the evolution of oxygen in the sunshine, and the formation of carbonic acid during the dark, has even been supposed by an ingenious natural philosopher of France (Pouillet) to be the principal source of the electricity of the atmosphere. Galvanic electricity is excited by the contact of the different parts of which animal bodies consist, particularly of the nerves and muscular flesh; the nerve of a frog's thigh exposed and isolated, touched with a piece of quivering flesh from the body of a bullock just slain, also isolated, causes the muscles to which the nerve is distributed to contract energetically (Hum- boldt). The same phenomenon occurs when different other parts and fluids, particularly the blood, are used to form a chain. But the electrical phenomena manifested by animals at large, are weak when contrasted with those exhibited by certain fishes provided with spe- cial voltaic piles or galvanic batteries by which they give at will, but not otherwise, electrical shocks of such violence as to stun larger ani- mals and even to deprive smaller ones of life. This electricity of animals must be held as a vital phenomenon ; several of them have in- deed a peculiar apparatus for the preparation of the shock, to speak of the phenomenon by its effects, in our ignorance of its essence or efficient cause, but this loses its power when the nerves that are abundantly distributed to it are divided. Electrical phenomena are not so obviously displayed by any other tribe of animals as by fishes; but it has been rendered next to certain that muscular contractions are uniformly accom- panied by a kind of electrical discharge from the nervous fibrils distributed to the special or- gans of voluntary motion. Animals, from this brief review, appear to pos- sess electrical capacities in a much higher de- gree than vegetables, in which the phenomenon is even explicable on ordinary chemical prin- ciples, whilst among animals it is unquestion- ably one of the effects of vitality. We have already indicated the existence of two faculties among animals which become necessary or complemental to them as agents entrusted with their preservation as individuals, and their continuation as kinds; these are voluntary motion and sensation. But motion in the abstract is a phenomenon of much more extensive occurrence among organized beings than the notion we form of the act as connected with the existence of a muscular system. Mo- tion is in fact a quality inherent in organized beings; they cannot be conceived as existing without change, and change implies motion. In most, or indeed in the whole of the actions which we have glanced at as manifested by them, we have supposed motion. The simplest of all animals, the infusoria, move about in many cases with great briskness; the polypes, composed of an uniform gelatinous mass, also move in various directions; the acalephs, with a similar structure, rise from the bottom and propel themselves through the waters of the ocean by a succession of contractions of their disc, of their tentacula, or of the fringe-like or foliaceous bodies with which several orders of the genus are provided. Many of the en- tozoa too, whose bodies consist of a simple gelatinous or mucous tissue, execute motions in various senses. But it is not only as a whole that a body endowed with life and organization possesses a capacity of motion. Many of its parts, and particularly the globules which enter as essen- tial and integral parts of the fluids contained in organized bodies, have inherent powers of motion; the globules of the blood, for instance, those of the spermatic fluid, and perhaps also the germ included within the ova of the polype, mollusc, &c, have all been observed in motion, and the means by which it is accomplished even demonstrated in many cases. But there is nothing absolutely peculiar in such indivi- dual instances, for we must need conceive motion in the first constituent elements of all organisms without exception, long before a muscular, a cellular, a nervous, or any other distinct system has existence.* Motion of all kinds, therefore, automatic as well as that which is voluntary, must be held as a quality inherent in organized or living beings. The cause of this phenomenon, as of so many others manifested in the world of or- ganization, has been the subject of much dif- ference of opinion and of much dispute among physiologists, and many titles have been ima- gined by which the agent or primary cause of the act has been sought to be designated, or the act itself to be explained. It is quite certain that the capacity to com- mence and to continue the phenomena which we designate as vital, or the motions which constitute these phenomena, depends first on a variety of external conditions, such as a * Such motion is indubitable. The organic glo- bule has capacities of motion inherent in itself different from the motions of unorganized objects in a state of extreme division, as is proved by the motions of each kind of body being different, and those of organized globules being interrupted by the electric spark, or whatever destroys their vitality — acids, alkalis, poisons, &c.