ANIMAL KINGDOM. Fig. 45. ties (c e) along with the ductus communis choledochus (/'). The cartilaginous plagi- ostome fishes, the most complicated of this class, have a conglomerate form of the pan- creas opening in the same situation. In the sturgeon and in the sword-fish an interme- diate form is seen between the simple pan- creatic follicles of the invertebrated classes and the more complicated conglomerate organ in the higher vertebrate.'. This is shown in the annexed figure of the chylopoietic viscera as I found them in the xiphias gladius (Jig. 46), where the liver (a) is raised up to show Fig. 46. the three hepatic ducts uniting with the cystic from the curved gall-bladder (c) to form a very short ductus communis choledochus. The pancreas (d) forms a large reniform mass com- posed of numerous straight follicles produced by the successive divisions of the great termi- nal duct (e) of this organ. This large inter- mediate organ is surrounded with a distinct muscular tunic to force its contents into the duodenum immediately beyond the pyloric valve (b). The tortuous small intestine ends by a valvular orifice (_/") in a very short but distinct colon, which presents no ccecum in its course to the anus (g). The bilocular heart of fishes is entirely branchial; it is often pre- ceded by a sinus venoms, and is always succeeded by a bid bus arteriosus, which often presents numerous internal valves in its course. The venous blood is entirely sent through the gills, and the branchial veins, after giving branches to the anterior parts, unite to form the aorta which sends the arterialised blood through the rest of the system without the aid of a systemic heart. The respiration is effected by the transmission of water through the mouth or through distinct spiracula, and over the surface of the branchiae^ which are internal in the adult, and are often preceded by external branchise m the young. The lungs are always rudimentary, when present, sometimes in form of a shut single air-bag, sometimes divided or ramifie'd, and most generally communicating by a ductus pncumuticus with the intestine or stomach, or oesophagus, but seldom employed for respiration. Fishes are oviparous and have the sexes separate; the ovaries are continuous with the oviducts in osseous fishes, and de- tached from them in the plagiostome chon- dropterygii, and impregnation sometimes takes place internally and sometimes after the ova are separated from the body. (See Pisces.) 20. Amphibia, cold and red-blooded, verte- brated, oviparous animals, with three cavities of the heart, with a naked skin, and breathing, in the young state, by gills. These animals com- mence their career like fishes with one auricle and one ventricle, which send the whole of the blood through the branchire, and they have at this period also double concave bodies of the vertebrae, as in fishes. Many retain the gills through life, accompanied with pulmonic cavi- ties, from which the arterialised blood is sent to a small left auricle. These animals are termed amphibia from the metamorphosis to a terres- trial from an aquatic life seen in most of the species. Their skeleton is imperfectly con- solidated, their ribs very short or wanting, their pelvic arch free or nearly so, and their atlantal and sacral extremities often very imperfectly developed or partly deficient. Their toes are destitute of claws, as their skin is of scales, and the respiration through their naked, highly sensitive, and secreting surface compensates for the imperfect development or limited use of their lungs, especially during submersion or hybernation. Some reside constantly in the water, others occasionally, and others continue on land. The male organ of intromission is rarely developed, and impregnation of the ova is generally effected externally. The genital organs are double and symmetrically developed in both sexes. The perennibranchiate amphi- bia, especially the axolotl, have been shown by Weber to possess a double auricle like the caducibranchiate species. (See Amphibia.) 21. Rcptilia, cold and red-blooded, ovipa- rous, vertebrated animals, with two auricles and one ventricle, not breathing by gills in their young state, covered with scales, and with the means of internal impregnation. These animals, whether aquatic or terrestrial, breathe only by means of lungs, and their pulmonic respiration and the left auricle of the heart are