748 REGIONS AND MUSCLES OF THE CRANIUM. fibres of the last named muscle, as well as of the corrugator supercilii. The aponeurotic slip before alluded to, situated in the middle line, forms the internal boundary of each la- teral portion. On the outside the fibres gra- dually shorten and extend a very short distance into the temporal region, over the temporal fascia. Each portion presents a convex margin above, which is inserted into the thin tendinous aponeurosis, which extends over the middle portion of the occipito-frontal region, correspond- ing to the posterior margin of the frontal bone, the fronto-parietal suture, internal portions of the parietal bones, the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures and part of the occipital bones, but se- parated from them by the pericranium and by some fine cellular tissue which connected the aponeurosis to the last-named membrane. This aponeurosis is called the cranial or epicranial aponeurosis : in some instances its fibrous cha- racter is very distinct in all its extent; but very frequently it is most manifest in its posterior third or half, the anterior part being little more than condensed cellular membrane, excepting near to the fleshy fibres of the frontal portion of the muscles, where the aponeurotic structure again becomes manifest. On the sides this aponeurosis gradually degenerates into cellular membrane without leaving any defined margin. The aponeurosis in its whole extent adheres closely to the superjacent subcutaneous cellular tissue and to the subjacent pericranium through the intervention of a fine cellular membrane already referred to. Proceeding from before backwards, we find that this aponeurosis ends in affording insertion to the fibres which form the posterior belly of the muscle. This portion of the muscle, also called the occipital muscle, consists likewise of two lateral portions which are attached inferiorly to the ex- ternal part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid portion of the temporal. The fibres are parallel and nearly vertical, inclining a little inwards, and are inserted, as already described, into the pos- terior margin ot the epicranial aponeurosis. The attachment of the muscle to the occipital bone is immediately above that of the sterno- mastoid and splenitis muscles. On the sides the fibres gradually disappear over the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and the fleshy belly of the muscle lies immediately over the pericranium, some cellular membrane only in- tervening ; its adhesion to the skin, however, is less intimate than that of the frontal portion. This muscle is evidently destined to act upon the integuments of the cranium : its influence is most apparent upon the skin of the forehead and eyebrows; it distinctly raises the latter, and throws the former into transverse wrinkles. Under its influence the whole scalp may be made to move backwards and forwards, but the occipital portion of the muscle cannot create, as the frontal does, wrinkles in its corresponding integument, owing to the less firm adhesion of the muscle to it. Subjacent to the anterior portion of the occi- pito-frontalis is the corrugator supercilii muscle, it lies on the inner half or third of the orbital margin of the frontal bone. By its inner extre- mity it is attached to the internal angular pro-» cess of the frontal bone; the fibres pass thence outwards, inclining a little upwards, and are inserted into the integument of the eyebrow, being mixed with the orbicularis and occipito- frontalis muscle. This muscle evidently can depress the eyebrow, and acting in conjunction with its fellow, throw the integuments into vertical wrinkles, approximating the eyebrows, and occasioning the act of frowning. This muscle lies on the supra-orbital nerve and vessels. 4. Nerves.—The anterior part of the occi- pito-frontal region is freely supplied with nerves from those branches of the ophthalmic portion of the fifth which originate within the orbit. Of these the supra-orbital is the largest: imme- diately after its emergence from the supra-or- bital foramen this nerve divides into a series of branches which pass up on the forehead, some adhering to the pericranium, others distributed to the muscle, and others becoming subcu- taneous. Here, too, we find ramifications of the supra-lrochleator or internal frontal nerve, chiefly distributed in the internal portion of the muscle. At the external part of this frontal region we find some filaments of the portio dura. In the posterior or occipital region the principal nerves are derived from the cervical plexus; the auricular and mastoid branches of this plexus distribute their filaments here; and we also find ramifications from the posterior branch of the first cervical nerve, accompany- ing the subdivisions of the occipital artery. 5. Arteries.—In front we have ramifications of the supra-orbital and superficial temporal freely anastomosing with each other; and deeper-seated, a few branches of the deep temporal, distributed to the pericranium. In the occipital region we have the occipital, often of considerable size, and the posterior auricular also sends some of its ramifications to anastomose with the occipital branches. Both in front and behind, the arteries of oppo site sides inosculate with each other on the middle line. 6. Veins.-—Small veins accompany most of the arteries; but the most remarkable vein is one which is situated in the frontal region nearly on the middle line; it is the frontal vein, or vena prepamta, sometimes replaced by two or three. Velpeau advocates the re- vival of the ancient practice of bleeding from this vein in head affections. It carries the blood, as he observes, from all the anterior part of the head to the root of the nose, whence he argues that venesection practised on this vessel would empty the whole of the scalp. How often in practice do we see manifest advantage from cupping the temples or some region of the scalp, when little or no benefit had been derived from other modes of practising the detraction of blood ! 7. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics are very few, and pass into the parotid ganglions, or those behind the ear or in the superior part of the neck. 8. Pericranium.—This fibrous tissue, pos-