531 CEPHALOPODA. ascertaining if these muscles presented a corre- sponding degree of development, but found them proportionally smaller even than in the naked Octopus. All trace of internal shell has disappeared in the Ocythde; yet there is no muscular connexion between the body and the external shell which contains it. The fleshy fibres of the mantle being white like the rest of the muscles, and very compact, are extremely difficult to follow in dissection. Cuvier* observes, that in the Octopus those which are external are evidently longitudinal; those which are internal, transverse; and that there are short fibres which pass through their thickness from one surface to another. In the Cuttle-fish the muscular fibres of the posterior part of the mantle recede laterally to leave a large space for the lodgement of the septum or cuttle-bone, which is covered exter- nally by a thin and flaccid skin : the rest of the mantle is formed by a thick muscular tissue, as in the Poulp. The lateral fins are connected not only by the skin, cellular tissue, and vessels, as Cuvier describes, but by a distinct though thin stratum of muscular fibres; these arise from the lateral and dorsal aspects of the apo- neurotic capsule of the rudimental shell, and are inserted into the spinal rid^e of the alar cartilage (//, h, Jig. 212) ; from this ridge pro- ceed the fibro-cartilaginous laminae and inter- mediate muscles, which are disposed perpen- dicularly to the ridge, and extend to the mar- gins of the fin. In the Calamaries the muscles which con- nect the terminal fins to the body are still more distinct. By means of these fins they are enabled to propel themselves forward in the sea; and there is good reason for believing that some of the small slender-bodied subu- late species of this genus are enabled to strike the water with such force as to raise them- selves above the surface, and dart, like the flying fish, for a short distance through the air.f Digestive System.—The animals which we have thus seen to be endowed with so various and formidable means for seizing and over- coming the struggles of a living prey are pro- vided with adequate weapons for completing its destruction, and preparing it for deglutition. These consist of a pair of strong, sharp, hooked mandibles, which are of a horny texture in the Dibranchiate Cephalopod, (a, b, fig. 218,) where they are fitted for cutting and tearing the softer animals which they are enabled to catch; but are strengthened by a dense calcareous sub- stance in the Nautilus, (a, b, Jig. 217,) which, from its more limited sphere of action, is pro- * Memoire sur le Poulpe, p. 11. t See Proceedings of the Zool. Society, Pt. i, 1833, p. 90. The faculty possessed by the Cala- maries of darting through the atmosphere was not unknown to the ancients. Pliny (Hist. Nat. lib. ix. torn. ii. p. 105, luvier's Ed.) says, " Loligo etiam volitat, extra aquam se efferens, quod et pectunculi faciunt sagitue modo ;" and so general appears to have been this belief that Varro sup- posed the name Loligo to be a corruption of Voligo. " Lo!igo dicta, quod subvolat, littera commuta'ta, priino Voligo."—Be Ling. Lat. lib. iv. p. 21. bably restricted in regard to food to such crus- taceous and testaceous animals as it may sur- prise by stealth, and whose defensive armour it is thus enabled to break up.* The mandibles, which are hollow sheaths, like the horny covering of the beak of a Bird or Tortoise, are fixed upon a firm fleshy sub- stance, (c, c, Jig. 217,) which resembles the Mandibles of the Nautilus. animal part of bone after the earth has been removed by means of an acid. At the base of the mandibles the fibrous structure of this part becomes apparent, and a strong stratum, (g, Jig. 217,) passing between the bases of the mandibles, serves for their divarication; their closure is effected by fasciculi of muscular fibres, which surround them externally near the reflection of the circular lip. When the mouth is closed, the lower mandible (6) over- laps the upper (a). The oral aperture is in the centre of the base of the feet, and appears in the form of a small circular orifice, formed by the contracted fleshy lip which surrounds and more or less conceals the mandibles. In the Nautilus the margin of the lip (c) is beset with several rows of elongated papillae, irregularly disposed; external to which are the labial processes with their tentacles : these, in the specimen we dissected, com- pletely overlapped and concealed the oral ap- paratus. In the Calamaries the jaws are surrounded, external to the fringed circular lip, by a thin membrane, which is produced into short pyra- midal processes, corresponding in number to the eight feet, and supporting minute rudimen- tal suckers ; thus imitating the external feet, as the labial processes of the Nautilus repeat the structure of the digital processes. In the genus Sepioteut/iis the circular lip immediately surrounding the jaws is tumid and plicated, but not papillose ; external to it are two cir- cular ridges of membrane, then a thin mem- brane with jagged margins, and lastly a mem- brane with its margin produced into eight angular processes, which are not, however, free, as in Loligo, but are tied down in the interspaces of the eight legs; small rudimental suckers may be observed on these processes. * The digestive canal of the Nautilus was found filled exclusively with the remains of a species of crab.