CILIA. 610 * Phil. Trans, for 1834, p. 385. 1225. Polype of a Flustra in its cell. more correctly described the course of the cur- rents : the foregoing description is in a great measure taken from his memoir. Since then several others* have made similar observations, among whom we may mention Raspail as more particularly deserving of notice, though he here, as in other cases, denies the existence of cilia. b. Marine Polypi.—The polypi of marine Zoophytes, on which observations relating to the present subject have been made, may for our purpose be conveniently arranged under three principal forms. The first form of polype (fig. 292) is found in Flustrae and cellular polypi generally; it ex- Fig. 292. ists also in some spe- Nt cies which have been classed among the Ser- K tulariae, and probably prevails very extensively in different tribes of Zoophytes. The body (a, b, c), which is gene- rally contained in a cell, is bent on itself, some- what like the letter Y or V; the one branch (a) being the mouth and throat, the other (b) the rectum opening by an anus, and the middle part (c),which is of a dark and often of a brown co- lour, being the stomach probably with some accessory organ. The mouth is surrounded with a variable number of long straight ten- tacula or arms, fringed on both of their lateral margins with cilia. When the arms are ex- panded, the cilia are thrown into rapid motion, which has the appearance of undulations pro- ceeding along the fringes, upwards on one side of the arm or from its root to the point, and downwards on the other. While the cilia are thus moved, they produce currents in the water, as described in the Fresh-water Polype, and here also the currents in all probability serve for respiration and the prehension of food. Besides these motions in the water in the neighbourhood of the tentacula, a revolving motion of particles is observed within the body: small particles of extraneous matter which enter the throat are moved round within it; and the contents of the stomach and rectum undergo a very singular revolving motion round the axis of the cavity. These internal motions, Dr. Grant conjectured, might be owing to internal cilia; and I have been able to satisfy myself of the actual existence of such internal cilia, by means of a Wollas- ton's doublet of one-thirtyrifth of an inch focus ; they are very evident in the throat; in the stomach they are most distinct in the part adjoining the rectum (indicated by d in the * Vaucher, Bull, de la Soc. Philom. An xii. ; Raspail, Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris, for 1827: Meyen u'ber Polypen, Isis 1828, p. figure), and they are clearly to be seen oh the whole internal surface of the rectum (6). I have nowhere more clearly seen the above- mentioned phenomena than in a zoophyte, whose polype, though differing somewhat from the first form, may yet be referred to it. This zoophyte (Jig. 293, A, B) has a creeping stem Fig. 293. (a, a), which adheres to shells, or twines round the stems and branches of other zoophytes, (as b in the figure); the polypes are supported on soft pliable fleshy stalks (c), which the crea- ture moves from time to time ; their body (d, and B more magnified) is bell-shaped and consists of a transparent brownish skin or envelope containing the mouth and throat (e), the stomach (g), and rectum (A). The mouth, or expanded aperture of the animal, is sur- rounded by a prominent lip or border (j, i), to which the arms are attached. Cilia are distinctly visible on the arms, and within the mouth and stomach; they are moved very briskly, and small extraneous particles indi- cating currents in the water are hurried onwards towards the arms, as pointed out by the arrows at /c, Jc ; many of these particles descend along the inner side of the arms to their base, as shown by the dotted arrows o, o, o, and thence into the cavity of the mouth, from which, after being moved about for some time, the greater number are thrown out. It would seem that the particles of food or other solid matter, after being conveyed to the inside of the arms, take then a different course from the stream of water. The latter passes inwards between the arms, and issues from the middle of the irregular circle which they form (as at m, m), carrying with it such solid matters as are not arrested on the arms; but the bodies which enter the mouth are slowly carried along the inside of the arms (as at o, o), and in close contact with them till they reach their base. The motions of the contents of the stomach and its cilia appeared as in the Flustra?. I could perceive none in the rectum. Mr. Lister has described the same phenomena in a zoophyte closely resembling this one in the structure of the polypi, but differing in the character of the stem.*