CEPHALOPODA. Loligines and in Rossia it is double; each portion (i, i,fig. 239) in the latter genus is at- tached by cellular tissue to the anterior part of its corresponding nidamental gland, and is excava- ted by a deep groove close to the aperture of the gland : from this structure and their position it would appear that they assisted in moulding the nidamentum, and, perhaps, in applying it to the ova. Considering the texture of these singular bodies, their ordinarily bright colour, and their relative position to the generative apparatus, we believe ourselves justified in regarding them as the analogues of the glan- dule succenturiata or ' supra-renal bodies' of the Vertebrate animals. In the Octopodous Dibranchiates the ovary is a spherical sac with thick parietes (\,fig. 226). The ovisacs (2) are racemose or connected in bunches, and attached in the Poulp to a single point of the ovarian capsule, but in the Eledone to about twenty separate stalks suspended from the upper part of the ovary. The ova, when detached from the ovisacs, escape by a single large aperture (3), leading from the anterior part of the sac into a very short single passage, which then divides to form the two oviducts. These tubes, in the unexcited state of the ge- nerative system, are membranous, straight, and of an uniform narrow diameter, except where they perforate a glandular laminated enlarge- ment (4), situated about one-third from their commencement; but, towards the period of ovi- position, the parietes of the oviducts increase in thickness and extent, forming longitudinal folds internally. The laminated glands doubtless serve to pro- vide an exterior covering to the ova, and con- nect them together, thus performing the func- tion of the accessory external glands in the preceding tribe. The oviducts ascend behind the lateral hearts and venous cavities, and open on each side of the mediastinal septum of the branchial cavity opposite the middle of the gills (5, 5). A glandular body surrounds each oviduct in Eledone, but is situated nearer the lower end of the tubes, and is of a darker colour than in Octopus. In Argonauta the oviducts are continued by a short common passage from the ovary, and form several convolutions before they ascend to their termination, which is the same as in Oc- topus ; they differ, however, from both the preceding genera in having no glandular lami- nated bodies developed upon them : the minute ova of this genus are, therefore, connected together by the secretion of the lining mem- brane of the long and tortuous oviducts. In correspondence with the strikingdifferences which the female organs present in the Cephalo- podous class, it is found that almost every genus has its own peculiar form and arrangement of ova after their exclusion. Of these, therefore, we proceed to give a short description of the principal varieties. The ova of the Argonaut are invariably found occupying a greater or less proportion of the bottom of the shell; they are of an oval form, about half a line in length before the develop- Fig. 240. r ; K Ova of the Argonaut. Fig. 241. ' < ' Sf l Fig. 242. JVg.243. Ova of the Calamary, Loligo Vulgaris." * From Ferussac, Monographie des Cephahpoo'es.