702 CONCHIFERA. parietes of the foot are preserved in immediate communication by means of a great number of small muscles, sometimes straight, sometimes oblique, and variously interlaced, to which Poli has given the name of funicular muscles (hji fig- 347). They are particularly conspi- cuous in the cylindrical foot of the Solens, in the flattened foot of the Tellinas, and of the Uniones, and they have a remarkable arrange- ment in that of the Cardiae. They appear to be wanting in the foot of those Conchiferous mollusks that attach themselves by means of a byssus. In them the foot is reduced to the functions of spinning (de filer) the threads of the byssus, and it is not therefore surprising that its organization should be found to be peculiar. Reduced to a purely rudimentary state, the foot in the Monomyaria (b, fig. 348) appears rather as an appendage to the mass of the viscera than as their defensive envelope. The muscular fasciculi that terminate it pos- teriorly are small; they pass through the vis- ceral mass to be attached either to the superior part of the central muscle, or within the in- terior of the hooks or beaks of the shell. Almost the whole of the Monomyaria furnished with a foot, have a byssus also; to this rule there are indeed a small number of exceptions, among others the Lima. Up to the present time the faculty of pro- ducing a bussus is not known to belong to any other class of animals, and it is limited to a few only of the Conchiferous mollusks. Among the Dimyaria the genus Byssomya may be quoted as an example, also the members of the family of the Mytilacea ; and, if the horny plates of certain Archae be likened to the Fig. 353. byssus, it would also be necessary to include this genus in the group of byssiferous Dimyaria. In the Monomyaria provided with a foot, the whole of the genera are byssiferous, with the exception of those which attach themselves im- mediately by their shell. The byssus (b, fig. 353) is a bundle of horny or silky filaments, of different degrees of fine- ness and of different thicknesses, and flexible in various measures, by means of which the animal is, as it were, anchored to any solid body sunk in the sea. The filaments, for the most part distinct from one another, are, how- ever, occasionally connected into a single mass of a subcylindrical form, and terminated by a broad expansion, which serves as the point of attachment. This disposition is to be ob- served in the Aviculae, and leads to the belief that the horny mass of certain Archse is a mere modification of the byssus. In those species of which a byssus is formed of separate filaments,- these are all seen to be detached from a com- mon pedicle (c,fig. 353), situated at the infe- rior base of the foot (d, fig. 353). If the byssus be examined before any of the filaments are torn, it is easy to perceive that these are attached to submarine bodies by means of a small disc-like expansion of their extremities, of various extent according to the genus and species (a, a, a, fig. 354). Attentive examina- tion of these filaments shews that they are of equal thickness through their entire length, and that they have nothing of the structure of the hair of the higher animals. Fig. 354. If the byssus and foot of a byssiferous mol- lusk be placed under a powerful lens, the last filaments of the byssus are first seen to be nearest to the base of the foot; and if the infe- rior edge of the foot be inspected, a fissure will