THE BRACHIAL OR HUMERAL ARTERY. 466 rior profunda passes backwards between the os humeri and the long head of the triceps, and in company with the musculo-spiral nerve enters the spiral groove on the posterior surface of the bone, passing between the second and third heads of the triceps. About the middle of the arm it divides into two branches, the internal or ulnar, and the external or radial. The ulnar branch descends in the substance of the triceps to the olecranon process, around which it anas- tomoses with the posterior ulnar and inter- osseous recurrent arteries, having in its course supplied the triceps with several branches. The radial branch comes forward with the musculo- spiral nerve as far as the external intermuscular ligament, where it separates from the nerve and taking a more superficial course, descends along the outer margin of the humerus over the supinator radii longus and the triceps, to which and the integuments it gives several branches. On arriving at the external condyle it gives branches to the elbow-joint, and anastomoses with the radial recurrent in front, and the recur- rent of the interosseous artery posteriorly. Below the origin of the superior profunda a small artery, called nutritia humeri, frequently arises either from the superior profunda or the brachial trunk : it enters the nutritious foramen of the humerus, and is distributed to the can- cellated structure of that bone. 2. The inferior profunda (ramus alius pos- terior humeri, Haller) arises from the internal side of the brachial artery, generally about the lower part of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis into the os humeri ; passing backwards, it per- forates the internal intermuscular ligament, be- hind which it descends, having the ulnar nerve internal to it until it arrives at the posterior side of the internal condyle, in the grooved depres- sion between which and the olecranon it lies close on the periosteum, and is covered by the ulnar nerve : here it divides into several branches, some of which are distributed to the elbow joint and the muscles attached to the internal condyle and olecranon, and it anasto- moses freely with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. Sometimes the inferior profunda is a branch of the superior artery of that name; it varies very much as to its size in different subjects, being sometimes a very insignificant twig, while in other instances it is so large that it is liable to be mistaken by an ope- rator for the brachial trunk. In reference to this latter circumstance Professor Harrison ob- serves,* " In the dissected arm, the inferior profunda artery appears at some distance from the brachial, but if the triceps be pressed for- ward towards the biceps, so as to place these muscles as nearly as possible in their natural relations, those vessels will be found very close to each other; so that, in cutting down upon the brachial artery in the middle of the arm, in the living subject, the inferior profunda, from its situation, and from its being accompanied by the ulnar nerve, may be mistaken for the brachial. This error, however, may be avoided by recollecting that the brachial artery is the t Surgical Anat. of the Arteries, vol. i. p. 176. nearest to the triceps, and is a little covered by that muscle : in general, also, there is a material difference in size between the two vessels." The remarks contained in the foregoing quo- tation do not apply to a merely hypothetical case, but to one which has actually occurred in practice, the following instance of which I once had an opportunity of witnessing. A late emi- nent surgeon undertook to tie the brachial artery for the cure of an aneurism at the bend of the elbow: the inferior profunda, which was un- usually large, was exposed and tied on the supposition of its being the brachial artery, the pulsation in the tumour continuing un- diminished pointed put the nature of the mis- take which had been committed, and the patient had to submit to a second operation at a sub- sequent period, in which the brachial artery was tied with a successful result as to the cure of the aneurism.* 3. The anastomotica magna, (ramus anasto- moticus, Haller, collaterale du coude, Ch.) arises generally at nearly a right angle from the inner side of the brachial, at a little distance above the elbow-joint. Several similar vessels, but of much smaller size, arise from the same source in its vicinity: at first it passes inwards across the brachials anticus, and perforates the internal intermuscular ligament, giving branches to the brachiaeus anticus, the triceps, the cellular tissue and lymphatics above the internal condyle: having got upon the triceps, it descends to the back part of the internal condyle, where it anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries. When the inferior profunda happens to be very small, or is absent, this vessel supplies its place by giving branches to the articulation, to the muscles at- tached to the internal condyle, and for anasto- mosis with the posterior ulnar recurrent. Where the anastomotica magna is absent, small branches from the brachial, inferior profunda, and ulnar recurrent arteries, supply its place. When a high division of the brachial artery occurs, the branch which is to become the ulnar usually gives off the two profundse, and the anasto- motica magna: this last, however, sometimes comes from the radial in such cases.f * [Such a mistake as that alluded to in the text may likewise occur where there has been a high bifurcation of the brachial artery.—Ed.] t [The frequent occurrence of irregularity as to the position at which the brachial trunk divides into its terminal branches, the radial and ulnar, constitutes a point of great interest in the anatomical history of this artery. I believe it may be said that it never happens that the bifurcation takes place below the coronoid process of the ulna ; on the contrary, the division above that point is by no means uncommon, occurring, according to the calculation of Professor Harrison, once in every four subjects. This bifur- cation occurs at all points in the arm, and in some cases the radial and ulnar arteries proceed at once from the axillary. In general the anomalous artery is the radial, and is subcutaneous in its course, while the ulnar follows the normal course of the brachial trunk. Sometimes the reverse is the case : sometimes both radial and ulnar are subcutaneous, and sometimes the radial is at its origin ulnad, but afterwards crosses the ulnar artery at a very acute angle, to get to the radial side. In some rare cases the brachial artery is regular ill its course,