7 ABDOMEN. Fig. 3. c, the internal oblique ; e, the descending fibres; f, point of insertion into the pubis ; h, one of the re- versed arches; d, conjoined tendons ; a, rectus muscle. good deal diminished in size, crosses over the inferior and anterior portion of the tunica vagi- nalis testis, and begins to ascend along the inner side of the testicle and cord, keeping more pos- teriorly : this constitutes the second bundle ; it gradually increases in size as it ascends by re- ceiving the transverse fibres from the bundle of the opposite side, and it is inserted, sometimes by a distinct tendon, into the pubis near its spine. In some cases I have totally failed, even after the most careful dissection, in detecting a conti- nuity by muscular fibre between these two bun- dles, insomuch as to lead me to imagine that they may be connected by a very condensed cel- lular tissue or thin aponeurotic lamella after the" manner of the digastric muscles. In general the external bundle is larger than the internal, but Cloquethas seen the reverse three times; and on referring to my notes, I find I have seen two instances in which the internal bundle exceeded the external in size. Many anatomists have noticed only the ex- ternal bundle of the cremaster, and altogether overlooked its reversed arches, which is not to be wondered at when we remember that even where the lateral bundles are strong and well developed, the arched fibres are sometimes pale and thin. However, the description now given is pretty generally admitted as the true one, and is sanctioned by such observers as Scarpa, Cloquet, Cooper, Velpeau, and I may add that I have seen this arrangement in cases where both testicle and cord were healthy. It would appear that its formation is effected by the testicle in its descent, for before that takes place the muscle does not exist; at least such is the result of Cloquet's observations on a con- siderable number of foetuses before, during, and after the descent of this organ. Before the de- scent the gubernaculum testis occupies the inguinal canal, and is covered by the fibres of the internal oblique, which adhere to it: when the gubernaculum is drawn down, these fibres descend with it, forming a series of reversed arches. In some female subjects we see an arrange- ment of the inferior fibres of the internal oblique as they cross over the round ligament, which resemble a rudimentary state of the cremaster muscle. A thin layer of cellular tissue, sometimes containing a small quantity of fat, is interposed between the anterior surface of the obliquus interims and the obliquus externus. At the infe- rior edge of the obliquus internus the spermatic cord is seen emerging from the abdomen and passing obliquely inwards and a little down- wards to the external abdominal ring. Here it lies in a groove or channel, called the inguinal canal, which extends from the point at which the spermatic cord emerges from the abdomen,(the opening in the fascia transversalis called in- ternal abdominal ring) to the external abdo- minal ring. This canal is bounded or covered anteriorly by the tendon of the obliquus externus; posteriorly by the fascia trans- versalis and some fibres of the tendon of the transversalis muscle towards the inner side; superiorly by the margin of the obliquus in- ternus and transversalis muscles ; and inferiorly by the groove of Poupart's ligament.* (A full description of this canal will be found in the article Groin, Region of the.) 3. Transversalis (lumbo-abduminal, lumbo- ili-abdominal). This muscle is immediately under cover of the obliquus internus ; its name is derived from the transverse direction of its fibres. In its general character it resembles the obliqui, being like them a muscular lamella, inserted into a tendinous expansion, which again is inserted into the linea alba. Supe- riorly the fleshy fibres of this muscle are attach- ed by distinct bundles to the internal surface of the cartilages of the ribs forming the lower margin of the thorax, where these bundles in- digitate with those of the diaphragm : 2dly, in the interval between the last rib and the crista Fig. 4. a * " The obliquus internus corresponds to the in- ternal intercostals by the direction of its fibres, by its being situated under cover of the obliquus externus, and because its fleshy fibres extend much further forwards than those of the last-named mus- cle."—Meckel.