55 ADIPOCERE. the primitive membrane, is true. If we ex- amine a fistulous canal which has existed for a certain time, we find it invested by a mem- brane similar in appearance, and performing an analogous function to the primitive mucous membrane,—so rapidly does nature under cer- tain circumstances adapt an organ to the per- formance of the function to which it is des- tined. As it is therefore upon the organization of this pseudo-membrane that the species of union of which I am treating is dependent, some re- mark upon that subject becomes necessary. It has been maintained by Albers, Soemmering, andLarrey, that these new formations upon mu- cous membranes may become organized. The former of these gentlemen believes that the false membrane of croup is commonly organ- ized. Soemmering, it is said, possessed pre- parations which demonstrated the fact. Cail- leau* supports this opinion, as well as Vil- lermef and Guersent.J I have never seen this membrane present the slightest vestige of organization, nor have I ever found any one, with the exceptions I have named, who has, although, to my knowledge, they have been sought for during many years, by a number of the most competent observers of the present day. And as I believe the investigations of morbid phenomena are more accurately made at present than at any former period, I adhere to the opinion that organization of these mem- branes upon mucous surfaces never occurs; and that union by " the first intention " can never occur in those canals which are invested by mucous membrane. But when the com- position of the mucous membrane becomes destroyed or disorganized by inflammation, and a granular surface is presented, adhesion may be and is frequently produced. The epidermis with which the skin is fur- nished forms an inorganic stratum which is opposed to all adhesion; but remove this epidermis, render the surface bleeding, or sup- purating, and adhesion may be produced with the greatest facility. It is against this ten- dency we have constantly to struggle for the purpose of preventing the adhesion of fingers to each other, to the palm of the hand, and so on,—so common a consequence of burns. Adhesion may in this tissue occur, therefore, by the development of the fibrino-albuminous medium, or by that of granulations. The synovial membrane of joints may become adherent, constituting a species of ankylosis, which is termed " false." In these cases the secretion of synovia diminishes and ultimately ceases, the contiguous surfaces lose their polish, become rugous, and contract adhesions. (See Joints.) In osseous tissues, adhesion may be effected either through the agency of the albumino - fibrinous exhalation already de- scribed, or that of granulations. (See Bone.) In cartilaginous tissues the mechanism of ad- * Rapport du Concours sur le Croup. t Diet, rles Sc. Med. torn, xxxii. p. 260. t Diet, de Med art. Croup. hesion is different; and in speaking of the process in these tissues, it is necessary to di- vide the tissue into those which are invested by a more or less dense fibrous perichondrium, and those which are without it. To the first appertain the cartilages of the ribs, of the larynx, and all those which Bichat termed fibro- cartilages. The second class comprehend the diarthrodial. It is in fact, I believe, upon the presence or absence of the perichondrium, that are dependent the principal differences which are presented in the pathological condition of these organs. The non-diarthrodial as well as the fibro-cartilages, when they are ruptured or divided, are not united by a cartilaginous substance. In the wounds of cartilages, with loss of substance, there is formed a kind of cellulous matter, which is a secretion from the perichon- drium ; in fact no phenomena of reproduction are observed where this membrane does not exist; thus it is never observed in diarthrodial cartilages. We may cut and mutilate these latter, and after many days we shall find the wound almost as it was on the first day. When the cartilages of the ribs are ruptured, their union is often effected by an osseous ring which surrounds the two fragments. See the articles Artery, Encephalon, Nerve, Fi- brous tissue, Muscle, Vein, for the pheno- mena of adhesion in these structures. BIBLIOGRAPHY.—Freeke, on the art of healing, cicatrising, incarning, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1748. Bezoet, De modo quo natura soliitum redintegrat. 4to. Lugd. Batav. 1763. (Rec. in Sandifort Thes. Diss, vol. iii. p. 147.) Spallanzuni, Prodromo, &c. sopra la reproduzione animali, 4to. Modena, 1768. Ejus, Opuscoli de fisica, &c. 2 vol. 8vo. Modeua. 1776. Eyting, De consolidatione vulnerum. 4to. Argent. 1770. Moore, On the process of nature in the'rilling up of cavities, healing wounds, &c. 4to. Lond. 1789. Nannoni, De Similium partium corp. hum. constit. regeneratione. (In Roemeri Delect. Opusc. Ital. vol. i.) Arnemann, Versuche ueber die Regeneration an lebenden Thieren. 8vo. Gotting. 1782. Murray, De redintegratione partium, &c. 8vo. Cassel, 1786. Bell, Discourses on wounds. 8vo. Edin. 1795—1812. Balfour, Obs. on Adhe- sion. 8vo. Lond. 1815. Stall, Ratio Medendi, pars v. & vii.8vo. Vienna, 1768. Hunter on the Blood, Inflammation, &c. Biclmt, Anatomie Gen. Beclard, ditto. Breschet, Diet, de Med. art. Adherence. Cruveilhier, Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. art. Adhesions. Laennec, De l'Auscultation Mediate, torn. ii. pp. Ill, et seq. Brande, in Phil. Trans. 1818. Gendrin, Hist. Anat. des In6. passim. 2 torn. Paris, 1826. Andral's Pathological Ana- tomy. Home on Ulcers. 8vo. Lond. 1801. CBenjamin Phillips.) ADIPOCERE, from adeps and cera: a term given to a peculiar fatty matter, somewhat re- sembling spermaceti in appearance, and sup- posed to partake of the properties of fat and wax. In the year 1789, Fourcroy communi- cated to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris a curious account of the changes sus- tained by the human bodies interred in the cemetery of the Innocents in that city; some of these had been piled, for a succession of years, closely upon each other, in large cavities containing from one thousand to fifteen hundred