ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 161 Partial luxation forwards of the tibia at the external ankle, with fracture of the fibula near the malleolus. Fig. 57. Viewed on the external side. Fig. 58. Viewed on the internal side. a, b, semicircular excavation posteriorly, and projection of the heel backwards; c prominence formed by the tibia projected on the dorsum of the foot; d displacement of the external malleolus backwards along with the foot. was anxious, before these pages went to press, again to examine this case, I requested Mr. S. to make inquiry about her; he learned that the woman died dropsical a few days before, and with much difficulty procured for me an opportunity to examine the limb, which on careful dissection presented the following ap- pearances:—the whole extremity was somewhat wasted, the skin on the sole of the foot was smooth and fine, shewing that she had been able to walk but little since the accident; the foot was in a position of almost rigid extension, the toes were directed downwards, the range of motion of flexion and extension did not exceed one inch, in short, all the usual characters assigned to the partial dislocation forwards of the tibia and displacement of the foot back- wards were seen; when the skin was re- moved from the fascia of the leg and foot, the intervening cellular membrane was found infiltrated with serum, the skin was adherent to the inner malleolus, the vena saphena and the nerve of the same name were thick- ened and firmly connected together, the ex- VOL. I, tensor tendons were stretched over the tibia, and were somewhat flattened, and the grooves which transmit the tendons that play behind the inner and outer malleolus were deepened. We now directed our attention to the state of the bones; we found that the tibia was dis- placed forwards, that its anterior edge was ad- vanced more than one inch beyond its natural situation, and that it much overhung the os naviculare, but such was the direction and state of obliquity of the tibia with respect to the foot, that it could not be said to rest upon that bone; between the os naviculare and the infe- rior articular extremity of the tibia there inter- vened much fat of a yellow hue and fibrous texture, like intervertebral substance; the inter- nal malleolus itself had not escaped injury, the deltoid ligamenthad not in this instance as in the former given way; the internal malleolus itself had been broken, and a small portion of the back part of the edge of the articular cavity of the tibia was detached, and both malleoli were retracted, or carried backwards with the foot; the fibula above the fractured portion was directed down- wards and a little forwards, and was somewhat parallel to the tibia, yet more than naturally approximated to it, a circumstance which ac- counted for the contracted rounded form the middle of the leg possessed; the lower frag- Fig. 59. Viewed on the external side. Fig. 60. Viewed on the internal side. Skeleton preparations of fig. 57 and 58. M