CHYLIFEROUS SYSTEM. nervous system of Molluscaby Poli, the biliary tubuli of Insects by Sheldon, the mesenteric vessels of Echinodermata by Monro, the radi- ating prolongations from the stomach of Me- dusae by Cams. The chyle of vertebrata, derived from the chyme of the digestive canal, and much resembling the white blood of the lower divisions of the Animal Kingdom, varies in its physical properties and chemical com- position in the different tribes of animals, and in the same animal according to the kind of food on which it subsists, (see Chyle,) being most allied to red blood in the highest animals and those which subsist on the most nutritious animal food, and being most remote from that condition in the lowest fishes and the most imperfect animals. The vessels which con- vey, and still further elaborate, this fluid, the chyliferous system, like the other systems of the body, present very different grades of de- velopment in the different classes of vertebrata. In fishes they consist of simple vessels in which we cannot separate the two usual tunics; they are destitute of internal valves and me- senteric glands, they form two strata of vessels between the coats of the small intestine, and they convey a limpid chyle to the receptaculum chyli, from which it is sent by one or two thoracic ducts to the branches of the su- perior cava or the jugular veins. They com- municate freely with the veins, they already present numerous constrictions as rudimentary valves, they present valvular orifices at their entrances into the veins, and their numerous convoluted plexuses supply the place of me- senteric glands. The chyliferous vessels are nearly in the same condition of development in the amphi- bia, where they form two layers on the parietes of the alimentary canal, are destitute of con- globate glands, form plexuses on the extended mesentery, and terminate in two thoracic ducts which proceed forwards along the sides of the vertebral column. (See Amphibia.) In the class of reptiles the lacteals pre- sent a more advanced stage of formation, chiefly in the development of the internal valves in the trunks and branches in all these animals, and in the white milky condition of their contents in the crocodilian family. (See Reptilia.) They are still without mesenteric glands, their valves are less perfect than in birds and quadrupeds, and the chyle is still limpid and colourless in the serpents, lizards, and tortoises. The coarse vegetable food of the chelonia, and the great length of their small intestine, give occasion for the numerous large chyliferous vessels which cover their alimentary canal and mesentery. The place of mesenteric congloba^glands is yet supplied, as in the inferior iJwftebrata, by numerous complicated networks |Blacteal vessels, formed in different parts of t^B course; and, as in fishes, two or more duct^re here observed passing forwards from a single wide receptaculum. The tho- racic ducts form numerous free anastomoses with each other in their course forwards to the neck, accompanying the left branch of the aorta to the anterior part of the trunk, where VOL. I. they pour their contents into the jugular or subclavian veins, or into the angle between these vessels. Before entering the veins these ducts receive the lymphatic trunks, as in other classes, from the head and arms. The chyli- ferous vessels of the chelonia coming from the outer and inner layers spread on the small in- testine, unite into considerable trunks, which pass along the mesentery in close proximity to the bloodvessels. The thoracic duct of the tortoise surrounds and almost conceals the trunk of the aorta by its numerous large anas- tomosing branches. The inferiority of the chyliferous system of birds to that of quadrupeds is seen even in the properties of the chyle, which is still, as in the lower tribes of vertebrata, a thin, colourless, and limpid fluid. The lacteal ves- sels are now, however, more obvious, and more regular in their distribution, and are spread in more crowded layers above the mu- cous and above the muscular coats of the in- testine. They collect from the intestine and form numerous anastomosing plexuses on the mesentery, in place of the conglobate glands of mammalia, and then proceed, with the lym- phatics, to the receptaculum, which sends for- ward two thoracic ducts to terminate, on each side of the neck, at the junction of the sub- clavian with the jugular veins. (See Aves.) The coats of the lacteals are still very thin and distensible in birds; their valves, which are more abundant on the trunks and branches than in reptiles, are still so incomplete as to allow injections to pass easily against their course, and although conglobate glands are not yet developed on the chyliferous system, they are already perceptible on the lymphatics, especially in the neck. The chyliferous system of the mammalia, though more developed than that of all the inferior classes, is still imperfect as a hy- draulic apparatus when compared with the sanguiferous system. The lacteal and lym- phatic systems may still be regarded as mere appendices of the venous, performing the func- tions which are assigned to veins in the inver- tebrated classes, and serving as inlets to the materials which renovate the blood. No pul- sating sacs have yet been detected in the lym- phatic system of quadrupeds, nor any distinct motion in the lacteals, the receptaculum, or the thoracic duct. The chyliferous system of this class presents a superiority of develop- ment in the almost sanguineous characters of the chyle, in the more perfect structure of the vessels and their valves, in the development of the conglobate mesenteric glands, in the frequent unity or concentration of the thoracic duct, and in the more isolated condition of this system from the sanguiferous. The mesenteric glands are chiefly confined to the mesentery of the small intestine; they are generally placed apart from each other; sometimes they are united into a pancreas Asellii; they are firm in texture, highly vascular, and composed of con- voluted lacteals, like more concentrated forms of the plexuses of the lower vertebrata. (R. E. Grant.) 2 R