259 ASPHYXIA. breathe by girls, where several of the methods above enumerated are inapplicable, asphyxia is produced, either by confinement in air, or in distilled water, or water impregnated with any gas that does not contain oxygen ; for no ani- mal has the power of decomposing water by its organs of respiration, to obtain oxygen, and all aquatic animals are dependent, either on the occasional respiration of atmospheric air by lungs, or on the more constant respira- tion of the air contained in water by gills or analogous organs. In the case of fishes breathing by gills, as the motion of these organs is dependent on nerves arising as high as the medulla oblongata, injury of the nervous system must be as high as that part, in order to produce asphyxia; and on the other hand, in the case of birds, where the expansion of the thorax in inspira- tion is effected almost entirely by the motion of the ribs, asphyxia may be produced by section of the spinal cord in any part of the neck.* We exclude here entirely the cases, often described under the name of asphyxia, in which gases positively noxious (such as carbonic acid, carburetted hydrogen,&c.) have been breathed, because accurate observation shows that these are in fact cases of poisoning, where the poison has been introduced by the lungs, and not simply cases of asphyxia. The phenomena of asphyxia, in all the cases above-mentioned, (as occurring especially in the warm-blooded animals,) may be divided into three stages. The first is characterized by the intensity of the sensation which prompts to acts of inspiration, and the consequently violent and laborious, though ineffectual attempts to appease that sensation by the action of all the muscles of inspiration; and in some in- stances by other actions, voluntary or instinc- tive, but still under the guidance of sensibility. Lividity of the surface takes place before the end even of this stage. The next is distinguished by insensibility, rapidly increasing, and attend- ed with irregular spasms or convulsions; and the last by cessation of all effort, and of all outward signs of life, while the heart's action and circulation are known still to go on for a short time. In the case of a warm-blooded animal (ex- cluding the cetacea,and animals that habitually dive) in the full possession of its vital powers, exposed to complete and sudden obstruction of the access of air to the lungs, it may be stated, that the two first of these stages are very generally over within three minutes, seldom extending to five, and that the circulation through the heart has very generally ceased within less than ten minutes from the commencement of the ob- struction. The time during which the priva- tion of air can be borne may be somewhat ex- tended by habit; and there are instances of men trained to diving in India who have re- mained under water three, four, or even five minutes without loss of sensibility or subse- quent injury. * Flourens in Annales d'Histoire Naturelle, In cases of disease, terminating in death by asphyxia, all these stages may often be observed to be distinctly gone through, although in a very gradual and somewhat irregular manner ; the dyspnoea and lividity being succeeded by delirium, often by spasms, and ultimately by coma, and the respiration coming to a stand in general a little before the action of the heart. The most characteristic appearance which is seen after death by asphyxia, is simply the great accumulation of blood in the vessels of the lungs, in the pulmonary artery, right side of the heart, and great veins, and the compara- tively empty state of the left side of the heart, the larger pulmonary veins, and the aorta. The left ventricle is not found empty after death, but seldom contains half as much blood as the right; and it is in this part of the heart that the contractions are soonest observed to cease. The accumulation of blood in the lungs and right side of the heart is greatest in cases where the asphyxia has been gradual, the access of air to the blood not having been absolutely obstructed.* Besides this appearance of congestion of blood in the thorax, the liver, the spleen, and the whole venous system in the abdomen, are generally observed to be unusually congested in such cases, especially those parts which are depending after death; and even ecchymosis on the mucous membrane of the stomach, after strangulation, has been observed by Dr. Yelloly and others. This congestion of blood in the liver, and in the veins of the abdo- men, is remarkably observed, and leads to important consequences, in various chronic diseases of the thorax, threatening deatli by asphyxia. The blood after this, as after other kinds of sudden or violent death, is usually found fluid, and very imperfectly coagulated ; and in connection with this state of the blood there are frequently livid marks resembling ecchy- mosis, (though not depending on extravasation of blood,) in various parts of the surface of the body, and not exclusively in depending parts. This appearance is, of course, most remarkable in the face and neck after strangulation, and is much less observed on any part of the surface after drowning. After strangulation, if the body is soon ex- amined, congestion of blood in the vessels of the brain and pia mater may often be remarked, but there is seldom any morbid effusion. After drowning, a frothy fluid, in consequence of the introduction of a small quantity of water, and of efforts at respiration, is generally found in the trachea and bronchi. The successive steps by which physiolo- gists have been led to what we may regard as a satisfactory account of the phenomena now described, and of the death by asphyxia, may be recapitulated, as curious in themselves, and as affording the clearest view of the evidence on which the doctrine, which now appears to be we.l founded, is supported. * Bichat, Recherches Physiologiqucs, &c. (4th edit.) p. 338. S 2