CEPHALOPODA. 545 adopts different species as they happen to fall in his way. And further, that the different species of Argonauta, as the A. Argo, A. tuberculata, and A.hians, have each different species of Ocy- thoe. We may add that the light fragile tex- ture of the Argonauta shell, like that of Ca- rinaria, bespeaks a floating oceanic species, and not a Mollusk that creeps at the bottom, and therefore the probability is less that its real inhabitant should have escaped the notice of the Naturalist, supposing the Cephalopod to be a parasite. In the posthumous volume of Poli's great work on the Sicilian Testacea, it is stated that that naturalist watched the daily development of the ova of an Ocythoe contained in an Ar- gonaut shell, and that, by means of the micro- scope, he detected the rudiment of the shell in the embryo : the completion of the experi- ment was, however, accidentally interrupted ; and the figure which the editor Delia Chiaje has published of the ovum, which it was hoped would have determined the question, seems to shew the yolk appended to the embryo instead of the shell. Mr. Gray,* on the other hand, has recently stated that the nucleus of the Argonaut shell, or that part which, from analogy, must have been formed in the egg, is too large to have been formed in the egg of the Ocythoe. The arguments drawn from the microscopical exa- mination of the ova of the Ocythoe before the commencement of the development of the embryo, are obviously inconclusive; since, whatever the subsequent products of the egg might be, at this period only the granular and oily particles of the vitelline nidus could be expected to be seen. With respect to another argument against the legitimate title of the Ocythoe to the shell, founded on the supposed uniform occurrence of a deposition of eggs in the same shell, we can adduce three exceptions in which the Argonaut shell was exclusively occupied by the Cephalopod ; these specimens were taken along with several others, by Captain P. P. King, R.N., from the stomach of a Dolphin, caught upwards of six hundred leagues from land, and were kindly presented to us by that gentleman. In these examples, as in others, we were struck with the exact correspondence between the size of the shells and that of their inhabitants, every trifling difference in the bulk of the latter being accompanied with proportional differences in the shells which they occupied. The consideration of all these circumstances has prevented a satisfactory con- clusion being formed with respect to this long- agitated and nicely-balanced question, and we are compelled to repeat after the Stagyrite, w£p! $£ yivto-ltet; xai &v\av{ris-ia><; T&S orTpanou anpiBai (ASi ovTrta Znrai.f Observation of the development of the Ocythoe until the period when it is ex- cluded from the egg, would decide the point. * See Proceedings of the Zoological Society, September, 1834. t " But as touching the generation and growth of the shell nothing is as yet exactly determined."— Hist. Anim. lib. ix. But this must be done satisfactorily, and with the requisite knowledge, care, and good faith on the part of the observer. Before, however, quitting this subject, we will mention one example of a naked Ce- phalopod, nearly allied to Ocythoe, having manifested a parasitic propensity similar to that which is laid to the charge of that genus. A medical gentleman, (Dr. Moffat, of the Hon. East India Company's Ship, Flora,) who had collected objects in Natural History in the East Indies, amongst other specimens brought home an Octopus, which was caught in the Madras roads in his presence, by means of a baited hook and line, and, when drawn out of the water, was found to have its ven- tricose body firmly imbedded in a ghee-bowl, (one of the small round pots in which the fluid butteris brought on board ship,) which had been thrown overboard. The Doctor disengaged the Cephalopod from the bowl before placing it in spirits, and when we related to him the interest which the fact possessed in consequence of the problematic nature of the Argonaut shell, of which he was not before aware, he regretted much that he had not preserved the Octopus in the singular domicile which it had chosen. Another instance of the parasitic appropriation of a dwelling-place by a Poulp is related by M. Desjardins, in the Report of the Natural History Society of the Mauritius ; he found an Octopus Arenarius in the shell of a Dulium. The parasitic occupation of shells by the Octopi for the purpose of depositing the ova in them was not unknown to Aristotle. k«S «7T0ti>it£i o fxh 7n>Xv7rovt Ei{ T«( baXafxa; n eJj mpiy,tov ft rt a\\» xo~\m ofAoiov, &c. " And the Polypus oviposits in cavities or in shells, or some such hollow places."* To return to the shells of the Dibranchiate Cephalopods; these, then, with the doubtful exception of the Ocythoe, are always internal, and either camerated and siphoniferous, or laminated and more or less rudimental, and concealed within the substance of the mantle. In Octopus and Eledone the traces exist in the form of two small amber-coloured styli- form bodies, lodged loosely in capsules, (im- bedded in the sides of the mantle,) and ex- tending downwards from the insertion of the shell muscles, close to the base of the bran- chiae. When the capsules are laid open, the styles frequently fall out in pieces, being of a friable texture. In the Octopus the styles are straight and elliptical; in Eledone they are largest at their upper extremities, and become filiform as they pass in a curved direction downwards. In all the Decapoda in which the shell is rudimental, it is represented by a single piece lodged in the middle line of the dorsal region of the mantle. It is of a horny texture in all the genera except the Sepia, and has generally more or less the form of a feather, as in the Calamary (Jig. 228), or of a straight three- edged sword. * Hist. Anim. v. c, 16.