759 CRUSTACEA. Fig. 388. a, second thoracic ring of the Squilla; b, one of the small antennae. pendages belong especially to the function of sensation, and as we shall have to revert to these at a later period, and give an ample de- scription of their structure, we shall not enter upon this subject farther at present. Fig. 389 Third and fourth cephalic rings of the Squilla : a, carapace; b, one of the posterior antennae ; c, one of the mandibles. The eleven pairs of appendages which suc- ceed are variously apportioned between the functions of digestion and locomotion, to which last the five hindmost pairs are entirely dedi- cated in the Decapods. In other Crustacea, again, the first pair only is set apart in an especial manner for the office of mastication, all the others then serving for locomotion, and this pair is in consequence very generally de- scribed under the name of mandibles; very commonly one and even two other pairs are added to this first pair, and these are desig- nated jaws or maxilla. In the majority of instances, moreover, the three succeeding pairs assist the three preceding; and as they are frequently more especially apportioned to loco- motion, the two last in particular, whilst in some cases they serve for the two functions at one and the same time, they have been de- signated by anatomists and naturalists the maxillary limbs (picds-machoirs): these we shall describe when we come to speak of the apparatus of digestion. As to the five pairs which we have already mentioned as essentially ambulatory (see Jig. 382), they present in the Brachyura no more than a simple stem, composed of six articulations; whilst in the Astacus and allied genera, we find a fiabelliform appendage or whip, dedicated especially to the purposes of respiration, and in the Penese the three sorts of appendages existing simultaneously. By- and-by, when speaking of respiration, we shall see how it happens that in a great number of these animals the whip of the thoracic extremities assumes a vesicular structure, and becomes the organ of this important function. The same peculiarity is observed in the I appendages of the abdominal extremities % of a great number of species; but among the members of the most elevated tribes, these appendages are but very slightly developed, and appear to have no other use than to attach the eggs along the in- ferior surface of the abdomen. Fig. 390. A bdomen o f the female ftlaja Squinado. a, the abdominal appen- dages. We shall not at present enter upon the con- sideration of the forms of the thoracic and abdominal extremities, having it in view to take up the subject when we come to examine these appendages as the organs of prehension, and as fulfilling important offices in locomotion. Before quitting the study of the tegumen- tary skeleton, to go on to that of the extre- mities considered especially as the organs of locomotion, we think it necessary to say a few words upon the moult or process by which the tegumentary covering of the whole of the Crus- tacean is cast off and renewed. The necessity for this operation is a con- sequence of the very nature of the envelope : like every other epidermic covering, the pro- duct of secretion, the shell of the Crustacea is closed in on every side, and can only increase in thickness, so that all growth would be pre- vented in the body of these animals were they denied the power of freeing themselves from time to time of their prison. Accordingly they have this power; and as might have been ex- pected the shell is cast by so much the more frequently as the animal is younger, inasmuch