ANIMAL. 136 one of the products of the laws of vitality with the essence of which we are altogether un- acquainted. Besides the secretion of the various gaseous, fluid and solid matters mentioned, vegetables and animals appear in common to possess the power of disengaging certain imponderable elements—heat light, and electricity. Heat.—There has been considerable variety of opinion among physiologists with regard to the extent to which vegetables have the power of maintaining a temperature of their own inde- pendently of that of the surrounding media. Nor is this question, in our opinion, yet com- pletely set at rest. It is certain that trees in high northern latitudes endure a cold many de- grees below zero without injury, whilst in in- tertropical countries they are frequently ex- posed even in the shade to a heat above that of any animal without perishing; actual ex- periment, indeed, proves that they preserve a temperature intermediate between that of the extreme heat and extreme cold of the diurnal variations of those latitudes in which they are indigenous. This circumstance is explained variously, some attributing it to a vital property in plants to regulate to a certain extent their own temperature, others alleging that it is merely owing to the indifferent conducting qualities of the materials of which vegetables are composed. The thermometer has been seen several degrees below the freezing point of wa'er within the trunks of fir trees, without their vitality being affected; but it is probable that the constitution of this tribe renders them capable of enduring such a reduction of tem- perature with impunity as would prove fatal to other trees with simple watery sap. On the other hand, it is quite certain that the flowers of many vegetables have the power of disengaging heat, a difference of ten, twenty, and even more than thirty degrees having been observed at sun-rise between the temperature of the atmosphere and that of the flowers of different vegetables in southern latitudes, and the same thing is known to occur, though to a less extent, in northern countries. It would therefore be unfair, with such facts before us, to deny altogether to vegetables the faculty of disengaging caloric. Arguments, in- deed, a priori, might be adduced to show that they must almost necessarily possess such a property: they are the subjects of incessant change; and one of the most universal of the physical laws involves a change of temperature on any change of constitution. If the faculty of vegetables generally to secrete or eliminate caloric be doubtful, how- ever, it is indisputable that among all animals a little raised above those at the very bottom of the scale, there is an inherent power of gene- rating caloric, which in their state of maturity is nearly determinate as regards each particular species. Mammalia and birds have universally the highest temperatures. Reptiles or cold-blooded animals, as they are improperly called, have also the power of engendering heat, and of regulating their own temperature: this faculty, however, and the degree of heat they possess at different times, are influenced to a very considerable degree by the heat of the media in which they live. The same statements may be made with regard to fishes. The temperature of these creatures is generally several degrees above that of the water they inhabit; but it also varies with the tem- perature of their native element. Many insects have a very decided power of engendering heat and of regulating their tem- perature ; and similar faculties have been de- monstrated in the Crustacea, the mollusca, and the annelida. These tribes, however, are all very much influenced by the temperature of the media surrounded by which they live. No great difference is therefore discernible between vegetables and animals in the faculties they possess of engendering caloric and regu- lating their own temperature; the faculty is only much more decided, and possessed to a far greater extent among the more perfect classes of animals generally than among vege- tables at large. It may very fairly, in the present state of our knowledge, be ascribed as a common property. As to the mode in which heat is engendered, opinions are still very much divided. The chemical and mechanical explanations that have been given of the phenomenon are not universally applicable. All we can say at the present day is that the production of heat and the power of regulating their temperature pos- sessed by organized beings is another of the hidden and singular laws or properties intro- duced into the system of the universe with their creation. Light.—Many unorganized bodies have the property of shining or giving out light for some time after they have been exposed to the bright rays of the sun, or have been heated in the fire, or when they are struck together or smartly compressed, and this certainly without any decomposition of their substance. The disen- gagement of light, again, is a very uniform accompaniment of the decomposition and com- position of inorganic substances, and it appears to be a very constant attendant upon electrical phenomena. Various organic substances and products of organization have a similar property; living vegetables, too, particularly the flowers, have been seen to give out light by authorities so respectable, that though the fact has been called in question by others of great name, there seems no sufficient reason for treating all that has been said on the subject as illusion : in the physical sciences negatives cannot be received as evidence of equal value with posi- tives. No one thinks of calling in question the luminousness of animals ; most of the innu- merable inferior tribes that live in the sea, appear to possess and to manifest this pro- perty at different seasons. The luminous- ness of the ocean itself, so familiarly known, seems to depend on the presence of multitudes