BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. 425 alkaline salts were found diminished in the fol- lowing proportions:— In healthy serum, according to Lecanu, salts 8-10 In the serum of a male, aged 31, first day of fever, salts 4 Ditto ditto aged 34, first day of fever, salts 5 Ditto female, aged 14, fourth day of fever, salts 4-2 Average of three other cases 4"4 Scurvy.—It seems to be the universal opi- nion of those who have seen and written on scurvy, that it owes its origin to a morbid change in the fluids, and especially in the blood; and even those who have been the most strenuous opposers of the humoral pathology in general, among the most celebrated of whom we may reckon Willis, Hoffmann, Boerhaave, Cullen, and Sir John Pringle, have made an exception in favour of this disease. Notwith- standing this general belief there has been no attempt up to the present time at any chemical examination of the properties of scorbutic blood, and we have only the general obser- vation made by the surgeons of Lord Anson's expedition, (Messrs. Ettrick and Allen,) that in the beginning of the disease it flows from the arm in different shades of light and dark streaks; that as this advances, it runs thin and black, and after standing turns thick and of a dark muddy colour, the surface in many places being of a greenish hue, without any regular separation of its parts ; that in the third de- gree of the disease it is as black as ink, and though kept stirring in the vessel for many hours, its fibrous parts have only the appear- ance of wool or hair floating in a muddy sub- stance; and that in dissected bodies the blood in the veins is so fluid that by cutting any con- siderable branch, the part to which it belongs may be emptied of its black and yellow liquor, the extravasated blood being precisely of the same kind. The prevalence of scurvy where there has been a long-continued use of salted provisions has given rise to the supposition* that the salt itself actually finds its way into the circulation, and acts as it is known to act on blood out of the body by preventing its coagulation. This, however, is very evidently not the case, first, because salt provisions are not necessary to its production, since scurvy has often made its appearance where no salt provisions were used; as, for instance, in the Milbank Penitentiary in 1819, where the diet consisted of pease, barley soup, and brown bread ; and, secondly, because the appearance of the blood, especially as the disease ad- vances, is exactly the reverse of what it would be on the addition of salt, which, instead of making it black, and causing it on standing to become thick, muddy, and of a greenish hue, would impart to it a fine scarlet tint that would remain permanent until it began to putrefy. Since the modern advances in ani- mal chemistry, opportunities for examining the blood in true scurvy have been very rare; and * Jennins's Report. it is therefore the more to be regretted that Drs. Latham and Koget, philosophers every way so competent to determine the precise morbid changes which it undergoes, did not, when they had it in their power, make a particular ex- amination of it. Venesection, it seems, was practised at the Penitentiary in a few cases, but nothing is stated respecting the appearance which the blood assumed.* The description of Lord Anson's surgeons does not by any means apply to the blood which is found in purpura hemorrhagica, a complaint that was, prior to the appearance of Dr. Bateman's work on diseases of the skin, generally considered closely allied to scurvy. In two cases of pur- pura related by Dr. Parry,f of Bath, blood drawn from the arm exhibited a tenacious contracted coagulum covered with a thick coat of lymph ; and in one instance which occurred under my care, where the patient, a man of forty-five years of age, had most of the sym- ptoms of sea-scurvy, such as general cachexia, with anasarca of the lower limbs, great depres- sion of spirits and prostration of strength, ex- tensive ecchymosis on the trunk and the ex- tremities, fetid breath and extravasations of blood from the gums, the stomach, and the bowels, as well as from a large foul ulcer on the leg; a copious venesection demonstrated that the blood had not in any degree lost its crasis, the crassamentum being covered with a thick buffy coat, and having as much firmness as is usual under the existence of such a state. It is proper to observe that Lind's description of the blood in scurvy differs from that of Lord Anson's surgeons, as he found it generally either natural or buffed.J Jaundice.— In jaundice the blood, both arterial and venous, is tinged with bile, and this is ajjparent not only in the serum, but still mr^-e strikingly in the crassamentum, provided it be covered with a buffed surface. If this be removed and dried in a state of tension, it exhibits a deep yellow hue, particularly when viewed by transmitted light. Although the bile is thus rendered very visible in jaundiced blood, yet, owing to its combination with albumen, which defends it from the action of acids, it is difficult of de- tection by chemical re-agents, so that many chemists of eminence have sought in vain to ascertain its presence. Lassaigne, however, succeeded in demonstrating that the colouring matter of the bile is really to be found in the circulation, and Berzelius tells us that Collard and Martigny pretend to have discovered even the resin of bile in jaundiced blood. M. Le- canu has more recently confirmed these facts and Mr. Kane has verified his results.§ To' the medical inquirer who does not follow the minutiae of animal chemistry, the identity of the colouring matter in the serum of jaundiced * Account of the Disease lately prevalent at the General Penitentiary, by P.M. Latham,M.D. 1823 p. 39. t Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. v. p. 7. | Lind on Scurvy, page 512. § Dublin Journal, vol. ii. p. 346.