AORTA 192 teifere with the full distension of the auricles. Aneurisms of the transverse portion of the aorta, when directed forwards, usually project at the right side of the sternum about the second intercostal space : when the sac extends upwards towards the neck, it frequently be- comes a matter of extreme difficulty to dis tinguish an aneurism of the aorta from an aneurism of the innominata or some other large arterial trunk in the neighbourhood ; cases are on record, where the pressure of such aneurisms of the aorta caused obliteration of the subclavian and common carotid. When aneurisms extend backwards, they produce a variety of effects, interfering with respiration and deglutition from their pressure on the trachea and oesophagus, sometimes producing obliteration of the thoracic duct. The pres- sure produced by aneurisms of the thoracic and abdominal aorta occasionally cause ab- sorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, and give rise to an appearance not very dissimilar to that produced by caries. Aneurisms of the arch of the aorta do not so often terminate fatally by making their way through the anterior parietes of the chest, and opening externally as by bursting internally : when they occur in that part of the arch of the aorta covered by the pericardium, they most usually burst into the sac of that membrane; cases are recorded in which aneurisms of the aorta have burst into the pulmonary artery,* or, taking a direction backwards, have opened into the trachea, oesophagus, or the substance of the lungs. Aneurisms of the thoracic por- tion of the aorta sometimes burst into the left pleura, sometimes into the posterior medi- astinum : they have been known to point at the left side of the spine, after having caused ab- sorption of the heads of the ribs and sides of the bodies of the vertebrae. In two cases observed by Laennec and Mr. Chandler, aneu- rism of the thoracic aorta burst into the spinal canal. Aneurisms of the abdominal aorta most usually burst into the cellular tissue of the lumbar regions behind the peritoneum, seldom into the sac of that membrane. An aneurism of the abdominal aorta has been observed to make its way backwards by the side of the spine, and point in such a situation as to have been at first mistaken for lumbar abscess. Branches of the aorta. I. Branches arising from the arch.—From the arch of the aorta five branches are given off; two from its com- mencement, the coronary arteries, and three vessels of considerable size (fig. 78 a h c), from the upper part of its transverse portion to supply the head and the upper extremities. The coronary arteries of the heart or the car- diac arteries arise from the aorta close to its origin, and immediately above the free borders of the sigmoid valves; they are usually two in number, one for each ventricle. The right, anterior or inferior coronary artery is often larger, seldom smaller than the * Dr. Wells in Trans, of a Society for Improve- ment of Medical and Surgical Knowledge, vol. iii. Fig. 78. A B, arch of the aorta. C, thoracic aorta. D, abdominal aorta. E, common iliac artery. g, middle sacral artery. left; it arises from the anterior side of the aorta above the anterior sigmoid valve, coming out from between the roots of the aorta and pulmonary artery, it passes downwards and to the right side in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, turns round the right edge of the heart until it reaches the groove of the septum on the inferior surface of that organ, when it changes its direction, coursing along that groove until it arrives at the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the left coro- nary artery; in its course it gives off to the right and left many tortuous branches arising nearly at right angles, the right branches are smaller and go to the right auricle, the left are larger and belong to the right ventricle, which they traverse in a longitudinal direction to- wards its apex. From the origin of the right coronary artery two small branches are given off, one to the commencement of the pul- monary artery and the surrounding fat, which anastomoses behind the pulmonary artery with a branch of the left coronary; the se- cond branch anastomoses with the bronchial arteries. The left posterior or superior coronary artery arises between the left auricle and the posterior surface of the pulmonary artery, de-