ARACHN1DA. 209 dilatation which the scorpions carry at the end of the tail ; it is terminated by a little sharp hook generally curved backwards. Near its termination there may be observed, as in the mandibulous hook of spiders, a very minute orifice, or, according to some authors, two dis- tinct fissures. It is from this part that a lim- pid fluid; having strongly-marked poisonous qualities, exudes; and, corresponding to the fo- ramen within, there is the neck of a little blad- der which is the true secretory organ. Little is known respecting its structure: according to the observations of Treviranus it is surrounded by a horny substance and provided with a muscle, which most probably has for its func- tion the compression of the vesicle and the consequent expulsion of the poison. Apparatus for secreting the fluid which con- cretes in the air.—This apparatus is peculiar to certain arachnidans : it does not exist in the scorpions nor in many other genera ; but when present it is always situated at the posterior part of the body. The threads by which the spiders suspend themselves, and of which they spin their webs, are emitted from the extre- mity of the abdomen. There we find, in the vicinity of the anal aperture, several small appendages, which it is important not to con- found with one another, (jig. 96.J Of these there are two which are small articulated hairy Fig. 96. and filiform processes (6 b ; )* the others are spinnarcts, or the or- gans by which the c silky threads are emit- ted. Of the latter, d four may generally be 6 counted, (c d.) Their structure is very re- markable ; it has been described by many anatomists, and among others by Lyonnet in his posthumous Memoirs. This patient anato- mist has discovered that the surface of each of the spinnarets is pierced by an infinite number of minute holes, from each of which there escapes as many little drops of a liquid, which, becoming dry the moment it is in contact with the air, forms so many delicate threads. Im- mediately after the filaments have passed out of the pores of the spinnaret, they unite first together, and then with those of the neighbouring spinnarets to form a common thread ; so that the thread of the spider, as it is employed in the manufacture of the web, or such as the creature suspends itself by when hanging from one's * Mr. Blackwall, who has published some inter- esting observations on the structure and functions of spiders in the third report of the British Asso- ciation (1833), and more at length in a recent volume of the Linnasan Transactions, considers these pro- cesses to be also spinnarets. They are provided with tubes, which, arranged along the under side of the terminal joint, present the appearance of fine hairs projecting from it at right angles ; if examined, when in operation, by a powerful magnifier, the function of these tubes may be ascertained without difficulty, as the fine lines of silk proceeding from them will be distinctly perceived. Mr. B.'s observations were made on Agelena labyrinthica (Walck.)—ED. VOL. I. ' ." t ' • ' Jtm. finger, is composed of an immense number of minute filaments, perhaps many thousands, of such extreme tenuity that the eye cannot detect them, until they are all twisted together into the working thread. Lyonnet has made a still more curious observation: he detected in Tegc- nari'a civilis (Walck.) a different anatomical structure of the four spinnarets. The pair which is above and a little longer than the other, presents on its surface a multitude of small perforations, (fig- 97,) the edges of which do not project, and which, therefore, Fig. 97. resemble a sieve. This structure has also been well described by Leuwenhoeck, Roe- sel, Treviranus, &c. The other pair,shorter and lower than the preceding, differs still further by having pro- jecting or mamillary tubes independent of the perforations which also exist and are analo- gous to those above de-cribed. The tubes are hollow,and perforated at the extremity (fig. 98,«). Lyonnet supposes that agglutinating threads issue from these tubes, while those which are Fig. 98. emitted from the per- fixations do not poss- ess that property. We may observe, indeed, upon throwing a lit- tle dust on a spi- der's web, such as the circular one of araneu diadema, that it ad- heres to the threads which arespirally dis- posed, but not to those that radiate from the centre to the circumference; the latter are also stronger than the others. Fig. 99. Internally there a a exists in the abdo- men of spiders a special secretory ap- paratus, which con- sists of intestiniform canals, united toge- ther, and variable in number and extent according to the species. In Clu- bione utro.r, they consist, according to Treviranus, of four vessels, two large (Jig. 99, a a) and two small (6 b); near their base, and not far from the point where they open into the spinnarets, a number of small supplementary canals (c c) may be observed. ( Fig. 96 represents the spin- narets in the same species.) Generative system.-—In the arachnidans the sexes are placed, as in insects, in different in- dividuals. It is not always an easy matter to distinguish outwardly the male from the female ; i>