CONCHIFERA. 713 the summit and increasing gradually in its dimensions, so as to form a long triangular imprint, running obliquely through the thick- ness of the shell. When, at a very early age, the shell was extremely thin, the muscular im- pression existed very near to the external sur- face; but in proportion as the animal has become older, and new layers of calcareous matter have been successively added to the former, the muscular impression is found to have become farther and farther removed from the external surface. It is generally on the surface of the muscular impressions, and in the substance of the adductor muscles them- selves, that those peculiar solid and highly prized excrescences called pearls are produced. These excrescences are engendered in a very considerable number of genera, and it is to be presumed that they may occasionally exist in all; it is, however, among the Monomyaria that pearls are most constantly formed. Various causes have been assigned to explain the formation of pearls. But it seems enough to be aware in a general way of the manner in which bivalve shells grow to understand how pearls are produced. Their production, it would appear, may be assigned to some accident hap- pening to the animal; sometimes a few grains of sand getting between the mantle and the shell prove nuclei for their formation, but still more frequently they are consequences of per- forations made by a species of Annelidan, to the attacks of which bivalve-shelled animals are obnoxious. In either case the animal, feel- ing itself injured, deposits over the grain of sand or the small orifice made by the Annel- idan, a thin layer of nacreous matter, secreted accidentally and superabundantly with re- ference to its regular laminae of progressive growth. In consequence of this, the shell at the point where the grain of sand lodges or where it is wounded acquires more than its usual thickness. This thickening, from the mere fact of its presence, becomes a perma- nent cause of excitement to the mantle of the animal, so that this organ goes on secreting an unusual quantity of calcareous matter, in con- sequence of which there results an elevation that increases with the age of the animal, so much the more rapidly as the annoyance has been greater and more permanent. When the mass has increased so much as to penetrate somewhat deeply into the substance of the organs, it is then apt to go on increasing by depositions of nacreous matter upon one of its extremities, by which we have pedunculated and elongated pearls produced. Zoologists have also asked how those pearls that are found perfectly free in the interior of conclii- ferous mollusks were formed. We shall first observe that these pearls are met with more especially in the substance of the adductor muscles; now if it be remembered that these muscles shift their place in proportion as the animal grows, it may readily enough be al- lowed that a pediculated pearl developed on the surface of the muscular impression itself, might be detached from its connexion with the shell by the advance of the muscle, be- vol. r. come free in the substance of this muscle, and there continue to increase with more or less rapidity. This explanation, which we advance for the first time, appears to us sufficiently plausible; but, before admitting it as an esta- blished fact, it would be well to institute some experiments in regard to the successive changes of position undergone by the adductor muscles of a conchiferous animal. Fig. 369. The mantle, as we have seen, is attached to the shell by a determinate portion of its sur- face. In the Dimyaria the part that is ad- herent is not far from the thickened edge of the mantle ; it adheres by means of the small muscles which regulate its contractions, as well as those of the tentaculary papillae with which it is commonly fringed. In the Monomyaria the adhesion of the mantle is situated much higher, and very nearly at the place where the lobes of the mantle are detached from the general mass of the body. From the. adhe- sion of the mantle to the shell there results a linear impression, to which M. de Blainville has given the name of palleal impression ; in the Dimyaria it extends from before backwards, from the anterior to the posterior adductor muscular impression, following the circum- ference of the edge. This linear impression is simple when it presents no inflexion in its course. In a considerable number of the Di- myaria it is observed to form a notch of dif- ferent depths in different species, directed towards the mantle. This notch appears to be 3 A