52) CEPHALOPODA. which are concave externally and perfo- rated by a marginal and ventral siphon. Genus Belem kites, Lamarck* Fam. 3. SEP IAD jE, Cuttle-fishes. Animal, body oblong, depressed, with two narrow lateral fins extending its whole length. Shell internal, lodged in a sac in the back part of the mantle, composed of an ex- ternal calcareous apex or mucro, of a succession of calcareous laminae with intervening spaces filled with air, and supported by columns, but not perfo- rated by a siphon, and an internal horny layer, corresponding to the anterior horny sheath of the Belemnites. Genus Sepia, Cuv. The character of the family is also that of the single genus at present composing it; we may, however, add under this head that the mantle is free at its an- terior margin ; and that the acetabula are supported by horny hoops with the margin entire, or very minutely denti- culated. Ex. Sepia officinalis, Linn, the common Cuttle-fish. (Fig. 207.) Fig. 207 fam. 4. TEUTHIDM* Calamaries. Animal, body sometimes oblong and de- pressed, generally elongated and cylin- drical ; with a pair of fins varying in their relative size and position, but generally broad, shorterthan thebody,and terminal. Shell internal, rudimental, in the form of athin, straight, elongated, horny lamina; encysted in the substance of the dorsal aspect of the mantle. A. Funnelivith an internal valve, andarti- culuted at its base to two ventro-lateral cartilaginous prominences of the mantle. Genus Sepiotfuthis, Blainville. Body oval, flattened, with narrow lateral fins, extending its whole length; ante- rior margin of the mantle unattached. Horny hoops of the acetabula with den- ticulated margins. Gladius, or rudi- mental shell, long and wide. Ex. Sepioteuthis loliginijbrmis, Ruppel. Genus Loligo, Cuvier. Body elongated, cylindrical, provided with a pair of rhoinboidal or triangular fins, shorter than the body, and terminal, their apices generally converging to a point, and united to the end of the man- tle; anterior margin of the mantle free. Horny hoops of the acetabula denticu- lated. Gladius long and narrow. Ex. Loligo vulgaris, Cuv. the common Calamary or Pen-fish. (Fig. 208.) Fig. 208. * Also the fossil genera, Actinocamax, Miller; Pseudubelus, Blainville. VOL. t. The Calamary, Loligo vulgaris, Cuv. * From the term teu8«c applied by Aristotle to the ten-armed Malakia with an internal horny plate or gladius. 2 M