CIRCULATION. 682 George Ent of London. Riolan was ihe only one of his opponents whose objections Harvey thought it worth while to answer. This he did in two additional Exercitationes, which are published in the Leyden edition of his works, 1737. In a journey which Harvey made to Ger- many, he endeavoured to demonstrate his views to Hoffman, but without success. In 1652 Plem- pius acceded the merit of discovery to Harvey, and adopted his views of the circulation. Harvey died at the advanced age of 79, in the year 1657, after having had the satisfaction of seeing his views generally adopted by the best-informed anatomists and physiologists, and after having enjoyed the glory due to so great and valuable a discovery.— The best edition of Harvey's treatise on the Circu- lation is that to be found in the edition of his works published by the London College of Physicians, in 4to. About this time the experiment of transfusion, proposed some time previously, sc?ms to have been first successfully performed by Dr. Timothy Clarke, Boyle, and Henshaw, as also by the celebrated Lower at Oxford, in 1660, affording additional proof of the correctness of the views oi Hatvey. Although the double course of the blood through the pulmonic and systemic circulations was fully demonstrated by these investigations, the direct passage of the blood from the smaller arteries into the veins had not yet been observed. After the introduction of the use of the mi- croscope, this additional proof was supplied by Malpighi, who discovered the capillary circulation in the vessels on the lungs and mesentery of the frog in 1661 (Epistola de pulmonibus). Malpighi observed the passage of the globules of the blood through the minute vessels, and thus satisfactorily proved that there is an actual trans- mission of the circulating blood from the arteries to the veins in both the systemic and pulmonary circulations. Leuwenhoeck, in 1673, repeated the observations of Malpighi on the capillary circulation, and extended them to different animals, at the same time adding to their value by the discovery of the nature of the colouring particles or globules of the blood (Philos. Trans. No. 102). The structure of the minute vessels in different parts of the human body was shortly after this very fully shewn by the fine injections of Ruysch, and the analogy between the structure of the minute vessels in Man and the lower animals thus fully established. For the history of the discovery of the Circula- tion, we would refer the reader to the following works. Bostock's Elementary system of physiology, vol. i. p. 343. Holler's Elementa, vol. i. p 340. Senac, Traite du cceur, Introduct. p. 68. Sabatier, Ana- tomie, ii. p. 255. Portal, Hist, de l'anatomie et de chirurgie, t. ii. p. 468. Sprengel's History of medicine, French, vol. iv. p. 85. Hecker's Gerschichte der Medezin, Hecker's Lehre vom Kreislauf von Harvey, Berlin, 1831. Barrellotti, Dialogo sulla scoperta della circolazione del sangue nel corpo umano, Pisa, 1831. When the course of the blood in the double circulation had been fully established by the above- mentioned observers, and the views of Harvey were universally adopted, the labours of anatomists and physiologists were directed to the more minute and detailed investigation of the different processes of the circulatory function. The works of Lower, Lieutaud, and Senac on the heart, and of Hales, Haller, and Spallanzani on the motion of the blood, were among the more important of those which appeared during the last century which contributed to advance the knowledge of our subject. 'Ihe second volume of Dr. Stephen Hales's Statical Essays, 1733, contains the history of the numerous experiments made by that ingenious philosopher, with a view to investigate the hy- draulic phenomena of the circulation and the first accurate measurements and calculations of the force of the current of blood in the arteries and veins, its velocity, the po«er of the heart, &c. The works of Haller on the circulation consist, 1st, of the greater part of the first and second volumes of the Elementa, containing a complete history of the structure and functions of the organs of circulation; 2d, Deux memoires sur le mouvement du sang, &c. Lausanne, 1756 : the first memoir containing the results, the second a detailed account of the experiments. These Memoirs are also published in the Opera Minora ; also, in English, Lond. 1757. 3d, Deux mem. sur la formation du cceur dans le poulet, Laus. 1758. The work of Spallanzani, entitled Experiments upon the Circulation of the Blood, translated by Tourdes into French, Paris, An viii., and by R. Hall, M.D. into English, Lond.1801, contains a great body of most accurate observations and experiments. The first two Memoirs are on the circulation throughout the vascular system. 'I he next two on the phenomena of the languid circulation, on the motion of the blood independent of the action of the heart, and the pulsation of the arteries. Circulation in general.— Young on the circulation, Phil. Trans. 1809. Lund's Results of modern physiological vivisections, 12mo. Copenhagen, 1825, translated in the Journal Complement, t. xxiv.-v. &c. Bourdon, ^ur le mecanisme de la circulation, 8vo. Paris, 1820. W. Philip, Phil. Trans. 1832. 31. Hull, Reply to W. Philip, Med. Gaz. x. 695. Physiol, of the circulation, Med. Chir. Review, vol. iv. 1823-4, p. 38. Flourens, Memoires de l'lnstitut. vol. x. Herbst, De san- guinis quantitate, 1822. Schwenke, Hist, sanguinis. J. Wilson. Essay on the blood and vascular system, Lond. 1819. Kerr, Observations on the Harveian doctrine of the circulation of the blood, Lond. 1819 ; (doubts the Harveian view.) Charles Bell, An essay on the forces which circulate the blood, Lond. 1819. Oesterreicher, Versuch einer Darstel- lung der Lehre vom Kreislauf des Blutes, Nurnb. 1826. Wedemeyer, Untersuch. uber den Kreislauf des Blutes insbesond. uber die Bewegung desselben in denArterien und Capillargefassen, &c. Hannover, 1828; also in English. Reichel, De sanguine ejusqne motu exper. Lips. 1767. Jaeckel, De motu sanguinis comment. Vratisl. 1821. Sarlan- diere, Mem. sur la circulation du sang, &c. Paris, 1822. Jos. Swan, Essay on the connection between the action of the heart and arteries and the func- tions of the nervous system, Lond. 1829. Rose, Diss, de motu sang, naturali et prasternaturali, Helmstad. 1668. Maertens, Diss, de circulatione sanguinis, Helmstadt. 1739. Araldi, Delia forza e dell' influsso del cuore sul circolo del sangue, Mem. della Soc. Ital. in Mod. 1804, vol. xi. Heart.—Barry on the circulation through the heart, &c. Annal. d. Sc. Nat. xi. p. 113. Borelli, De motu animalium, 1743. Passavant ( Bernouilli), De vi cordis, 1748. Hales's Statical essays, vol. ii. 1733. Poiseuille, Sur la force du cceur aortique, Bresrhet's Repert. vi. 1828, and Ma- gendie's Journ. Whytt on the heart, Works, p. 16. Williams on the motive powers of the heart, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xxi. 268. Bartholin on the suction-power of the heart, Anat. 8vo. p. 371. Senac, Traite du cceur, 1749. Wil- degans on the same, 1772. A. WiUon, Inquiry into the moving powers employed in the circulation of the blood, 8vo. Lond. 1774. Jurin. De po- tentia cordis, Phil. Trans. 1718 and 1719. James Keill, Essays on several parts of the animal economy, 4th ed. with a Diss, on the force of the heart, 8vo. Lond. 1738. Prochasha, Opera Min. 1800, Controv. physiol. Arteries.—In addition to the works referred to