CEPHALOPODA. 540 Fig. 225. Circulating and respiratory organs—Cuttle-fish." form thin colourless pyriform sacs, extending nearly an inch from the vein. They are ar- ranged in distinct clusters, and are relatively shorter in Argonauta. In Sepioteuthis the whole extent of the superior and inferior trunks of the veins contained in the pericardium pre- sent an uniform and continuous cellular en- largement of their parietes. In Loligo the coats of the corresponding veins in like man- ner present only a spongy thickening. In Sepia the cells are more elongated, but are large, irregular, and flocculent (c, c, Jig. 225), and continued without interruption not only upon the divisions of the vena cava (a), but upon the visceral veins, two of which (b, b) present remarkable dilatations. In Loligopsis the venous follicles are in distinct groups, as in Nautilus; and Rathke describes them as presenting a laminated and glandular structure. With respect to the function of these bodies nothing is as yet definitely known. They are well supplied with blood from the neighbouring arteries, and are undoubtedly glandular; but the matter which they secrete has not yet been subjected to chemical analysis. If the spongy coats of the vena cava of a Calamary be pressed, a whitish fluid escapes, which is al- * From Home's Comparative Anat. vol. iv. See the original figure and description by Hunter, in Descr. Catalogue of Mus. R. Coll. of Surgeons, vol. ii. pi. xxii. ways thicker and more turbid than the blood which circulates in the vein. The elongated cells of the Poulp yield in like manner an opake and yellow mucus. Some physiologists suppose that the secreted matter is not expelled by the orifices of the sacs into the veins to be mixed with the current of blood, but that the venous blood passes into the cells by those apertures, and that the matter secreted from it exudes from the parietes of the cells or follicles into the great serous cavity surrounding them. Mayer, considering that the urine is secreted from venous blood in the lower vertebrate animals, regards these venous appendages as the renal organs of the Cephalopods; the serous sacs (h, fig. 226), therefore, which Cuvier calls the ' great venous cavities,' and which we have termed the ' pericardium,' the German Physi- ologist calls the ' urinary bladder;' and the papillary orifices (i) leading into the branchial or excrementory chamber, which we have com- pared with the orifices leading from the peri- cardium of the Ray and Sturgeon into the peritoneal cavity of the abdomen,f Mayer calls the urethras. It must be observed, however, that this Physiologist does not advance any proof from chemical analysis in support of his theory. Cuvier, on the other hand, believing that the water of the branchial chamber might have access by the orifices to the cavities containing the appendages in question, supposes that they t Memoir on the Nautilus, p. 33.