302 AVES. which is analogous to the ulnar nerve, and the other soon divides again into nerves which are similar to the median and musculo-cutaneous. The median dips down amongst the muscles on the middle of the fore-arm, to which it gives branches, and afterwards runs along the inter- osseous space, passes under the annular ligament of the carpus, and is distributed to the short muscles of the digiti. The branch analogous to the musculo-cutaneous nerve, is expanded upon the muscles on the upper edge of the radius. " The ulnar nerve, although it appears to be incorporated with the median on the upper arm, can be easily separated from it, and traced to its proper origin in the brachial plexus. After this nerve leaves the median, it turns over the end of the foramen to get upon the edge of the ulna. It gives filaments to the muscles in this situation; but its chief branch runs down superficially upon the ligaments of the quills in company with a vein, and goes ultimately to be lost upon the ulnar edge of the hand. " The third cord furnished by the brachial plexus, supplies the place of the radial nerve. It detaches several filaments to the muscles on the inside and back of the scapula. It gives off also the articular nerve, and then winds round the humerus between the extensor mus- cles, to which it furnishes some large filaments. On coming to the outside of the humerus, it sends a branch between the integuments of the fold of the wing. The nerve now turns round the neck of the radius, beneath the muscles, and forms two branches ; of which one passes under the muscles to the outer side of the ulna, along which it runs superficially to the hand ; the other branch passes on the radial side, but more deeply amongst the muscles, goes under the annular ligament of the carpus, proceeds between the branches of the metacarpus, and is finally lost on the back of the digiti." The same anatomist describes the course of the nerves of the posterior extremities as follows. " Although Cuvier has given a more accurate description of the nerves of the lower extremity than those of the wing, it nevertheless needs correction in several particulars. " The obturutor and femoral nerves arise from the same plexus which is formed by the two last lumbar nerves, by a communicating branch from the first sacral pair. The obtu- rator nerve passes through the upper part of the foramen ovale, and is distributed to the muscles around the hip-joint, especially the adductor. The femoral nerve passes out of the pelvis in company with the artery, over the upper edge of the ilium. It divides into three branches, which are dispersed among the muscles and integuments on the anterior and inner part of the thigh. Some of these filaments are long, and descend superficially for a considerable way upon the limb. " The ischiatic nerve is composed of the five superior sacral nerves; and as soon as it de- parts from the plexus, even within the pelvis, is easily separable into its primary branches. Immediately after it passes through the ischi- adic foramen, it sends filaments to the muscles on the outer part of the thigh ; it then proceeds under the biceps muscle, along the back of the thigh, about the middle of which it becomes divided into the tibial and the peroneal nerves. " The tibial nerve, even before it arrives in the ham, separates into several branches, which pass on each side of the bloodvessels, and are chiefly distributed to the muscles on the back of the leg. Two of these branches, however, are differently disposed of; the one accom- panies the posterior tibial artery down the leg, passes over the internal part of the pulley, and is lost in small filaments and anastomoses, with a branch of the peroneal nerve on the inner side of the metatarsus ; the other branch runs down on the peroneal side of the leg, along the deep- seated flexors of the toes, passes in a sheath formed for it on the outer edge of the moveable pulley of the heel, and proceeds under the flexor tendons along the metatarsal bone, to be distributed to the internal part of the two ex- ternal toes. " The peroneal nerve is directed to the outer part of the leg; it dips above the gastrocnemii muscles, and runs through the same liga- mentous pulley that transmits the tendon of the biceps muscle; it then detaches some large filaments to the muscles on the anterior part of the leg, under which it divides into two branches, which proceed close together, in com- pany with the anterior tibial artery to the fore part of the ankle-joint, at which place they separate; one passes superficially over the outer part of the joint, the other goes first under the transverse ligament which binds down the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle on the tibia, and then over the inner part of the joint, below which it divides into two branches, the one is distributed to the inner side of the metatarsus and the tibial side of the pollex, and to the next toe; the other turns towards the centre of the metatarsal bone, and pene- trates the tendon of the tibialis anticus just at its insertion, and then rejoins the branch of the peroneal nerve it accompanied down the leg. They continue'their course together again in the anterior furrow of the metatarsal bone; and at the root of the toes, separate once more, and proceed to die interspaces of the three anterior toes, and each divides into two fila- ments, which run along the sides of the toes to the nail."—Rees' Ci/clopadia, Art. Birds. The great sympathetic nerve of birds resem- bles, in many particulars, that of mammals. It enters the cranium by the same orifice as that by which the nervus vagus and the glosso- pharyngeal make their exit; it there unites with the fifth and sixth pair of nerves. At the base of the cranium the first ganglion, or su- perior cervical, is of a lenticular form, and communicates at once with the ninth and eighth pairs of nerves, so as to seem as if it were blended with them. The remainder of the chain of cervical ganglions are very remarkably situated, being lodged on either side in the canal of the vertebral artery formed by the trans- verse processes ; into which it passes, or from which it escapes above, at the third cervical vertebra, while below the sympathetic again becomes conspicuous at the commencement of