517 CEPHALOPODA. datids are bodies endowed with vitality, the most common species of which is the acepha- locyst; another species is the cysticercus cel- lulosus. The jiluriu medinensis, or guinea- worm, is another parasitic animal which has been seen in the human body. Lastly, the cellular tissue may vary in the degree of its consistence, colour, &c.; and owing to some derangement in the function of nutrition, it may present a preternatural in- crease or a wasting of its substance : (hyper- trophy or atrophy.) Bibliography. — Bordeu, Recherches sur le tissu muq., in his works by Richerand. W. Hunter, in Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. ii. p. 17. Holier, Elementa Physiolog. The systems of Portal, Bichat, Meckel, Beclard, Craigie, and Grainger, Blandin § Beclard, Add. a l'Anat. Gen. de Bichat. Diet, de Med. art. Cell. Tissue. M. Edwards, Recherches microsc. sur la struct, intime des tiss. organ, des anim. Hodykin, Annals of Phil. Aug. 1827. The systems of physiology by Blumenhach, Majendie, Bostock, and Tiedemann. Fodera, Journ. de Phys. t. iii. p. 35. Lindley, Introd. to botany. Roget, in Bridgwater Treat., Anim. and Veget. Phys. Grant's Lectures, Lancet, 1833, 34, vol. ii. p. 257. De Blainville, De 1'organis. des ariimaux. Hunter, Treatise on the blood, &c. Thomson's Lectures on inflammation. James, Observations on inflammation. Portal, Cours d'anat. med. t. ii. t. v. Lawrence, Lectures on inflammation, in Lancet, vol. i. 1829, 30. Hastings, Treatise on the lungs, p. 57. Billard, Traite des mal. des enf. nouv.-nes, p. 169. Gendrin, Hist. anat. des inflam. t. i. p. 14 ; t. ii. 358. Andral, Precis d'anat. pathol. Otto, Com- pendium of pathological anatomy, by South. Cop- land, Diet, of Pract. Med. art. Cellular Tissue. Wells, Transactions of a Society for Improvement of Medi- cal and Cbirurgical Knowledge, vol. iii. Breschet, Recher. sur les hydrop. actives, &c. Paris, 1812. Blackall, Obs. on dropsy, London, 1813. Aber- crombie, in Edin. Med. and Sur. Journal, vol, xiv. Ayre's Researches into the nature and treatment of dropsy, p. 1 et seq. Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Anasarca. Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. art. Acephalocystes, Anasarqne, Emphyseme, Entozoaires, Inflammation. Mayo, Outlines of human patho- logy. Lobstein, Traite d'anat. pathol. p. 201. Duncan, in Trans, of Med. Chir. Soc. Edin. vol. i. (JR. D. Grainger.) CEPHALOPODA—(x6(pax„, caput, pes); Eng. Cephalopods; Fr. Cephalopodes; Germ.Kopffusslern, Blackfische, Tinten-fische; Ital. Scppie, Polpi. Syn. MaXanloc, Aristotle; Mottia, Pliny; the genera Nautilus, Argo- nauta, and Sepia, Linne; Octopodia, Schneider; Mollusca brachiata, Poli; Mollusca Cephalo- poda, Cuvier ; Cephalopoda, Lamarck, Leach; Brachiocephula, Cephalophores, De Blainville ; Pterygia, Latreille, (including the Pteropoda of Cuvier); Antliobrachionuphora, Gray. Definition.—A class of Molluscous Inver- tebrate animals in which the head (A, figs. 206, 209,) is situated between the trunk (B) and the feet (C), or principal organs of loco- motion. Characters of the Cluss.—The trunk or body is thick and soft; varying in form from a sphere, to a flattened ellipse, or elongated cylinder; sometimes protected by a shell, sometimes naked; consisting of a membranous or muscular sheath or mantle, with a transverse anterior* aperture (a, Jigs. 206, et seq.) and containing the respiratory, circulating, gene- rative, and principal digestive viscera: the mantle sometimes supports a pair of fins (J>, figs. 207, 208, 209,) and, in the naked species, lodges in its substance the rudiments of a shell. The head is distinct from the trunk, of large size, and of a rounded figure ; it contains the organs of sense, mastication,and deglutition, and gives off from its anterior circumference or exter- nal surface, a number of fleshy processes which encircle and more or less conceal the mouth. These processes, by some naturalists termed the feet, but which we prefer to call, with Poli, the arms, are either very numerous, short, and hollow, containing each a long, slender retrac- tile tentacle (figs. 205, 213) ; or they are eight (figs. 206, 210), or ten (figs. 207, 208), in number, solid, supporting on their internal surface numerous suckers (antlia, ucetabula) ; and being more or less elongated and flexible in every direction, they act as powerful organs of adhesion, prehension, and locomotion. The eyes are a single pair, of large size, varying in relative perfection of structure ac- cording to the locomotive powers of the spe- cies, and either pedunculated or sessile. The mouth is anterior, and situated at the bottom of the conical cavity formed by the base of the feet; it is provided with two horny or calcareous jaws, shaped like the mandibles of a Parrot, playing vertically on each other, and inclosing a large fleshy tongue, which is armed with recurved horny spines. The branchial are concealed within the man- tle, and are symmetrical in size, form, and posi- tion. The systemic circulation is aided by a muscular ventricle. The infundibulum, (i,figs. 206, 208,) or pas- sage through which the respiratory currents and the excrements are discharged, is a muscular tube, situated at the anterior part of the neck, shaped like an inverted funnel, with the pipe projecting from the visceral cavity, and directed forwards. The sexual organs are separate and exist in distinct individuals; but whether impregnation takes place by copulation or after the ova are excluded is not determined; the former is most probable. All the species are aquatic and marine. Division of the Class into Orders.— The type of organization which characterizes the Cephalopods, and of which the preceding is a general outline, presents two principal modi- fications, according to which the class is di- vided into two orders.f * Throughout the present article the terms of aspect and position relate to that in which the animal is represented in Jig.208. The shell covers the posterior part of the body, the arms are anterior and directed forwards; the letters A, B, C, are along the dorsal or upper surface, the letter i is beneath the ventral or lower surface. t A third order of Cephalopods (the Celluhcea of De Blainville) has been proposed to include an extensive series of minute polythalamous shells, of exquisite beauty in their form and sculpture, which differ from the camerated shells of our Tetrabran- chiate order in the absence of a siphon, but which