AVES. 314 the beak, in consequence of the union which takes place between different small fibres as they pass from the circumference inwards. It is worthy of observation that the principle of the cylinder is introduced into this elaborate structure : the smallest of the supporting pdlars of the mandibles are seen to be hollow or tubular when examined with the microscope. The structure is the same in the lower man- dible {m,fig. 150), but the fibres composing the net-work are in general stronger than those of the upper mandible. The medullary membrane lining these cavi- ties appears to have but a small degree of vascularity. Processes of the membrane, ac- companying vessels and nerves, decussate the conical cavity at the base of the beak. The air is admitted to the interior of the upper mandible from a cavity {b, fig. 150) situated anterior to the orbit, which communicates at its posterior part with the air-cell continued into the orbit, and at its anterior part with the maxillary cavity. The nasal cavity is closed at every part except at its external and internal aper- tures by the pituitary membrane, and has no communication with the interior of the mandible. * The horny sheath of the mandibles in the Hornbills and Toucans is so thin that it often becomes irregularly notched at the edge from use. The Hornbills have, besides, upon their enormous beak, horn-like prominences of the same structure and of different forms, the use of which is not known. The Trogons, Touracos, Buccos, &c. exhibit forms of the bill which are intermediate to that of the large but feeble bill of the Toucans, and the short, but hard, strong, and broad bill of the Parrot-tribe, which is also hooked, so as to assist in climbing, like a third foot: {fig. 128.) The short, conical, and vaulted beak of the Rasores {fig. 121) serves to pick up with due rapidity the vegetable seeds and grains which constitute their food, as well as small insects, as ants, &c. with which the young are frequently nourished. The bills of the small Insessorial or Pas- serine birds present every gradation of the conical form, from the broad-based cone of the Hawfinch to the almost filamentous cone of the Humming-birds {fig. 117, 125), and each of these forms influences the habits of the species in the same manner as in the larger birds. The short and strong-billed Insessores live on seeds and grains; those with a long and slender bill on insects or vegetable juices. If the slender bill be short, flat, and the gape very wide, as in Swallows, the bird takes the insects while on the wing {fig. 118) ; if the bill be elongated and endowed with sufficient strength, as in the Hoopoes, it serves to penetrate the soil and pick out worms, &c. Of all bills, the most extraordinary is that of the Cross-bill, in which the extremities of the mandibles curve towards opposite sides and * See Anatomical Appendix to Gould's Mono- graph on the RamphastidcB, fol. cross each other at a considerable angle—a dis- position which at first sight seems directly opposed to the natural intention of a bill. With this singular disposition, the Cross-bill, however, possesses the power of bringing the points of the mandibles into contact with each other ; and Mr. Yarrell, in his excellent paper on the Anatomy of the Beak of this bird, ob- serves that, notwithstanding M.Buffon's asser- tion to the contrary, it can pick up the smallest seeds, and shell or husk hemp and similar seeds like other birds. He further shows that the disposition and power of the muscles is such that the bill gains by its very apparent defect the requisite power for breaking up the pine- cones that constitute its natural food. In a pair of Cross-bills which were kept for some time in captivity, one of their principal occu- pations, Mr. Yarrell observes, " was twisting out the ends of the wires of their prison, which they accomplished with equal ease and dexterity. A short flat-headed nail that confined some strong net-work was a favourite object upon which they tried their strength, and the male, who was usually pioneer in every new exploit, succeeded, by long-continued efforts, in draw- ing this nail out of the wood, though not without breaking off the point of his beak in the experiment. Their unceasing destruction of cages at length brought upon them sentence of banishment.'' He concludes his memoir by observing that " the remarks of Buff'on on the beak of this bird, which he characterizes as ' an error and defect of nature, and a useless deformity,' exhibit, to say the least of them, an erroneous and hasty conclusion, unworthy of the spirit of the science he cultivated. During a series of observations on the habits and structure of British Birds, I have never met with a more interesting or beautiful ex- ample of the adaptation of means to an end than is to be found in the tongue, the beak, and its muscles, in the Cross-bill." * The tongue, as has been already observed, can hardly be considered as an organ of taste in Birds, since, like the mandibles, it is gene- rally sheathed with horn. It is principally adapted to fulfil the offices of a prehensile organ in association with the beak, and it pre- sents almost as many varieties of form. Orni- thologists have not yet perhaps derived all the advantages which a study of the modifications of the tongue might afford in determining the natural affinities of birds. The os hyoides very much resembles that of Reptiles. Its parts have been minutely studied by Geoffroy St. Hilaire, who has bestowed upon them separate names: (a, fig. 151) is the glosso-hyal, b the basi-hyal, d d the apo-hyals, e e the cerato-hyals, c the uro-hyal. The body, or basi-hyal element, is more thickened than the rest: in some birds it is cylindrical. The length of the tongue depends chiefly on that of the lingual process or glosso-hyal element. In most birds it is lengthened out by a carti- lage a' appended to its extremity. This is re- markable in the Swan and other Lamelli-rostres. * Zool. Journal, vol. iv. p. 464.