13 ABDOMEN. consider this as merely a portion of the subperi- toneal cellular tissue, but I cannot help regard- ing it as a process from the iliac fascia itself to envelope the vessels just as that fascia envelopes the circumflexa ilii artery between two lamina at its outer margin. I have never seen an in- stance in which this sheath was not perfectly dis- tinct, in some cases it is of considerable strength, but in the majority weak and transparent. It was this sheath which impeded Mr. Abernethy in one of his earliest operations for applying a ligature to the external iliac artery.* The connexion which the iliac fascia has with the fascia transversalis at the crural arch, and the relation both bear to the iliac vessels at their exit to become femoral, suggested to Mr. Collesa comparison which is constantly referred to by anatomists. " It may be said to resem- ble," he says, " a funnel, the wide part or mouth of which occupies the hollow of the ilium and lower part of the abdominal muscles, and the narrow part or pipe of which passes downwards on the thigh. The mouth of this funnel may be supposed to rise as high as the upper edge of the iliac muscle, and to be turned toward the cavity of the abdomen : the pipe joins the wide part where the external iliac vessels are passing under Poupart's ligament, and it is continued down on the thigh, so low as to reach the insertion of the saphena into the femoral vein."f From the preceding sections it appears that a fibro-cellular expansion lines the whole in- ternal surface of the abdominal parietes. It is so likewise with the pelvis, and also with the thorax. The cavity of the cranium, too, is lined with a fibrous membrane, although of a different nature, and doubtless performing a dif- ferent office. 5. Between the internal fibrous expan- sion of the abdomen and the peritoneum is a cellular tissue, which presents different cha- racters in each region; it is the subperitoneal cellular tissue. Along the anterior wall it is thin and fine, except inferiorly opposite the in- ternal abdominal ring, where it becomes more abundant, as well as in the hypogastric region, immediately above the pubis. In the iliac fossa and lumbar region it is lax and abundant, especially in the latter, where there is also a considerable quantity of fat surrounding the kidney. In the iliac fossa this cellular tissue is stretched across the crural ring, and forms what Cloquet describes under the name of septum crurale. On the superior wall it is ex- tremely fine, and in very small quantity. Im- mediately behind the sternum, and in the mid- dle line, this cellular tissue communicates with that of the mediastinum through a separation of the anterior fibres of the diaphragm. This subserous cellular tissue forms the pri- mary covering of all hernia3, which push a peritoneal sac before them, and as being the fascia constituting the nearest investment of the sac, it is generally called the fascia propria. * Abernethy's Surgical Works, vol. i. p. 225. t Colles' Surgical Anatomy, pp. 68, 69. Opposite the crural canal this cellular tissue is often so abundant, as, when condensed by the pressure of the hernial tumour, to form an ex- pansion over the sac of considerable thickness. Sometimes it contains fat, and not unfrequently we find a large lymphatic ganglion in it, filling up the crural ring. 6. Peritoneum.—A considerable part of the abdominal surface of the walls of the abdomen is lined by a very fine transparent serous mem- brane—the peritoneum, which is likewise con- nected, to a greater or less extent, with every viscus within the cavity. In consequence of this double connexion, it happens that in various situations the peritoneum is reflected from the wall of the abdomen upon an adjacent viscus, and thus are produced various folds of this mem- brane, which demand the attention of the ana- tomist. These folds are rendered distinct when such a section of the anterior abdominal wall is made as without dividing them to allow of it being held apart from the viscera. I shall enumerate these folds in describing the relation of the peritoneum to the several walls. The anterior wall of the abdomen is entirely lined by peritoneum, and has in connexion with it four folds, all of which, as it were, radiate from the umbilicus. In the adult these folds are reflected round four ligamentous cords (three of which are the remains of bloodvessels in the foetus), which meet at the umbilicus and diverge, one upwards, backwards, and to the right side (the obliterated umbilical vein), two downwards and outwards towards Pou- part's ligament on each side, so as to pass behind the inguinal canal, nearly midway between the two rings (the obliterated um- bilical arteries), and the fourth nearly ver- tically downwards along the middle line to be inserted into the apex of the bladder (the ura- chus). The four folds are similar in direction to that of the fibrous cords contained within them : the fold which passes upwards towards the liver is falciform, the concavity being di- rected downwards and backwards. From its connexion with the convex surface of the liver it is also called the falciform ligament of the liver, and the fibrous cord contained in its in- ferior margin, the ligamentum teres. The in- ferior and external folds pass each from the umbilicus, downwards and outwards to the iliac fossa, to a point a little on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, where it dis- appears, being continued externally over the iliac fossa, and internally behind the rectus muscle. This fold, when stretched towards the umbilicus, evidently forms the partition between two pouches, the external and in- ternal inguinal pouches, which correspond re- spectively to the internal and external abdo- minal rings, and indicate the situations at which make their escape those two forms of inguinal hernia, which, from their connexion with these pouches, are called by Hesselbach external and internal inguinal hernise ; the for- mer being that by oblique descent, the latter that by direct descent. The fourth or vertical fold indicates the