AVES. 290 laws of co-existence and all that relates to the nature of the organs and their essential func- tions, as at the present day. They afford no evidence, not even a trace of any part having been lengthened or curtailed, or otherwise pro- gressively modified, either by the operation of external causes or by internal voluntary im- pulse. Myology.—The muscular system of Birds is remarkable for the distinctness and density of the carneous fibres, their deep red colour, and their marked separation from the ten- dons, which are of a brilliant shining colour, and have a peculiar tendency to ossification. This high degree of development results from the rapid circulation of very warm blood, which is highly oxygenated in consequence of the activity and extent of the respiratory func- tion. The energy of the muscular contraction in this class is in the ratio of the activity of the vital functions, but its permanent irrita- bility is proportionally low, as Carus has justly observed. Fig. 133. Muscles of a Sparrow-hawk. These characteristic properties are mani- fested in the greatest degree in the muscles of those families of the Insessores which take their food on the wing, as the Hirundinid/e and Trochilida (Swallows and Humming-birds); in the Diurnal Raptores and in the long- winged Palmipedes, as the Albatross, Tropic Bird, &c. In the more heavy and slow- moving Herbivorous families, and in the short- winged Swimmers, as the Penguins, &c. the muscles resemble those of the Reptilia in their softness and pale-colour. The mechanical disposition of the muscular system is admirably adapted to the aerial loco- motion of this class; the principal masses being collected below the centre of gravity, beneath the sternum, beneath the pelvis, and upon the thighs, they act like the ballast of a vessel and assist in maintaining the steadiness of the body during flight, while at the same time the extremities require only long and thin tendons for the communication of the muscu- lar influence to them and are thereby rendered light and slender. Muscles of the trunk.—The muscles of the cervical region are the most developed, as might be expected from the size and mobility of this part of the spine; the muscles which are situ- ated on the dorsal and lumbar regions are, on the other hand, very indistinct, feeble, and but slightly carneous; they are not, however, entirely wanting. The Semi-spinalis dorsi or Opisthotenar, is easily recognizable, occupying the space be- tween the spinous and transverse processes, arising from the anterior margin of the ilium and the transverse processes of the sacrum, and attached by means of long tendons to the transverse processes of the costal vertebrae. It is most developed in those birds which have the greatest mobility in this part of the spine, as in the Penguins, in which the external venter of the muscle is well developed, inserted into the vertebral ends of the ribs, and adapted to support the body in the erect position which these birds assume while standing. On the mesial aspect of this muscle and somewhat covered by it, the Spinalis dorsi may be distinctly traced, passing from the spinous processes behind, to those at the anterior part of the trunk and beginning of the neck. The Cervicalis ascendens (1, jig. 133) is the chief extensor of the neck : it rises from the spines of the anterior dorsal vertebra;, and is inserted by long and separate fasciculi into the posterior articular processes of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. In this course it receives descending slips of muscle from the spines of the inferior cervical vertebrae, and ascending fasciculi, which furnish tendons to the fifth and sixth vertebrae, and to the atlas, so that it is enabled to extend the neck even while the head is raised. Muscles corresponding to the Intertrans- versales (2) are continued on the neck from the extemal belly of the Opisthotenar; these slips extend from the articular processes of the dorsal vertebrae to those of the inferior cervical. Posterior to the Intertransversales, the Semispi- nal colli (3) is seen passing from the trans- verse to the spinous processes. The Longus colli arises from the anterior