THE EDITOR takes advantage of the opportunity afforded by the publication of the first Part of THE CYCLOPEDIA OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, to state more fully than can be done in a title-page the precise object and extent of the work. It is intended to embrace the whole of the sciences of Anatomy and Physiology, those terms being used in their largest sense as far as regards the Animal Kingdom. The anatomy of Man will form a considerable portion of the Work ; and this will com- prise not only the healthy or normal condition of his oeconomy, but likewise the abnor- mal states of the several organs and tissues, involving congenital aberrations from the natural formation as well as those changes which are the result and evidence of Disease; thus affording a complete system of Human Anatomy, — general, descriptive, surgical and morbid. But the anatomical portion of the Work will further comprehend the anatomy of the inferior animals, contained in a series of articles to which the names of the several subregna and classes of the Animal Kingdom are prefixed; and when to these are added dissertations on certain particular organs, or on the modi- fications which the systems of organs experience in the different gradations of the Animal series, a system of Comparative Anatomy will be formed, novel in its plan, and which it is presumed will prove of much greater utility to the Naturalist than if it were limited to the arrangement hitherto generally adopted. In the composition of the Zootomical articles, it was found advisable to introduce much that relates to the arrange- ment and subdivision of the several classes, and much likewise respecting the habits and peculiarities of the animals composing them, and thus a general outline of Zoology will be found included in those articles. But, as the Anatomist is not contented merely with what the scalpel presents to him, but has recourse to chemical analysis to obtain still further insight into the nature of animal substances, it would be a serious omission did not Animal Chemistry likewise obtain its due share of attention. In Physiology, which has been of late so much elucidated and advanced by the extended researches of the Comparative Anatomist, it is intended that this Work shall afford full information as to the state of science up to the present day, the articles in this Department being placed under the heads of the principal functions which are found throughout the whole or nearly the whole Animal Kingdom, as well as under those of some functions peculiar to certain classes. In conclusion, in referring to the list of eminent scientific men who have kindly engaged to contribute to this Work, the Editor trusts that it is not too much to say that there will be found in that list no inconsiderable security for the manner in which the great object of the Work will be accomplished. The Editor has to acknowledge himself much indebted, in the department of Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, to Professor Grant, whose numerous engagements have prevented his more intimate association in the Work as co-Editor, according to the original intention. To his talented and able friend Mr. Owen he is likewise under especial obligations for many valuable suggestions in the same Department, and he looks forward with pleasure to a continuance of the same valuable assistance in the progress of the Work. 26, Parliament-Street, May, 1835.