BURS7E MUC0S7E. 469 1. Structure.—The opinion of Haller, that these membranes are ultimately composed of cellular substance, though controverted by Monro and others, is, however, now universally admitted. They are, in fact, like all synovial membranes, essentially composed of cellular substance, entirely destitute of fibre, scantily supplied with vessels, and remarkable for their softness and flexibility. The vaginal bursa? are, however, much more delicate than the vesicular. The fatty bundles, mistaken by Havers for glands, are frequently found in their substance. Rosenmiiller speaks of distinct synovial follicles as likewise demonstrable, but the existence of any such bodies appears to us more than doubtful. 2. Contents.—Experiments have been made by Monro and others, to shew that the fluid contained in bursae is similar to that contained in synovial membranes. These, however, may now be looked upon as superfluous, inasmuch as this question has merged in the general one, viz , the identity of the two structures. Chemistry, in fact, has proved that their fluid and that of synovial membranes are, if not completely, at least essentially the same. In the subcutaneous bursae it is scanty and thin; in the larger and deeper ones it is said to be somewhat more viscid. 3. Function.—The use of bursas is in all cases the same; they serve to isolate certain parts and facilitate the motions performed by them: hence they are found only in those situations which are the seat of motion. Their fluid, from its oily consistence, must of course tend considerably to diminish the effects of fric- tion. 4. Development.—Bursae are developed at a very early period, and are relatively more pliant and perfect in the child than in the adult, to facilitate, as it would appear, the almost incessant movements natural to that period of life. They become more dense and unyielding in the adult, and in extreme old age are said to become dry and rigid. This, no doubt, is amongst the causes which render the movements of old age slow and laboured. A curious fact connected with this subject is the accidental development of bursas in cases where their presence becomes necessary. When the superficial bursa in front of the patella has been removed by operation, its place is ulti- mately supplied, as Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen, by a newly formed one, similar in every respect to the original sac. In cases of club- foot a large subcutaneous bursa has been found developed upon that portion of the swelling which has been the chief seat of pressure and motion: and in cases of diseased spine, at- tended with considerable angular curvature, a bursa has become developed between the pro- jecting spinous process and the skin. Pathological conditions of burs* mu- cosa.—Bursae mucosae, superficial as well as deep, are not unfiequently the seat of inflamma- tion, resulting either from external causes, such as cold or local injury, or from constitutional causes. In the majority of cases inflammation in these structures assumes a chronic form, and its ordinary effects are either to increase the quan- tity of the synovial fluid, to determine the eff usion of a turbid serum loaded with flakes of lymph, or to end in the formation of matter. The general phenomena of bursal inflamma- tion may be studied with most advantage in the large subcutaneous bursa in front of the knee- joint : it is more frequently inflamed than any other in the system. This, however, is not owing to any peculiarity of structure predis- posing it to disease, but merely to the accidental circumstance of its situation, which exposes it more than any other to external injury. In those persons who continue for a long time in the kneeling attitude, in devotional exer- cises for example, and still more remarkably in those whose occupation obliges them not only to support the body but also to move upon the knees (as carpenters, housemaids, and others), inflammation of this bursa is very frequently met with. In many instances it occasions little general or local disturbance, merely causing an increased effusion of the proper synovial secretion, without producing any change whatever in its natural properties. In other cases the fluid is not only increased in quantity, but becomes changed likewise in quality; it assumes the appearance of a turbid serum, with numerous flakes of lymph floating in it; or where the disease has been of long- standing, the fluid is frequently found loaded with a number of loose bodies, almost of the consistence of cartilage, and of a flattened oval form. Sir Benjamin Brodie compares their appearance not inaptly to that of melon-seeds, and he considers them as portions of lymph originally of an irregular shape, but which, by the motions and pressure of the surrounding parts, have had their angles worn off, and assumed by degrees a firm consistence. They have been found likewise in the smaller bursa?. Monro has seen upwards of fifty extracted from the small bursa of the flexor pollicis longus tendon, where, by excessively distending the surrounding parts, they had produced severe pain. When the great vaginal bursae of the flexor tendons have become the seat of effusion, a very remarkable appearance may present itself, at once explicable, however, by referring to the anatomy of the part. The fluid can by pressure be forced downwards under the annular liga- ment, and into the palm of the hand, and thence upwards again into the forearm. Some authors have deemed it proper to designate by a par- ticular name this termination of the disease by effusion, and the words thygroma and ganglion have been applied with a good deal of con- fusion by different persons; but it appears to us that there exists no necessity for a specific name to refer to this accidental mode in which inflammation terminates. A much more important termination' of the disease is that in which, owing to local or con- stitutional causes above alluded to, the inflam- mation, having run a severer course, ends in suppuration. Sir Benjamin Brodie has in this case observed that the matter may take either of two courses : it may come directly to the surface ; or, without pointing forwards, it may