CARNIVORA. 475 perpendicular or directed rather forwards, par- ticularly in the cats, the coatis, the badger, and some others. In the dogs there are also small inferior spinous processes. The dorsal region varies much in its relative proportions with the lumbar region and with the size of the animal; a point which will be more particularly alluded to presently. The spinous processes are very strong and strait, and directed backwards. The number of the dorsal vertebra, and, con- sequently, of the ribs, varies in the different genera of the order, from thirteen, which is the most common number, to sixteen, of which we have an example in the Glutton (Gulo articus). The lumbar vertebra are remarkably strong in almost all the Carnivora, though less so than in some other orders. The spinous processes are long and directed forwards, particularly in the cats and clogs. The transverse processes are also very large and strong; but the most im- portant circumstance connected with the cha- racter of these vertebra is the relative propor- tions which exist between them and the dorsal in different species, not so much with regard to number, as to the proportional extent of the two regions. In respect even to number, the variations of the lumbar vertebrae are not in- considerable : thus, the Ratel and the Hyena have only four, whilst the cats and many others have seven. But we find that in those species which, from their habits, require great power of springing, of rapid running, or of great flexibility of motion, the relative extent of the lumbar region is increased in proportion. Thus, whilst in the Hyena the lumbar region bears to the dorsal only the proportional length of four and a half to fourteen, and in the Ratel of three to eight and a half; in the Lion we find it as fifteen to eighteen, and in the Panther, the Wild Cat and the Civet, the extent of the two regions is almost exactly equal. This is a con- sideration of great importance, not in the Carnivora only, but in the Huminantia and other orders, where the different groups are found to vary much in their powers of spring- ing and their general activity : for the propor- tion of the lumbar to the dorsal regions will invariably be found in exact accordance with the extent of those powers. The Sacrum is composed of several vertebras, as in most other mammifera; in the present order there are generally three or four, though in the Brown Bear there are six (Cuvier says five), and in the White Bear seven; in the Coati there is but one, and in the Hyena only two. The spinous processes of the Sacrum are more developed in this order than in many others. Cuvier observes that, in those animals which, from their habits, occasionally rise upon their hinder legs and hold themselves upright, the Sacrum is broader than in others of the same order, and he instances the Brown Bear in the present order as an example. The tail, consisting of the coccygeal vertebra, varies excessively amongst the Carnivora, and this in many cases in the same family, and with but little obvious relation to the habits of the species. As a general rule it may be ob- served that the most active, and those which possess the most flexible spinal column, have the greatest number of caudal vertebrae. Thus, while the Brown Bear has only about six, the Lion has twenty-three, and the Panther twenty- four. In many of the Carnivora which have long tails, the spinous processes are generally di- rected from before backwards, but are always very small, and exist only on the few anterior vertebrae of the tail. The middle and posterior coccygeal vertebra are therefore more deve- loped in length and become almost cylindrical, excepting that they are thicker at each extre- mity. As in other orders, the anterior portion only of the tail conveys the spinal marrow, the posterior being impervious. The most im- perfect developement of this portion of the vertebral column is found in the Seals, in which generally it is only the first vertebra which possesses even a trace of spinous and transverse processes, the remainder being al- most cylindrical, without even any enlargement at each extremity. The ribs correspond in number with the dorsal vertebrae. Their curvature varies con- siderably both as regards the different portions in the same species and the general form in different groups. In many of the mammifera the difference in this respect between the an- terior and middle regions of the thorax is very striking; this, however, is generally not so much so in the present order, in which, as a general rule, the anterior ribs are not less arched than the others. The anterior ones, however, are very much smaller and shorter than the middle and posterior. The relative number of true and false ribs would, a priori, appear to have some relation to the degree of rapidity or of flexibility in the animal's move- ments ; and hence that those which leap or swim would require greater mobility of the thorax, and consequently a greater proportion of false ribs. Now, although this is strikingly the case with regard to some of the cetacea, which have only from one to five fixed ribs, and from ten to seventeen false, yet no such rule is observable in the present order; the Seal and the Lion having even a less propor- tion of moveable ribs than the Bear and the Glutton. The sternum in the Carnivora does not vary greatly in breadth in its different portions. It is much more developed longitudinally in these animals than in most others, and is scarcely broader than it is deep. The anterior piece of this bone in the Seals is remarkably long, and is also moveable. The shoulder, composed of the same ele- ments as in the other mammifera, varies, how- ever, considerably in the degree of develope- ment of the bones of which it is formed. The scapula is depressed and remarkably broad from the anterior to the posterior margin, and in some cases—as in the Badger especially, and in some degree in the Bear—it assumes almost a quadrate form. The spine of this bone, which in the Seal is very small, is of great size and strength in the bear tribe3 par-