58 ADIPOSE TISSUE. same distinct arrangement of an appropriate organ, but simply masses of adipose, or rather sebaceous matter, interposed between the at- tached surface of the serous membranes and the adjoining or the contained organs. Fat occurs in a third modification in the marrow of bones. The adipose granules, which are soft, whitish-yellow, and oleaginous, are here contained in a peculiar membrano-cellular web, forming numerous vesicles, which may be regarded as an ultra-osseous adipose tissue. It is a remarkable proof of the influence of the vital principle that during life the substance of the bones is never tinged with this animal oil, but the moment life is extinct, the marrow begins to transude and impart to the bones a yellow tint and a greasy aspect. Fat, though chiefly observed to occur in the bodies of animals, is nevertheless not confined solely to these bodies. Thus not only do va- rious kinds of oil and consistent oleaginous matter occur in certain vegetables, but sub- stances similar even to tallow are found in some vegetable productions. A sort of tallow is obtained from the vateria Indka, a forest-tree of the camphor family, indigenous in the Indian Archipelago. In a species of croton indigenous in China, namely, the croton sebiferum of Linnaeus, the stitlingia of Mi- chaux, or tallow-tree, the seeds are covered with a quantity of fat, bearing so close a re- semblance in all its properties to tallow, that it is used by the Chinese in the manufacture of candles; and the fruits of the aleurites triloba, a native of the Sandwich Islands, of the same natural family with the croton, are the candle- nuts of the inhabitants of these remote regions. It is chiefly in the subcutaneous layer that the organization of the adipose membrane has been investigated. The constituent vesicles or bags consist of firm, tenacious, ligamentous, gray, or whitish-gray coloured substance, mu- tually united by means of delicate filamentous tissue. These vesicles or sacs receive arterial and venous branches, the arrangement of which has been described by various authors, from Malpighi, who gave the first accurate account, to Mascagni, to whom we are indebted for the most recent. According to Malpighi,* the bloodvessels divide into minute ramifications, to the extremities of which are attached the membranous sacs, containing the globules of fat so as to bear some resemblance to the leaves attached to the footstalks of trees. These ve- sicular or saccular arteries are afterwards di- vided into more minute vessels, which then form upon the vesicular sacs a delicate vascular network. According to Mascagni, who repre- sents these vessels in accurate delineations, the furrow or space between each packet con- tains an artery and vein, which, being subdi- vided, penetrates between minute grains or adi- pose particles, of which the packet is composed, and furnishes each component granule with a small artery and vein. The effect of this ar- * De Omento, Pingucdinc, ct Adiposis Ductibus, p. 41. rangement is that each individual grain or adipose particle is supported by its artery and vein as by a footstalk or peduncle, and those of the same packet are kept together not only by contact, but by the community of ramifications from the same vessel. These grains are so closely attached that Mascagni, who examined them with a good lens, compares them to a cluster of fish-spawn. Grutzmacher found much the same arrangement in the grains and vesicles of the marrow of bones.* It has been supposed that the adipose tissue receives nervous filaments; and Mascagni con- ceives he has demonstrated its lymphatics. Both points, however, are so problematical, that of neither of these tissues is the distribution known. The substance contained in these vesicles is entirely inorganic. Always solid in the dead body, it has been represented as being fluid during life, byWinslow, Haller, Portal, Bichat, and most authors on anatomy. The last writer, indeed, states that under the skin it is more consistent, and that in various living animals he never found it so fluid as is represented. The truth is that in the human body, and in most mammiferous animals during life, the fat is neither fluid nor semifluid. It is simply soft, yielding, and compressible, with a slight degree of transparency, or rather translucence. This is easily established by observing it during incisions through the adipose membrane, either in the human body or in the lower animals. The internal or sebaceous fat, however, espe- cially that interposed between the fat of the serous membranes, is much more consistent and solid. The reason of these differences will be understood from what is now to be stated re- garding the proximate principles of animal fat. The microscopical and atomical structure of fat has recently formed the subject of investi- gation by M. Raspail.f By placing a portion of lacerated fat upon a sieve, with an earthen vessel below it, and directing upon it a stream of water, numerous amylaceous granules are de- tached and pass through the sieve, and after falling to the bottom of the water afterwards rise to the surface, in the form of a crystalline powder, as white as snow. When these par- ticles are collected by scumming, and dried, they form a starchy powder, though soft and somewhat oleaginous to the touch, and which does not reflect the light in a manner so cry- stalline as an amylaceous deposit does. According to M. Baspail, when examined microscopically, these granules present forms and dimensions varying in different animals, in the same animal and even in animals of dif- ferent ages, but in all clearly resembling grains of fecula. In the human body these particles are polyhedral and not susceptible of isolation. As they are more fluid also than in other animals, it is necessary to immerse the portion subjected to examination in nitric acid or liquor potusscE, either of which has the effect of consolidating the inclosed or central portion * De Ossium Medulla, Lips. 1758. t Repertoire Generate d'Anat. 1827.