BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. 418 The specific gravity of morbid serum has been much oftener ascertained than that of morbid blood, and it leads to more precise information. The normal proportion of salts does not raise the specific gravity of serum above that of distilled water more than five parts in 1000.* The excess beyond this increase is owing to the presence of albumen. The quan- tity of other animal matter is too small to be worth taking into the account. Hence the spe- cific gravity of serum indicates with tolerable accuracy the quantity of albumen it contains. In some states of disease, where albumen is rapidly carried out of the system, as in dis- eased kidneys, in dropsies, and in profuse hemorrhages, the specific gravity of serum has been observed as low as 1013,+ whilst in other states, where water and even salts are removed, as in cholera, it is found as high as 10414 Neither the specific gravity of fibrine nor of red particles has been hitherto stated by authors. The former, by immersion in solution of salt, I find to be 1-079 at 60° Fahrenheit. Some of the latter will fall to the bottom of a solution of specific gravity 1-129, and when agitated with a solution of' even specific gravity 1-207, which is the point of saturation, will not rise to the top; but the experiment is not con- clusive, for the red particles certainly undergo some change by the addition of salt in solution. The temperature of the blood is materially influenced by disease. In fevers it is generally though »ot always above the healthy standard. In the cold stage of an intermittent the tempe- rature of the skin has, according to Dr. Wilson Philip, been observed as low as 74° Fahren- heit, while in its hot stage it has increased to 105°. A corresponding diminution or increase in the temperature of the blood in all probability occurred in these cases. Haller cites authorities to prove that in pleurisy and yellow fever the temperature of the blood has been known to rise to 102° and 104°, in intermittent fever to 106° and 108°, and in continued fever to 109°. Mor- gagni devotes several pages to the history of a woman, as related in the journal of a cotempo- rary, Media Via, whose blood flowed in an icy cold state from the arm. The serum of this blood was in small proportion and of a yellow colour; the crassamentum black and viscid. This person seems to have undergone repeated venesection. Thackrah witnessed a similar phenomenon. Whatever theory may be adopted respecting the generation of animal heat, it is a fact which is generally admitted, that it is effected through the medium of the blood, that it is, cateris ■paribus, increased in proportion to the velocity, freedom, and force of the circulation, and that it is mainly dependent for its development upon the presence of the red particles. Wherever these are deficient, either from natural disease or artificial depletion, animal heat is deficient likewise. Chlorotic females and those who are subject to habitual losses of blood usually * Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. part i. p. 57. t Firioht's Reports, vol. i. p. 85. \ O'Shan^hnessy's Report on Cholera, p. 29. suffer from coldness of the extremities. The phenomenon of fainting is always accompanied by diminished temperature; and whenever we cut off the supply of blood from a limb, it loses its natural warmth as an immediate conse- quence. Plethoric subjects, on the contrary, provided their circulation be unimpeded at its capillary extremities, or in the process of the pulmonary ventilation, are liable to preter- natural heat of the surface and profuse perspi- ration. As an actual diminution or increase in the quantity of the red particles produces a corresponding increase or diminution of animal heat, notwithstanding the natural change of venous to arterial blood, so likewise any cause which impedes that change, although the red particles be not deficient in quantity,will produce a like effect. Thus, in diseases of the heart, in pulmonary obstructions, especially of a spas- modic character, in the cold fit of ague, and in Asiatic cholera, there is a diminution of the natural warmth, although there is no reason to suppose that the red particles are actually less abundant than in health. Fibrine may undergo alterations in quality during disease. In the healthy state it is com- posed of definite quantities of oxygen, hydrogen, azote, and carbon ; and it is quite possible that some variety in the proportion of these consti- tuents may give rise in disease to morbid states of that principle. Huxham observes that in malignant petechial fevers the crasis is so broken as to deposit a sooty powder at the bottom of the vessel, the upper part being either a livid gore, or a dark green, and exceedingly soft jelly. De Haen saw the blood in a dis- solved state, and in the plague the bkod is said not to coagulate. In some persons there exists a state of con- stitution, bordering no doubt upon passive he- morrhagic disease, in which the blood is ob- served either to coagulate very imperfectly or not at all. Alarming hemorrhages from the slightest wounds are the consequence of such a diathesis, and the most powerful styptics will not always succeed in preventing their fatal termination. Dr. Wardrop, in a small work just published, has collected together several interesting cases of this kind, and from some of these it is demonstrated that such a condition may exist in many members of the same family, and even sometimes become hereditary. In the dead body blood is sometimes found in a liquid state, resembling water, holding in suspension a red, brown, or black colouring matter. In this case, according to M. Andral, it has been demonstrated chemically that it still contains fibrine, but altered in its character,, so as to be no longer coagulable. This dis- solved state of blood observable after death is probably the same as that which exists in sea- scurvy, in putrid and typhous fevers, and in the latter stages of fatally terminating diseases characterized by defective nervous energy. It is matter of more common observation, how- ever, that fibrine alters materially in its relative quantity. We often find that the clot is large in proportion to the serum, which may indeed arise from its being loose and defective in con-