108 ANIMAL KINGDOM. system is more concentrated around the en- trance to the alimentary canal in the mollus- cous classes, where it generally forms a trans- verse series of ganglia, disposed around the oesophagus, a character which is expressed by the term cyclo-gangliata. The dorsal position of the great ganglia and nervous columns of the cephalopods, and their partial protection by an organised osseous internal skeleton, leads to the condition of the nervous system presented by the vertebrated classes of animals, where its central parts are in the form of a lengthened dorsal nervous chord developed anteriorly into a brain, and protected by a vertebral column and cra- nium. The vertebrated classes are thus de- signated spini-cerebrata, from the form of the most influential part of their organization. To the lowest sub-kingdom or cyclo-neurose division belong five classes of animals; viz., 1. Polygastrica, microscopic, simple, transpa- Fig rent, soft, aquatic animals, in which no nervous filament has yet been detected, generally pro- vided with eyes, with a circular exsertile dental apparatus around the mouth, and with vibratile cilia for respiration and progressive motion, and provided with numerous internal stomachs or cceca communicating with the alimentary cavity. (See Polygastrica.) 2. Porifera, simple, aquatic, soft, animals, without perceptible nervous or muscular fila- ments or organs of sense, with a fibrous internal skeleton sometimes supported with silicious and sometimes with calcareous spicula, the body permeated with a soft gelatinous flesh, covered externally with minute absorbent pores, tra- versed by numerous ramified anastomosing canals, which commence from the pores and terminate in large open vents, as seen in the annexed figure of the kalina papillaris, Gr. (Jig. 29), which represents the animal as alive, 29. under water, with the usual currents passing inwards through its pores (a a), traversing its internal canals (b), and escaping by the larger vents (c, d.) (See Porifera.) 3. Polypifera, aquatic animals, of a plant- like form, generally fixed, of a simple internal structure, for the most part without perceptible nerves or muscles, or organs of sense, and nou- rished by superficial polypi, which are developed from the fleshy substance of the body, as in the campanularia dichotoma, (Jig. 30), where the Fig. 30. irritable fleshy tubular portion of the animal is seen to occupy the interior of the base, the stem, and the branches, and to extend in the form of polypi from the open terminal cells. The polypi of most zoophytes are provided with tentacula around their orifice, as seen at B, (Jig. 31), and the margins of these ten- tacula are generally furnished with numerous minute processes, termed cilia, (see Cilia,) by the rapid vibration of which, currents are pro- duced in the surrounding water for the pur- pose of attract- ing food and of aerating the surface and fluids of the body, as repre- sented in Jig. 3, A. (SeePo- LYPIFERA.) 4. Acalephm, soft aquatic free animals, of a simple structure, generally of a gelatinous and transparent texture, and emitting an acrid se- cretion which is capable of irritating and inflaming the skin like the stinging of a nettle, from which the name of the class is derived. They rarely possess a solid skeleton or a per- ceptible nervous system. They are all marine, often luminous, sometimes they possess eyes with a crystalline humour, they feed on minute floating animals, and swim by the contractions of a highly vascular and irritable mantle or by means of air-sacs, or by the rapid movement of