421 BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. man but iu the larger warm-blooded animals, and adverts to a disease, la gourme, common among horses, which arises from a coagulation of the blood in the large arteries and veins and in the heart. Thackrah is of the same opinion, and Dr. George Burrows, who has made the changes which take place in the blood when its circulation is stopped in the living body, the subject of the Croonian Lectures of the present year, states that " there can be but little doubt that in some cases the blood coa- gulates in the heart during life. The firmness of the clots found in its cavities after death— their close adhesion to the lining of the heart— the presence of various fluids in the centre of these clots—the occasional organization of the coagulated masses, and their partial conversion into structures which are similar to new growths in other parts of the body—are facts- which lead us to the conviction that the blood often coagulates in the heart long prior to death." That such coagulation may take place during life I am willing to admit, but I am by no means led to the conviction that such an event often occurs. To the formation of a firm coa- gulum I am persuaded that rest is absolutely necessary, and I must consider it as a very rare occurrence that the contents of the cavities of the heart should be at rest during life. The usual appearance of false polypi is such as would take place in blood that coagulated verv slowly, whether in or out of the body. Mr. Thackrah has proved that the blood when at rest coagu- lates much more slowly in living vessels, among which his experiments include vessels recently removed from living animals,* than in those that are dead ; and I conceive that the human body, long after the heart has ceased to beat, and when it is, in the common accepta- tion of the term, dead, is still endowed, like the vessel just separated from the living animal, with a sufficient share of vitality to keep the blood which is in the heart and larger vessels in a fluid state, and thus to permit its coagula- tion to take place at length far more slowly than under ordinary circumstances. The fol- lowing fact will perhaps be considered to have some interest as bearing on this point. I was engaged in the post-mortem examination of a gentleman who had died apoplectic from soft- ening of the brain, which had given rise to effu- sion into the ventricles and under the pia mater; and being desirous of examining the fluid thus effused, I collected it with a clean sponge, by successively dipping this into the ventricles, and squeezing the fluid into a small cup. With a view to increase the quantity, I used the sponge also in soaking up some of the same fluid which had been caught in the calvaria, but was somewhat tinged with red particles. The cup was set apart till the conclusion of the ex- amination, which lasted an hour and a half, when, on proceeding to transfer its contents to a phial, I was not a little surprised to find that a bulky clot of a rose colour and perfectly dis- tinct was formed in the fluid. The examina- tion in question took place twenty-two hours * Thackrah on the Blood, p. 85, expt. lii. & liii. after death. As long as galvanism will stimu- late the muscular structures to convulsive movement, so long at least may we conceive such a portion of vitality to remain as will in- fluence the state of the blood. The fluid thus circumstanced exhibits the same phenomena, though in a more marked degree, which we ob- serve in buffed blood out of the body. The red particles subside and leave the liquor san- guinis free from colour. In due time this separates into fibrine and serum : the coagula- tion takes place uniformly and universally, and in the larger cavities and vessels a colourless clot is left, which is moulded into their exact shape. The serum drains off, and washes away the red particles into the more depending and distant vessels. Thus it is that where we find polypi in the heart, we often find the descend- ing aorta and the vena cava inferior filled with fluid, in which there is no fibrine at all. The firmness of a polypus affords no proof that it existed during life, or rather before respiration and circulation had ceased ; for what can be firmer than the buffed coat which we often see formed out of the body ? Its close adhesion to the lining of the heart is generally in appearance only, and is occasioned by the exactness with which it has adapted itself to every cavity and sinus, and enveloped every column, and the force with which the heart itself has contracted upon it. The presence of fluid in the centre, however difficult to account for, is also occa- sionally met with in the crassamentum of blood abstracted from the arm ;* and even purulent matter, said to be found in false polypi, is oc- casionally formed out of the body. " In some rare cases I have seen the fibrine," says Andral, " assume a different aspect. The blood had no clot, and instead of it we observed at the bottom of the basin a kind of homogeneous purulent matter of a deep brown or dirty grey colour, and rather resembling sanies than blood." With regard to the existence of organization, it seems to me that sufficient distinction has not usually been made between those cases where the lining membrane of the cavities of the heart or vessels has been ruptured, and which in so far are of the character of aneu- rism, and those where that membrane has re- mained entire. I am willing to admit that where there is a lesion of surface, adventitious growths will readily spring from it; but their substance is furnished from the structure be- neath, and not from the circulating fluid. As an instance, I may mention the case of a youth who, being in perfect health, received a sudden shock from the unexpected discharge of a pistol close to his ear. He immediately felt conscious that something had given way in his heart, and from that hour suffered from palpitation, occa- sional syncope, with the usual symptoms of obstructed circulation, and died of general dropsy at the end of eighteen months. On ex- amination after death the mitral valve was found to be obstructed by a fringe of excre- scences, originating no doubt from a rupture of * See Hewson, p. 69 and 70.