382 BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. near the neck. Occasionally some of the longi- tudinal libres alter their direction gradually or abruptly, as may be particularly noticed about the ureters and also on the lateral regions. Great diversity exists as to the arrangement of this tunic in the lower animals: thus in the dog this plane consists of strong and regularly parallel fibres, whereas in the ox they assume a reticular and irregular course : in man they re- semble the arrangement of the carnivorous more than that of the graminivorous animals. This tunic must have the effect of compressing the bladder towards the ossa pubis, and of course urging the contents of the cavity in that direc- tion, while at the same time some of its fibres will expand the orifice of the urethra by draw- ing out the sphincter above and on either side, and below by depressing the uvula and the verumontanum. This stratum of muscular fibres can be raised with a little careful dissec- tion ; a few fibres must be divided, which now and then change their direction, and join some of the deeper orders : this separation is difficult and can be but imperfectly made on the lateral regions, but on the anterior and posterior it can be fully accomplished. The second order of muscular fibres is circular or transverse; they are paler, weaker, and more scattered than the former, particularly towards the superior part of the bladder, where they are often indistinct. As they descend they increase in thickness, par- ticularly near the cervix, where they are so close and distinct as to have induced many to consider them as a sphincter to the bladder,—a term, however, to which they do not appear to have been entitled, for there is no distinction between the fibres in this situation and those which have a parallel course at a greater dis- tance ; and inasmuch as the latter are obviously designed to contract the organ and to expel its contents, it is most probable that the former must contribute to the same effect, and forcibly expel the last drops which it contains : indeed it is impossible to draw such a line of distinc- tion in this lamina as could denote the limit between the expelling and the retaining or sphincter fibres. In addition to this plane of circular fibres, several others may also be ob- served taking a parallel direction ; thus we oc- casionally find transverse bands superficial to the longitudinal plane, both on the anterior and posterior regions in different situations. We very generally also find them near the superior fun- dus, and constantly on the anterior and lateral parts of the neck, where they cover the decus- sation of the longitudinal fibres. In the inter- val between the ureters, these transverse fibres are very distinct, particularly above, where they usually form a very distinct cord, arched a little upwards: this semilunar band or projection may be better seen when the bladder is opened; it corresponds to the base of the trigone, ex- tends from one ureter to the other, and is im- mediately in front of the pouch or bas fond of the bladder, which is so well marked in the adult and old. Throughout the rest of the trigone the circular fibres are by no means so distinct or strong as they are behind it, or as they are towards the anterior and lateral parts of the cervix. This circular plane of fibres may next be raised; it is almost impossible to do this completely, because many of them deviate from that course, and join into the next or third lamina, taking a totally different course; the separation, however, can be accomplished suffi- ciently to demonstrate the peculiar arrange- ment of the third plane of fibres, not all over the bladder, but only in particular situations, namely, in the greater part of the anterior and posterior regions, but only very imper- fectly on the superior fundus, and on the sides, and not at all on the trigone. Wherever this third layer is exposed, the fasciculi appear very large and thick, and present a very remark- able appearance and course, not unlike the inner surface of the cavities of the heart. Large fleshy bundles, bearing some resemblance to the cameae columns;, separate, unite again, and again subdivide, the fibres taking various direc- tions, and inclosing interstices of the mucous surface of various size and form : several of the fibres also join those of the circular plane. It is owing to this reticularly arranged stratum of muscular fibres that the bladder, when opened, presents its peculiar irregular surface, which in some cases, particularly if the bladder have been hardened in alcohol, resembles a honey- comb surface. If the bladder which has been opened be everted, then carefully closed and distended, this reticular coat will become very distinct when the mucous membrane has been removed. Its action during life must obviously be to contract the capacity of the bladder in every direction. When the internal surface of the bladder, even in the healthy state, is in- spected, the different orders of muscular fibres become very apparent; and when this coat has become thickened from any of those causes which are well known to produce thickening, some of the fasciculi often project into the bladder: such a condition of the organ is named a co- lumnar state of the bladder. In cases of irritable bladder, when calculous symptoms have been present, and the bladder has been sounded in consequence, these fleshy projections meeting the extremity of the sound, have in some in- stances deceived the surgeon into the idea of the existence of a calculus, and this is still more likely to occur should there be any gritty mat- ter adhering to their surface. Some of those recorded cases of the operation for lithotomy, in which no stone could be detected, although the symptoms of the disease previously existed, may admit of explanation by a knowledge of this fact. In the bladder of some persons the muscular fibres do not perfectly cover the mu- cous surface, particularly if the organ be very capacious. In such cases the mucous membrane may be pushed through some of the cells or meshes of the muscular fibres,and thus a hernia of the mucous coat be produced; that is, a small pouch or purse of this membrane will protrude between the muscular fasciculi, and will be covered only by peritoneum or by cellular tissue. This pouch may continue to increase in size, because it possesses no power of empty- ing itself, and the muscular fibres around its orifice can only contract the latter without