206 ARAC1INIDA. liave an apparatus for circulation pretty well developed. It consists of an elongated vessel placed immediately beneath the integument along the middle line of the dorsal aspect of the back, on which account it has received the name of dorsal vessel {fig- 89). It is kept in its situation by small ligaments or muscles, (a a), which in insects are called alee cordis. The texture of the dorsal vessel is membranous, and pretty firm; it contains a colourless fluid. This heart is in communication with numerous vessels, but hitherto it has not been discovered which of these terminate in, or which arise from the organ, or, in other words, it is not known by what route the blood arrives at, or proceeds from the heart. We believe that we are able to dissipate the doubts which still exist as to this subject, but before we state our opinions we shall speak of the anatomical disposition of the apparatus. Treviranus has described it vaguely in the scorpions, but has well elucidated its structure in the spiders (aranece), more par- ticularly in Clubione atrox and Tegenaria do- mestica, Fig. 89. In both these species nu- j merous vessels are observed to arise from the heart, es- pecially from its posterior part (c c.) These proceed to a ramify indefinitely, . distributing them- e selves over every organ; and we have no doubt a . . e with respect to d their true arterial nature. But in ad- a dition to these ves- sels there exist two a others of larger size (d d,) which communicate in a one direction with a the heart, in an- other, by very fine ramifications, with the pulmonary branchiae. In Clu- bione atrox these b two vessels do not Tegenaria domestica. give out any branches in their course. No doubt remains in our mind but that these vessels maintain a direct communication between the heart and respiratory organs. The subjoined figure (fig. 89) will facilitate the understanding of these facts. It represents the heart and its appendages in the house-spider, (Tegenaria domestica,) and shows the two canals which communicate with the heart and receive the small vessels (eeee) that come from the pul- monary branchiae. Treviranus, to whom we owe these observations, has not, however, at- tempted to explain the manner in which the circulation takes place in the arachnidans, and indeed this is to be determined by physiolo- gical experiment and not by the dissection of the organs merely. The experiments which I have made, in conjunction with my friend M. Milne Edwards, on the circulation of the crus- taceans, enable me to give a satisfactory and doubtless true explanation of that of the arachni- dans. The organs which exist in these animals, and we admit the precision of the anatomical facts detailed by Treviranus, are essentially the same as in the crustaceans. We find a heart, of the nature of which no one can entertain a doubt: then there are arteries proceeding from the heart and ramifying over every part of the body; lastly, the heart receives on each side vessels which bring it into communication with the respiratory organs. These latter vessels are the analogues of the branchio cardiac vessels of crustaceans. With respect to veins, of which the latter animals are destitute, they are equally wanting in the arachnidans, and are doubtless replaced by cavities of an irregular form which exist between all the organs of the body. Tre- viranus, indeed, has remarked in the abdomen of Tegenaria domestica two small intervals which are discoverable through the integument, and in which he says the blood may be ob- served to be collected. These reservoirs are perhaps the analogues of the venous sinuses of the Crustacea. The nature of the vessels being thus deter- mined, it becomes easy to conceive how the circulation takes place in the arachnidans— the blood, leaving the heart, is distributed through all the arteries to the different organs for their nutrition : this being effected, and the nutrient fluid being thereby converted into ve- nous blood, it begins to circulate through the sinuses before mentioned, and arrives by an insensible course at the pulmonary branchiae. There it is changed by contact with air into arterial blood, and returns to the heart by means of the branchio-cardiac vessels (e d) to be finally again propelled through die arteries (c.) Thus the ascertained anatomical facts, few as they are, permit us already to appreciate the mode of circulation in the arachnidans; and we repeat that it is in every respect analogous to the circulation in the crustaceans. Nervous system.—The nervous system is gangliated, as in all the articulate animals; but it presents considerable differences of dis- position in the different arachnidans: the scorpions in this respect vary much from the spiders. In the Scorpionida we find the following structure (fig. 90):—the first ganglion, which is commonly called the brain (a), and which supplies the nerves to the parts of the mouth (6,c) is intimately blended with the nervous mass giving origin to the nerves of the legs (d). The succeeding ganglia are distinct from one an- other, and are seven in number : the first three (1 2 3) are situated in the abdomen proper; they have this peculiarity, that they are united together and with the ganglion, which may be termed cerebro-thoracic, by three instead of two chords of communication (e), which is the number found in all other articulate animals ; the four remaining ganglions (4 5 6 7) occupy the entire length of the post-abdomen, or that contracted portion of the body which is incor-