372 BACK. sidered distinct muscles. They are inseparable below; their structure, direction, and uses are alike; and they are inserted similarly—the one into transverse processes, the other into a part of the cranium perfectly analogous. The splenii cover the longissimus dorsi, the complexus, the transversal is colli, and the trachelo-mastoideus. The splenii of opposite sides pass off from each other as they ascend, leaving a triangular space at the upper part of the neck, in which the complexi appear. The action of these muscles is to incline the head to one side, and rotate it. If the sterno- mastoideus of the same side act with them, the head is inclined directly to the shoulder. If the splenii of opposite sides act together, the head and neck are kept erect, and in this they are assisted by the complexus and trapezius. They strap down the deeper muscles. Their name is said to be derived from some resem- blance to the spleen! (Turtbn's Glossary.) The splenii are generally better marked in other mammalia than in man. In the mole they are particularly strong. In carnivora there is no splenitis colli. In the horse the splenitis capitis is inserted into the mastoid process by a tendon common to it and to the trachelo-mastoideus. Birds have no splenius. Reptiles have analogous muscles; but fish have not. Fifth layer.—On removing the splenii and all those previously described, we expose the fifth layer of muscles, consisting of the sacro- lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis and semi- spinalis dorsi, cervicalis descendens, trans- versalis colli, trachelo-mastoideus, and com- plexus. These, excepting the last, are long and slender, quite different from those hitherto described. They are also less distinct from each other. The first four of them fill up the vertebral groove from the sacrum to the neck, and might well be considered as one muscle— the erector spina. The sacro-lumbalis, placed most externally, arises from the posterior surface of the sacrum, from the margin of the ilium where the latter overlaps the former, from the sacro-iliac liga- ments, and from the extremities of the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebra?; pas- sing upwards, and tapering in form, it is in- serted by tendinous slips into the angles of all the ribs. It is reinforced in its ascent by acces- sory fibres (musculi accessorii), which arise at the upper margins of the five or six lowest true ribs, internal to their angles, run upwards and outwards over one or two intercostal spaces under cover of the longer fibres, and are in- serted with them into the angles of the ribs. These accessory fibres constitute almost the entire of the muscle at its upper part. The longissimus dorsi, placed along its inner side, arises from the spinous and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra, and from the spines of the sacrum and its posterior surface down to its apex. It forms a thick, somewhat square, mass in the loins; on the dorsum it becomes flat and tapering, and ends in a point at the top of the thorax. It is inserted by two rows of tendinous and fleshy slips—one row into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebra, the other row, externally, into the lower edge of the ribs near their articulations with those processes. The costal slips are seldom inserted into all the ribs, the first two or three and the last two or three being often without them. The posterior surface of these two muscles consists below of a strong tendinous layer, from which a great part of their fleshy fibres arises ; it is common to the two as far as the middle of the lumbar region ; there it terminates on the sacro-lumbalis, but ascends much higher on the longissimus dorsi, separating into several distinct bands, between which vessels and nerves come out. This tendon is not to be confounded with the fascia lumborum, which is much thinner and adheres to its posterior surface. The spinalis dorsi* lies close along the spi- nous ridge, arising from the two superior lum- bar, and three inferior dorsal spines. It forms a thin muscle and is inserted into the nine superior dorsal spines. Below it is in contact with the longissimus; above it is separated from it by the next muscle. The semi-spinalis dorsi arises from the trans- verse processes of the dorsal vertebra from the eleventh to the sixth inclusive by so many distinct tendinous fasciculi which pass up, be- come fleshy, unite and are inserted into the spines of the four or five superior dorsal and two inferior cervical vertebra. The name of this muscle is intended to denote its attachment to the transverse as well as to the spinous pro- cesses. It is at first concealed by the longis- simus dorsi, then lies along the inner side of that muscle and the outer side of the spinalis dorsi, with which last it is often united in description. These four muscles elevate the spine, and give it an inclination to their own side. The sacro-lumbalis will also depress the ribs slightly. The cervicalis descendens looks like a con- tinuation of the sacrolumbalis, between which and the longissimus dorsi it arises. Its origin is by tendinous slips from the angles of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs. These are at first blended with those of the sacro-lumbalis; then they unite and form a slender muscle, which runs upwards, out- wards, and forwards, to be inserted into the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra, between the trans- versalis colli and the levator anguli scapula;. This muscle may elevate the ribs or extend the neck, turning it to one side. It is often considered as a portion of the sacro-lumbalis, and sometimes called musculus accessorius, or cervicalis ascendens. The name cervicalis descendens,that by which it is best known, was given to it by Diemerbroeck, who described * Under the denominations transversaire epineux, which may be latinized tramsversns spines, Bichat and some other continental anatomists include the spinalis tlorsi, semi-spinalis dorsi, spinalis coUiL and mv.ltijidtw spince,— Ed.