555 CEPHALOPODA. Organ of Touch.—With respect to the sense of touch, the exposed part of the integument of the Nautilus presents numerous papillary eminences; and several of the naked Cepha- lopods are remarkable for the irregular surface of the skin, which seems designed to increase its natural sensibility. Thus, in the Crunchia scabra, flattened processes terminating in nu- merous pointed denticulations, project from the surface of the mantle; in the Sepia papil- lata the integument is beset with branched papilla?; in Sepia mammillata with more sim- ple obtuse eminences; in Sepia tuberculata, with tubercles; in Octopus aculeatus, with pointed tubercles, &c. That these projections serve to warn the creature of the nature of the surfaces which come in contact with its body is highly probable; and it is not at all uncommon to find in those species, which have smooth skins over the body generally, that there are tubercles in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the eyes, as in the Octopus vulgaris, Octopus Lichtenaultii, Octopus Wes- terniensis, &c. In the Nautilus, the more exposed pedun- culate eyes are expressly provided with re- tractile sensitive tentacles on each side, as has been already mentioned. With respect to the organs destined for the active exercise of touch or exploration, we must suppose that the numerous tentacles with which the Nautilus is so remarkably provided, from the softness of their texture, their an- nulated surface, and liberal supply of nerves, serve in this capacity as well as instruments of prehension and locomotion. The less nu- merous but more highly developed arms of Fig. 237. Male Organs, Poidp, the Dibranchiates doubtless exercise the same faculty, especially at their attenuated flexile extremities. The internal fringed circular lip surrounding the mandibles, in both orders of Cephalopods, presents another example of the dermal co- vering so disposed as to be the seat of delicate sensation. Generative System.—The individuals of the present class are, as before stated, of distinct sexes, which in the Dibranchiate order are re- cognizable by diversity of size, external form, colour and shape of the internal rudimental shell. In the common Calamary, for example, the gladius of the male is one-fourth shorter, but broader than that of the female. As only the female organs are known in the Tetrabranchiate order, we are limited in the description of the male parts, to those which exist in the Dibranchiate Cephalopods; but from the close resemblance subsisting in the two orders in the form of the organs of the female sex, little difference can be expected to exist in the structure of the male apparatus. In the Poulp the male organs consist of a testicle, a vas deferens, a kind of vesicula seminalis, a gland compared by Cuvier to the prostate, the sac containing the moveable fila- ments which Needham's description rendered so celebrated, and lastly the penis. The testicle is situated at the bottom of the visceral sac, and is composed of a membra- nous pouch (a, Jig. 237), to one part of the inner surface of which are attached a number of branched elongated glandular filaments (&), which swell at the breeding season, and dis- charge an opake white fecundating fluid into the sac. From this cavity the fluid escapes by the orifice (c), and passes into the vas de- ferens (d). This is a narrow tube, indefinitely convoluted upon itself; it opens into another larger canal (e), the interior of which is di- vided by ridges and incomplete septa; its texture seems to be muscular, so that it pro- bably serves by its contractions to eject the fluid carried into it by the vas deferens. From the vesicula seminalis the semen next traverses the extremity of an oblong gland (f), which is of a compact granular structure, and, like the prostatic or Cowperian glands, contributes some necessary secretion to the fecundating fluid. Next follows the muscular pouch (g) con- taining the filaments or animalcules of Need- ham (/;). When first exposed, they present the appearance of white filaments, from six to eight lines in length, packed closely and regu- larly in parallel order, in three or four rows one above another, from the fundus to the aperture of the pouch ; and they are kept in that position by a spiral fold of the membrane of the pouch, without, however, having the slightest adhesion to that part. For a long time after being removed from their position they continue to exhibit, when moistened, motions of inflection in different directions. A short and narrow canal (i) leads from the pouch to the root of the penis (/c), which is a short pyramidal body, hollow within, and terminating by a small anterior aperture. 2 0 2