CIRRHOPODA. 687 is open, and of little less diameter than the upper part, which led Dufresne to conclude that the animal does not form a shell until it be considerably advanced in growth. This seems to be very probable, as the base is im- bedded deeply in the integument of the Whale, and descends lower the more it increases in size, so as to leave only the summit of the shell visible. The imbedded portion is gene- rally deeply coloured by the tegumentary pig- ment of the Whale. In coronula, which also inhabits the backs of Whales, but has the same general structure of shell as the majority of Balanids, the valves are deeply partitioned, and provided with toothed processes, fitted to fix the animal in its site. The only other calcareous coverings that re- main to be noticed are the rudimentary valves in Otion and Cineras, animals that bear a general resemblance in form to Anatifu, but which are covered chiefly by a semicartila- ginous tunic. There are two small valves in Otion, which are attached to the anterior as- pect just above the brachial orifice. In Cine- ras they are five in number, two in the same situation as those of Otion, two along the ter- minal margin of the outer tunic, and one unpaired along the dorsal aspect. These are imbedded by their margins in the semi-carti- laginous tunic, and seem to be formed by it; calcareous matter being added to their margins in successive layers. The ligamentous membrane, by which the valves in Anatifa are connected one with the other and with the peduncle, is strong but pliant. It is an extension of the outer cover- ing of the peduncle. At the brachial orifice, it is reflected inwards to join the mantle. In addition to this, each valve has a membrane of its own, which closely invests its inner sur- face, and is not continuous with those of the other valves. The peduncle of this and the allied genera may be considered as a kind of developed ligament. If we regard the upper pair of valves as analogous to the valves of Acephalous Mollusca, the peduncle is found to be attached to them at points corresponding to the situation of the ligament in those shells. This organ is sometimes of great size. In the British seas it occasionally occurs two feet in length. Its epidermis is generally rough, wrinkled transversely, coriaceous, and elastic: Otion, however, has it very smooth and stiff, nearly cartilaginous, diaphanous. In some species it is so elastic as to admit of exten- sive lateral motion, and much elongation and contraction. These movements are effected by a layer of strong muscular tissue beneath the skin, within which there is a large organ, granular in its structure, regarded by some anatomists as the ovary. Burmeister is of opinion that the peduncle is merely an organ of support: and he suggests that the granular parenchymatous mass, which fills its interior, is destined solely for its own nutrition, which he seems to think is independent of the other parts of the animal. In mostspecies, it is by its epider- mis that tlie peduncle adheres. The peduncle pre- sents still other varieties than those just mention- ed. Pollicipes villosus hasitcovered partly with imbricated scales, and partly with a hairy coat; and Pollicipes quadrivalvis has its valves wholly encased in a large prolongation of the pe- duncle, which, on its upper surface, bears four valves arranged nearly in the same way as those of the opercule of the Balanids. The base of Coronula is closed by a strong fibrous membrane connected with the body of the animal only by a process of the epidermis. It is regarded by Burmeister as the analogue of the peduncle of the Lepads. The cartilaginous tunic of Otion Cuvieri, at its summit, is enlarged into two large auri- form appendages, hollow, having a crescentic orifice externally, and internally commu- nicating with the visceral cavity of the animal; no organ is discoverable within them, but their cavities receive the terminations of a duct, which descends on the dorsal aspect of the body, in the groove of the dorsal valve, from the peduncle. Of the mantle, as one of the tegumentary organs of the Cirripeds, little more need be said, than that it is generally a very thin trans- parent membranous sac, surrounding the vis- ceral mass, open only at the brachial orifice, where it joins the epidermis and intervalvular ligament, and is reflected so as to form an inner lining for the visceral cavity. It has neither fringes of filaments, nor foliated pro- cesses. M. St. Ange describes another tunic of the visceral mass, which, he says, is con- tinuous with the horny covering of the arms. Locomotion.—Their base being permanently fixed, the principal motions of the Cirripeds are those of the arms, which seem to be sub- servient at once to the respiratory and to the digestive functions. But, as has just been mentioned above, the peduncle of Anatifa and other allied genera is moved both laterally and in the way of contraction and extension, and the valves, in the same animals, are so moved as to open and close the brachial orifice. The motions of the arms are, in many species, very rapid, and are performed with great re- gularity ; proving the existence of a complete muscular apparatus both at their bases and within their numerous joints ; but the parts are too minute to admit of a satisfactory examina- tion being made of their structure. The Lepads have a strong transverse adductor muscle placed between their superior valves, just above the brachial orifice (a,Jig.340); this muscle seems to be every way analogous to the same organ in Acephala. Its action closes the brachial slit very accurately; while its relaxation admits of its being opened by the advance of the arms grouped together into the form of a wedge. This movement of the arms cannot be per- formed without the whole body being carried outwards; which is effected apparently by the contraction of certain delicate muscular fibres spread over the mantle, and attached around the margin of the orifice. Cuvier describes a similar set of fibres, " attached to the mantle opposite the insertion of the peduncle, by