ANNELIDA. 169 Fig. 68. Fig. 69. we may observe that these ccecums are replaced by blind canals, either simple or ramified; thus in the arenicola, or sand worm, we find that there communicate with the second sto- mach two ccecums terminated by a soft point, with thick parietes of a yellow colour; and in the aphroditae the stomach opens on either side into a score of membranous appendages, which commence of very contracted diameter, but afterwards insensibly become dilated and di- vide into many branches: (see Jig. 70, a, the retracted probos- Fig. 70. cis, b b, the ap- pendages.) This type of structure leads to thatwhich is manifested in the planarise, and also approximates to what one sees in the parasitic arachnida. The intestine which succeeds the stomach is generally narrow, and in the majo- rity of the anne- lida extends in a direct line to the anus. In some species, as the amphitrites, it presents a greater or less number of convolutions. There does not exist in these animals a gland which can be re- garded as a liver, properly so called : the appendages which are grouped around the stomach in the arenicola may, indeed, be biliary vessels analogous to those of insects rather than true cceca; but in the earthworms and many other annelides the bile would seem to be secreted by a peculiar organ of a yellow colour and pulpy texture, which surrounds like a sheath a great part of the digestive canal. Lastly, in certain annelida, as, for example, the thalassemae, there exists on either side of the oesophagus a small organ, which would seem to have a secretory office, and may very probably be a salivary gland.* Circulation.—The blood in almost all the annelida differs from that of every other in- vertebrate animal by its red colour; some- times, however, this fluid has scarcely a tinge. According to M. De Blainville the blood of the aphroditse is yellow, and MM. Mayor and Gosse, of Geneva, assert that the circulating fluid of the genus clepsina, one of the hirudi- nidse or leech-tribe, is even altogether white. When the blood of an annelide is examined with the microscope it is seen to contain circu- lar globules, but of a much larger size, and in far less number than in human blood : it coa- gulates after rest like the blood of the higher animals, but it appears to contain a very small proportion of fibrine. The blood circulates, as we have already stated, in peculiar vessels, which its red colour renders easily distinguishable. The vascular system has been best studied in the earthworm : above the alimentary canal there runs along the entire length of the body a contractile vessel (Jig. 71, a,) which is con- sequently dorsal, and in which the blood passes generally from behind forwards, some- times in large waves, some- times by small quantities pro- pelled by the successive con- tractions of the divisions which this vessel forms through its entire extent. A portion of the circulating fluid then passes into another vessel (c), which originates at the anterior ex- tremity of the one above- mentioned, and which runs backwards along the ventral surface of the body below the nervous column, from which circumstance it has been cal- led the sub-nerval vessel by Duges. But the greater part of the blood which is con- tained in the dorsal vessel, in- stead of following this chan- nel, passes into seven or eight pairs of large lateral branches composed each of a series of dilatations or rounded ve- f W e hi* * See Willis, ' De Anima Brutorum ;' Pallas, ' Miscellanea Zoologica Cuvier, ' Anal. Comp.' Treviranus, op. cit. Moquin Tandon, op. cit. ; Duges, op. cit.; Home, ' Lectures on Comp. Anat.'