DEATH. 793 produce a change in the nervous system in- compatible with the continuance of the action of the heart; but mere pain will not account for the fact in question, since in other diseases it attains a more intense degree, and lasts longer, as in neuralgia, without inducing fatal consequences. The causation is probably analogous to that of syncope from mechanical injuries of tissues, to which we have already devoted some remarks. But why an inflam- matory condition of serous membranes should exert a more depressing influence upon the circulation than that of many other tissues that might be named, is a subject wrapped in deep obscurity; yet it is scarcely darker than the question, why such changes should in the first instance excite and perturb the heart, or why a similar excitement should ensue upon the soft- ening of a cluster of tubercles, and to a degree inexplicable by the functional derangement of the part in which the tubercles exist. Dis- eases in which the powers of the system are said to be worn out, are in reality such as have gradually enfeebled the action of the heart, partly perhaps through the intervention of changes affecting the blood, the respiration and the nervous system, but probably in a great measure by as direct a relation between the diseased part and the change in the circulation, as between violent lesions of tissue and syn- cope. Under the present head are included a host of chronic maladies. 6. Diseases caused by vitiation of the blood. Such are scorbutus, certain forms of marasmus, the cachexia; revealed by dropsies, and certain fevers of a malignant character. We might also mention those depravations indicated by morbid secretions, such as tubercle, carcinoma, melanosis, &c. but that the solids are so much involved in these diseases, that it becomes difficult to determine whether the heart's action was weakened by the primary lesion of the blood, or by the secondary one of the tissues. 7. Diseases which produce vitiation of the blood. Such are that large class in which there is disorder of the cbylopoietic processes, and that smaller group in which the convey- ance of the chyle is impeded. Derangements of the secernent and excernent organs must be arranged in this division, and particularly those of the liver, the skin, and the urinary apparatus. Diabetes is a state of the system in which the blood is probably deteriorated both by defective assimilation, and by faulty excretion. Upon the whole of this class of diseases it must be remarked that we seldom or never have opportunities of witnessing their uncombined influence in depressing the organs of circulation. 11. Syncope by old age.—We have, in a for- mer article (Age) endeavoured to trace the principal events in senile decay. The death which follows this gradual decline of the func- tions, presents the strongest possible contrast to that of sudden syncope. In the latter in- stance (he assault is made upon the very citadel of life, the conquest of which secures an im- mediate surrender of the minor bulwarks and dependencies ; but in the former the fortress is reduced only after a long series of defections in the outworks, and a consequent loss of supplies, or, to quote the words of an illustrious author, " Voici done la grande difference qui dis- tingue la mort de vieillesse, d'avec celle qui est reflet d'un coup subit; e'est que dans l'une, la vie commence a s'eteindre dans toutes les parties, et cesse ensuite dans le ccseur; la mort exerce son empire de la circonference au centre. Dans l'autre, la vie s'6teint dans le cceur, et ensuite dans toutes les parties; e'est du centre k la circonference que la mort en- chaine ses ph6nomenes."* SIGNS OF APPROACHING DEATH. It would be tedious and altogether beyond the compass of this work to enumerate all the phenomena presented by the dying system, since they vary with the cause of death. We shall aim rather at describing and accounting for those which are common to most diseases and to natural decay; reserving to ourselves the liberty of noticing here and there some of the more striking varieties. We might rationally expect that the first indications of dissolution would appear in the relative functions; hebetude of the senses, in- action of the muscles, vacancy of the intellect, extinction of the sentiments; and such is, in fact, the course of events in natural death. We have known the aged man remain feeling- less, motionless, mindless, for many days be- fore the cessation of the organic functions. This kind of death is sometimes imitated by apoplexy; but in the former the destruction of the animal life does not, as in the latter, arise from a lesion of the brain ; its organs appear to undergo a gradual process of enfeeblement. In many febrile maladies there is the same priority of failure on the part of the cerebral functions, but they are generally preceded by more or less actual disease of the organ. But in the termi- nation of some disorders the functions alluded to continue to the very last, almost surviving the circulation itself. It will be found however that the seat of such disorders was remote from the encephalon,that it did not communicate with the latter by any special sympathy, and that the extinction of the cerebral functions was at- tributable to the arrest of circulation in that organ, in common with many others. The cases in which the mind is said to continue clear and vigorous amid the ruin of the body, will be found to agree in the fact that the organ is correspondently unimpaired; they are for the most part chronic diseases of the thorax, abdomen, pelvis, and extremities. Certain affections even of the cerebro-spinal system may not interfere with the understanding and feelings until almost the last moments; but they are such as do not involve those divisions with which thought is believed to be more immediately connected: we may instance tetanus. But although in these maladies we do occasionally observe considerable intellec- tual soundness till within a very short period of death, we have far more commonly been able to detect some degree of delirium, au * Bichatj Rech. sur la Vie ct la Mort, p. 151.