DEATH. 796 cases of injury in which syncope occurs with- out any antecedence of pam or of leipothymia, and in w:hich there is no reason for supposing any cerebral affection in the chain of events. Of this kind are extensive mechanical injuries of. the extremities, burns, rupture or over-dis- tention of the stomach, &c. Whether the nerves which convey the morbid impression belong to the ganglionic or to the respiratory class, we do not profess to decide. The im- mediately fatal efiect of a blow upon the epi- gastrium or of a draught of cold water when the body is heated, has been attributed by some to a shock given to the semilunar ganglion, and the communication of the impression to the heart; while others are of opinion that the injury is fatal by " paralysing the whole res- piratory set of nerves from the violent shock com municated to the phrenic, and thus shut- ting up as it were the fountain of all the sympathetic actions of the body."* " A blow on the pit of the stomach," says Sir Charles Bell, "doubles up the bruiser and occasions the gasping and crowing, which sufficiently indicate the course of the injury—a little more severe, and the blow is fatal. A man broken on the wheel suffers dreadful blows, and his bones are broken, but life endures—the coup- de-grace is a blow on the stomach." 5. Syncope by mental emotion.—Instances of this occurrence must be familiar to every one both by reading and by observation. In some of them the cause in question has operated either by aggravating some pre-exist- ing malady, or by calling into action some strong predisposition to disease; as in struc- tural lesions ot the heart on the one hand, and in the apoplectic diathesis on the other. But in other instances the mere violence of a pas- sion has at once extinguished its subject with- out the intervention of moibid tendency or of actual disease. Such cases belong to the Nervous Apoplexy of some authors; and cer- tain it is that they present a complete annihi- lation of sense and motion, but this condition is only simultaneous with, or immediately suc- ceeded by the failure of the circulation. We have no doubt that the change in the organ of the mind, corresponding to the emotion, ope- rates upon other parts of the cerebro-spmal axis, which in their turn affect the heart in the same manner as other preternatural states of that system. We are not acquainted with any example in which either high intellectual ex- citement unaccompanied by vehemence of pas- sion, or mere intensity of external sensation, has been the cause of sudden death ; nor could it be expected a priori, since in the normal condition of the economy there is by no means the same degree of connection between the action of the heart and intellectual and sen- sific conditions, as between the former and the emotions and affections. 6. Syncope by hamorrlnige.—The functions of the brain are in man so dependent upon a regular supply of blood to the organ, that a sudden diminution of it is alone sufficient to * Dr. Fletcher, op. cit. partii. chap. 6. p. 60. occasion vertigo and unconsciousness; and this occurrence often takes place when the action of the heart itself is little or not at all affected. Every one is acquainted with the effect of a change in the relative quantity of the blood in the cerebral vessels, determined by suddenly rising from the recumbent posture. Now it has been often observed that vertigo in- duced by other causes has been followed by suspension of the circulation ; that is to say, the state of the brain, which was attended by giddiness, arrested the motions of the heart. It has therefore been inferred that loss of blood operates indirectly upon the heart through the affection of the brain. When two phenomena follow each other in such quick succession as to be all but simultaneous, it is difficult to determine which is cause and which is effect, or whether they may not be the common ef- fects of some other event. Certain facts would seem to indicate that the latter is the true interpretation of the phenomena which we are considering. Thus haemorhage some- times affects the nervous system in the manner alluded to, without presenting any check to the contractions of the heart; not to mention that it appears more consistent with analogy to conclude that the heart must be more directly influenced by the loss of that which is its natural stimulus, than by a change in a remote organ. Again, there are cases in which haemorrhage makes a decided impres- sion upon the organs of circulation before the brain has given signs of any material derange- ment of its functions ; but in these the loss of blood is more gradual than in the former instances. " When haemorthage is very gra- dual," says Dr. Alison, " all the indications of failure of the circulation may come on—the feebleness of muscular action,—the paleness and collapse of the countenance,—the cold- ness beginning at the extremities,—the cold sweat beginning on the face,—and the pulse may become imperceptible; without the senses or the intellect being impaired, and a slightly laborious or heaving respiration may be almost the only indication of injury of the nervous system up to the moment of death."* From facts of this description we should be willing to decide at once that it is a superfluous multiplication of causes to attribute the stop- page of the circulation in any case of haemor- rhage to the influence of cerebral changes, when the direct operation of the cause upon the heart itself is adequate to the explanation;—were it not for the important fact that haemorrhage alone often fails to produce syncope till some circumstance has intervened, the operation of which is manifestly upon the nervous system. Thus nothing is more common in bloodletting than to find the heart unaffected by the with- drawal of a considerable quantity of its stimu- lus, so long as the posture of the body is horizontal; but on raising the head, a change which for obvious reasons renders the brain * Outlines of Physiology and Pathology, p. 344. This work contains a most valuable chapter upon the causes of sudden death.