REGION OF THE ANKLE. U9 living subject, when the individual attempts to flex the foot or extend the toes, these tendons will riot only form an unseemly projection upon the instep, but also the accuracy and per- fection of these motions will be much im- paired. Upon the lateral parts of the region, the fascia is so intimately united to the peri- osteum, that it is almost impossible to separate them from each other, and hence some have denied its existence here. Behind botli mal- leoli, it becomes however again very distinct, forming in both situations a band similar to that which we have just seen upon the instep. The internal annular ligament arising from the posterior edge of the inner malleolus passes backwards to the os calcis; it is thrown like a bridge across that deep gutter which divides the heel and ankle from each other, and it is destined like the anterior liga- ment to form a covering to the tendons and other parts which pass through this region. Like the anterior, the internal ligament also consists of two layers closely united to each other. To express more distinctly the me- chanical disposition of these layers, we may say that the bridge formed by the internal annular ligament consists of two arches ; through the anterior arch are transmitted the tibialis posticus and the flexor digitorum longus tendons, wrapped each in its own synovial theca: the posterior arch is occupied with the posterior tibial vessels and nerves, and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle. Having thus safely conducted these important organs, the superficial layer of the ligament fixes itself into the os calcis, while the deep one passes backwards and upwards to become continuous with the deep fascia of the leg. Behind the external malleolus, the fascia forms another but less remarkable liga- ment, which Blandin calls the " external an- nular :" this passes from the fibula to the astragalus, and forms with the posterior edge of the malleolus a deep osseo-fibrous canal for the transmission of the peroneus longus and brevis tendons. At the back part of this region, the fascia is also found covering the great tendo Achillis ; this tendon also, like the smaller ones we have just spoken of, is not merely covered super- ficially, but is contained within a sheath, formed by the splitting of the fascia into two layers : the posterior layer we may regard as the continued fascia itself; the deep one passes in front of the tendon, and if we trace this up- wards, we shall find it becoming ultimately continuous with the deep fascia of the leg. An acquaintance with the disposition and structure of the fascia we have thus described, will en- able the surgical anatomist, in almost every in- stance, to explain the time, situation, and pro- gress of abscesses occurring in this region: he will at once comprehend that three distinct sorts of abscess may form here :—one in the subcutaneous tissue, and which being super- ficial to the fascia can hardly penetrate deeply toward the joint; another, occurring between the two layers of that membrane, in those situations where it splits to include the ten- dons ; such an abscess will have little tendency to point in front, being bound down by the superficial layer of the fascia, or to penetrate deeply for a similar reason ; but to its free passage upwards or downwards in the course of the tendons, little or no obstacle is presented. Lastly, matter may accumulate under both layers of the fascia, where its deep position and close confinement render it alike dangerous, and of difficult detection. 4. The next stratum is perhaps less entitled to that name than those we have hitherto described. Instead of forming, like them, a general investment for the whole region, it consists of several distinct and independent or- gans scattered irregularly about the joint: we shall enumerate them in the order in which we propose to treat of them, viz., tendons, mus- cles, arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves. a. Tendons. Upon the instep we find no fewer than seven tendons passing towards the foot: the internal is the largest of all, it is that of the tibialis anticus running obliquely for- wards and inwards to the inner cuneiform bone. Close upon its outer side is the tendon of the extensor pollicis; still more outwards we meet with the four tendons of the extensor digitorum longus, and most externally of all, or nearest to the outer ankle, that of the peroneus tertius. We need not revert to the subject of the fibrous sheaths furnished to these tendons by the fascia or annular ligament; but we should here care- fully observe, that both sheaths and tendons are completely lined by a synovial apparatus. He who is at all acquainted with the general patho- logy of synovial membrane will understand why it is that effusions so frequently form about the instep ; why adhesion of the opposite walls of these synovial sheaths will almost destroy the power of extending the toes and of flexing the foot; and, lastly, he cannot but draw the im- portant practical deduction, that in operations about the instep we should avoid, if possible, cutting into these synovial sacs. Behind the inner malleolus we meet with three tendons,— that of the tibialis posticus most anterior, and in close connexion with the posterior surface of the malleolus interims; that of the flexor digitorum longus a little further- back ; and still more posterior, and at a little distance from the others, the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. These are included, as we have already explained, in fibrous sheaths formed by the internal annular ligament, each sheath and tendon having its own synovial lining. We may here observe a good anatomical reason, why inflammation affecting the sheath of the flexor digitorum will, ceteris paribus, be more likely to prove dangerous than that of the tibialis posticus : for, as the synovial sheaths of the former extend along the whole sole of the foot, little or no obstacle is presented to the disease extending itself into that region : whereas the tendon of the tibialis being inserted, not upon the sole, but rather upon the inner edge of the foot, its synovial membrane forms here a cul-de-sac, no doubt presenting some obsta- cle to the inflammation extending beyond this point. Behind the outer malleolus there exists