CHEIROPTERA. 398 it would require the constant exertion of such a degree of antagonizing muscular force to prevent it, as would be incompatible with the essential structure of these organs of flight. The carpus is of a very peculiar structure. The first series of bones consists but of two ; one very large, on which the radius rests, and which is probably formed of the three outer bones, the scaphoid, the semilunar, and the cuneiform bones; the other extremely small, which is undoubtedly the pisiform, on the ulnar side. The second series consists of the four bones of which it is usually constituted. The metacarpal bones and phalanges of all the fingers excepting the thumb are extremely elongated. They extend outwards and down- wards in a slightly curved direction to the margin of the flying membrane, the second finger being the shortest and extending to the upper angle of the outer margin, the third, fourth, and fifth to the inferior margin of the membrane. There is a slight enlargement at the articulation of the metacarpal bones with the phalanges; but otherwise these bones are extremely slender and cylindrical. The thumb is of no extraordinary length, and the ultimate phalanx is hooked and sustains a nail, by which the animal is enabled to climb on any rough perpendicular surface, or to suspend itself from some projecting part. The pelvis is remarkably strait, rather elon- gated, somewhat wider inferiorly. The ilia are narrow and elongated; the ischia in several species, instead of receding from each other, approach so that their tuberosities touch each other, and in some instances come in contact with the coccygeal bones. In some species of Pteropus, the anterior portion of the ossa pubis, instead of meeting at the median line, recede more or less from each other, and the space is filled by ligament. In some species there is a sexual difference in this respect; the two pubic bones being in contact in the male and sepa- rated in the female. The sacrum and the ilia are connected by absolute bony union at an early period. The femur is of moderate length, slender and cy- lindrical. It is turned outwards and upwards, so that the side which is usually anterior is directed nearly backwards. The tibia offers no peculiarity which requires particular notice. The fibula is exceedingly small, slender, pointed towards its femoral extremity, and has this singular peculiarity, that it does not rise to the head of the tibia. In other cases where this bone is defective, it is at its inferior ex- tremity, but in the present case it is the supe- rior portion which is wanting. As the femora are directed outwards, the leg-bones are in some measure turned round, so that the fibula are at the inner side of the tibia and a little behind them. 'The foot of the Cheiroptera does not ex- hibit the same deviation from the normal structure which we have seen in the hand. On the contrary, it is not extraordinarily developed, and the different parts of which it is composed are in the usual relative proportions. The tarsus is composed of the usual bones. There is a peculiarity in the heel, however, which is worthy of notice. There is a long, slender, pointed, bony process from the pos- terior part of the foot which is inclosed within the folds of the margin of the interfemoral membrane, and extends about half-way to the tail. Whether this process is a portion of the os calcis, according to Cuvier, or a distinct bone according to Daubenton, it is perhaps difficult to decide ; but the opinion of Meckel is probably the correct one, that it is nothing- more than a development of the tuberosity of that bone, remaining disunited from its body. Themetatarsal bones are rather short, slender, and of nearly equal length. The phalanges of the five toes are nearly equal, the inner toe reaching almost to the same length as the others, in consequence of the greater elongation of its first phalanx. The ultimate phalanges are furnished with hooked nails, by which these animals constantly suspend themselves when at rest with the head downwards. The whole of this structure is so perfectly adapted to the peculiar habits of the animals, as to require no comment. The great deve- lopment of the ribs, sternum, and scapula, for the attachment of strong muscles of flight, the length and strength of the clavicle, the exten- sion of all the bones of the anterior extremities, all admirably tend to fulfil their obvious end. The existence of a tail for the support and extension of the interfemoral membrane, which is found in the insectivorous Bats, compared with its absence or comparative inefficiency in many of the frugivorous, also points out an interesting relation to the different habits of the two groups, the former structure being calcu- lated to afford a powerful and effective rudder in guiding their rapid and varying evolutions in the pursuit of their insect food. The general nervous system in the Cheiro- ptera does not exhibit any very remarkable peculiarity, but some of the organs of sense require a particular notice. Organs of the Senses.— The organ of vision is principally remarkable for its diminutive size. The eye in many of the insectivorous group, in which the external ear is very largely developed, is placed within the margin of the auricle and almost concealed by hair. In the frugivorous group, on the other hand, it is of the usual proportional size. The organ of hearing, on the contrary, though in the latter forms not more developed than in most other quadrupeds, in the former seems to take the place of the diminutive organ of vision, being greatly extended both in its external and internal organization. The external ear in Pteropus is of the usual form and dimensions, and the eminences are not in any respect extra- ordinary : but in most of the insectivorous Bats the conch of the ear is enormously large; in many species being considerably larger and longer than the head, and in the common long- eared Bat of this country, Plecotus auritus, it is nearly as long as the body. The tragus is proportionally larger than in any other animals;