ARTICULATION. 253 to explain without admitting either the exist- ence of the synovial membrane, or the organi- zation* of the cartilages. Velpeau,f too, al- though he asserts that the synovial membrane " terminates at the circumference of the carti- lages," furnishes us with an argument in oppo- sition to his own views : namely, that no appre- ciable line of demarcation can be detected indicating where the synovial membrane ceases. " Viewed in this way," he says, " the synovial apparatus consists of surfaces, mem- branes, and glandular folds, between which there exists not the least interruption, and the use of which is to isolate the interior of the joint from the tissues which surround it." It will appear then sufficiently evident that the weight of argument preponderates in favour of the doctrine that the synovial membranes line the articular surface of the cartilages, and that maintains their analogy with the serous membranes, an analogy which receives the strongest support from the physical properties of the synovial membrane, from its obvious functions during health, and from the diseases with which it is affected; and I apprehend, that nothing tends more fully to establish iden- tity or similarity in the nature of two mem- branes, than the fact of a close resemblance between their morbid conditions. We may add, what was long ago remarked by W. Hunter, that this question as to the continuity of the synovial membrane on the cartilages is very similar to that as to the continuity of the conjunctiva over the cornea of the eye; the affirmation of which latter question, Gordon considers equally an unutomtcul refinement as that of the former. VelpeauJ ascribes much importance to the dense and fine cellular tissue which is sub- jacent to the synovial membrane and is ana- logous to the subserous cellular tissue else- where. This would appear to be the seat of the vessels which in a state of inflammation give rise to the red colour of the synovial mem- brane. He particularly alludes to it as afford- ing a clue by which the formation of loose cartilaginous bodies in joints can be explained; these he supposes to originate in sanguineous effusions into this tissue, which subsequently become indurated and cartilaginous, and push the synovial membrane before them into the cavity of the joint. It will be remembered by many readers that this opinion is very similar to that of John Hunter regarding the origin of these bodies. ยง Allusion has already been made to the fatty bodies which are found in connexion with * This is a bad word ; we cannot deny the orga- nization of cartilages, however we may deny that they are supplied with red blood. It has been said, I know not with what authenticity, that cartilages have become yellow in jaundice. t Loc. cit. pp. 172 and 174. He expresses his opinion much more decidedly in the ait. ARTICU- LATIONS, Maladies dks. Diet, de Med. X Loc. cit. v. i. p. 173. ยง See Home's Paper, in Trans, of a Soc. for the improvement of Med. and Chirurg. Knowledge, v. i. 1793. most of the joints, and in general lying behind the synovial fringes formerly described. These fatty pellets were supposed by Clopton Havers* to be the agents of the synovial secretion, and, in consequence, have obtained much celebrity under the title of Haversian glands.f The opinion of Havers and his followers as to their glandular nature was successfully combated by ISichat, who proved that they were merely composed of adipose substance, and in no way concerned in the function of synovial secretion : for 1st, the secretion of synovia takes place where no such bodies exist, as in almost all the bursa? mucosa1, and tendinous sheaths ; and 2d, these bodies have no trace of glan- dular structure, nor are they provided with any thing resembling an excretory duct; whilst, on the other hand, they possess all the properties of fat. The synovial sac is lubricated by the sy- novia, also called unguen articulare, uxungia articular is. How is this secreted ? We believe it to be a perspiratory secretion precisely similar to that of the serum from serous membranes. Its formation cannot be imputed to a com- bination of the serosity of the blood with the fat, nor to the transudation of the marrow through the extremities of the bones, nor, with Desault, to a sweating from all the parts which enter into the composition of the articulation, inas- much as the chemical analysis of synovia proves that it is essentially different from any oily fluid, and does not contain a trace either of elaine and stearine. In addition to the structures already named as entering intrinsically into the formation of joints, we find that the tendons and muscles, which lie in the immediate vicinity of or which surround the joints, contribute much to their strength and security. In joints of the hinge kind we generally see the anterior and poste- rior parts protected more or less by the tendons of muscles, and even by muscles themselves passing from one segment of a limb to an- other, and here it frequently happens that the tendon is bound down on the bones which form the member, by a fibrous expansion of great strength, lined by a synovial membrane of the same characters as the articular, but adapted in its form to the osseo-fibrous canal in which the tendon is placed, e.g. the tendons of the fingers. The protection and strength afforded by mus- cles is particularly evinced in the case of the shoulder-joint, where the capsular ligament is closely embraced by four muscles, whose tendons become identified with the fibrous capsule as they go to be inserted into the bone. A muscular capsule, as it were, is thus provided for this joint, by which the bones are main- tained much more firmly and powerfully in apposition than were they kept together by an uncontractile ligamentous capsule alone; hence the elongation of the arm which ap- * Osteologia Nova : Lond. 1691. t Weitbrecht railed these fatty bodies, " Adi- poso-glandulosa1; " and Cowper, " mucilaginous glands." See them figured in Monro's work on the Bursa?, Tab. viii.