7bO CRUSTACEA. as the growth is then most rapid; as many as eight changes of the tegumentary envelope have been observed to take place in the course of seventeen days in the young Daphnia; whilst in adult Crustacea the change is not in general effected oftener than once a year. Reaumur watched the phenomenon through its whole course, and has noted it with all its details as it occurs in the Astacus Jiuviatilis* It takes place in this species towards the end of summer or beginning of autumn. A few days of fasting and sickness precede it, during which the carapace becomes loosened from the corium to which it adhered, and which im- mediately begins to secrete a new one, soft and membranous at first, but soon becoming harder and harder, and finally completely cal- careous. In this way the animal before long finds itself free from all connexion with its old envelope, and it has only to make its escape. This last operation is announced by symptoms of inquietude. The creature rubs its legs one against another, and then throwing itself upon its back begins to shake itself, puffs itself out, so as to tear the membrane which connects the carapace with the abdo- men, and to raise the carapace itself. After sundry intervals of rest and agitation of longer or shorter duration, the carapace is raised com- pletely ; the animal extricates its head, its eyes, and its antennas. The operation of freeing its extremities appears to be the most difficult, and would even be impossible did not the solid covering of these parts split longitudi- nally; but in spite of every assistance, it not unfrequently happens that the animal leaves one or two of its limbs impacted within the old sheath, and occasionally even perishes through inability to escape completely from its shell. The abdomen is the last division of the body which clears itself of the old enve- lope. All the parts of the tegumentary ske- leton which had only been separated from one another, without however having undergone any softening, or fracture, or separation, fall one upon another in resuming their old posi- tions, so as to represent the complete external form of the creature with the whole of its solid internal as well as external parts; even the eyes, the antennae, and the thoracic cells formed by the sternal and epimeral apodemata, may be distinguished. The operation now described does not in general occupy more than half an hour in the performance; and only two or three days, or even no more than four-and-tvventy hours are required to convert the soft and membranous envelope with which the corium or naked body of the animal is surrounded, into a firm calcareous covering similar to the one which has just been got rid of. The new envelope presents the same appendages as the former one, even the same hairs; but these, instead of being con- tained within the old ones, as Reaumur ima- gined, exist ready formed in the new envelope, but turned in towards the interior, like the fingers of a glove turned in upon themselves. * JVTenioiies de 1'Academie des Sciences, 1718. There are some species, such as the Crabs and the Brachyura generally, in which the carapace presents a considerable expansion on either side, forming two large compartments in which the greater mass of the thoracic vis- cera is contained. Under these circumstances it would be impossible for the animal to escape from its dorsal covering by the relatively in- considerable opening which this part presents on its inferior aspect. This renders it neces- sary that the carapace, instead of being cast off by simply rising in a single piece, should give way and separate in some direction or another, and this it does by splitting along the curved lines, extending on either side from the mouth to the origin of the abdomen, in the course of which the epimeral pieces cohere with the dorsal one.* The time occupied in the business of throw- ing off the shell varies considerably in dif- ferent species; it is also dependent on at- mospheric influences. It is the same also, in regard to the number of days necessary to give to the new epidermic layer the consistency of the old tegumentary covering. A general remark, however, and one which is applicable to the whole of the species that have been duly observed, especially those that are found along the shores of France, is this,—that the period which precedes as well as that which follows the change of the shell is one of rest- lessness and evident illness. The muscles of these creatures are then flaccid, the flesh is soft and watery, and as food they are rejected as tasteless and held unwholesome. This would not appear to be the case with the Land-crab, however, according to the statements of several travellers, who inform us that the flesh of this species is never in greater perfection than during the season of the moult. A phenomenon, which has some analogy with the renovation of the tegumentary skeleton, but which is much more curious, is the repro- duction of the legs of these animals. Most Crustacea cast off their claws very easily and without apparent pain; the separation always takes place in a determinate point near the basis of the member (in the second articula- tion), and is soon followed by the formation of a cicatrice, from the surface of which sprouts out a small cylindrical appendage; this shortly after presents distinct articulations, and re- sembles in miniature the organ it is destined to form, but its growth is slow, and it does not for some time attain its full size. If one of the limbs be severed in any other part, the wound continues to bleed, and no renovating process begins unless the animal, by a violent muscular contraction, succeeds in breaking off the stump in the articulation above mentioned. The kind of solid sheath formed by the tegumentary skeleton of the Crustacea, and which includes in its interior the whole of the viscera and other soft parts of these ani- mals required to be so constructed as not to oppose locomotion; consequently there exist, * Collinson, Phil. Trans. 1746 and 1751 ; Hist. Nat. des Cmstace*, t, i. p. 56.