ANIMAL 133 pear, slender as the means of accomplishing it may seem to be, it is nevertheless essential: interrupted for any length of time, the animal inevitably perishes. A process of such im- portance, as may be imagined, is not long left without its appropriate and special apparatus. This varies extremely in its structure, in the different tribes of animals, and according to the circumstances surrounded by which they live. Some have lungs, branchiae or gills, and tracheae opening by spiracula, of infinitely va- ried construction. Respiration is also carried on vicariously in a very large proportion of animals, if not perhaps in all to a certain extent, by means of the skin, and in some even by the instru- mentality of the alimentary canal. The changes effected in the atmospheric air by the respiratory apparatus of all animals are similar, but they differ from those that are produced by the corresponding implements in vegetables : the proportion of oxygen it con- tains universally diminishes, and the quantity of carbonic acid gas it holds in solution as invariably increases in amount. A quantity of water or of watery vapour is at the same time thrown off. This is exactly the opposite of what we have seen to be the effect of respi- ration among vegetables; in these the quantity of oxygen is augmented, whilst that of car- bonic acid gas is diminished. The nutritive fluids newly prepared by the apparatus of digestion, or that have already gone the round of the system, are by a variety of means ex- posed, in the special or common apparatuses mentioned, to the influence of the atmospheric air, from the contact of which they undergo certain important and often manifest changes that fit them for their ultimate office in the animal economy,— the maintenance of its parts, with their inherent capacities to execute the various functions imposed upon them. The respiratory act among animals takes place with the knowledge and with the assist- ance and implied will of the individual. Animals are informed of the necessity of re- spiring by the feeling of a want, an uneasiness, just as they are admonished of the necessity of taking aliment by the painful sensations denominated hunger and thirst. The essence of respiration in the two grand classes of organized beings would therefore appear to be different, and might be made the ground of a definitive distinction between the members of each kingdom. Carbon is the object for which the respiration of plants is instituted ; oxygen the end for which re- lations are established between animals and the atmosphere. Another grand difference be- tween the respiration of plants and animals is the involuntanness of the act in the one, and its voluntariness in the other, its occurrence with unconsciousness in the one, and with con- sciousness in the other. The nutrient juices thus prepared have now to be distributed ; this is done by means of a peculiar motion impressed upon the fluids in virtue of a vital law with the nature of which we are still very imperfectly acquainted. Let us use the word circulation in a sense implying mot.on generally, not motion in a circle to designate the act by which in the organized world the nutritive juices are dis- tributed through the frames of the objects composing it. Circulation.—There can be no doubt of the existence of a circulation among vegetables ; in many species currents in opposite directions have even been seen with the aid of the micro- scope, and this not only among the lowest and most simple in their structure of the class, but also in the highest and most complicated. The circulation of vegetables appears to take place within two different congeries of vessels, ex- tremely numerous, and disposed according to their nature in different parts of the plant. The vessels that purnp or transmit the sap from the roots to the leaves, for instance, as we have already had occasion to state, run within the woody parts of plants ; those that receive the modified juices of the leaves, again, take their course downwards within the bark. These two sets of vessels anastomose within the substance of the leaves, but no where else; the second set can alone be said to have a distribution throughout the vegetable, for every part appears to depend on them for its supply of nourish- ment, even the extreme points of the roots, which were themselves the first instruments in collecting the aliment still unfit for the purposes of nutrition. The best informed vegetable physiologists are of opinion that the nutritive fluid once sent off from the leaves never finds its way back to these organs again ; it is ab- sorbed or fixed by the different parts or struc- tures to which it is distributed, ministering to their increment generally, and enabling each to manifest its specific function in the vegetable economy. In this motion of the fluids of vegetables it is evident that there is little analogous to what we find within the bodies of animals somewhat elevated in the scale. But let us first cast a hasty glance at what does take place within this other division of the organic kingdom be- fore instituting a comparison between the func- tions of circulation in the two. All animals, from the mammalia downwards to the entozoa, —birds, reptiles, fishes, the mollusca, Crustacea, arachnida, insecta, and, among the radiata, the holothunae, echini, and asteriae, include within their organisms particular canals or vessels for containing and distributing their nutrient juices, and within which, moreover, these are in motion in a circle. In the acalephae we still find canals branching off from the digestive cavity and dis- tributing the nourishment there prepared to the different parts of the body : in these, however, we no longer find any contrivance for establish- ing a circular motion in the nourishing juices. Still lower in the scale, among the polypes and actineae, for example, we discover no branched appendages or canals for the distribution of the nutrient fluids; those prepared in the stomachs of the animals appear to penetrate their sub- stance directly, and to permeate the homo- geneous cellular tissue of which they consist.