BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. 379 can any exact distinction, or even an approxima- tion to such, be made between these several compartments. A more accurate knowledge of this organ may be obtained by examining both internally and externally its several aspects, which are six in number, and which may be regarded as distinct regions; viz., an anterior and posterior, two lateral, and a superior and inferior. We shall examine each of these ex- ternally, and defer any remarks on their in- ternal aspect until we come to speak of the lining membrane or the mucous coat of the bladder. The anterior region, in consequence of the obliquity of the pelvis, looks also downwards. When the bladder is contracted, this region is behind and in contact (cellular tissue only in- tervening) with the lower half or three fourths of the symphysis pubis, and with the pubic and triangular or interosseous ligaments; when dis- tended, it rises above the bone, and is connected by an abundance of cellular and adipose tissue to the lower portion of the recti and transversi muscles; and as no peritoneum is there inter- posed, this part can be punctured with safety during life. At the lower border of this region is the neck of the bladder, the upper surface of which is firmly attached to the lower edge of the symphysis pubis by two horizontally placed fibrous cords, which are named the anterior ligaments of the bladder, and which will be more particularly noticed presently. Between and beneath these, some veins also run upon this surface of the bladder. The whole of this region is deprived of any peritoneal or serous covering. The posterior region has an aspect upwards also; it is smooth and covered throughout with peritoneum. When the bladder is contracted, this small region in the male pelvis is in con- tact with the fore-part of the rectum, or with such of the floating abdominal viscera as may chance to intervene; in the female with the fore-part of the uterus. When this region is distended, it presents a broad smooth convex surface, which presses more against the rectum and supports the convolutions of the small in- testines. The lateral regions, when the bladder is contracted, are little more than margins or edges, and present nothing worthy of notice; but when distended, each becomes a broad surface, somewhat triangular, the base below and the apex above, the posterior portion, nearly the half, is covered by peritoneum, the anterior portion is connected by cellular tissue to the parietes of the pelvis : the obliterated umbilical artery ascends along its superior posterior por- tion, and the vas deferens, which crosses to the inside of the latter, runs along this region in an oblique direction downwards and backwards, and marks the anterior limit of the peritoneum. From this region the broad lateral fold of this membrane exiends to the iliac fossa, and at its inferior border is that reflection of the vesical fascia which is named the true lateral ligament of the bladder. The superior region, by some called the superior fundus, is, when the bladder is empty, little more than a point prolonged into the urachus; but when distended, it presents its large and convex surface upwards and forwards ; to it is attached the superior ligament of the bladder, which consists of three fibrous cords, the urachus and the obliterated umbilical arte- ries ; behind these this region is covered by peritoneum, but anterior to them it is not. The former portion is in contact with the con- volutions of the small intestines, the latter with the recti muscles. The inferior region, or the inferior fundus, or the base of some authors, always exists as a distinct surface, whether this organ be contracted or distended, but of course larger in the latter condition. It is rather more exten- size in a transverse direction than from before backwards, and is larger and more distinct in the male than in the female: its lateral por- tions in each sex are in contact with the leva- tores ani muscles, and correspond to the spaces between the anus and the tuberosities of the ischium. In the female its middle portion is in contact with the vagina, in the male with the rectum in the middle line, and with the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales on either side; to the latter it is closely connected. The cel- lular and adipose tissue on and around this region in the adult is very abundant, and con- tains numerous veins. This region is covered posteriorly by peritoneum, which extends to a transverse line connecting the centre of each vesicula seminalis. This line corresponds to the convexity of the cul-de-sac formed by the reflection of this membrane from the bladder to the rectum. In front of this line this region is covered in the middle only by a fascia and by some cellular tissue as far as the base of the prostate gland, which extends for some dis- tance along its anterior portion, and on either side are the vasa deferentia and the anterior terminations of the vesicula; seminales. When the bladder is distended in the adult, this surface is enlarged, not only in superficial extent, but it also swells backwards and downwards towards the rectum, and even presses against and into that intestine, so as in some rare cases to admit of being felt by the finger introduced per anum. To this portion the name of 'bas fond' is com- monly applied. In the adult this bas fond, that is, the posterior part of this region, is the lowest portion of the bladder, and hence cannot be evacuated except by the contraction of the organ or by surrounding pressure. In man, in advanced life, it is often found dilated into a sort of pouch, which is behind and quite below the level of the anterior part of this region, as well as of the neck of the bladder, forming in some instances of debility a sort of permanent reservoir, and one in which calculi are not un- frequently contained. In the foetus this pouch or fundus does not at all exist, the cervix or the urethral opening being then the most depend- ing part, which circumstance offers another reason for the power of retention of urine being less at that age than at a later period of life. Some writers limit the inferior region to so much of this aspect of the bladder as is uncovered by peritoneum, and therefore consider the posterior