563 CETACEA. air, and a corresponding modification of the chief organ of locomotion. With the lungs are also associated the pre- sence of warm blood, a double circulation, an epiglottis, and a diaphragm, a true viviparous generation, a nourishment of the young by a mammary secretion, and in short all the essen- tial parts of a mammiferous organization. The order is subdivided as follows : Tribe I. PHYTOPHAGA. Char. Teeth of different kinds; molars with flattened crowns, corresponding to the vegetable nature of their food. Mamma, two, pectoral. Lips provided with stiff bristles. External nostrils, always two, situated at the extremity or upper part of the rostrum, which is ob- tuse. Genus Manatus, Cuv. Char. Incisors £ (two superior, deciduous in the foetus, not replaced). Molars §§, grinding surface with tri-tuberculate _i_ transverse ridges.. Body with a few scattered bristles. Anterior extremities each provided with four nails. Tail-fin oval. Species 1. Manatus Americanus, Cuv. Trichechus Manatus, Linn.: the Ma- natee. Lamantin d'Amerique, Cuv. 2. Manatus Af'ricanus, Lamantin du Senegal, Cuv. Genus Halicore, Cuv. Char. Incisors g. (In the young animal the two superior permanent incisors are preceded by two deciduous ones; six or eight deciduous incisors in the lower jaw which have no permanent succes- sors). Molars ||; (in the young ani- mal ||); the grinding surface exhibits a rim of enamel at the circumference and a slightly excavated centre of ivory. Body, with a few scattered bristles. Upper lip with bristly mustaches. An- terior extremities without nails. Tail- fin very broad, crescentic. Species 1. Halicore Indicus, Cuv. The Indian Dugong, or, more properly, Duyong. 2. Halicore Tabernaculi, Ruppel. Du- gong of the Red Sea. Genus Rytina, Illiger. Incisors none. Molars \ \, large, lamelliform, of a fibrous structure, with the triturating surface roughened by tortuous furrows. Body, without hairs, but covered by a rough and thick fibrous epidermis. An- terior extremities terminated by an un- guiform callosity. Caudal-Jin crescent- shaped, each angle terminated by a horny plate. Species. Rytina Stellcri, Le Stellere, Cuv. This species inhabits the seas of Kamt- schatka. It was discovered by the Russian naturalist, Steller, after whom it is named; and is described by him with much zoological and anatomical detail in the Nova Comment. Petrop. t. ii. p. 294, (1751,) under the name of the Manati or Vacca marina. Tribe II. ZOOPHAGA. Char. Teeth of one kind or wanting, not adapted for mastication. Mamma, two, pudendal. External nostrils, double or single, situated on the top of the head. A. with the head of moderate size. Family DELPHINIDiE. Teeth in both jaws, all of simple structure, and gene- rally conical form. No coecum. Genus Delphinorhynchus. Rostrum very long and narrow, continued not abruptly from the forehead. Teeth very small and numerous. Ex. Delphinorhynchus microptertis. (Fred. Cuvier, Cetaces, pi. viii. fig. 1.) Genus Delphintjs. Rostrum narrow, of moderate length, continued abruptly from the forehead. Teeth conical, slightly recurved, numerous. Ex. Delphinus Delphis, the common Dol- phin; Delphinus Tursio, the Spouter or small Bottle-nose Whale of Hunter. For the other numerous species of this genus consult F. Cuvier, Histoire des Cetaces, p. 147 et seq. Genus Inia. Rostrum, as in the genus Delphinus. Teeth mammilliform. Species. Inia Boliviensis; (Fred. Cuvier, Cetaces, pi. x, bis, and xi, cranium) ; inhabits the great rivers of South Ame- rica. Genus, Phoc^na. Rostrum short, broad. Teeth conical or compressed. Ex. Phocana communis, the common Porpoise; Phocana orca, the Grampus; Phocana globiceps, L'Epaulard, Cuv. Phocana leucas, the Beluga,* &c. The following genera seem to form the types of as many distinct families of Zoophagous Cetaceans. Genus Monodon. Rostrum short and broad. No other teeth save two in the upper jaw, in the form of tusks, situated horizontally, and both of which continue in the rudimental condition in the female, while in the male one projects far be- yond the jaws in the line of the axis of the body. Ex. Monodon monoceros, Linn. The Narwhal. Genus Hyperoodon. Rostrum of mo- derate length, extending abruptly from a very elevated cranium. Two small teeth in the lower jaw; small callous tubercles on the palate. Ex. Hyperoodon Dalei; the great Bottle- nose Whale of Hunter. Genus Platanista. Rostrum very long and compressed, enlarged at the extre- mity. Teeth numerous; in both jaws conical and recurved. Cranium enlar- ged by osseous processes. A coecum. Ex. Platanista Gangetica. The Gangetic Dolphin. * This species has no dorsal fin, and on that ac- count has hy some naturalists been regarded as forming the type of a distinct genus, under the name of Delphitmpterus.