454 BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. limited period of our existence, or why even amongst young persons it may occur in one individual and not in another, form questions to which, in the present state of our knowledge, we can give no answer. We are not even agreed on the different steps of the process or on the structure principally engaged. It has been observed that the portion of the bone which is to die, and for some space above and belo .v it, is surrounded by a dense thick- ened mass, of rather a gelatinous character ; that this mass, after a very short time, becomes opaque in detached spots, and that depositions of osseous material are found within it, so that a case of bone may be constructed around the original one before it actually dies, and thus the lirnb never be entirely deprived of support.* As soon as the dead bone separates from this surrounding mass, the internal surface of this new material becomes, under some circum- stances, covered with a layer of lymph, and under others with regular ossific granulations, which gradually increase until a new bone is formed, nearly as serviceable, though not so symmetrical or so beautiful as the old one. It next becomes a question, what is this gelatinous mass, and whence is it derived ? It has been supposed that it was the periosteum of the old bone swelled and thickened, and at the same time softened in consistence; and this opinion has been strengthened by Dr. Macartney,t the present Professor of Anatomy in the University of Dublin, who stated that he had opportunities of watching the progress of the disease from its earliest periods upwards. According to this gentleman, " the first and most important cir- cumstance is the change that takes place in the organization of the periosteum : this membrane acquires the highest degree of vascularity, be- comes considerably thickened, soft, spongy, and loosely adherent to the bone ; the cellular sub- stance, also, which is immediately connected witli the periosteum, suffers a similar alteration : it puts on the appearance of being inflamed, its vessels enlarge, lymph is shed into its inter- stices, and it becomes consolidated with the periosteum." Next, " the newly organized pe- riosteum, which, for the sake of distinction, one might call the vascular sheath or investment, separates entirely from the bone, after which it begins to remove the latter by absorption, and during the time that this process is carrying on, the surface of the vascular investment, which is applied to the bone, becomes covered with little eminences, exactly similar to the granula- tions of a common ulcer." To this doctrine Mr. Russell, of Edinburgh, strongly objected. He stated that if the osseous matter was depo- sited between the layers of periosteum, both the external and internal surfaces of the new de- posit ought to be perfectly smooth, whereas the contrary is observed—they are rough, irregular, and one of them is covered with granulations. He instanced cases of fracture in which, one fragment overlapping the other, and being thus * See Russell on Necrosis. + See Ciowther on White Swelling. Edition 1808, p. 183. permanently entangled, the periosteum between the two can have no share in the reproduction, and yet the whole is united by a cylindrical shell of bone, on the principle of reproduction in necrosis. It is also known that compound fractures, where the fragments have been exten- sively stripped of periosteum, have united in the same way, and the regeneration of bone, in these instances, could not be attributed to peri- osteum, inasmuch as that had been destroyed. It must be owned that this is a very unusual occuirence in compound fractures, but one sin- gle example will be sufficient to prove that the reproduction can take place independently of the periosteum. And again, in cases where disease has caused the sloughing and destruc- tion of the periosteum, as for instance in deeply seated paronychia, still reproduction is some- times accomplished by a process resembling necrosis. These arguments seem to be very decisive in overturning the doctrine of the sur- rounding shell being formed by the periosteum, and accordingly Russell supposed that a depo- sition takes place from all the surrounding structures ; that it is at first gelatinous ; that it soon assumes the appearance of cartilage ; and that at the end of twenty-four days bony specks may be discovered within it. The external surface of this deposit is rough, and attached to the surrounding parts : its thickness is quite unequal, being greater in proportion to the du- ration of the disease, and always more so than the bone it is destined to replace. The internal surface, or that next the old bone, is more smooth, and covered either with lymph or gra- nulations. Boyer, Meckel, VYeidmann, and other continental surgeons, attribute the process nearly altogether to the periosteum, and there- fore their opinions need not be particularly dis- cussed ; but it is proper to mention that all the very accurate descriptions we read, of the pro- gress from gelatine to cartilage and from carti- lage to bone, must be received with the utmost caution. It is by no means usual to meet with cases exemplifying these descriptions; and amongst a considerable number of dissections of necrosis, it will perhaps be difficult to find one in which the existence of cartilage can be separately and distinctly shown. Such is an out'ine of the chief opinions en- tertained on this interesting subject, and it is probable that, to a certain extent, they are all correct. When the periosteum has not been removed or spoiled, there can be no doubt that it is deeply and even principally engaged in the process of reproduction. In the museum at Park-street, the specimens exhibiting the earliest period of the disease show the periosteum as slightly thickened, smooth on its internal, but more rough and flocculent on its external sur- face, detached from the bone, the surface of which is smooth, and scarcely appears changed from its natural and healthy condition. At a more advanced period, the periosteum is still thicker, but is not softened; on the contrary, it has nearly the firmness of ligament, and there are small osseous depositions within it; the bone then being rough and uneven on its surface and evidently having lost its vitality.