575 CETACEA. rumination can take place. The first cavity is continued in the same line with the oesopha- gus, having the same structure, and not being divided from it by any sensible constriction; its commencement is indicated by the orifice leading into the second stomach, beyond which orifice it is continued in the form of a dilated ovate cavity (a). It is lined with a cuticle, and its inner surface is beset with small rugae. A number of large irregular projections sur- round the aperture leading to the second ca- vity, and are calculated to prevent the passage into the second of any substances save such as are of very small size. Notwithstanding the nature of the lining membrane the di- gestive processes are considerably advanced in this cavity, which does not act simply as a reservoir. It is probable that the secretion of the second stomach, which is highly glandular, regurgitates into the first and assists in pro- ducing the dissolution of the carneous parts of the fishes, the remains of which are usually found in it. The thick cuticular lining terminates abruptly at the small ori- fice leading into the second stomach (b). The interior of this cavity presents a series of close-set thick longitudinal wavy rugae, laterally indented into one another. The internal layer is thick and of a peculiar structure : according to Sir David Brewster, " it seems, in its wet state, to consist of tubes or fibres perpendicu- lar to the two membranes which inclose them, and the upper surface of one of the membranes is covered with hollows or depressions corres- ponding with the extremities of the tubes or fibres. A more minute examination, conducted in a different way, proves these perpendicular portions to be tubes. In order to dry it, 1 pressed it between folds of paper, and the effect of the compression was to press together nearly all the tubes, and make the whole one dense mass, of a dark brown colour ; but when it be- came dry and slightly indurated, I drew it out as if it had been India-rubber, and the tubes opened, and the mass became white." The membrane next the cavity of the sto- mach is perfectly smooth; the one external to the fibres is a vascular and cellular tunic, and is inverted by the layer of muscular fibres continued from the preceding cavity. The communication with the third stomacli is near the lower end of this cavity. The third com- partment is a small round vascular cavity, into which the second opens obliquely : it is lined by a smooth and simple villous tunic. It is not visible exteriorly, and does not exceed an inch in length in the Porpesse, but in the Hyperoodun is about five inches long. The fourth cavity (c, c) is long and narrow, and passes in a serpentine course almost like an intestine; the internal surface is smooth and even, but villous. It opens on the right side into the duodenum (d), which is much dilated, and, as in the human subject, is without valvulae conniventes at its commencement. The pylo- rus is a smaller opening than that between'the third and fourth cavities.] Some authors speak affirmatively of a con- siderable bladder, which in the Rorquals, after death, comes up into the mouth and forces the two jaws asunder. Now what is the nature of this vesicular mass, of which other authors say nothing ? To what organic system does it be- long ? This has never been made a subject of enquiry. It has been considered as belonging to the respiratory system, or as an air-bladder analogous to that of fish. Is it not more proba- bly a portion of the stomach distended by the gases formed there ? In general the Spouting Whales have no coecum. However, a trace of this gut has been found in an oval elevation in the Plata- nist; a caecum exists also in the Piked Whale and in the Whale-bone Whale. The variations in form or affinity of the spleen and the liver appear to have no essential relation with the forms of the stomach. [Mr. Hunter observes that " there is a con- siderable degree of uniformity in the liver in this tribe of animals. In shape it nearly re- sembles the human, but is not so thick at its base nor so sharp at the lower edge, and is probably not so firm in its texture. The right lobe (e, Jig. 263) is the largest and thickest, its falciform ligament broad, and there is a large fissure (g) between the two lobes, in which the round ligament passes. The liver towards the left (f) is very much attached to the sto- mach, the little epiploon being a thick sub- stance. There is no gall-bladder." " The pancreas is a very long, flat body, having its left end attached to the right side of the first cavity of the stomach: it passes across the spine at the root of the mesentery, and near to the pylorus joins the hollow curve of the duodenum, along which it is continued, and adheres to the intestine, its duct entering that of the liver near the termination of the gut."— Phil. Trans. 1787, p. 410. The structure of the biliary organs has a closer resemblance to that of Quadrupeds in the Herbivorous Cetacea, and differs from that above described in the presence of a gall- bladder, besides some minor points. In the Dugong the liver is a transversely- oblong viscus, divided into three lobes with a fourth small process at the root of the left lobe, representing the lobulus Spigelii. It is as usual convex towards the diaphragm, but rather flattened than concave towards the viscera, the anterior margin thick and rounded. Of the three larger lobes the middle one is the smallest, of a square shape, projecting forward, and as it were overhanging the gall-bladder, which is lodged in the middle of the inferior surface. The ligamentum suspensorium is continued upon the middle lobe, immediately above the gall-bladder, the anterior margin of this lobe being notched to receive it, and the remains of the umbilical vein entering the liver an inch above the fundus of the gall-bladder. The two lateral lobes are more than double the size of the cystic lobe, and of these the left is the largest. Both these lobes are concave to- wards the small middle lobe, which they thus surround and conceal. The lobulus Spigelii is of a flattened and square shape, measuring one inch and a quarter in length