626 CILIA. Such is an outline of the observations hitherto made relative to the ciliary motion in the bivalve Mollusca. We may now shortly con- sider those which refer to the other classes of these animals. Dr. Fleming,* in describing the cilia in some species of Polypi, states that " analo- gous hairs" exist on the branchiae of the Tri- tonia, which may probably be considered as forming part of the aerating organs. He also mentions, in another place,f that these branchiae " readily fall off, and, as if indepen- dent, are capable of swimming about for a short time in the water, by means of minute hairs with which their surface is covered, and which move rapidly, pushing forwards the distal extremity." Gruithuisen, as formerly mentioned, observed the ciliary motion, and recognised its true nature in the Valvata bran- chiata, a species of fresh-water snail. Also Ilaspail,! having seen the phenomena pro- duced by the gills of the Fresh-water Mussel, was led by analogy to discover the same in the Lymnaea and Paludina. Without being aware of these previous researches, I observed the ciliary motion in several different tribes of marine Mollusca, and shewed that it prevailed extensively among Mollusca generally. Mr. Lister, as has been already stated, has subse- quently discovered that it exists in the Ascidia; and since then I have also found it in that animal, though in a different species. 9. Of the ciliary motion of the embryo of Mollusca.-—The embryo of Mollusca exhibits, while within the egg, a peculiar rotatory mo- tion which belongs to the class of phenomena we are here considering, and is referable to the same cause. This motion has been observed in the Gasteropodous and Bivalve Mollusca, and may perhaps be found in others. Gasteropoda.—Swammerdam§ states that in examining the young of the viviparous water- snail, while they were yet inclosed in the mem- branes of the ovum, he observed the embryo turning round in the contained fluid with con- siderable rapidity, and, he adds, " in a very elegant manner." He again mentions the fact in another place.|| Baker observed the same appearance in the ova of a fresh-water snail, which appears to have been the common Lym- naea. He says,4 " when the eggs are about a week old, the embryo snail may be discerned in its true shape, turning itself very frequently within the fine fluid in which it lies." These brief notices of this remarkable fact by Swam- merdam and Baker seem to have failed to ex- cite the curiosity of succeeding naturalists, for there would appear to be no account of any subsequent researches on the subject till those of Stiebel published in 1815,** who seems not * Mem. of Wern. Soc. of Edin. iv. p. 488. t Philosophy of Zoology, v. ii. p. 470. t Loc. cit. § Biblia Nature, p. 142. fl Op. cit. p. 179. 4 Of Microscopes, &c. vol. ii. p. 325, 329. ** Diss. sist. Lymnaei stagnalis anatomen, Goet- ting, 1815, and Meckel's Deutsches Archiv fur die Physiologie, Bd. i. p. 424. Bd. ii. p. 557. to have been aware that the fact had been pre- viously noticed. Stiebel's observations were made on the ova of the Lymnaeus stagnalis. They were followed by those of Hugi* in 1823, and Cams in 1824,f on the same species, to which Cams afterwards! (in 1827) added cor- responding observations on the Paludina vivi- para. About the same time (1827) Dr. Giant extended the inquiry to salt-water Gasteropoda, both naked and testaceous, and, as far as I know, was the first to point out the cilia, which are very conspicuous in salt-water species, as the agents which cause the rotation. The eggs of the Lyinnesus (or Lymnaea) are deposited in clusters, being imbedded in oblong masses of gelatinous matter that are found ad- hering to stones or water-plants. Each egg consists of an oval pellucid membrane, con- taining within it the yolk surrounded by a con- siderable quantity of limpid fluid. The yolk is at first round, without any obvious distinc- tion of parts, but in the progress of develop- ment it changes its figure, and is gradually converted into the embryo, of which the shell and several principal organs can soon be dis- tinguished. From the descriptions of the au- thors above mentioned, as well as from some observations made by myself, it appears that the embryo is at first motionless, but that as soon as the distinction can be perceived be- tween the anterior or cephalic extremity and the rest of the animal, its rotatory motion com- mences. This invariably goes on in the man- ner indicated by the larger arrows (c, c) in the annexed figure, the head or anterior extremity Fig. 307. a Embryo of Lymncea. continually receding. After a time the rota- tion is combined with a progressive motion, by which the embryo, while turning on its axis, moves onwards at the same time along the inside of the egg, performing a circuit like a planet in its orbit. The path described by a point on the surface is indicated by the spiral line in the figure. Stiebel, as well as the earlier observers men- tioned, is silent as to the cause of this curious phenomenon. Carus§ at first denominated it a primitive or cosmic motion, without clearly * Isis, 1823, p. 213. t Von den aiissern Lebensbedingungen der weiss-und kaltbllitigen Thiere. Leipz. 1824. % Nova Acta Acad. Cass. Leop. vol. xiii. p. 763. $ Von den aiiss. Lebensb. p. 59.