570 CETACEA. In the Zoophagous Cetaceans the spine of the scapula does not project much. The supra-spinal fossa is reduced to a mere groove in the common Dolphin, and entirely dis- appears in the Gangetic species (Platanista) • the coracoid process does not exist in this last dolphin ; and the same absence is found in the Baltznida, whilst it is seen in the common Dolphin and the Cachalot. Lastly, the acro- mion appears always to exist, but with a different development, in different species. In the scapula of the Whalebone Whale (A, fig. 255) it is marked a. The articular or Fig. 255. Bones of tlie anterior fin of a Whale, Baleena Mysticetus. glenoid cavity (b) is proportionally larger in this species than in the Spermaceti Whale. The muscles of this part of the anterior mem- ber present some remarkable modifications, but with which we are only acquainted as they exist in the common Dolphin. Thus the serratus magnus does not extend as far as the cervical vertebrae, and ends at the ribs; the pectoralts minor, instead of descending on the ribs, is directed towards the anterior extremity of the sternum. The rhomboideus {a, fig. 256) is not attached to the ridge of the spine, but extends along the superior edge of the scapula; the trapezius covers the scapula and has no clavicular pro- longation. The levator scapula (b,fig. 256) is attached to the broad transverse process of the first vertebra, and spreads itself over all the ex- ternal surface of the scapula. The rest of the anterior member is com- posed of the humerus, the radius, the carpus, the metacarpus, and the phalanges. In the Dugong the humerus (t, fig. 246) is much shorter and thicker than in the Ma- natee, and the deltoid ridge is more prominent. In the true Cetacea the humerus is always very short. In the Whalebone Whale (B, fig. 255) its length is scarcely double its breadth ; its head is hemispherical and almost parallel to the axis of the bone. The lower extremity is divided into two planes slightly inclined for the ulna and radius. The cubitus and the radius (v) are also very short, and are anchylosed (u,fig. 246) together at both extremities in the Manatee and the Dugong, but they retain in these Cetaceans the rounded form which is peculiar to them in the other Mammalia. In the spouting Ceta- ceans they are compressed, and are united by means of fibro-cartilage with the humerus and the carpus. The olecranon varies in size. In the great Whale it rises in but a small de- gree, while in the Spermaceti Whale it is de- veloped in the form of a hook. The radius (C> fig- 255), which is broader than the ulna (D, fig. 255), is dilated at its lower ex- tremity. The bones of the carpus are very much flattened, and of an hexagonal form; they are less in number than in Man, but the number varies according to the species. The Manatee has six, the pisiform being wanting. The Dugong has four (w, fig. 246), of which two are in the first row corresponding respectively to the radius and ulna, and two in the second row, the external one supporting the metacar- pal bones of the pollex and index, the internal bone supporting the medius and annularis; the ulnar or little digit is supported by the ulnar carpal bones of both the first and second row. The pollex (x,fig. 246) is reduced, as in the Manatee, to a small pointed meta- carpal bone. The common Dolphin has only five metacarpal bones; the Whale has seven : of these four are in the first row, and three in the second (E, fig. 255). The metacarpals (F, fig. 255) are five in number, much flat- tened, and have the general form of phalanges. The phalanges in the Zoophagous Cetaceans partake of the flattened form of the bones of the metacarpus. Their number increases in each finger, comparatively with the normal number, sometimes very much so; and in many cases there are some which remain cartilaginous. The pollex (G 1, fig. 255) in the great Whale has two bones; the index