ANIMAL KINGDOM. 113 as seen by comparing that of the carnivorous buc.cinum undatum, (fig. 41,) with the same Fig. 41. apparatus in the phytophagous patella vulgata, (fig. 42.) Like most of the predaceous gas- teropods the buccinum is provided with a long muscular proboscis, (fig. 41, a, b,) capable of being extended to a distance from the mouth, and enclosing a bifid tongue covered with sharp recurved teeth. The oesophagus near the sto- mach dilates into a small crop (c), and to this succeeds a round membranous stomach (d, e). The whole remaining intestine is shorter than the oesophagus, and dilates into a wide colon before terminating in the anus (g), on the right side of the body under the open mantle. The liver, of great size, and accompanying the testicle (i) in the turns of the spire, pours its secretion into the stomach as in the acepha- lous classes. The vas deferens following the right side of the body terminates at the end of the male organ (A) in a small tubular styliform duct. In the patella, (fig. 42,) however, which feeds on marine plants, the mouth (a) is provided with a long slender convoluted tongue covered with numerous rows of teeth like a long file. The wide and sacculated oesophagus (d) leads to a capacious and lengthened stomach (_/', g), surrounded by the large liver, and the long convoluted intestinal canal (h) makes several turns imbedded in the mass of the liver before it arrives at the short Fig. 42. dilated rectum (i) and anus (/c). The salivary glands are generally of great size in this class, and present some- times in the same species both the simple follicular and the conglome- rate forms. The pancreas likewise is often present in form of a single follicle opening into the sto- mach along with the biliary ducts. The inferior orders are mostly male and female, but in the higher forms the sexes are distinct. (See Gasteropoda.) 17. Pteropoda, body organized for swim- ming, mantle closed above, branchiae external, no muscular foot for creeping, shell, when present, always thin, pellucid, unilocular, and inoperculate. These soft, minute, floating ani- mals are all marine, and are enabled to swim by means of two lateral musculo-cutaneous fin- like expansions, on the surface of which the respiratory branchiae or vascular plexuses are placed. These lateral fins are never supported by rays. The head is generally provided with retractile or sheathed tentacula, seldom with eyes. The body is sometimes entirely naked, often protected by a delicate thin transparent shell,which encloses the abdomen and is covered with a fold of the skin. They appear to be most closely allied to the inferior testaceous cepha- lopods in the nature and form of their shells and in their locomotive powers, and also in the general simplicity of their internal struc- ture, especially of their generative organs. The structure of one of the naked pteropods, clio borealis, is represented in fig. 43, where the abdominal cavity is exposed by the mantle Fig. 43. being opened from behind. The mouth (a) leads to a long oesophagus (b), which is sur- rounded by a circular series of nervous gan- glia (t). The stomach (c c) is imbedded in the lobes of the liver (g), which open by numerous short ducts into its cavity. The oesophagus is accompanied by the two long simple salivary follicles (k), and at the left or pyloric extremity (d) of the stomach is placed the heart (i), en- closed in its pericardium, which receives the arterialized blood from the branchial veins, and sends it through the system. The bottom of the abdomen or cavity of the mantle (h) is occupied as in the cephalopods with the gene- rative organs, which consist of an ovary (/) and long oviduct (m, o), into which a short wide coecum (n), commonly considered as a testicle, pours its secretion. The oviduct termi- nates on the left side, near the anus (e), in a small glandular sac (q), beneath which is the rhenal sac (j>). The pteropods are commonly found floating in immense numbers at the sur-