526 CEPHALOPODA. 213. have a similarrelationof subserviency to the loco- motive and prehensile faculties of the animal. Among the Vertebrates traces of organs corre- sponding to these cephalic feet are met with principally in the class of Fishes, in the form of tentacles developed from the lips; and Schultze, a learned German Naturalist,* has indicated the close affinity which the Cyclo- stomous Fishes bear, in this respect, to the Cephalopods; in one genus, viz. Gastro- branchus, or Myxine, eight free filaments are extended forwards from the circumference of the funnel-shaped orifice of the mouth, repre- senting the eight ordinary arms of the Cepha- lopoda Dibranchiata, but arrested in their de- velopment because of the pre- ponderating size of the caudal extremity of the body, which now forms the sole locomotive organ. The expanded sucker anterior to the jaws of the Lamprey may, in like manner, be considered to represent the united bases of the cephalic feet of the class under consi- deration. In the Nautilus the cephalic organs of prehension and loco- motion consist of slender sub- cylindrical annulated tentacles, which are sheathed and retrac- tile, (fig. 213,) like those of some of theGasteropodousMol- lusks, as Doris, Thetht/s, and Tritonia. Here, however, they astonish the observer by their unexampled number, sur- rounding the mouth in suc- cessive series, and amounting to little short of a hundred. These tentacles are divided into three kinds, according to their situation, viz. ' brachial or digital,' ' ophthalmic,' and ' labial:' the latter being again subdivided into ' ex- ternal ' and' internal.' The brachial tentacles are forty in number, and are sup- ported by short conical trihe- dral hollow processes or digita- tions, (e, e,fig. 205,) of which the two superior or dorsal ones are conjoined and dilated into a muscular disk covering the whole upper part of the head, Cf;g>fig- 2050 the remaining thirty-eight are disposed ir- regularly, nineteen on either side, one over- lapping another, and all directed forwards, con- verging towards the orifice of the oral cavity, in which the jaws and mouth are concealed. The longest of these digitations, when its free extremity only is measured, does not equal one inch ; but externally they appear longer, be- cause they adhere for some way to the sides of the head. The digitations present no trace of Digitation and Tentacle. Nautilus Pom- ■pilius. 1818 Meckel Archiv. fur Physiologic, 15. iv. p. 338. acetabula or suckers, but are perforated at the extremity by a canal (a, a, Jig. 213,) which is continued far into the substance of the head to near the cerebral ring; the tentacle (b) which is lodged in this canal, is consequently longer than the digitation from which it is protruded. The labial tentacles, forty-eight in number, extend from orifices situated on the anterior margins of four broad flattened processes, arising from the inner surface of the oral sheath opposite the base of the mandibles. Two of these processes (a, a,fig.2\9) are superior, posterior, and external in situation; the other two, (b, b,jig. 219,) which are smaller, are inferior, anterior, and more immediately embrace the jaws, and they are connected to- gether by a lamellated organ (c,fig.2\9), after- wards to be described. Each of these ' labial' processes is pierced by twelve canals contain- ing the tentacles in question: they differ from the digital tentacles only in relative size, and in being of a softer and more delicate texture. The ophthalmic tentacles seem more ex- pressly designed as instruments of sensation; they do not possess the strength requisite for prehensile purposes, and are not situated con- veniently for locomotive actions; they are four in number, and project laterally one before and one behind each eye, involuntarily reminding the observer of the antennae in Crustacea, &c. At first sight they seem annulated like the brachial and labial tentacles ; but upon a closer examination, they are found to consist of a num- ber of flattened circular disks closely packed upon a lateral stem, a structure which is sin- gularly analogous to that of the antennae of the Lamellicorn Beetles. In this respect, how- ever, the Pearly Nautilus does not stand alone in the Molluscous series, the retractile tentacula of the Doris present a very similar structure. The fibres of the dense musculo-ligamentous sheath (d} d, fig. 219), which incloses the man- dibles and supports the eyes and digital pro- cesses, arise from the whole of the anterior and outer part of the cartilaginous skeleton above described. They were so densely in- terwoven in the specimen we dissected as to preclude the possibility of ascertaining their exact course or arrangement. The large lateral muscles of the funnel come off principally from the infundibular processes of the internal cartilage. There are also two small round and distinct muscles designed to draw the funnel closer to the head, they pass to their insertion through canals excavated in the sides of the funnel. The fleshy masses which proceed backwards from the posterior part of the skeleton are the two great muscles (b, b, fig. 231,) which attach the Nautilus to its shell. These are inserted by obliquely truncated flattened extremities into a layer of horny substance which is closely adherent to the inner surface of the sides of the last chamber of the shell at a little distance from the septum forming its base: where, in recent specimens, these impressions are always to be plainly seen. The part which passes through the perforations of the septa is not a muscular or tendinous chord, as has been conjectured, but a weak membranous tube,