ASPHYXIA, 260 1. The first opinion on this subject, whicli need be noticed here, is that which was sup- ported by the great Ilaller, viz. that the circu- lation, and with it all other functions of the body are brought to a stand, because when the movements of respiration cease, and the lungs are no longer dilated and contracted, there is a mechanical difficulty to the propulsion of the blood through the pulmonary capillaries, by which the fatal stagnation in these vessels, ob- vious on dissection, is produced. This doctrine was satisfactorily refuted by Goodwyn, in his treatise on the Connection of Life with Respiration, who shewed that the air-cells of the lungs are not necessarily con- tracted at the time of asphyxia, and that after having once admitted air, these cells never are so much emptied of it again, or contracted on themselves, as to offer any considerable impe- diment to the free motion of blood in their parietes. Besides, we know that the same stagnation in the lungs takes place in the case of an animal confined in a gas which does not contain free oxygen, as in the case of drowning or strangulation, although in the former case, any impediment to the mechanical acts of re- spiration that can occur, must be the conse- quence, not the cause, of the fatal changes within the chest.* 2. The well-known theory of Goodwyn him- self on this subject was, that the venous blood is not an adequate stimulus to the left side of the heart, which in the natural state circulates arterial blood only, and which fails to contract upon or propel blood which has passed un- changed through the lungs.f This doctrine was, in its turn, refuted by Bichat, who showed by experiment that in the case of strangulation the venous blood does penetrate the lungs and left side of the heart, and is delivered from the carotid arteries if these are punctured; that the appearance of venous blood in these arteries is contemporane- ous with what was described as the second stage of asphyxia, viz. the insensibility and spasms; and further, his experiments have been generally admitted as affording satisfac- tory evidence, that the circulation of venous blood through the brain is a sufficient cause for these symptoms, and produces them when the venous blood from the heart of one dog is sent to the brain of another. % He also found by experiment, that venous blood could be in- jected artificially into the left cavities of the heart, with the effect of exciting, not suppress- ing their action.ยง 3. Bichat ascribed the cessation of the circu- lation in asphyxia, however, not to the penetra- tion of the brain by venous blood, and the consequent insensibility (which is now well known to be compatible with the maintenance of circulation for many hours, provided the * This point lias been further elucidated by some experiments, of which an account was read, by the author of this article, to the Medical Sections of the British Association. t Connexion of Life with Respiration, p. 82. t Recherches Physiolo^iques, &c. Art. vii. ยง Recherches, &c. p. 327. blood can be arterialized,) but to the penetra- tion of the muscular substance of the heart by venous blood, sent to it by the coronary arte- ries, and which he held to be equally (although less rapidly) fatal to the vital action of this organ, as of the brain or nerves. 4. Later experiments and observations have, however, shewn that this explanation likewise is, in some measure, incorrect. In fact, while the free flow of venous blood in the carotid arteries of an asphyxiated animal was urged with perfect fairness by Bichat, as a refutation of the theory of Goodwyn, it was with equal justice argued by Goodwyn,* in opposition to Bichat, that if the heart's actions ceased in asphyxia, only because its substance is pene- trated by venous blood from the coronary arte- ries, these actions could not be restored by blowing air into the lungs and arterializing the blood there. Bichat, indeed, foreseeing this objection, maintained that the artificial respiration never is successful in restoring the circulation, unless- employed in the interval which, as was already stated, always exists between the occurrence of insensibility and the final cessation of the circu- lation. But subsequent and careful observa- tions (e.g. those of Roesler, Edinburgh Journal, vol. xxiii) show that life has been restored, by this means, after warm-blooded animals have lain from twelve to seventeen minutes after their immersion in water, i. e. until a time when all observations made by laying open the chests of similar animals show that their circulation must have ceased. The records both of the Humane Society in London and of a similar institution in Paris, seem sufficiently to show that resuscitation has occasionally taken place in the human body after fifteen minutes' iin- mersion.f And we are therefore well assured that the arterialization of the blood at the lungs may, in some instances, restore the natural state of the heart's action after the circulation has come to a stand. Farther, although there is a laboured attempt, by Bichat,} to explain the accumulation of blood on the right side of the heart, and the comparative emptiness of the left side, in as- phyxia, consistently with his own explanation of the failure of the circulation ; yet it seems obvious, that if that explanation were correct, the left side of the heart, receiving the venous blood and contracting on it until it loses its power from the penetration of its own fibres, should be found after death distended with that blood; and that the accumulation of blood taking place in the lungs and right side of the heart, indicates that the capillaries of the lungs are the main seat of the cause which ultimately stops the circulation. That this is really the fact has been more unequivocally shown, first, by the experiments by Dr. Williams, and afterwards by those of * In a paper, not published till after his death, but contained in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, July 1830. t See Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, art. Asphyxia. t Recherches, &c. art. 6.