AXILLA. 362 the ribs, intercostal muscles, and serratus pos- ticus superior. The posterior wall of the axilla is formed by the subscapular muscle, the teres major and the latissimus dorsi, to which the long head of the triceps may be added. Along the inferior margin of the subscapular muscle, the subsca- pular artery runs. This is a vessel of considerable size, and deserves the attention of the surgeon. It arises from the axillary artery at the tendon of the subscapular muscle, and passes all along the inferior or anterior edge of this muscle to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it ter- minates by branches which supply the muscles connected with that point. The teres major is a long, flat muscle, strap-shaped, one inch and a half or two inches in breadth, extending from the inferior angle of the scapula, to the poste- rior margin of the bicipital groove of the hu- merus. Its lower edge is in part covered by the latissimus dorsi and then by the inte- guments, and forms, principally, the poste- rior fold of the axilla. The posterior surface is covered by the latissimus, nearer the arm by the integuments, and then by the long head of the triceps and the humerus. Its anterior sur- face corresponds to the subscapular, latissimus, coraco-brachialis, biceps, and the axillary ves- sels and nerves. The latissimus dorsi forms a very small part of the axilla ; we see it passing over the inferior angle of the scapula and twisting round the teres major, so that its posterior surface be- comes anterior, and the tendon in which it ends gets internal to that of the teres. Its edge does not go quite so low as that of the teres major, but, except there, it prevents that muscle from touching the axillary vessels. It is some- times connected to the great pectoral by a fleshy slip which passes across the axilla. The axilla has all the conditions which ex- pose a part to frequent disease ; a position which puts it in the way of many external injuries; an important joint closely related to it; bones, liable to fracture; arteries, veins, and nerves of great size; numerous lymphatic glands, connected with the most delicate parts of the body, lying in it; and then a quantity of cellular tissue, loose, vascular, and con- stantly undergoing alterations. To the observations made on these points in the course of the present article, we shall now make a few additions. Wounds penetrating into the axilla endanger the nerves, artery, and vein, if inflicted near the humerus below, or close to the clavicle above. In the latter situation, as mentioned before, they may give rise to aneurismal varix. At the lower margin of the anterior wall the external mammary artery may be injured, and along the inferior border of the posterior wall the subscapular vessels lie exposed. The shoulder-joint is more liable to disloca- tion than any other in the body, and in most cases the head of the humerus comes into the axilla. The great vessels and nerves are dis- placed inwards, the circumflex vessels and nerve often torn. The head of the humerus lies just below the subscapular muscle, and forms a tumour in the axilla easily felt from below. (See Shoulder, Articulations of the.) The neck of the humerus is often broken above the insertion of the arm-pit muscles. The lower fragment is drawn inwards by them and upwards by the deltoid, whilst the supra- spinatus directs the upper fragment out. In this state of things the rough extremity of the lower piece irritates, perhaps lacerates the ves- sels and nerves, and if not properly managed leaves a permanent osseous tumour in the axilla. Collections of matter are very frequently met with in the axilla. These occur either about inflamed glands, or in the cellular tissue connected with these glands, or they may have found their way into this region, their focus being somewhere else. The abundance of cel- lular membrane here, its vascularity, its in- cessant movements, and the dragging and stretching to which it is exposed, render it very liable to formations of pus. Irritation of the delicate integuments may occasion them, and they may be formed in the neck and pass into this region through the opening at its apex. The looseness of the texture is such as to allow suppurations to go on to a great extent, whilst the movement of the walls pre- disposes to their termination in sinuses. The absorbent glands, however, are the or- gans which most frequently take on disease in this place. These may become inflamed and enlarged from sympathy with disease or injury in any part of the corresponding limb, the back, the surface of the thorax, or the upper part of the abdomen. When inflamed, they often run on to suppuration, or resolution may follow on the removal of the exciting cause. Slight lesions of the skin of the parts men- tioned may determine the formation of ab- scesses, as a scratch on the finger, a blister on the chest, &c. Paronychia is not an unusual exciting cause. Formidable inflammations of these glands, often attended with fatal consequences, follow the absorption of poisons. The cases most familiar to us in this country arise from wounds received in dissecting. The glands seem to arrest the poison in its progress to the circu- lation. They become excited and congested. The cellular tissue surrounding, imbedding, and partly forming them, inflames; a puffy swelling marks the effusion of serum into the cellular membrane, which may or may not be followed by suppuration. The glands frequently take on the disease under which the neighbouring mamma labours, as cancer, fungus nematodes, &c. These must be removed if the breast be amputated. They are generally in the course of the external mammary artery, and no other vessel is in- terested in their removal, yet the looseness of the tissue in which they lie renders it unsafe to cut the little vessels derived from this incon- siderable artery. Surgeons usually twist or tear away the glands, or else apply a ligature to the vessel before they cut it.