AVES. 301 nerves to the dentations along the edge of the mandible. The external branch recedes from the internal, perforates the jaw, and is dis- tributed on its external surface beneath the tegumentary or horny substance which sheaths the extremity of the mandible. It supplies no gustatory branch to the tongue, which is an or- gan of prehension, not of taste, in Birds. The facial nerve, or portio dura, exists in Birds, but it is extremely small, its offices being hardly required, in consequence of the structure of the parts of the face in this class. However, a few branches may, with difficulty indeed, be traced, and the trunk of the nerve is constantly present. The auditory nerve, or portio mollis, is large, very soft and pulpy, and of reddish colour; it is received into a deep depression on the internal surface of the cranium (at 7, fig. 137), whence it penetrates by several small foramina to the labyrinth. The pneumogastric nerve, or nei~vus vagus, generally passes out of the cranium in two or three filaments, which afterwards rejoin. -On leaving the skull, this nerve communicates with the lingual and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and is situated between them, the lingual being placed in front. Each nerve of the par vagum passes as a distinct strong cord along the neck in company with the jugular vein, and de- scending into the chest forms the cardiac and pulmonary plexuses, as in Mammalia. The two nerves unite behind the hearl, and proceed along the oesophagus to terminate in anasto- moses with the great sympathetic nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve of the eighth pair passes out of the cranium through the foramen behind the ear, which corresponds to the foramen lacerum postering, by two filaments, which immediately unite to form an elongated quadrangular ganglion ; this sends off a small internal branch in front of the muscles of the neck ; a small posterior twig which unites with the par vagum, and a large inferior branch to the anterior part of the neck. The latter is a continuation of the nerve itself; it descends along the oesophagus and divides into two prin- cipal branches, of which one passes upwards to the muscles of the os hyoides, between which it is included, and this branch is re- markably tortuous in the Woodpecker in order to be accommodated to the extensile motions of the tongue. The other branch descends along the lateral parietes of the oesophagus, and sends off a twig to join the lingual nerve. The termination of the glosso-pharyngeal is expanded upon the oesophagus. The hypoglossal nerve (9th pair) escapes from the cranium posterior to the nervus vagus by the condyloid foramen. It is very slender at its origin; passes to the front of the nervus vagus, partly uniting with, as it crosses over this nerve, and in that situation it detaches a small filament analogous to the desceudens noni, which accompanies the jugular vein to the chest. The trunk of the hypoglossal next crosses the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, then passes beneath the cornu of the os hyoides, and ad- vances towards the superior larynx, where it terminates by dividing into two principal branches, which are distributed, the one to the anterior and inferior, the other to the superior and internal parts, of the tongue. Spinal nerves.—These correspond in number to the vertebra? of the spine. They arise, as in the other vertebrata by two roots, the ganglion on the posterior of which is proportionally very large. In the sacral region of the spine, the anterior and posterior roots escape by distinct foramina, and can be separately divided with- out laying open the bony canal, but they are deeply seated and well protected by the anchy- losed processes of the sacrum and the extended iliac bones. The cervical nerves vary considerably in number, the known extremes being from ten to twenty-three, corresponding to the number of vertebra. They are proportionally larger than in man, are tortuous in their course, to be accom- modated to the extensive motions of the neck, and are principally lost in the integument. Only the last, or last two, pairs (u' u", fig. \ M) of cervical nerves concur in the formation of the brachial plexus, which is completed by the first two pairs of dorsal or thoracic nerves (v). The dorsal nerves do not present any notable differences from those of mammalia. The sacrul nerves have no other peculiarity than their mode of passing out of the spinal canal: they form exclusively the plexus ana- logous to the lumbar and sacral (w,fig. 134). The nerve analogous to the phrenic nerve is wanting in Birds, in correspondence with the rudimentary condition of the diaphragm. The brachial plexus, formed by the two last cervical and one or two first dorsal nerves, soon becomes blended into a single fasciculus whence all the nerves of the wing are derived. Accord- ing to Cuvier, the first four that are given off are of large size, and are distributed to the great and middle pectoral and subclavian mus- cles. A small filament is then detached which supplies the muscles surrounding the head of the humerus and capsule of the joint; this re- presents the articular nerve. The rest of the plexus divides into two large nerves, which supply the wing. Macartney describes the course of the nerves of the wing in a somewhat different manner, and observes that they more nearly resemble those of the superior extremity in mammalia, than Cuvier has represented. The brachial plexus, according to this author, gives rise to three nerves which are distributed in the follow- ing manner :—" The first is a very fine filament, which runs down on the inside of the arm, and is lost about the internal part of the elbow. This is analogous to the internal cutaneous nerve. The second is a large cord ; it gives off a very large branch, which divides into many others, for the supply of the pectoral muscles; it sends several smaller branches to the muscles under the clavicle and about the joint, and then proceeds to the inner edge of the biceps muscle, along which it descends to the fold of the arm, after giving some large muscular branches. Before it reaches the joint, it divides into two branches; one of