346 AVES. entirely closed, it is plain that it cannot be considered as influencing the voice, otherwise than by dividing or articulating the notes after they are formed by the lower larynx. The superior larynx presents, indeed, but few varieties in the different species of Birds ; and these relate chiefly to certain tubercles which are observed in its anterior, but which vary in number, and do not exist at all in some spe- cies, as the singing birds; being chiefly pre- sent in those birds which have a rough un- musical voice. In the Pelecan, the Gigantic Crane, and most of the Rasores, a process ex- tends backwards into the cavity of the upper larynx from the middle of the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, and seems destined to give additional protection to the air-passage. The trachea (G, Jig. 170, 171) in Birds is proportionally longer, in consequence of the length of the neck, than in any other class of animals, its length being further increased in many species by convolutions varying in extent and complexity. A species of Sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) among Mammalia, and a species of Crocodile ( Crocodilus acutus) among Reptiles, present an apalogous folding of the trachea. The trachea is composed in Birds of a series of bony, and sometimes, as in the Ostrich, of cartilaginous rings, included be- tween two membranes. In those cases in which they are of a bony structure, the ossi- fication is observed to commence at the anterior part of each ring, and gradually to extend on both sides to the opposite part. The tracheal rings, whether bony or cartila- ginous, are, with the exception of the two uppermost, always complete, and not, as in most quadrupeds, where the windpipe bears a different relation to the organ of voice, defi- cient posteriorly. They differ in shape, being sometimes more or less compressed. They are generally of uniform breadth, but in some species are alternately narrower at certain parts of their circumference and broader at others, and in these cases the rings are generally closely approximated together, and, as it were, locked into one another. This structure is most common in the Grallatores, where the rings are broadest alternately on the right and left sides: the French Academicians have given a good illustration of this structure from the trachea of the Demoiselle Crane. With respect to the diameter of the tracheal rings, this may sometimes be pretty uniform throughout, and the trachea will consequently be cylindrical, as in the Insessores, the Gralla- tores which have a shrill voice, the females of the Natatores, and most Raptores and Ra- sores: or the rings may gradually decrease in diameter, forming a conical trachea, as in the Turkey, the Heron, the Buzzard, the Eagle, the Cormorant, and the Gannet; or they may become wider by degrees to the middle of the trachea, and afterwards contract again to the inferior larynx; or, lastly, they may experience sudden dilatations for a short extent of the trachea;—the Golden-eye (Anas clangula), the Velvet-duck (Anas fusca), and the Mergan- ser (Mergus serrator), present a single en- largement of this kind, in which the bony rings are entire, and of the same texture as in the rest of the tube. In the Golden-Eye the trachea is four times larger at the dilatation than at any other part. In the Goosander (Mergus merganser), the trachea presents two sudden dilatations of a similar structure to that above described. The trachea of the Emeu (Dromaius ater) is also remarkable for a sud- den dilatation, but in this instance the cartila- ginous rings do not preserve their integrity at the dilated part, but are wanting posteriorly, where the tube is completed by the membranes only. The bronchi (v, jig. 163) are straight, com- pressed, delicate, and easily lacerable tubes; their rings, in most Birds,* form only a small segment of a circle, and are situated at the outer side of the tube, which is convex; the inner side is completed by a membrane (mem- brana tympaniformis) extended between the extremities of the defective rings, and is flat. The bronchial rings are weak and thin; in Birds without true muscles of voice, they are either of uniform thickness, or become gradually thinner to their termination: in many Birds which have the vocal muscles they grow sud- denly thinner below the insertion of those muscles: this is remarkable in Owls. The muscles of the trachea are generally a single pair, the sterno-tracheales, to which, in some cases, a second pair is added, the cleido- tracheales. The sterno-tracheales, which are analogous to the sterno-thyroidei of mammalia, arise from the costal processes of the sternum, and ascend along the sides of the trachea, as far in general as the superior larynx. The cleido-tracheales (ypsilo-trach'tens of Cuvier) arise from the furculum or conjoined clavicles, and pass along the sides of the trachea parallel to the preceding. Many birds possess only the tracheal and superior laryngeal muscles, and have no proper muscles of the inferior larynx. Cuvierf divides such birds into those which have the lower larynx simple or without dilatations, as the Rasores, and into those which have lateral bony cavities at that part, as the males of the Genus Anas, Cuv. and Mergus. His next division in the order of complexity of the vocal organs includes those birds which have one pair of vocal or inferior laryngeal muscles, the Broncho-tracheales; these arise from the sides of the lower part of the trachea, and are inserted in one of the half-rings of the bronchi at a less or greater distance from the lower larynx in different birds; as, for exam pie, in the first half-ring in the Genus Falcor in most of the Grallatores, in the Genus Larus (Gull), and Phalacrocorax (Cormo- rant) ; in the third half-ring in the King-fisher (Alcedo), and Goat-sucker (Caprimulgus); in the fifth half-ring in the Genus Ardea, Cuv. in the Cuckoo and the Eagle-Owl (Bubo maximus); in the seventh half-ring in the * In the Vultures, which have no true vocal muscles, but only the sterno-tracheales, the first four bronchial rings are entire. f Anat. Comparee, torn. iv. p. 490.