197 AORTA. the great sacro-lumbar mass of muscles, in which they are lost, anastomosing frequently with each other, and with the dorsal branches of the low- est intercostal and ileo-lumbar arteries. The continuations or anterior divisions of the lum- bar arteries pass outwards between the psoas andquadratus lumborum muscles, to which they give small branches, as well as to the diaphragm, kidney, renal capsule, and surrounding cellular membrane; they then continue their course forwards between the layers of the abdominal muscles, in company with branches of the lum- bar nerves, and anastomose with the lower in- tercostals, mammary, epigastric, and circum- flexa ilii. The middle sacral artery arises from the back part of the abdominal aorta, immediately above the origins of the primitive iliacs, from one of which it arises in some rare cases, it descends exactly over the middle of the anterior surface of the bodies of the last abdominal vertebra, false vertebrae of the sacrum and os coccygis, lying close on the surfaces of those bones; the branches which it gives off are distributed in a lateral direction; the first is the largest and not unfrequently is the fifth lumbar artery, the size of which sometimes exceeds that of the continuation of the trunk of the middle sacral itself. This branch divides into an anterior and a posterior, the distribution of which is similar to that of the superior lumbar arteries. Two transverse branches usually arise from the middle sacral on the body of each false vertebra; these pass- ing outwards give branches to the periosteum and the substance of the sacrum, anastomose with branches of the lateral sacral arteries, and enter the anterior sacral foramina, where they give some branches to the origins of the sacral nerves, and emerging from the posterior sacral foramina are lost in the muscles arising from the back part of the sacrum ; finally, the middle sacral terminates at the extremity of the coccyx in small branches, which it sends to the rectum and surrounding fat. The middle sacral artery is sometimes found double; in the foetus this artery is propor- tionally larger than in the adult, especially in the earlier periods of gestation. In some ani- mals, the size of the middle sacral artery is scarcely inferior to that of the aorta itself, as in the cetacea and fishes. In all animals fur- nished with tails, the size of this artery bears a constant relation to the size of that member. Aneurism rarely affects any of the branches of the aorta above described ; it, however, occa- sionally occurs in the cceliac or mesenteric arte- ries, or some of their branches. An interesting case of aneurism of the hepatic artery unat- tended by pulsation during life, and which produced jaundice by pressing on the ductus communis choledochus, is reported by Dr. Wil- liam Stokes, in the Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, for July 1834. We once witnessed the dissection of a female ae;ed forty, under the care of the late Professor Todd, in the Surgical Hospital of the House of Indus- try in Dublin, in whom three distinct aneurisms of large size were found in the epigastric region ; one of the hepatic artery, which communicated with that vessel by a longitudinal fissure, and which had opened into the cavity of the gall- bladder; one of the trunk of the coronary artery of the stomach, and a third of the splenic artery. A remarkable feature in this case, and that of Dr. Stokes, was the absence of pulsa- tion during life, in consequence of which the nature of the disease was not discovered until the post-mortem examination ; the above cir- cumstance may be attributed to the want of resistance in the surrounding parts, and it is one which frequently obscures the diagnosis of abdominal aneurisms. Bibliography.—Diet, de Medecine, art. Aorie. Beclard, Elemens d'anatomie generate, 8vo. Paris, 1823. Wintringham, Exper. inquiry on some parts of the animal structure, 8vo. Lond. 1740. A. Thomson, in Jameson's New Philosophical Journal for Oct. 1830. Malacarne, Osserv. in Cirurgia, 2 pte, 8vo. Torino, 1784. Hommel, in Com. Noric. An 1737. Klintz, in Abhand. d. Joseph. Med. Chirnrg. Akademie, Bd i. 4to. Wien. 1787. Meckel, Hanbd. d. menschlichen anatomie, 3 Bde 8vo. Halle and Berl. 1817. Abernethy, Phil. Trans. 1793. Desault, in Journal de Chirurgie, t. ii. Goodison, in Dub. Hosp. Repts. Brasdor, in Iter, period, de la Societe de Medecine, t. iii. 8vo. Paris. Stokes, in Dublin Journal of Med. and Chem. Science, 8vo. * * * * Bayer, Prses. Tiedemann, Diss, de rami* ex area aortae prodeuntibus, 4to. Salzb. 1817. Varieties in the number and origin of the principal branches of the aorta are signalized by Tiedemann, (Tabulae arteriarum corporis hu- mani fol. mag. Carolirh. 1827,) in great numbers ; also by Hunauld (Mem. de Paris 1737 and 1740) -, Neubauer (De Art. thyrodea ima); Meckel, (Epist. ad Haller, iii.) ; Walter (Mem. de Berlin, 1785) ; J. F. Meckel (Tab. anat. pathol. fasc. ii. fol. Lips. 1817-26); Haller (Elements Physiologiae, t. ii.); Meckel (Pathol, anatomie, 3 Th. 8vo. Leipz. 1812, and in Archiv. Bd. vi.) ; Huber (Acta Helvet. viii.) ; Loder (Progr. de nonnul. variet. arteriarum, 4to. Jena?, 1781) ; Herold (Diss. exh. obs. quasd. ad corp. hum. partium struct. Marburgae, 1812); Nevin (Edinb. Med. Comment. Dec. 2, vol.9); Ryan (De quarundum aiteriar. in corp. hum. dis- tributione, 8vo. Edinb. 1812) ; Schoen (De nonnul. arteriar. ortu et decursu abnormi, 8vo. Hal. 1823) ; Schmiedel (De varietatibus vasor. pier, magni mo- menti, 4to. Erlang. 1745); Ludwig (Obs. quaed. angiolog. 4to. Lips. 1764); Sandifort (De notabil. vasor. aberrationibus, in Obs. anat.pathol. 4to. Lugd. Batav. 1774); Koberwein (De vasorum decursu abnormi ej usque vi, &c. 4to. Viteberg. 1810) ; Barhow (Disq. circa originem et decursum arteri- arum, 4to. Lips. 1829); Otto (Seltene Becbach- tungen; ii Sammlungen, 4to. Berl. 1816-24 ; Ejus Handbuch. d. patholog. anatomie, 8vo. Berl. 1830—Englished by J. South, 8vo. Lond. 1831, where there are copious references) ; Boehmer (De 4to et 5to ramo ex arcu aortae prod, in Haller. Disp. Anat. Collect, t. ii.) ; Petsche (Sylloge Obs. Anat. Halae, 1736); Penada (Saggio di Osserv. pathol. anatomiche, Padova, 1801); Burns (Obs. on the diseases of the heart, 8vo. Edinb. 1809) ; Nicolai (De directione vasorum); Biumi (Obs. anatomicae) ; Bertin (Maladies du coeur, 8vo. Paris, 1824) ; Bernhard (Diss, de arter. e corde pro- deunt. aberrationibus, 4to. Berol. 1818) ; in the various systems of anatomy, particularly those by Heister, Winslow, and Hildebrandt, by Weber, in Morgagni, (Epist. &c. De Sinubus arteriae magna? Com. Bonon. t. i.) Hunauld, ('Obs. Anat. sur une conformation singul. de l'aorle, Mem. de Paris, 1735); Fiorati, (Osserv. sopra un insolita positione dell'aorta, e stravagante origine de suoi primi rami, in Saggi de Padova, t.,i.); Murray, (Sondeibane Stellung einiger grosseren Pulsader-stamme, Ab - hand. der Schwed. Akad. Jahr 1768); Vtcq d'Azyr,