AVES. 351 In the Ostrich the feathers have no accessory plume : in the Rhea it is represented by a tuft of down; in the Emeu, on the contrary, the accessory plume equals the original feather, so that the quill supports two shafts; and in the Cassowary, besides the double feather, there is also a second accessory plume, so that the quill supports three distinct shafts and vanes. The feathers vary in form in different parts of the bird according to their functions, and afford zoological characters for the distinction of species; they have, therefore, received in Ornithology distinct names. Those which surround or cover the external opening of the ear are termed ' auriculars.' Those which lie above the scapula and humerus are called the ' scapulars.' The small feathers which lie in several rows upon the bones of the antibrachium are called the 4 lesser coverts' Ctectrices prima). Those which line the under or inner side of the wings are the ' under coverts.' The feathers which lie immediately over the quill-feathers are the ' greater coverts' (tectrices secundee). The largest quill-feathers of the wing, which arise from the bones of the hand, are termed 'primaries' (primores). Those which rise from the ulna, towards its distal end, are the ' secondaries' (secondaria). Those which are attached to its proximal ex- tremity are the ' tertiaries' (tertiaria). These in some birds, as the Woodcock and Snipe, are so long as to give them the appearance, when flying, of having four wings. The quill-feathers which grow from the phalanx, representing the thumb, form what is termed the bastard wing (alula spuria). In considering the structures which deter- mine the powers of flight in different birds, it is necessary to take into account the structure, forms, and proportions of the wing-feathers, as well as the development of the bones and muscles which support and move them; as much depends upon the mechanical advantages resulting from the shape and texture of the expanded wing. When the primary quill- feathers gradually increase in length as they are situated nearer the extremity of the pinion, they give rise to the acuminated form of wing, as in the true Falcons, in which the second primary is the longest. In the Hawks the wing is of a less advantageous form, in con- sequence of the fourth primary being the longest; when the primaries gradually decrease in length towards the end of the pinion, they give rise to a short rounded form of wing, such as characterizes the Gallinaceous Order; in which, although the pectoral muscles are immensely developed in order to counteract the disadvantage resulting from the disposition of the primaries, yet they are only able, in consequence of the form of the wing, to carry the bird rapidly forward for a short distance, and that with an exertion and vibratory noise well known to every sportsman. The texture of the quill-feathers has also a material effect on the powers of flight. In the Falcons each primary quill-feather is elongated, narrow, and gradually tapers to a point; the webs are entire, and the barbs closely and firmly connected together.* In the Owls the plumage is loose and soft, and the outer edge of the primaries is serrated ; so that, while they are debarred from a rapid flight, which would be dangerous in the gloom in which they go abroad, they are enabled, by the same mechanism, to wing their way without noise, and steal unheard upon their prey. Development offeathers.—The first covering of the bird is a partial and temporary one, consisting of fasciculi of long filaments of down, which on their first appearance are en- veloped in a thin sheath, but this soon crumbles away after being exposed to the atmosphere. The down-fasciculi, which diverge each from a small quill, are succeeded by the fea- thers, which they guide, as it were, through the skin: and after the first plumage, at each succeeding moult, the old feathers serve as the gubernacula to those which are to follow. It is to be observed that feathers do not grow equally from every part of a surface of a bird ; they are not developed, for example, at those parts which are subject to friction from the movements of the wings and legs. They first appear in clumps upon those parts of the skin which is least affected by the pressure of superincumbent parts, or the movement of the parts beneath, as upon the head, along the spine, upon the exterior surface of the extre- mities, at the intervals of the joints on either side the projecting sternum, and at the sides of the abdomen. The matrix, or organ by Fig. 179. which the perfect feather is produced, has the form of an elongated cylindrical cone, and consists of a capsule, a bulb, and intermediate mem- branes which mould the secre- tion of the bulb into its ap- propriate form. The matrix is at first an extremely minute cone, attached by a filamen- tary process to a follicle or papilla of the skin ; but it is not a development of that part, being of a different structure and adhering to it by a small part only of ts circumference. The matrix progressively increases in length; its base sinking deep- ly into the corium, and ac- quiring a more extended con- nection by enlarged vessels and nerves, while its apex protrudes to a greater or less extent from the surface of the integument, when the cap- sule drops off to give passage « . „ to the feather which it incloses, "ng^ZhJ.Zith and the formation of which has, in the meanwhile, been the Capsule laid open. * Of so much consequence are the quill-feathers to the Falcons, that when any of them are broken the flight is injured and the falconers find it ne- cessary to repair them ; for this purpose they are always provided with perfect pinion and tail fea- thers, regularly numbered.