AVES. 311 Organ of Taste.—The gustatory sense is very imperfectly enjoyed in birds, which, having no manducatory organs, swallow the food almost as soon as seized. The tongue is organized chiefly to serve as a prehensile instrument, and its principal modifications will be treated of under the head of the Digestive Organs. It is generally sheathed at the anterior part with horn (h, fig. 152), and is destitute of papilla; except at its base (o, fig. 152) near the aper- ture of the larynx ; these papillae are not, how- ever, supplied by a true gustatory nerve, but by filaments of the glossopharyngeal. No branch of the fifth pair goes to the tongue. The tongue is proportionally largest and most fleshy in the Parrot tribe, and the food is detained in the mouth longer in these than in other birds. It is triturated and commi- nuted by the mandibles certainly, and turned about by the tongue, which here seems to ex- ercise a gustatory faculty, since indigestible parts, as the coat of kernels, &c. are rejected. In the Lories the extremity of the tongue is provided with numerous long and delicate pa- pillae or filaments projecting forwards. Organs of Touch.—With respect to the tactile instruments, but few observations can be made in the class of Birds. The anterior extremities have their digital extremities undivided and entirely unfitted for the exercise of this sense, and the posterior extremities are but little better organized for the purpose. The integument covering the toes is very sparingly supplied with nerves, and is of a texture scarcely fitted for ascertaining the superficial qualities of bodies. However, the villi on the under sur- face of the toes are observed to be remarkably long in the Capercailzie (Tetrao uragallus), but this is probably for the purpose of enabling them to grasp with more security the frosted branches of the Norwegian pine-trees. The Parrots seem to use their feet more like instru- ments of touch, but in them the action may be merely prehensile. The only organ of touch respecting which there can be no doubt is the bill. Even where this is covered with a hard sheath of horn, some filaments of the fifth pair (c,fig. 150) may be traced terminating in small papillae; but in the Lamelli-rostral water-birds the bill is covered by a softer substance, and is plentifully supplied by branches of the fifth pair of nerves. (See Nerves.) In the Woodcocks and Snipes the long bill is so organized that it is used as a probe in marshes and soft ground to feel for the small worms and slugs that constitute their food. The cire in the Falconida, the wattles of the Wattle-birds (Pliiledon carunculatus and Glaucopis cinerea) and of the Cock, the ca- runcles of the King-Vulture and Turkey, may also be regarded in some degree as organs of touch. Organs of Digestion.—The digestive function in birds is necessarily extremely powerful and rapid in order to supply the waste occasioned by their extensive, frequent, and energetic mo- tions, and in accordance with the rapidity of their circulation and their high state of irrita- bility. * The parts to be considered with reference to this function are the rostrum or beak, the tongue, the oesophagus, the stomach which is always divided into a glandular and muscular portion, the intestines, and the cloaca. The glandular organs of the digestive system are the salivary glands, the proventricular fol- licles, the liver, pancreas, and spleen. The beak consists of the maxillary and inter- maxillary bones, which in place of teeth are provided with a sheath of horny fibrous mate- rial, exactly similar to that of which the claws are composed: this sheath is moulded to the shape of the osseous mandibles, being formed by a softvascular substancecoveringthese parts,and its margins are frequently provided with horny processes or laminae secreted by distinct pulps, and analogous in this respect to the whalebone laminae of the Whale : M. Geofiioy St. Hilaire has described a structure in the bill of birds which presents a closer approach to a dentary system. In a foetus of a Perroquet nearly ready for hatching, he found that the margins of the bill were beset with tubercles arranged in a re-- gular order and having all the exterior appear- ances of teeth : these tubercles were not, indeed, implanted in the jaw-bones, but formed part and parcel of the exterior sheath of the bill. Under each tubercle, however, there was a ge- latinous pulp, analogous to the pulps which secrete teeth, but resting on the edge of the maxillary bones, and every pulp was supplied by vessels and nerves traversing a canal in the substance of the bone. These tubercles form the first margins of the mandibles, and their remains are indicated by canals in the horny sheath subsequently formed, which contain a softer material, and which commence from small foramina in the margin of the bone. The different degrees of hardness and varieties of form of the beak exercise, Cuvier observes,! as much influence upon the nature of birds as the number and figure of the teeth do upon that of Mammals. The beak is hardest in those birds which tear their prey, as in Eagles and Falcons; or in those which bruise hard seeds and fruits, as Parrots and Gros-beaks; or in those which pierce the bark of trees, as Woodpeckers, in the larger species of which the beak absolutely acquires the density of ivory. The hardness of the covering of the beak gradually diminishes in those birds which take less solid nourishment, or which swallow their food entire; and it changes at last to a soft skin in those which feed on tender substances, or which have occasion to probe for their food in muddy or sandy soils, or at the bottom of the water, as Ducks, Snipes, Woodcocks, &c. Ceteris paribus, a short beak must be stronger than a long one, a thick one than a thin one, a solid one than one which is flexible ; but the * The Cormorant readily devours six or ei g pounds of fish daily. + Anatomic C'omparte, torn. ii. p. 192.