190 AORTA. condary parts which lie in its vicinity, as the thymus, the pericardium, the oesophagus, the lenal capsules, ureters, &c. 4th order.—Small arterial twigs lost in the neighbouring cellular substance, lymphatic glands, and in the coats of the aorta itself. Development. ■— The aorta appears to be formed in the fcetus prior to the heart and sub- sequently to the system of the vena porta, with which, according to Baer, Rathke, and Meckel, it is connected by a small dilatation described by Dr. Allen Thomson* as a curved tube, which is the rudiment of the heart. (See Ovum.) Whilst the heart has but a single ventricle, the aorta and the pulmonary artery form a common trunk, which afterwards becomes divided by the de- delopment of the contiguous portions of the circumference of both vessels ; during the remaining periods of intra-uterine life, and for a short time after birth, the pulmonary artery communicates with the aorta by the duc- tus arteriosus, which appears as a continuation of the trunk of the pulmonary artery opening into the concavity of the arch of the aorta at its termination. The ductus arteriosus becomes impervious soon after birth, and having under- gone a process of complete obliteration, is finally concerted into a ligamentous cord. The size of the arch of the aorta is less in proportion in the fcetus than in the adult, whilst the thoracic aorta is larger, being increased in size below the ductus arteriosus. The arch lies closer to the spine in the fcetus in consequence of the tra- chea and bronchi behind it being so much less developed than in the adult, and the thymus which is between it and the sternum being so much larger during foetal life. In old age the curvature of the arch of the aorta is much greater in consequence of the great sinus having increased considerably in size. Anomalies.—The aorta presents occasional varieties or anomalies in the mode of its origin, its course, termination, and the number and situation of its branches. It is an interesting fact, that almost every irregularity hitherto observed in the course and branching of the aorta in the human subject, represents the dis- position which that vessel constantly exhibits in some of the inferior animals. The anomaly of the aorta arising from both ventricles, and causing that condition called cyanosis, will be more properly considered in the article Heart. The following anomalies of the course of the aorta have been recorded by anatomists :— 1st. The aorta sometimes divides imme- diately after its origin into a right and left trunk, which, after having each given off the arteries of one side of the head and one upper extremity, join to form the descending aorta. Malacarnef has described a remarkable case of this anomaly; the aorta was of an oval form at its origin, its greater diameter being to its lesser in the proportion of three to two, it had five sigmoid valves in its interior, it divided immediately after its origin into a right * Vide Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, by Dr. Jameson, for October, 1830. t Osservazioni in Chirurgia. Torino, 1784. and left trunk, from each of which arose a subclavian, an external and an internal carotid: after the two trunks had run for a space of four inches distinct, they joined to form the descending aorta. Hommel, a Norwegian ana- tomist,* relates a case in which the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta divided into two trunks, one of which passed before and the other behind the trachea, after which they joined to form the descending aorta, having encircled the trachea with a sort of ring : this anomalous division of the arch of the aorta is the more remarkable as it approaches the con- dition of the vessel which is constant in all known reptiles. 2d. The arch of the aorta is sometimes absent, in consequence of the vessel dividing, immediately after its origin, into two great trunks, one of which gives off the arte- ries of the head and upper extremities, whilst the other becomes the descending aorta.f This distribution is similar to that in the horse, rhinoceros, and other pachydermata, in the ruminantia, and some of the rodentia. 3rd. Varieties in the course of the arch sometimes, although rarely, occur, as, for instance, when the arch of the aorta, instead of crossing to the left in the usual manner, curves over the right bronchus, and gets to the right side of the spine, whence it either immediately crosses behind the trachea and oesophagus to the left, or continues its course along the right side of the spine to the lower part of the thorax; in cases of complete transposition of the vis- cera, where the heart is in the right side of the chest, the arch of the aorta is also reversed, in which case its thoracic portion descends along the right side of the spine.J Instances are recorded in which the descending aorta, a little below its arch, was very much con- tracted in its area or even completely obliterated for a certain distance, below which it resumed its full size: the circulation in these cases was carried on by the anastomosing of large col- lateral branches arising above and below the constricted or obliterated part.§ Anomalies of the branches of the aorta are more frequent: according to Meckel the branches arising from the arch deviate from the normal condition in one person out of every eight.|| The branches arising from the arch of the aorta present three kinds of ano- maly, which, as to their frequency, occur in the following order : 1st, an increase in their num- ber ; 2d, a diminution; and 3d, an anomaly in the identity or order of the branches arising from this part without any increase or diminu- tion of their number. In anomalies of the first * Comm. Noric. ann. 1737. t Vide Abhandlungen des Josephinischen Medi- cinisch-Chirurgischen Akademie. Band, i. S. 271. Taf. 6. Wien. 1787. J Meckel Handbuch der Menschlichen Anatomie. Band iii. Halle and Berlin, 1817. Abernethy in Phil. Trans. 1793. § Desault in Journal de Chirurgie, torn. ii. Dr. Goodison in Dublin Hosp. Reports. Brasdor Recueil Periodiqu« de la Societe de Medecine. Paris, torn. iii. || Handbuch der Menschlichen Anatomie. Band iii. Halle and Berlin, 1817.