757 CRUSTACEA. tegumentary skeleton presents the most singular forms: thus among the Limmadia and the Cypris, the pieces which are analogous to the epimeral or lateral pieces of this cephalic buckler, acquire a great extension, whilst the tergal portion of the arc to which they belong continues rudimentary or proves entirely abor- tive, so that they constitute two large valves covering the whole body of the animal, and bearing considerable resemblance to the shells of certain acephalous Mollusks. The dorsal lamina? which in the Pandarusform appendices on the back similar to Elytra, and those which in the Anthostomata form a kind of sheath around the posterior part of the body, are also formed by the anomalous development of cer- tain parts of both the dorsal and ventral arcs of the two posterior thoracic rings. The inferior arcs of the thoracic rings of the tegumentary skeleton of the Decapoda, by their intimate union, form a kind of ventral shield, named sternal plastrum, upon which lines of conjunction indicate the respective limits of the greater number of the segments, as well as of the sternal and episternal pieces of which these are composed. In the Decapoda Macroura and Anomoura, this plastrum is in general very narrow, but in the Brachyura it is expanded to such a degree as frequently to con- stitute a great and nearly circular disc. In the whole of these Crustaceans, the lateral pieces of the thoracic rings are conjoined, like those of the inferior arc of the same segments, and form on either side of the middle portion of the body a septum which is covered by the cara- pace, and which is known among anatomists under the name of the vault of the Jiancs. In the Macroura this septum is nearly vertical, but in the Brachyura it is oblique, or even almost horizontal. Fig. 383. b Lateral portion of the thorax of a Decapod. a, the epimeral pieces united to form the vault of the flancs; b, the sternum-, c, the apodemata rising from the sternum and separating the in- sertions of the legs. It is among those Crustaceans the thoracic rings of whose tegumentary skeleton blend or become consolidated in this manner, and ac- quire dimensions so considerable, that the struc- ture of this portion of the frame-work also exhi- bits the utmost extent of complication, in con- sequence of the existence of large apodemata in their interior. These septa are of two kinds ; the one, styled sternal apodemata, arise from the lines of consolidation of the thoracic sternal pieces; the other, named epimeral apodemata, Fig. 384. Vertical section of a portion of the thorax of one of the Brachyura. a, sternum, with a sternal apodema rising from it; b, epimera from the inner surface of which an epimeral apodema descends to join the sternal apodema, and thus form a septum between the thoracic cells. arise in a similar manner from the epimeral pieces of the same rings. They are met with among the Macroura and Anomoura, as well as among the Brachyura; but it is among these last that they acquire their highest development; their direction, vertical to the internal planes of the rings, and the unions of those that rise from the inferior aspect or floor with those that des- cend from the arched superior surface, give rise to the most singular combinations and forms, too multifarious to admit of description in an article of the extent of that in which we are engaged, but the final effect of which is the establishment of cells, divided from one an- other by vertical septa, and corresponding to each ring, and further intersected in the direc- tion of their height, in a certain number of species, and divided into two stages by means of horizontal reduplications. It is within these different cells that the muscles and principal vessels of the thorax are lodged in the Brachyura; holes left at the con- junctions of these lamina? admit of the com- munication of the cells two and two, either through the vertical septa or through the hori- zontal floors which divide the superposed cells, and it is by means of these holes of conjunc- tion that the anastomoses of the vessels of one ring take place with those of the neighbouring ring, as we shall see presently. In the Macroura, again, this structure does not occur, in consequence of which other means of communication between the vessels of the different segments require to be established, the nature of which we shall also have to inves- tigate before long. Generally speaking, the disposition of these cells and of the septa which form them varies considerably in the Brachyura and the Macroura. Certain pro- longations from the superior and internal angle of the sternal apodemata, by their union in the median line, after bending from before back- wards, even form a longitudinal canal, which extends through almost the whole length of the thorax. This is the sternal canal, destined to lodge the ganglionic nervous cord, and to serve as the chief venous reservoir. It has long been admitted as an axiom in animal physics, that when any particular part of the body acquires a very high degree of de- velopment, certain other parts stop short of their ordinary state of evolution, as if the former had obtained their unusual increment at the cost