747 REGIONS AND MUSCLES OF THE CRANIUM. I. Occipitofrontal region.—The anterior and posterior boundaries of this region are suffi- ciently obvious on the integuments, the eye- brows forming the anterior, the posterior being constituted by a line extending as far as the mastoid process on each side of the occipital protuberance corresponding to the insertion of the superficial muscles of the back of the neck, which protuberance can be felt through the integuments. The lateral limits, however, are not so distinct; in the living subject, however, when the temporal muscle is rendered tense, a distinct line of demarcation is felt along the upper margin of this muscle, extending down- wards and backwards nearly as far as the mas- toid process. We proceed to examine the several structures which are presented to the anatomist as he pursues the dissection of this region. 1. Integument.—It is in this region that we can best examine the general characters of the integument of the cranium, commonly known under the name of scalp (Fr. cuir chevelu). The greatest part of it is remarkable for the more or less luxuriant growth of hair from it,* the nature of which, it is hardly necessaiy to observe, differs materially in the male and in the female. In the natural state about two- thirds or three-fourths of the scalp are covered with hair, the anterior third or fourth,—namely, the skin of the forehead,—being uncovered. In front the hairs terminate abruptly on the frontal region; behind they terminate less ab- ruptly, and descend in general to a variable distance on the posterior part of the neck, becoming finer and more downlike as they descend. The natural direction of the hairs is at right angles with that portion of the scalp from which they grow; consequently the dif- ference of direction of the hairs depends upon the differences in the aspects of those regions. This is most obvious in that part of the head which is called the crown, which in most per- sons inclines downwards and backwards to a greater or less extent. Such, however, is the parietal, and occipito-mastoid. The advantages to be derived from the subdivision of the body into so many small regions as is adopted by the French anatomists, are by no means obvious. I decidedly prefer a subdivision which is indicated by certain naturally prominent points or landmarks, which will, 1 think, in general be found to map out regions not too limited nor too numerous, nor yet too comprehensive. * We cannot resist the temptation of transcribing the following passage from Gerdy, which is not devoid of some national characteristics. " La surface superieure de la tete est arrondie et ovo'ide. Elle est couverte par les cheveux qui en cachent les formes, lui donnent, par la soupplesse et le contraste de leur couleur, une sorte de beaute dif- ficile a exprimer, et fournissent au gout delicat des femmes l'ornement le plus gracieux et le plus se- duisant par les masses legeres, les guirlandes flex- ueuses, les boucles arrondies qu'elles en composent, et par les mille arrangemens que suggere a leur imagination l'amour ou l'art de plaire. Mais la tete, se depouillant avec l'age, de la chevelure qui l'embellisait, ne presente plus dans la vieillesse qu'une surface nue et luisante, ou Ton entrevoit quelquefois la trace des sutures frontales et parie- tales." influence of art in the arrangement of the hair, that it is difficult to meet with " a head of hair"—to borrow the phrase from the hair- dresser,—where the growth is perfectly na- tural. There is an obvious difference in the nature of that portion of the scalp from which hairs grow, and that which is naturally bald: the former is much thicker and denser, owing, no doubt, to a larger developement of the fibres of the corion, and to the great magnitude of the hairs which pierce it. It is at the posterior part of theoccipito-frontal region that the hairs are strongest, and that portion of the scalp very rarely becomes bald. 2. Subcutaneous tissue.—Subjacent to the integument is a dense and lamellated cellular tissue, with little fat, and such as does exist deposited in small pellets, much more nume- rous in the posterior part of the region. This cellular membrane is very intimately connected with those parts of the scalp especially from which hairs grow ; it is much more loose and less adipose in the frontal region; it also ad- heres pretty closely to the subjacent aponeurotic expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The bulbs of the hairs are lodged in it. The firm adhesion of this cellular membrane on the one hand to the skin, and on the other to the subjacent aponeurosis, is sufficient to ac- count for the great pain and danger which at- tend punctured wounds of the scalp, in conse- quence of the non-extensibility of the membrane and the tension which a very slight degree of swelling consequently gives rise to. 3. Muscles.—If the scalp and subcutaneous tissue be divided by a transverse incision over the vertex, and the flaps carefully dissected off, —one as far as the eyebrows, the other to the superior curved line of the occipital bone, the occipito-frontalis muscle is brought into view. Anteriorly and inferiorly we find the few fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle overlap- ping the occipito-frontalis just above the mar- gin of the orbit. Occipico-frontalis (epicranius, Albin. : de- scribed by some anatomists as two distinct muscles, the frontal and occipital). This is an expanded digastric muscle occu- pying the whole of this region. The two bellies of which the muscle is composed are united in the centre by a broad aponeurotic expansion. The anterior belly corresponds to a great part of the frontal bone, and the posterior to a part of the occipital. Very frequently the fibres are weak and pale, so that the dissector finds it difficult to trace out the extent and attachments of the muscle; and, moreover, even in its most developed state it is a thin muscle, so that great care is required for the accurate dissection of it. The anterior belly of this muscle, or that which is by some called the frontal, consists distinctly of two lateral portions united by a narrow triangular slip of aponeurosis. Each portion is connected inferiorly to the integu- ment of the eyebrow through the intervention of cellular membrane, and slightly overlapped by the superior fibres of the orbicular muscle of the eyelids, and commingled with some of the 3 c 2