24 ABSORPTION. glands,* the moderns have more frequently adopted the hypothesis of their vascular texture, so that we may consider this doctrine as sup- ported by the most recent and elaborate re- searches.f See Lymphatic ; Gland. § 2. The question of venous absorption con- sidered.—We have now been describing those organs, which are more specifically or appro- priately termed the absorbent system, as being those parts the office of which is confined to this operation. But a very important and in- teresting question must now be discussed, whether the function of absorption is exclusive- ly performed by the lacleals and the lymphatics. The ancient anatomists and physiologists being unacquainted with the existence of the lacteals and the lymphatics, yet observing the evident effect of the operation of absorption, ascribed these effects to the action of the veins; and among the moderns, for some time after the discovery of what were more appropriately termed the absorbent vessels, it was still sup- posed that the veins co-operated with them, and in some cases were even the principal agents. This was the universal doctrine until the middle of the last century, and was one of the points which was decidedly maintained by Haller and his disciples.J The arguments by which the hypothesis of venous absorption was supported may be re- duced to two classes, partly of a physiological and pathological, and partly of an anatomical nature; the first consisting of the results of experiments performed for the express purpose of investigating the subject, and of considera- tions derived from the morbid conditions of the system; the second depending more exclu- sively upon anatomical considerations. The neck, but that tliey are not found connected wiih the absorbents of the abdomen, and that they are en- tirely wanting in fish and in the amphibia ; Phil. Trans, for 1768, p. 217 et seq., and Enquiries, pt. ii. ch. 4, 5, 6. We have the same statement made by Monro, with respect to fish, p. 31. An- tommarchi, on the contrary, asserts that birds, fish, reptiles, and amphibia have " pochissime glan- dule ;" Prod, delle grande anat. di Mascagni, p. 8 ; but the statement is made in a general way, and without reference to any particular observations. It would appear that no specific apparatus for ab- sorption has been discovered in any of the inverte- brated animals. * We have the authority of Nuck, in favour of the cellular structure, Adenologia, c. ii. p. 30 et seq.,*fig. 9 . . 12 ; also of Crmkshank, c. 14 ; and of Abernethy, Phil. Trans, for 1776, p. 27 et seq. + See Hewson, v. iii. c. 2. pi. 2!; Werner and Feller, Vas. Lact. and Lymph. Descript. tab. 2; their figures, however, appear to be exaggerated ; Eeclard, add. a Bichat, p.231; Monro tert., Elem. v. i. p. 558. On the lymphatic glands generally see Haller, El. Phys. ii. 3. 16. .27; Boyer, Anat. t. iii. p. 243 . . 257 ; Mascagni, ps. i. sect. 5. p. 31 ; Kullier, ubi supra, p. 120 et seq. ; Breschet, ubi supra, p. 394. For plates of the glands, see Mas- cagni, tab. 1. fig. 8.. .12, tab. 2. fig. 4 . . 8, tab. 4. fig. 2. tab. 8, 16, 26; Cruikshank, pi. 3; Sheldon, tab. 3, 5. % Boerhaave, Pradeet. §103. and §247; Haller, in not. 1. ad § 106, Boerhaave, Pra?lect., and not. 1. ad § 245; also El. Phys. ii. 1.28; Monro secun- dus, De Ven. Lymph., p. 14. .21 ; Walter, sur la Resorption, Nouv, Mem. Berlin, pour 1786. .7, § 15 et seq- ; Magendie, Physiol, t. ii, p. 238. experiments referred to consisted in passing injections from the veins to the absorbents, or the reverse, thus proving, as was supposed, that a direct connexion subsisted between these vessels. They were performed by the most skilful anatomists of the age, and were gene- rally acquiesced in, without either the accuracy with which they were conducted, or that of the conclusions deduced from them, being ever called in question. Another class of experi- ments consisted in passing ligatures round the thoracic duct, so as to render it impervious to the passage of the chyle, when it was supposed that under these circumstances the nutrition of the animal was not interrupted,* and the same conclusion appeared to be substantiated by various cases of natural obstruction of the duct, or by certain malformations of the part, where it was either defective, or did not convey its contents, in the ordinary manner, into the veins. The other set of arguments, which are more purely anatomical, were derived from the supposed fact that various parts of the body, which were evidently subject to the operation of absorption, were without lymphatics, and that this was likewise the case with large classes of animals, the general structure of which, as far as regards their growth and nutrition, was analogous to that of the mammalia. Admitting these data, it seemed to be a necessary conse- quence that absorption must in these instances be performed by the veins, and hence it was inferred that in all classes of animals, and in all parts of the body, the veins co-operated with the lacteals and the lymphatics in the function of absorption. The doctrine of venous absorption was first formally called in question, nearly at the same time,f by Wm. Hunter and by Monro se- cundus,J who, as it would appear, to a certain extent, entered upon the investigation inde- pendently of each other. The priority of dis- covery in this, as in so many points connected with anatomy, was for a long time the subject of warm controversy. We may remark con- cerning this question, that if the judgment of the present age should incline to ascribe to Hunter the original conception of the hypo- thesis, it is also disposed to allow to Monro the merit of establishing his opinion by a skilful and laborious process of experiment and observation. The method which these illustrious rivals adopted was, first, to repeat the experiments of their predecessors, when, by noticing with scrupulous accuracy all the circumstances con- nected with them, they were able to demon- strate, or at least to render it highly probable, that in all those cases where injections had passed between the absorbents and the veins, either rupture or extravasation had taken place, and that, when this was carefully guarded * Some experiments of this kind are referred to by M. Majendie, as having been performed by M. Dupuyiren, Physiol, t. ii. p. 167. See also Ri- cherand, Elemens de Physiologie par Berard. t Medical Comment., passim ; Cruikshank, In- trod.; Walter, § 10 et seq. ^ Dissert, de Sem. et Test, in Smellie, Thes. t. ii. and De Ven. Lymph. Valv.