ARTICULATION. 255 ambulacral plates which form the shell-like covering of the echinida.* The sutures have the peculiarity of a con- siderable tendency to become obliterated by age, the intervening cartilage being ossified ; it rarely happens that the sutures are all ma- nifest in a human skull past fifty years of age, and sometimes the obliteration takes place at a much earlier period. The frontal suture is by no means permanent; it is not often found at puberty. In birds and fishes this tendency to the obliteration of the sutures is particularly manifest. b. Schindylesis (ayt^vT^an;, Jissio, cryj>£w, diffindo).—This form of articulation is where a thin plate of bone is received into a space or cleft formed by the separation of two laminae of another, as is seen in the insertion of the azygos process of the sphenoid bone into the fis- sure on the superior margin of the vomer ; and in the articulation of the lacrymal bone with the ascending process of the superior maxillary. c. Gomphosis (yo/Aipo?, clavus. Clavatio, conclavatio).—When a bone is inserted into a cavity in another, as a nail is driven into a board, or as a tree is inserted into the earth by its roots, the articulation is by gomphosis. The only example we have of it in the human subject or in quadrupeds is in the insertion of the teeth into the alveoli. In the weapon of offence of the saw-fish we find also an example in the manner in which the strong osseous spines are inserted like teeth into its lateral edges. Cuvier mentions a variety of gomphosis, the only modification of the above: it is where a bony process grows from the bottom of the recipient cavity, and is inserted into a cavity in the base of the received bone or hard part. This is the mode of articulation of the nails with the ungueal phalanges in animals of the cat kind; the nail is received into an osseous sheath, from the bottom of which the body of the phalanx projects and fills up the cavity of the nail. A similar pivot grows from the bottom of the alveoli, into which the long canine teeth of the walrus are inserted. d. Amphiarthrosis (a^Qi, utrinque, afi^ov, articulus, i. e. a mixed form of articulation. Articulatio dubia, Bartholin. Synarthrosis diar- throdica).—This is a form of articulation where two plane or mutually adapted surfaces are held together by a cartilaginous orfibro-cartilaginous lamina of considerable thickness, as well as by external ligaments. In virtue of the elasti- city of the interposed cartilaginous or fibro- cartilaginous lamina, the amphiarthrosis pos- sesses a manifest, although certainly a very limited degree of motion, and hence most systematic writers class, it with the diarthrodial articulations. To me it appears much more consistent to place it among the synarthrodial joints, for, 1. its anatomical characters agree precisely with those of synarthrosis; 2. the surfaces in amphiarthrosis being continuous, it would make an exception in diarthrosis were * Meckel, Anat. Comp. (Fr. transl.) t. ii. p. 43. we to place it there; and, 3. its degree of motion is greater than that of suture, only because of the greater development of the in- terosseous substance. These points of similarity led some anatomists to call it Diarthrosis syn- arthrodica; for the reasons above stated, as well as because it has one point of resemblance to diarthrosis in its greater latitude of motion, I propose the appellation Synarthrosis diar- throdica. The examples of this form of joint in the human body are the articulation between the bodies of the vertebrae, that between the two ossa pubis at what is called the symphysis, and that between the ilium and sacrum. We may also, I think, place here the articulation of the ribs with the sternum by means of the costal cartilages.* The bodies of the vertebrae in most of the mammalia are articulated in the same way; so are they in fishes also ; but in these last there is a peculiarity already re- ferred to, which increases the degree of motion of which the joint is susceptible.f Like the sutures, the amphiarthrosis is liable to become obliterated by age, and from the same cause, namely, the ossification of the interosseous la- mina. This is very common in the costo-sternal joints, less so in the interpubic, and still more rare in the inter-vertebral and sacro-iliac. Diarthrosis.—Evident mobility is the dis- tinguishing characteristic of this class of joints; the articular surfaces are contiguous, each co- vered by a lamina of cartilage (diarthrodial cartilage), having a synovial sac, and in some cases two synovial sacs interposed, which are separated by a meniscus. The in- tegrity of the articulation is maintained by liga- ments which pass from the one bone to the other. Their mechanism is much more com- plicated than that of synarthrodial joints, being intended not only for security, but also to give a certain direction to the motions of which they are the centre. Before proceeding to the enumeration of the varieties of joints that come under this head, it will not be amiss to describe briefly the various- motions which may take place between any two segments of a limb, and which it is the object of these joints to admit of. It is obvious that the most simple kind of motion which can exist between two plane or contiguous surfaces,is that of gliding : one surface glides over the other, limited by the ligaments which extend be- tween the bones. This motion, however, is not confined to plane surfaces, it may exist evidently between contiguous surfaces whatever their form. When two segments of a limb, placed in a direct line or nearly so, can be brought to form * It may be objected to this arrangement that at the sternal extremity of each cartilage there is a synovial membrane between it and the sternal depression. All anatomists agree in denying its existence at the articulation of the first cartilage, and all admit the great difficulty of fully demon- strating its existence in the others. For my own part I do not believe that it exists in any. t The articulation of the lower jaw in the whale- bone whale, above referred to, is a joint of this kind.