25? ASPHYXIA. generally formed partly of bone and partly of ligament, and sometimes moves on the pivot, sometimes the pivot moves in it. The motion is evidently confined to rotation, the axis of which is the axis of the pivot. In the human subject the best example of this articulation is that between the atlas and odontoid process of the axis or vertebra dentata. The ring is formed by a portion of the anterior arch of the atlas, completed behind by a trans- verse ligament. Here the atlas rotates round the odontoid process, which is the axis of mo- tion. Another example is the superior radio- ulnar articulation : here the ring is formed one- fourth by bone, namely the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and the remaining three-fourths by the round ligament called the coronary ligament of the radius. In this case there is rotation as perfect as in that just mentioned, but the head of the radius rolls in the ring, and the axis of motion is the axis of the head and neck of the bone. Some anatomists consider this joint a species of ginglymus, which they designate lateral. The terms Symphysis, Synchondrosis, Syn- neurosis, Syssarcosis, Meningosis, have been employed by anatomists to designate certain kinds of articulation, chiefly in reference to the nature of the connecting media. Symphysis, although originally employed with great extent of meaning, seems to have been in later days applied exclusively to denote the articulations of the pelvis, which we have classed under Amphiarthrosis. I pass over the other terms, because they ought to be discarded from use, as only tending to encumber a vocabulary already too much crowded with difficult and unnecessary terms. The descriptive anatomy of the several joints will be found under the heads—Ankle, Cra- nium, Elbow, Face, Foot, Hand, Hip, Knee, Pelvis, Radio-ulnae, Shoulder, Spine, Temporo - maxillary, Tibio-fibu- lar, Wrist, and the morbid anatomy under the head Joint. Bibliography.—Havers, Osteologia nova, 8vo. Lond.1691. Saltxmann,De Articulationibus Artuum, Argent. 1712. Walther, De Articulis, Ligamentis, &c. 4to. Lips. 1728. Neumann, Lehre von d. Articulationen d. mensch. Koerpers, Freiberg. 1745. Isenflamm, Diss, de Ginglymo, 4to. Erlang. 1785. Bonn, De Suturarum co p. hum. fab. et usu, Lips. 1763. Haase, De unguine articulari ejusque vitiis, 4to. Lips. 1774; Ej. De fabrica cartilaginum, 4to. Lips. 1767. Petscliel, De Axungia articulari, Lips. 1740 (Recus. in Halleri Diss. .\nat. select.). Weit- brecht, Syndesmologia, 4to. Petrop. 1742 (decidedly the best work extant on the descriptive anatomy of the ligaments). Hunter, W. on the structure and diseases of articulating cartilages, Philos. Trans. 1743. SchaarSchmidt, Syndesmologische Tabellen, 8vo. Lange. 1782. Monro on the Bursae mucosae, fol. Kdinb. 1788. Heysirjers, Diss. Phys. Anat. de fabrica intima articulationum, 8vo. Traj. ad Rhen. 1803. Loschge, Die Knochen, &c. des mensch. Koerp. fol. Erlang. 1804. Bichat, Mem. sur la membrane synoviale des articulations, Mem. de la Soc. Pliilom. An. 6. Dickinson, A syndes- mological chart, 8vo. Lond. 1821. Cooper, B. on the ligaments, 4to. Lond. 1825. Cruveilliicr, Sur les cartilages diarlhrodiaux, Arch. Gen. dc Med. Fcvrier, 1824. Bichat, Anatomic generate. Beclard, Anatomie gent-rale. (The older and likewise the VOL. I. newer systems of anatomy are mostly deficient in syndesmology; the works of Bichat and lioyer, however, form exceptions, and arc well deserving of a careful perusal : the descriptions in the Trait! des Maladies Chirurgicales, t. iv. of the latter, are also very excellent; and one of the most minute and accurate accounts we have of the ligaments is contained in the magnificent work of Messrs. Bourgery and Jacob, now in the course of publica- tion : Traite complet de l'anatomie de 1'homme ; Anglice, The whole anatomy of the human body, by R. Willis, fol. Paris and Lond.) (R. B. Todd.) ASPHYXIA. (Gr. Aafpv^x. Fr. Asphixie. Ger. Scheintod, Asphyxie. Ital. Asfissia.) The word Asphyxia, according to its derivation (from a and a(pv^t>, pulsus,) ought to signify what is usually expressed by the term Syncope, i. e. failure of the heart's action; but it is now always used to express failure of the process of respiration. It is hardly necessary to say, that there is no more general law of vital action, in all classes of organized beings, than its dependence on oxygen, i. e. on a certain chemical action taking place between the nourishing fluids of that living body (whether animal or vegetable) and the oxygen of the atmosphere. This law is, indeed, as general as the dependence of vital action on heat, and in like manner as a certain elevation of temperature (short of what acts chemically on the organized textures) is destructive to life, so a certain concentration of oxygen in the air inhaled, at least by the higher orders of animals, affects them as a poison.* Many organized substances, as the seeds, roots, and stems of vegetables, the pupre of insects, eggs, even perfect animals of some of the lower classes, may retain their vitality, as is commonly said, i. e. remain susceptible of vital action, for very various periods of time, at low temperatures, without exercising any action on the oxygen of the atmosphere; but whenever the phenomena indicating vital ac- tion take place in them, exposure to oxygen, and a certain alteration of the air surrounding them, very soon become necessary conditions of the continuance of vitality. The alterations which take place in the air in contact with different living bodies are some- what various. Water is exhaled probably in every instance. In the case of some animals, particularly fishes, there is certainly an absorp- tion of azote ; and in that of vegetables growing under the influence of light, there is a decided absorption of carbon from the carbonic acid of the atmosphere, and an evolution of pure oxygen. But it is now generally agreed, that, in all cases, the action between the atmosphere and the nourishing fluid which is essential to the motion and vivifying power of the latter, is that which is denoted by the disappearance of part of the oxygen from the air that comes in contact with that fluid, and the substitution of a quantity of carbonic acid. Some time since it was the prevalent opinion, that the nature of that action was merely an * Sec Broughton in Journal of Science, 1830. S