578 CETACEA. The disappearance of the posterior members has occasioned that of the vessels which should nourish those members ; and as the tail has attained a considerable development, the arte- ries and veins which belong to this last part of the trunk have been developed in the same proportion. The abdominal aorta does not send off any external iliacs, but is continued underneath the tail in the canal of the inferior processes, from whence its ramifications are dis- tributed to the muscles which move this organ. The modifications of the venous system are in many respects analogous to those of the arteries. The quantity of blood contained in the vascu- lar system appears to be proportionally much greater than in the other Mammalia. [In the Porpesse the veins are almost univer- sally devoid of valves, so that they can be as easily injected from trunks to branches, as in the reverse direction. The plexiform disposi- tion which we have seen to characterize so many parts of the arterial system is still more strongly displayed in the venous. Thus in the system of the anterior vena cava, with the ex- ception of the trunk of that vein itself, and the short jugular veins which join it, an internal and an external jugular branch, and a pair of large subcutaneous veins, all the other parts of the system manifest the plexiform disposition. This is most remark- able in the large venous sinuses surrounding the central axis of the nervous system, which receives the intercostal veins, and by means of which the system of the anterior cava is chiefly brought into com- munication with that of the pos- terior cava; for, as V. Baer has observed, there is no intercommu- nicating channel analogous to the vena azygos of the higher Mam- malia. Of the venous plexuses belong- ing to the system of the inferior cava, that which is found at the posterior parietes of the abdominal cavity extending from below the kidney to the lower boundary of the abdomen is the most remark- able, and we have selected in illustration of this, the figure from Baer's excellent memoir on the vas- cular system of the Cetacea.* In this figure (fig. 266) the anterior parietes of the abdomen are remo- ved. The two immense lateral de- pressor muscles of the tail are seen at A, A, and B shows their point of convergence to be inserted into the inferior spinous processes, by which the cavity of the abdomen is contracted and defined posteriorly. Just anterior to this commissure is seen the termination of the rec- tum H. C, C, are the two ischia. D, D, the posterior parietes of the chest projecting forwards over the abdomen. On the right side the kidney and the peritoneum are re- moved; on the left side they are seen in situ, and also a part of the left cornu of the uterus G, with the oviduct and ovary K. At p is seen the inferior vena cava cut through, which lies in the interspace of the two great depres- sors of the tail. The trunk of the vena cava seems smaller than it Abdominal venmis plexus and kidney of the Porpesse. * Ueber das Gefass - system des Braunfisrhes, Nova Acta, Phys. Med. Leopold. Carol, torn. xvii. 1835.