CRANIUM. 734 the membrana tympani, in front, by a sulcus which is situated on the border between the cerebral and under surfaces, and passes back- wards, between the petrous and squamous portions as a canal (the canalis Eustachianus), which is divided by a lamina of bone, called the processus cochleariformis, into two parts, the inferior of which contains the Eustachian tube, and the superior the tensor membranae tympani muscle. Immediately behind the fossa jugularis there is a rough surface, for the articulation of the jugular process of the occi- pital bone; and to the outer side of this sur- face is the foramen stylo-mastoideum for the exit of the facial nerve. In front of and close to this foramen, and between it and the jugular fossa, is the long pointed process (the styloid process) for the attachment of the stylo-maxil- lary and stylo-hyoid ligaments, and the stylo- pharyngeus, stylo-glossus and stylo-hyoideus muscles; this process is embraced on the outer side at its root by a portion of the ridge separating the parotid and jugular fossae; that portion is called the vaginal process. In front of the fossa jugularis are two foramina; one very large, the foramen caroticum ; the other very small, to the inner side of the former and nearly on the margin between this and the cerebellic surfaces, being the termination of the aqueduct of the cochlea. The foramen caro- ticum is the inferior opening of the canalis caroticus, a canal which exists in the bone, and consists of two parts that are at right angles with each other—the inferior, short, vertical, and extending upwards from the fo- ramen caroticum into the substance of the bone; the superior, horizontal, running length- wise, and extending to the end of the petrous process: in this canal there pass the carotid artery to the cavity of the cranium, and a filament of the nervus abducens, as well as one of the Vidian, to the neck. A rough sur- face is observed anterior to the foramen caro- ticum for the attachment of the levator palati and the tensor tympani muscles. The outer and posterior extremity of the petrous is confounded with the mastoid and squamous portions; the inner and anterior is open, and the bone is so much removed at its upper part (to allow the carotid artery to pass upon the body of the sphenoid) that it there appears more like a deep groove than a tube. This is filled up in the recent subject by a plate of cartilage, but in the dried skull, when this cartilage has been removed, there is found an opening, between the sphenoid bone and this extremity of the temporal, which is called the foramen lacerum unticum. The mastoid portion is situated at the outer end of the petrous, and behind and below the squamous. It is of a nipple-like shape, with an upper horizontal denticulated border, with which the posterior inferior angle of the pari- etal bone articulates ; and with a posterior semi- circular border which is joined to the occipital: in both directions it is overlapped by the bones to which it is joined, except at the lower part, where it is applied to the occipital by a sort of harmonic suture. On its inner surface there is a deep, semi- circular sulcus (the concavity looking back- wards) which traverses its entire length ; it receives the lateral sinus from the parietal bone and transmits it to the lower part of the occi- pital : there is generally observed in it a fo- ramen (the foramen mastoideum), through which a vein of the scalp communicates with the sinus. Its outer surface is roughened and gives attachment to the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and sometimes to the trachelo-mastoideus; it terminates below in the mammillary eminence, called the mastoid process, behind and to the inner side of which are two grooves—the one nearest to the process (the sulcus digastricus) very evident, for the attachment of the digas- tricus ; the other nearly on the articulating edge (sulcus occipitalis), less distinct, for the occi- pital artery. The squamous portion rises upwards from the mastoid, and part of the outer border of the petrous portions; it has a semicircular mar- gin which embraces the parietal and sphenoid bones. Its internal surface, which is concave, con- tributes to form the middle fossa of the cra- nium, and exhibits strongly the depressions and elevations which correspond to the con- volutions of the brain, and to the spaces between them. At its anterior part, and com- mencing at the angle between it and the pe- trous process, there is a groove which runs upwards and divides into other grooves, some of which pass backwards; these are formed by the middle meningeal artery and its branches. The external plate of its border is prolonged upwards, in such a manner that this surface is surmounted by a rough articulating line, of considerable breadth, which is applied on the outside of the parietal and partly on the sphe- noid bone. The external surface is slightly convex, is smooth, and there may be often seen indica- tions of deep branches of the temporal artery having passed over it. It forms in part the temporal fossa, and the temporal muscle is attached to it. At its lower part, a process (the zygomatic process) passes transversely outwards, and is then twisted on itself in a di- rection forwards, after the fashion of the ribs at their angles; so that the surface of the process which would have been superior becomes internal, and that which would have been in- ferior becomes external. This process has two roots, an anterior or transverse and a pos- terior or longitudinal. The former is a convex elongated eminence, situated transversely and in front of a fossa (the fossa articuluris), in which the condyle of the lower jaw is placed. This root is the eminentia articuluris, on which the condyle, with its inter-articular cartilage, is thrown when the jaw is depressed. The pos- terior root has itself two origins, which cir- cumscribe the external auditory foramen; and it flows into and joins the anterior, just when that root is altering its direction. Be- tween the squamous process, and that part of the zygomatic, process which is between the