OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. ABDOMEN, (in anatomy,) with which the terms venter and alvus are sometimes used synonymously. Gr. yao-Tyg- Germ, bauch, un- terleib, hinterleib. Ital. ventre", pancia, abdo- mine: the French anatomists use the word abdomen as we do, and also the term ventre as we do belly; also bas-ventre. It is so called, " quod ubdi et tegi soleat, aut quod alimenta in eo abdantur, aut intestina ibi sint abdita."* The term denotes a particular region and cavity in a large proportion of the animal series, being found in most of the classes from Mam- malia down to Articulata. It is impossible to give such a definition of this region as will apply to all; it appears, however, to have one property sufficiently general, viz. that it con- tains in all these classes more or less of the digestive organs. Thus, to ascend from the Articulata:— It is in the class Insecta of the Articulata that we find the most defined region bearing this name. This region is the most posterior of the three portions into which the body of an insect is divided, and is composed of a series of seg- ments which unite to form a cavity enclosing the viscera subservient to nutrition, respiration, and reproduction ; it does not contain any of the organs concerned in locomotion. It is com- posed of a series of simple hoops, united to each other by a ligamentous connexion, which allows the abdomen to be flexible or otherwise, according to the closeness of the union.f The abdomen is united by its anterior extremity to * Facciolati, in verb. t See a very good engraving from Cams, of the segments of an insect, in Roget's liridgewatei' Trea- tise, vol. i. p. 321. VOL. I. the thorax. (See Insecta.) In the Arachnida there is also a similar division of the body, to which the name of abdomen has been applied, united in front with the cephalo-thorax, and separated from it by a deep groove, which leaves only a slender pedicle between them ; like that of the Insecta it contains the principal viscera. (See Arachnida.) In all the divisions of the Vertebrata there is an abdomen. In fishes the abdomen is situated towards the posterior extremity of the body, and is separated from the heart in front by a strong membrane analogous to the diaphragm ; it contains the digestive and generative organs. In reptiles the abdomen is that region which lies immediately anterior to the anus; in many classes it is not separated from the cavity con- taining the lungs, so that the lungs, heart, organs of digestion and generation are all con- tained in one great cavity; in the crocodile, however, a layer of muscular fibres, having the appearance of a diaphragm, covers the perito- neum, where it is connected with the liver, so that the lungs do not project into the abdomen. In birds, the abdomen extends from the posterior extremity of the sternum to the anus ; it is, as in fishes, separated from the thorax by a mem- brane which, though not muscular, is analogous to the diaphragm, but is perforated so as to allow the air to pass into the abdominal cells. In Mammalia, the abdomen is placed between the pelvis and thorax, with the former of which it is continuous; but it is separated from the latter by the diaphragm ; its principal contents consist of the digestive organs, and its size varies in reference to their respective degrees of development. B