ANIMAL. 123 agency of which they have been created. Inorganic bodies exist through the absence of all change in their interior; organized beings exist by force of change: there are two pro- cesses, one of renewal, the other of decom- position, perpetually going on within them ; they are continually appropriating from bodies exterior to themselves a quantity of matter which they have the singular faculty of ela- borating into their proper substance, and they have at the same time the power of withdraw- ing portions of the matter which already forms them, and rejecting these from their interior as no longer fitted for their pre-ervation. Vege- tables, by means of their roots and their leaves, draw from the earth and from the air materials which they elaborate into juices fitted for their nourishment, at the same time that they throw off, especially by means of their leaves, a por- tion of the matter which had been absorbed, either as superfluous or as improper to enter into their composition. In the same manner ani- mals appropriate to themselves various amounts of matter in the shape of atmospheric air and food, from which they prepare a fluid proper for their maintenance, at the same time that they, by virtue of peculiar processes, with- draw from their bodies such portions of mat- ter as have already fulfilled their destination, and cast them out under the form of excre- tions. Organized bodies, consequently, are preserved as individuals by a process of nu- trition, a process which implies dependence on other bodies, and alternate appropriation and rejection of the particles of these; the ex- istence of an organized being, in fact, only con- curs with the presence and appropriation of substances external to itself, with a perpetual accession of matter on the one hand, and of its rejection on the other, whilst unorganized bodies are more certainly continued, as their state of isolation or abstraction from all ex- ternal influences is more complete. Organized beings, in a word, continue to exist by virtue of certain inherent especial powers; un- organized simply by virtue of the general powers that pervade the universe in harmony witli which they were originally framed. The modifications undergone by organized and unorganized bodies are peculiar and cha- racteristic in each class. In the first place modification or change is no necessary con- dition to the existence of an unorganized body, as it is of one that is organized. A mineral in a state of complete isolation might remain eternally unchanged ; a plant or an animal, on the contrary, cannot be conceived as existing for a moment abstracted from the universe around it, and without undergoing change. A mineral, in the instant of its formation, acquires all the properties that distinguish it at any after-stage of its existence; in plants and animals, on the other hand, as we witness an origin, so we observe a series of modifications denominated ages,—they commence their ex- istence, they increase in size, they attain ma- turity, and they decline and ultimately die. Any change which unorganized bodies ex- hibit is accidental, and happens under the influence of agencies external to themselves; the changes which organized beings undergo in the course they run from incipience to their end, are on the contrary necessary, and take place in consequence of powers inherent in themselves. Any change which an unorganized body ex- periences happens on its surface: its mass is increased or diminished by simple addition to or subtraction from its particles; it does not increase, neither does it shrink and decay in all its parts like plants and animals, in which increase and diminution take place at one and the same time from within and from without. Increase in the unorganized world happens through juxta-position, in the organic through intussusception. Organized bodies, conse- quently, as they alone are generated, as they alone possess powers of self-preservation and of reproduction, so do they alone grow, advancing necessarily from infancy to maturity and old age, or exhibit what are called ages. (See Ace ) Organized bodies further meet our obser- vation in two different states,—those, namely, of health and of disease, nothing correspond- ing to which is encountered in the inorganic world. \\ hatever has a beginning has also an end. But the mode in which organized and un- organized bodies cease to be, and the influences that determine their periods of being, are ex- tremely different. A mineral ends when the affinities that combined it, and the attraction of cohesion that held its particles together, are overcome. This language implies that its destruction is effected by agencies external to itself—by the action of other bodies, and of circumstances over which it has no controul. The destruction of a mineral is, therefore, in nowise necessary, neither is it spontaneous: abstract a mineral, as we have said, from all external agency, and its endurance is inde- finite. Very different is the case with regard to animals and vegetables ; as their continuance depends on the process of nutrition, their end hangs upon the cessation of this act; and as the tenure by which they enjoy existence is temporary, the machine of organization being calculated to endure but for a season, their death or destruction is both spontaneous and necessary. Organized bodies which alone owe their being to generation, which alone continue their existence, reproduce their kinds, grow, attain maturity, and become aged by virtue of powers inherent within themselves, so do they alone die. The period of endurance of unorganized bodies may often be calculated approximatively according to their masses, their densities, the aptitudes of their elements to enter into new combinations, &c.; that of organized bodies cannot be inferred from these or any other merely mechanical principles. Indeed, data from which the duration of organized bodies may be estimated are a,fogether wanting. We only know that every species has within nar- row limits a period which it cannot pass; but why this period should, in particular instances,