22 ABSORPTION. frequently anastomose with each other, so as, in many instances, to form a complete network or plexus, in which respect their course differs from that of the veins, where the small branches unite to form the larger ones, without the lateral communications. The lacteals are furnished with numerous valves, which are disposed in pairs, and have their convex surface turned towards the intes- tine,* so that, in the ordinary and healthy con- dition of the vessels, their contents are pre- vented from retrograding, and necessarily pro- ceed from the small branches to the larger trunks. The coats of the lacteals are thin and transparent, and hence it is that these vessels, except when they are filled with chyle, are so difficult of detection. They seem, however, notwithstanding the apparent delicacy of their texture, to be possessed of considerable strength, and to bear being distended far be- yond their ordinary dimensions without being ruptured. When they are completely filled with chyle, and still more, when they are for- cibly distended by injections, the number of valves which they possess gives them a jointed or knotted appearance, and it seems to have been this circumstance, together with the white colour of their contents, which first attracted the notice of anatomists, and led to their dis- covery. With respect to their structure, besides the peritoneal covering which they possess in common with all the abdominal viscera, they seem to be composed of two distinct parts, an internal membrane, which by its duplicature forms the valves, and an external membrane, which constitutes the main substance of the vessel. To these two obvious component parts many authors have added a muscular coat, and some anatomists of great respectability assert that they have actually detected transverse fibres, in which their contractile power is supposed to reside. Other anatomists, however, of equal authority, deny the existence of this muscular coat, and, it must be acknowledged, that the weight of the negative evidence seems to pre- ponderate. But we may remark, on the other hand, that although these transverse fibres, constituting the muscular coat, in consequence of their transparency, or from some other cause, have hitherto eluded our observation, so that we have no positive proof of their existence, the lacteals certainly exhibit what appears to be very decided marks of contracti- lity, and as they are not immediately con- nected with any organ equivalent to the heart, there seems to be no means, except their own contractility, by which their contents can be propelled.f See Chyliferous System; Lac- teal. * These were very minutely examined by Ruysch, Bilucid. Valvul., op. t. i. p. 1 . . 13 ; they are ac- curately described by Sheldon, p. 28. t Mascagni, ps. i. sect. 4. p. 26, informs us that he could not detect the fibres; Cruikshank, on the contrary, conceives that he has seen them in the thoracic duct, p. 61 et alibi; and Sheldon speaks of the muscular coat as sufficiently obvious, p. 26. Meckel, Manuel, t. i. p. 185, does not admit their existence ; and this is the case with Chaussier and The anatomical structure of the lymphatics seems to be essentially similar to that of the lacteals; they are composed of a firm elastic membranous substance, capable of consider- able distention without being ruptured, and furnished with numerous valves; like the lac- teals they form very frequent anastomoses. We have the same evidence of their contracti- lity as of that of the lacteals, although we are perhaps still less able to demonstrate the actual existence of their muscular fibres. We presume that they are likewise analogous to the lacteals in the nature of their office, and in their desti- nation, although they differ from them with respect to their situation, or the parts of the body to which they are attached; the lacteals being confined to the membranes connected with the intestines, while the lymphatics are found in almost every part of the body, and connected with nearly all its various textures.* They differ also in the nature of the fluid which they contain, for while that of the lac- teals, as has been stated above, is white and opaque, the fluid found in the lymphatics is transparent and colourless, so as to resemble water, from which they have derived their spe- cific denomination. It is very difficult, if not impossible, to trace the actual commencement of the lymphatics; but partly from anatomical researches, and partly from physiological considerations, we are led to conclude that they originate from the various surfaces of the body, of all de- scriptions, both internal and external. They resemble the lacteals, in passing from larger to smaller branches, which, after numerous anastomoses, unite in a few large trunks, the greatest part of which terminate in the thoracic duct. The great trunks of the lymphatics are, for the most part, arranged into two distinct series, one considerably more superficial than the other; it is observed that they generally follow the course of the great veins, but it may be doubted whether any direct communication Adelon, " Lymphatique," Diet, des Sc. Med. t. xxix. p. 256. Breschet, art. " Lymphatique Systeme," Diet, de Med. t. xiii. p. 389, considers it doubtful. Some curious observations were made by Desge- nettes, on the action of the absorbents after the apparent death of the system, Journ. Med. t. lxxxiv. p. 499 et seq. Similar observations were after- wards made by Valentin, t. Ixxxvi. p. 231, et seq. ; this action was not, however, supposed to depend on contractility. Wrisberg informs us that he has frequently seeii spasmodic contractions in the large vessels and in the thoracic duct, Observ. Anat. Med. de Vas. Abs. Morb. in Comment. Soc. Reg. Gotting. v. ix. ยง 19. p. 149. * For the extent of the lymphatic system, see Haller, EI. Phys. ii. 3. 4, and the later account of M. Magendie, Physiol, t. ii. p. 174, and Jour, t. i. p. 3, who conceives that absorbent vessels have not been detected in the brain, the spine, and the organs of sense. Dr. Alison likewise conceives that they have not been detected in the cranium or ner- vous system, Outlines of Physiol, p. 76. Mas- cagni, however, appears to have detected a few small lymphatics in the brain, tab. 27. fig, 1. Monro secundus argues in favour of their existence, but it does not appear that he actually detected them in any part of the nervous system ; on the Nervous System, ch. v. sect 1. and Three Treatises, ch. 4, 5.