568 CETACEA. nopterae the dentata is anchylosed at its upper part to the third cervical vertebra. In the Cachalots they are the six last vertebras which are thus found united to one another, and in the Whales, properly so called, or Balana, all the seven are anchylosed. (SeeJig. 250.) Fig. 250. Cervical vertebree of a Whale, Balcena Australia. The dorsal vertebrae (I, fig. 246), the number of which varies according to the species, are characterized by having their spinous processes, bent backwards, elongated from the first to the last, and equalled in length by the transverse processes. Moreover, their posterior articu- lating processes disappear after the first ver- tebra, and the anterior ones soon cease to per- form the functions of parts concerned in the union of the vertebrae to one another. In Jig. 251, which represents the eleventh dorsal vertebra of the Cape Whalebone Whale, a is the spinous; b, b, the two transverse, which begin to lengthen from this point in the succeeding vertebrae; c, c, the anterior articu- lating processes. Fig. 251. Dorsal vertebra of a Whale. The lumbar vertebra; (m, fig. 246), the posterior limit of which it is difficult to deter- mine in animals devoid of pelvis, have their spinous (a, fig. 252) and transverse processes (b) very long. The first are straight and slightly inclined backwards. As it is essential that the Cetaceans should have the posterior part of their vertebral co- lumn left free, to allow of the vigorous in- flexions of the tail required in the act of Lumbar vertebra of a Whale. swimming, none of the vertebra; are anchy- losed together or encumbered by a union with posterior extremities, and hence there are none which can be properly termed sacral, unless we regard the sacrum as represented by the single vertebra, (n, Jig. 246,) to which, in the Dugong, the pelvic bones are suspended. The caudal vertebrae may then be considered to commence from this point. Most of these vertebrae (o, Jig. 246) are further charac- terized by the chevron bones, (p, Jigs. 246, 253,) which at first are strong and well deve- loped, but together with the other processes gradually diminish and disappear towards the extremity of the vertebral column, where the centres or bodies of the vertebrae alone appear, and present a depressed flattened form cor- responding to the horizontal position of the caudal fin, which characterises these air-breath- ing inhabitants of the ocean. Fig. 253 represents one of the anterior caudal vertebrae of the Cape Whale: a is the spinous; b the transverse; c, c, the represen- tatives of the an- terior oblique pro- cesses; p the in- feriorspinouspro- cesses, or chevron bones. To bones so lit- tle mobile, and so rudimental as the vertebrae of the neck in Cetace- ans, muscles pro- portionately de- veloped should correspond, and such in fact is the case. The cervical muscles in these animals are the same in number as in other Mammals, Caudal vertebra of a Whale. but their short- Fig. 253.