585 CETACEA. Fig. 274. Section of the eye of a Whale. " The tunica conjunctiva (g, g, fig. 274), where it is reflected from the eyelid to the eye- ball, is perforated all round by small orifices of the ducts of a circle of glandular bodies lying behind it. " The lachrymal gland* is small, its use being supplied by those above-mentioned; and the secretion from them all, I believe to be a mucus similar to what is found in the Turtle and Crocodile. There are neither puncta nor lachrymal duct (ductus ad nasum), so that the secretion, whatever it be, is washed off into the water. " The muscles which open the eyelids are very strong; they take their origin from the head, round the optic nerve, which in some requires their being very long, and are so broad as almost to make one circular muscle round the whole of the interior straight mus- cles of the eye itself. They may be divided into four; a superior, an inferior, and one at each angle; as they pass outwards to the eye- lids, they diverge and become broader, and are inserted into the inside of the eyelids almost equally all round. They may be termed the dilatores of the eyelids ; and, before they reach their inseition, give off the external straight muscles, which are small, and inserted into the sclerotic coat before the transverse axis of the eye; these may be named the elevator, depressor, adductor, and abductor, and may be dissected away from the others as distinct muscles. Besides these four going from the muscles of the eyelid to the eye itself, there are two which are larger, and enclose the optic nerve with the plexus. As these pass outwards they become broad, may in some be divided into four, and are inserted into the sclerotic coat, almost all round the eye, rather behind its transverse axis. " The two oblique muscles are very long ; they pass through the muscles of the eyelids, are continued on to the globe of the eye, between the two sets of straight muscles, and at their insertions are very broad : a circum- * This is analogous rather to the Harderian gland, being situated at the inner or nasal side of the eyeball. VOL. I. stance which gives great variation to the motion of the eye. " The sclerotic coat (a, a, Jig. 274) gives shape to the eye, both externally and internally, as in other animals; but the external shape and that of the internal cavity are very dissimilar, arising from the great difference in the thick- ness of this coat in different parts. The external figure is round, except that it is a little flat- tened forwards; but that of the cavity is far otherwise, being made up of sections of various circles, being a little lengthened from the inner side to the outer, a transverse section making a short ellipsis. " In the Piked Whale (Bulanoptera ros- trata) the long axis is two inches and three quarters, the short axis two inches and one- eighth. " The posterior part of the cavity is a tolerably regular curve, answering to the dif- ference in the two axises ; but forwards, near the cornea, the sclerotic coat turns quickly in, to meet the cornea, which makes this part of the cavity extremely flat, and renders the distance between the anterior part of the scle- rotic coat and the bottom of the eye not above an inch and a quarter. " In the Piked Whale the sclerotic coat, at its posterior part, is very thick : near the ex- treme of the short axis it was half an inch, and at the long axis one-eight of an inch thick. In the Bottle-nose Whale (Hyperoodon), the extreme of the short axis was half an inch thick, and the extremes of the long axis about a quarter of an inch, or half the other. " The sclerotic coat becomes thinner as it approaches to its union with the cornea, where it is thin and soft. It is extremely firm in its texture where thick, and from a transverse sec- tion would seem to be composed of tendinous fibres, intermixed with something like carti- lage ; in this section four passages for vessels remain open. This firmness of texture pre- cludes all effect of the straight muscles on the globe of the eye by altering its shape, and adapting its focus to different distances of objects, as has been supposed to be the case in the human eye. " The cornea (b, fig. 274) makes 'rather a longer ellipsis than the ball of the eye; the side of which are not equally curved, the pp being most considerably so. It is a segmen. of a circle somewhat smaller than that of the eyeball, is soft and very flaccid.* " The tunica choroides resembles that of the quadruped; and its inner surface is of a silver hue, without any nigrum pigmentum. The pigmentum nigrum only covers the ciliary processes (c, c), and lines the inside of the iris. The retina (e) appears to be nearly similar to that of the quadruped. " The arteries going to the coats of the eye form a plexus passing round the optic nerve, resembling in its appearance that of the sper- matic artery in the Bull and some other ani- mals. * Its laminated texture is well displayed in the Whale ; I/eeuwenhoek counted twenty-two layers. 2 Q