714 CONCHIFERA. produced, as we have already said, by the pro- per retractor muscle of the siphons. Besides the muscular impressions of which we have now spoken, several others of much less importance have been particularized in the greater number of the conchiferous mollusks. All the species that have a foot have peculiar muscles to move this organ, and these have their fixed point of action on some point of the interior of the shell. They are generally divided into two principal fasciculi; the one runs to be inserted within the hooks, the other in the Dimyaria proceeds to be attached before and above the posterior adductor muscular impression. In the Monomyaria, the foot of which is generally rudimentary and without use, we observe nothing more on each side of the body than a single small fibrous fas- ciculus, the impression of which is found on the inside of the hooks. In some genera of Dimyaria, and particularly in the Unio, we observe three and sometimes four muscular im- pressions belonging obviously to the adductor muscles of the valves, which are occasioned by the anterior adductor muscle in particular being divided into two fasciculi, often of un- equal size, as in certain Uniones, and some- times equal and of considerable magnitude, as among the Iridines. From the summary and concise view we have taken of the principal facts in the organi- zation of the Conchifera, very important con- clusions may be drawn with reference to the classification of these animals. Taking the Conchifera, properly so called, and looking narrowly into that which is of most importance in their organization—the ner- vous system, we find two principal modifica- tions, coinciding in a very remarkable manner with the number of the muscles. This num- ber of the muscles, permanently proclaimed by the impressions they leave on the shell, presents an important character by means of which, while we define their limits somewhat more strictly, we feel authorized in retaining the two grand orders of Lamarck,— the Conchi- fera Dimyaria, and the Conchifera Mono- myaria. A fact of some importance, and brought to light by the observations of Poli, is that a small nervous ganglion exists at the point of commissure in those acephalous mol- lusks which have the lobes of the mantle con- joined. This peculiarity gives new conse- quence to the characters drawn from the con- joined or disunited state of the lobes of the mantle. Unfortunately the circumstance is not always indicated upon the shell; it is, in fact, only obvious upon those inhabited by siphoniferous animals; it is quite inapprecia- ble upon those the inhabitants of which have siphons so short as not to require a particular retractor muscle to draw them within cover of the shell. With regard to the other organic characters which furnish data available in clas- sifying the Conchiferous mollusks, these are all of so little permanency that they are only useful in supplying secondary hints for the arrangement of families and genera. Thus neither the branchia? nor the heart present any character susceptible of generalization or of contrast. Better data might perhaps be ob- tained from the conformation of the organs of digestion ; but these organs have hitherto been examined in comparatively so small a number cf genera and species that they cannot be brought forward usefully in supplying cha- racters for a general classification. If, as we ourselves feel inclined to do, the hinge be taken as the point of starting in the Pholades, this part may be made the means of giving excellent characters in its principal modifica- tions for the establishment of genera. It is, indeed, very remarkable that we should find the characters as indicated by the hinge almost constantly in harmony with those af- forded by the rest of the organization ; and with a few exceptions, relative to several ex- tremely natural families, that of the Unios for example, all that is valuable in the generic cha- racters generally may be preserved along with the characters supplied by the hinge. Ano- ther character which may be usefully employed in classification is assumed from the regularity or irregularity of the shell of the animal; in generalizing upon this, like groups are obtained in the two principal divisions of the Conchifera, and the two principal divisions of the classi- fication are referred to the simplicity or exact- ness of the dichotomy, whilst natural groups are preserved as much as may be in the linear arrangement. Method, it must ever be remembered, is an artificial means of introducing order among a series of observed facts, and of approximating, according to the analogy of their organization, the beings which nature has scattered over the face of the earth; method is a human creation altogether, and in this light must it be viewed. To be all it ought, every known fact must be included, and the greatest possible amount of organic relationships between the individuals of each great class must be indicated. In an exposition of facts seriatim, and as they occur m a book, every thing has to be arranged in sequence, and therefore in the linear mode, now so generally followed by naturalists. In this way, however, it is impossible to express the enchainment, the inosculation, so to speak, of the different groups. To counterbalance this inconvenience, we are of opinion that the clas- sification ought to be made with lateral offsets, now terminating abruptly, now divided once or twice, sometimes inosculating variously, and again, departing from a common trunk, dispo- sed in one case in a right line, in another in a curved line, and in a third in a circle. We conceive that it is according to these new views only that the acephalous mollusks can be pro- perly arranged; it is accordingly upon the principles just announced that the following table is constructed. Although in the present state of our know- ledge of these animals many important parti- culars are still unquestionably wanting, this division of the molluscous tribes nevertheless presents fewer gaps than any of the others, in- asmuch as opportunities have occurred of ex- amining some one or other of the animals be- longing to the whole of the genera.