ABDOMEN. ilii, the fibres arise from a tendinous lamella, which itself is trifoliate in its origin. This ten- don is found as an undivided lamella between the outer margin of thequadratuslamborum and the commencement of the fleshy fibres of the muscle, extending vertically from the last rib to the crista ilii. (Fig. 4,1.) The three lamina? of which this tendon is composed arise from different portions of the vertebrae in the lumbar region of the spine; the posterior, which is thick and strong, and is commonly called J'ascia lumborum, arises from the extremities of the spinous processes, and covers the lum- bar mass of muscles. ( Fig. 4, g.) The mid- dle, which is weak, is attached to the apices of the transverse processes ; it lies in front of the lumbar mass and behind the quadratus lumbo- rum (fig. 4, h); and the anterior arises from the pedicles which connect the transverse processes to the bodies of the vertebra, and covers the quadratus lumborum muscle in front (fig. 4, f). lnferiorly, the transversalis muscle at- taches itself to the inner lip of the crista ilii for its three anterior fourths, and to the ex- ternal third or half of Poupart's ligament, cor- responding to the attachments of the obliquus internus. The fleshy fibres of the muscle pass from these several points of attachment trans- versely inwards, the middle being the longest, and the superior the shortest, and are in- serted into the outer convex margin* of a tendinous aponeurosis, which extends to the linea alba. This aponeurosis is intimately connected with the posterior division of that of the obliquus internus for an extent corre- sponding to the three superior fourths of the rectus muscle, behind which both pass to be inserted into the ensiform cartilage and linea alba, (fig. 4, a,) forming the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus. lnferiorly, as we have already remarked, these conjoined tendons go together in front of the rectus, and are inserted into the inferior fourth of the linea alba and into the pubis. At the inner extre- mity of the inguinal canal, it will be seen by carefully raising up the spermatic cord, that this union of the tendons of these two muscles ceases, and we can trace the fibres of the trans- versalis tendon passing down in a curved direc- tion, more curved as they are more external, and insinuating themselves behind the cord to be inserted into Gimbernat's and Poupart's ligament for about its external third or fourth. This mode of insertion of the transversalis ten- don was first described by Sir Astley Cooper, f and these fibres were by him called the folded fibres of the transversalis. They adhere to the subjacent fascia, (fascia transversalis,) and add to the strength of the inner portion of the pos- terior wall of the inguinal canal. They cor- respond, in a great measure, to the external abdominal ring, and may be counted as one of the obstacles provided against the direct descent of a hernia. Such is unquestionably the usual mode of * This margin forms the linea semilunaris of Spigelius. t Cooper on the Testicle, p. 35. insertion of the tendon of the transversalis muscle; but Mr. Guthrie has lately called the attention of anatomists to a variety which it is important to know, although it cannot be of frequent occurrence. In this variety the spermatic cord appears to pass through a slit in the inferior margin of the transversalis muscle, so that a bundle of muscle passes behind as well as before the cord ; the posterior one end- ing in tendinous fibres, which, like the folded fibres above described, are inserted into Pou- part's ligament.* It is very generally believed that the inferior fibres of this muscle contribute, as well as those of the obliquus internus, to form the cremaster. The two muscles are so closely connected externally by their inferior margins, that it is natural to suppose that both do send fibres to the cremaster. Sir Astley Cooper expresses the relation of the cremaster to these two muscles in the clearest way, when he says that it arises from Poupart's ligament within the inguinal canal, and there blends with some of the fibres of both these muscles.f A thin layer of cellular tissue covers the transversalis muscle, and separates it from the obliquus internus. At its superior margin it is intimately related to the diaphragm, and some of its fibres seem to be continuous with it: posteriorly, by the triple partition of its tendon, it ensheaths the lumbar muscles, and it lies upon the fascia transversalis, which, with a layer of cellular tissue, separates it from the peritoneum. J 4. Rectus abdominis (sterno-pubien). After the superficial fascia has been removed so as to expose the aponeurosis of the external ob- lique, the recti muscles are seen on either side of the middle line covered by this aponeurosis, which it is necessary to slit up in order to ex- pose the muscles. The rectus owes its name to the perpendicular course of its fibres, which pass from the pubis to the thorax, nearly parallel to the middle line. It is long and narrow; however, its breadth increases as it advances upwards, and as it increases in breadth it diminishes in thickness. At the pubis the muscle has its most fixed point of attachment, whence it is generally said to have its origin there: it arises by a short tendon from the symphysis of the pubis; this tendon is very narrow at its origin, but soon expands, and unites with the muscular fibres, which pass vertically upwards to the lower margin of the thorax, where the muscle is considerably increased in breadth, and divides into three portions; the first or internal one is inserted into the costoxiphoid ligament and cartilage of the seventh rib; the middle, larger than the preceding, into the cartilage of the sixth rib at its inferior edge and anterior surface; * Guthrie on Inguinal and Femoral Hernia, pp. 11, 12, 13, 4to. Lond. 1833. t Op. cit. p. 38. X " The transversalis corresponds, by the direction of its fibres, to the ' triangularis sterni;' also, by its situation, by the attachment of its external edge to the internal surface of the ribs, and by that of its internal edge to the sternum and linea alba."— Meckel.