CILIA. 606 mucous membranes.* Dr. Hope's and M. Bil- lard's cases were destitute of villi, and the latter expresses a doubt whether it ever takes place. Our own observations decidedly incline us to the same opinion. Like all adventitious organic products, cica- trices are very readily irritated and are de- stroyed by ulceration with amazing rapidity. A few days and even a few hours are sometimes sufficient to undo the restorative labours of many months; but this destruction is often su- perficial, and then the after-healing is as rapid as the previous ulceration. M. Dupuytrenf informs us that the cicatrix resulting from an entire destruction of the skin is not liable to be affected by many exanthe- matous diseases, such as scarlet fever, measles, and small-pox; it remains pale in the midst of the inflammation and eruption which covers the neighbouring parts. The contrary takes place only in superficial cicatrices, under which some layers of the original cutis exist, and which participate in the properties as well as in the inflammatory tendencies of the rest of the skin. In conclusion we may state, that it appears, from the previous considerations, that in the repairing of the injuries in question, beautiful as is the process and useful as are the results, yet nature's great object does not consist so much in an endeavour to restore the lost struc- ture in all its functions and perfections of organization, as merely to produce a covering for those parts which remain uninjured, to act as a defence to them from external irritations and injuries, and possessed therefore only of such a degree of vitality and of such properties of structure as shall be sufficient for its own preservation and repair. (A. T. S. Dodd.) CILIA,J (in anatomy, Fr. Cils; Germ. Wimperhaare.) This term is used to desig- nate a peculiar sort of moving organs, re- sembling small hairs, which are visible with the microscope in many animals. These organs are found on parts of the body which are habitually in contact with water or other more or less fluid matters, and produce motion in these fluids, impelling them along the surface of the parts. The currents or other motions thus produced serve various purposes in the economy of the animals in which they occur. In other circumstances the cilia serve as organs of locomotion, some aquatic animals propelling themselves through the water by their means. Cilia have now been ascertained to exist in a great many invertebrated and in all verte- brated animals, except Fishes ;§ having been very recently discovered by Purkinje and Va- lentin on the respiratory and uterine mucous membranes of Mammalia, Birds, and Reptiles. The terms " vibratory motion " and " ciliary motion" have been employed to express the * Med. Chir. Rev. vol. x. p. 324. t Op. cit. tome ii. p. 48. t For another signification of this term, see the articles Eye and Lachrymal Apparatus. $ Fishes are no longer an exception; see note at page 632. appearance produced by the moving cilia; the latter is here preferred, but it is used to express the whole phenomenon as well as the mere motion of the cilia. A considerable space has been allotted to the present article, more perhaps than its re- lative importance may seem to demand, chiefly for the reason that, with one exception, no attempt has been hitherto made to collect and' describe under appropriate heads, the facts known on the subject. The exception alluded to is a work by Purkinje and Valentin,* which appeared while this article was in progress, and which contains not only an account of their own discovery, but a history of all preceding obser- vations. But the manner of treating the sub- ject in the work alluded to is for the most part so different from that which is here followed, that its publication has not seemed to warrant any material abridgement of the following article, which, on the contrary, it has increased by affording much new and important matter, as will be acknowledged in its proper place. Another ground on which indulgence may be claimed for details which are, perhaps, greater than may seem commensurate with the impor- tance of the subject, is that many of the facts are here described for the first time, and it was felt desirable to state them in their full extent, which could not be done intelligibly without considerable length of description. The article is divided into two parts; the first comprehends the particular facts, or an account of the phenomena as they occur in the different tribes of animals considered in Zoo- logical order, with the history of their dis- covery; the second part consists of general deductions from the first, and also treats of the structure and mode of action of the cilia in general. This method has been adopted as appearing on the whole best suited to the pre- sent state of knowledge on the subject. PART I. 1. Infusoria.— Cilia exist very extensively in the different tribes of Infusory Animalcules ; indeed they constitute the principal organs of motion in these small animals. When a drop of water containing Infusoria is brought under the microscope, these creatures are seen swim- ming rapidly through it in various directions ; and as they move along, small particles of foreign matter which happen to lie near their path are thrown into agitation, obviously in- dicating the existence of currents in the neigh- bouring water. When the animals remain steady in one place, these currents become much more distinct, setting in particular di- rections, and causing the small particles to run in a stream to and from the animal. If the magnifying power be sufficiently strong, small transparent filaments will be distinguished, projecting from the surface of the animalcules and moving in a very rapid manner. These are the cilia; they serve like fins or paddles to carry on the animal in its progression through the water, and when it is stationary, they impel the water in a current along the surface, which * De phenomeno motus vibratorii, &c. 4to. Wratisl. 1835.