368 AXILLA. brane of the uterus. In the vagina the circular fibres are concentrated at its termination to form the sphincter above mentioned.* The clitoris in the Ostrich is continued from the anterior margin of the preputial cavity of the cloaca, and is grooved like the penis of the male; it has also the same muscles inserted in it. A corresponding projection, as before observed, is met with in those birds of which the males have a well developed intromittent organ. BIBLIOGRAPHY.—Perrault, Description Anato- mique de six oiseaux appelles Demoiselles de Numidie, Mem. de Paris, t. i. et t. iii. Duverney, Observation Anatomique sur le perroquet arras, sur la cigogne, sur le casuel, Mem. de Paris, t. i. Vicq-d'Azyr, Memoires pour servir a l'anatomie des oiseaux, Mem. de Paris, A. 1772, 73, 74, 78. Tiedemann, Zoologie, 2ter u. 3tter Bd. Anat. und Naturgeschichte d. Vogel, 8vo. Landsh. 1808-14. Nitzsch, Aufs'atzen, in Meckel's Archiv. B. i. B. ii. and B. iii. * * * * Coiter, Divers, animalium sceletorum explicationes, fol. Norimb. 1575. Camper, Memoire sur la structure des os dans les oiseaux et, de leurs diversites dans les differentes especes, Mem. de Mathem. et Phys. A. 1773. Nitzsch, Osteographische Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte d. Vogel, 8vo. Leipz. 1811. * * * * Herissant, Observations anatomiques sur les mouvemens du bee des oiseaux, Mem. de Paris, A. 1748. Yarrell, on the structure of the beak and its muscles in the Cross-bill, Mag. of Nat. Hist. 8vo. Lond. * * * * De Reaumur, Sur la digestion des oiseaux, Mem. de l'Ac. des Sc. de Paris, A. 1752. * * * * Bauer, Disquis. circa nonull. Avium systema arteriosum, 4to. Berl. 1825. Nitzsch, Obs. de Avium arteria carotide communi, 8vo. Haloe, 1829. Barhow, Untersuchungen iiber das Schlagadersystem d.Vogel, Meckel's Archiv. Jahrg. 1828. Monro, State of facts,&c. and on the lymphatic vessels of oviparous animals, Edin. 1770. Hunter on the absorbents of Birds, in Phil. Trans. 1768. Hewson on the absorbents of Birds, Phil. Trans. 1769. Lauth, Mem. sur les vaissaux lymphatiques des oiseaux, Ann. des Sciences Nat. 1825. * * * * Daubenton, Observations sur la disposition de la trachee- artere de differentes especes d'oiseaux, Mem. de Paris, A. 1781. Latham, Essay on the tracheae, or windpipes, of various kinds of birds, Linn. Trans, v. iv. Fuld, De organis quibus aves spiritus ducunt, 4to. Wirceb. 1816. Yarrell on the trachea of Birds, in Linn. Trans. 1827. Hunter, An account of certain receptacles of air, in birds, which communicate with the lungs, and are lodged both among the fleshy parts and in the hollow bones of these animals, Phil. Trans. Y. 1774. * * * * Holler, De cerebro avium et piscium, Verh. van het Maatsch. te Haarlem, Deel 10. Malacarne, Esposizione anatomica delle parti relative all'en- cefalo degli uccelli, Mem. de Verona, t. i. ii. iii. iv. vi. vii. Numan, De medulla spinali avium, &c. 8vo. Hallae, 1811. Frank, De avium encephali anatome, 8vo. Berl. 1812, et in Reil's Archiv. B xi. * * * * Vicq-d'Azyr, De la structure de l'organe de l'ouie des oiseaux, Mem. de Paris, A. 1778. * * * * Mery, Observation sur le cercle osseux autour de la cornee de l'oeil de l'aigle, du corbeau, et sur la sclerotique de Fautruche, Mem. de Paris, t. ii. p. 24. Tannenberg, De partibus genitalibus masculis avium, 4to. Gotting. 1789; Germanice auct. 4to. Gotting. 1810. Spangenberg, Disq. circa partes fcemineas genitales avium, 4to. Gotting. 1813. Cuvier, Lecons d'Anat. Comparee, 5 vol. 8vo. passim. Rees's Cyclopaedia, art. Birds, by Macartney. (Richard Owen.) * Purkinje, Symbolae ad Ovi Avium Historian), 4to. 10. tig. 19. AXILLA (surgical anatomy)—(Fv.Aisselle, Ger. Achselgrube.) Syn. regio?i axillaire, Velp. is the Latin name for the armpit, and is used by anatomists to designate an important region situated between the upper extremity and the thorax. The axilla in man is the seat of so many diseases and accidents; it contains so large a number of nerves, arteries, and lymphatic glands; and is so frequently interested in sur- gical operations, that a pretty full description of it is allowable on the present occasion. When the arm is separated a little from the side, we observe, in the angle between them, a hollow space, which, in the adult, is always covered with hair. This is, in popular lan- guage, the armpit; but to the anatomist the term axilla conveys a very different notion. By him it is understood to mean a large region, bounded anteriorly by the greater and lesser pectoral muscles, posteriorly by the subsca- pular, the teres major, and a part of the latis- simus dorsi, and internally by the ribs, the intercostal muscles, and the serratus magnus. It presents a basis below, formed of skin and fascia, and an apex above, which opens into the cervical region between the clavicle, scapula, and first rib. Its walls form, therefore, a kind of triangular pyramid, very unequal in their extent, very irregular, and continually under- going alterations in size and shape. Its height is greater in the male than in the female, but its other dimensions are nearly equal. It is to be found in all animals which have an upper extremity, and its uses are subservient to the motions of that limb. In the following description the adult male axilla is always supposed to be meant unless otherwise specified. When the arm is raised to the horizontal position, we see the floor of this region, the base of our pyramid. This floor is triangular, having its truncated apex at the humerus, its base at the side of the thorax, and its sides formed by the folds of the axilla, that is, the great pectoral in front, the teres major and latissimus behind. It is concave, the concavity looking downwards and outwards. The skin is fine, covered with hair at its upper part from the time of puberty, and secreting, by numerous follicles, a fluid of a peculiar odour. By raising the elbow higher than the head we convert the concave into a convex, the folds of the axilla are removed, the skin made tense, and the head of the humerus by descending is made to touch the floor of this region. Press- ing the arm close to the side lowers the floor, shortens the margins, and relaxes all the parts composing the axilla. When the elbow is drawn a few inches from the side, the axillary artery and nerves may be felt along the humerus, and the head of this bone may be distinguished. In searching for disease in the axilla the arm must be placed in all these positions, but we are most likely to detect any abnormal condition of the parts when the elbow is drawn a few inches from the side, and sup- ported without any effort of the patient.