430 BONE, NORMAL ANATOMY. there are instances in which principles not usually met with in the healthy circulation may be detected in it, and others where those which are always present in a state of health do nearly if not altogether disappear. But that which still remains unknown, and to which it is of the highest interest and importance that our investigations should be directed, is the con- nexion that these morbid changes have with the diseases which they accompany; the position which they occupy in the relation between cause and effect. Perhaps our present information is not sufficiently minute to give fair expecta- tions of any considerable advances being made in this line of inquiry ; for when we contemplate the variety of materials for the formation and removal of morbid as well as of healthy secre- tions and structures, which are stealing unper- ceived along the vital current, we are forced to confess how small is the sum of all we know compared with that of which we are still igno- rant, and how ample is the harvest which yet remains to be gathered by future labourers in this field of research. Bibliography.—(The following comprehends the most esteemed writings on the blood in its healthy as well as its morbid states.)—R. Boyle, Mem. for a nat. hist, of human blood, 8vo. Lond. 1684, and Analytical observ. on milk found in veins instead of blood, Phil. Trans. 1665. Albinus, De Massae Sanguinis corpusculis, 4to. 1688 (Kecus. in Haller Disp. Anat. t. ii.) ; Ejus, De Pravitate Sanguinis, 4to. Pranc. 1689. De Sandris, De naturali et pra;ter- naturali sanguinis statu, 4to. Bon. 1696. De Haen, De sanguine humana, in Ej. Ratione medendi. N. Davies, Exper. to promote the analysis of the blood, 8vo. Lond. 1760. Fontanq, Nuove osserv. sopra i globetti rossi del sangue, 8vo. Lucca, 1768. Hcwson, Exper. inquiry into the properties of the blood, 8vo. Lond. 1771-78. Spallanzani, Penomeni della circolazione, 8vo. Moden. 1773 ; Anglice by Hall, Lond. 1801. Haller, El. Physiol, t. ii. Bordeu, Analyse Med. du sang, Par. 1771. Thou- venel, Mem. sur le rnechanisme et les pioduits de la sanguification, Mem. de l'Acad. de St. Petersbourg, an. 1776. Della Torre, Oss. microscopiche, 4to. Neap. 1776. Hey, Observations on the blood, 8vo. Lond. 1779. Blumenbach, De vi vitali sanguinis deneganda, 4to. Gotting. 1788. Deyeux Sr Par- mentier, Mem. sur les alterations du sang, 4to. Par. 1797. Hunter on the blood, &c. 1794. Wells on the colour of the blood, Phil. Trans. 1797. Kreysig, De sanguine vita destitute, Prag. 4to. 1798. Tollard, Diss, sur la fibrine, 4to. Strasb. 1803. Le Gallois, Le sang est il identique dans tons les vaisseaux, 8vo. Par. 1805. Henke, Uber die vitalitat des Blutes,8vo. Berl. 1806. Bostoclt, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. i. Dowler on the products of inflammation, Mi d. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. Thaekrah on the properties of the blood, 8vo. Lond. 1819. Wilson, Lectures on the blood, &c. Lond. 1819. Kolk, Sanguinis cnagulantis historia, &c. Diss. Inaug. Groning. 1820. Cotte, Sur les diff. caracteres du sang dans l'etat de sante et de maladie, 8vo. Aix, 1821. Davy on the buffy coat, Phil. Trans. 1822. Krimer, Versuch einer Physiol, des Blutes, 8vo. Leipz. 1823. Sto/ier, in Pathological Observations, Dublin, 1823. Scudamore, Essay on the blood, Lond. 1824. Mi- chaelis, De partibus constitutivis sing, partium sang, art. et veil. 8vo. Berol. 1827. Babington on fatty matter in the blood, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. Cltristisvn in Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, No. ciii. Velpeau, Recherches sur les alterations du sang, 8vo. Par. 1826. Trousseaux, in Arch. Gen. de Med. t. xiv. Seyalas, in ibid, t. xii. Gendrin, Recherches sur les fievres, and Hist. anat. des inflammations. Andral, Pathological anatomy, by Townsend. Denis, Rech. exper. sur le sang hum. 1830. Stevens on the blood, 8vo. Lond. 1832. O' Shaughnessy, Report on the chemical pathology of cholera, Lond. 1832. Prevost If Dunuts, Examen du sang, &c. Bibliotheq. Univ. de Genev. t. xvii. See also Rudolphi, Blumenbach, Spreugel, Adelon, &c. in their systems of physiology. ( B. G. Babington.) BONE,(general anatomy in the normal state.) Gr. oartov. Lat. os. Fr. os. Germ. der Knochen. Ital. osso. The important offices fulfilled by bone in the animal economy, and its almost imperishable nature, could not but give it im- portance in the eyes of the philosopher; whilst every language bears testimony to the high place it holds in popular estimation. We see it forming a framework to give shape and sup- port to the body, cases and cages to protect the more delicate organs, levers by which loco- motion is performed and force exerted. Again, we find it, among the tombs, successfully resist- ing those destructive agents which a century before reduced the softer portions of the body to dust; and we speak of laying our bones in the grave as if they constituted the essential element of our frame. We propose to treat of the general anatomy of bone under the following heads, viz.-—1. its physical properties and intimate structure in man : 2. its periosteum and medulla, and its organization as a part of the living system : 3. its chemical composition: 4. its peculiarities in other animals. 1. The physical properties and intimate structure of bone in man.—The most remark- able property in bone, and that which first arrests attention, is its extreme hardness com- pared with other parts of the system. It is, indeed, the only substance in the body which deserves to be called hard; all others are more or less soft, and are consequently destitute of that resistance and firmness by which bones are so admirably adapted for the offices they have to fulfil in the animal machine. The hardness usually increases with age. It varies a little in different situations, and depends, as we shall see, on the earthy matter which enters largely into the composition of the bones. The colour of bone in the living person is a pale-rose colour, inclining, in early life to red, in old age to a yellowish white. Bones assume a beautiful white when macerated and deprived of the oily and sanguineous fluids which pervade them. The specific gravity of fresh bone is greater than that of any other animal substance. Bone is opaque or only slightly diaphanous. Bones are flexible and elastic. We find that the ribs may be bent and afterwards recover their form perfectly; every schoolboy, indeed, knows the value of a horse's rib as a bow. This elasticity frequently saves them from fractures, and lessens the shock which would otherwise be communicated to the nervous centres and delicate structures they defend. It is possessed by every bone, and may be demonstrated in the oldest and most rigid by cutting them into thin slices. Shape.—Bones assume every variety of shape, as might be expected from the use made of