106 AMPHIBIA. genera, as the tritons, is effected by a totally different mode. During the spring, the males acquire a considerable dorsal membrane, which runs the whole length of the back and tail, and is sometimes curiously indented or fringed at its edge. This membrane is gradually lost after the breeding season, and its use appears to be to assist m the act of impregnation. The male, instead of adhering to the female like the frog, swims by her side pursuing her in all her rapid and changing courses through the water, till at length both remaining for a moment quite still, he suddenly turns up, by the assistance doubtless of the dorsal mem- brane, and places for an instant the edges of the cloacal aperture in contact with hers. It is at this instant that the semen is ejected and received. The eggs are afterwards deposited slowly, and comparatively few in number, upon some part of an aquatic plant, on which the female supports herself by holding by her hinder legs. When the embryo has gradually acquired its larva development, and is ready for its aquatic life, it bursts the thin membrane which encloses it, and emerges in the fish-like form which has been so often alluded to in this paper. XVI. Metamorphosis.—The changes which take place in the different organs during the progress of this extraordinary phenomenon, have been already detailed. It remains to trace the general form of the animal from the egg through its larva condition till it receives its permanent form, and to point out some remarkable peculiarities observed in different genera. In the frog, the toad, and probably all the anoura, the respiratory organs undergo a double change, the branchiae being first external for a very brief period, and afterwards internal during the remainder of its larva existence. In all the other forms in which branchiae have been detected, they remain external till they are lost. The tadpole, whether of the anoura or of the urodela, possesses, at first, as we have seen, the same means of progression as belong to the class of fishes. That of the triton retains its branchios, co-existent with four perfect legs, until it is about a third of its ultimate length. In the frog the legs which first make their appearance are the hinder ones; and from the great development of the tail, and the con- tinuous form of the head or abdomen, they ap- pear as if they came through immediately be- hind the head. As the terrestrial salamander, though pre- ferring moist places, does not frequent the water, the young have not the opportunity of being developed in that medium; but as the essential character of their organisation requires that the first portion of their existence should be passed in the condition of a tadpole or larva, we find that the whole of its metamorphosis takes place whilst in the oviduct, where it is found with small branchiae on each side of the neck, which are lost as the animal enters upon its terrestrial existence. Like the viper, there- fore, this animal is ovo-viviparous. The arrest of the metamorphosis in the lower or perennibranchiate forms is confined to the organs of locomotion in part, to those of cir- culation, and of respiration. The organs of reproduction receive their full development, though even in these there is a considerable resemblance to those of the fishes. One of the most remarkable peculiarities in the whole of this class, with regard to the sub- ject now under consideration, is the reproduc- tion and metamorphosis of the pipa or Surinam toad. It has long been known that the eggs are developed in cells on the back of the mother; but the facts connected with this curious circumstance have only of late years been ascertained. It is now established that the cells on the skin of the female are not persistent, but grow as the eggs enlarge, and are removed after the young leave them. The male impregnates the eggs as the toad, but immediately places them on the skin of the mother's back; here they are attached by a tenacious mucus, and the skin gradually thickens in the interstices, forming at length a cell around each. In these cells the young ones not only leave the eggs, but actually undergo their metamorphosis; and when they leave the back of the parent, they have lost all the characters of the tadpole, and have become perfect animals. It is impossible to contemplate the structure and habits of this remarkable class of animals without being struck by the many interesting points which they offer for the investigation of the physiologist. Whether we consider the evident and perfect transition which many of them present, from the form and structure of an inferior to that of a superior type or organiza- tion, the facilities which they afford us of tracing, as it were under the eye, those mys- terious changes and grades of development which in most cases are accessible only at par- ticular epochs, or are wholly concealed during their progress in the hidden recesses of the reproductive organs, or whether we view the modifications which they present of the respi- ratory and other important functions of life, it is not, perhaps, saying too much to aver that there is scarcely any class of animals which invites the study and contemplation of the lover of physi- ological science by phenomena at once so varied and so interesting as the Amphibia. Bibliography.—Boddaert, Abhand. von Am- phibien, in Berl. Gesels. Naturf. Freunde B. ii. S. 369. Gray, on the class of animals called by Lin- nasus Amphibia. Phil. Trans. 1789, p. 21. Schnei- der, Amphib. Physiol, spec. 4to. Frft. a M. 1790-92. Ditto, Hist. Amphib. nat. et literar. 8vo. Jena, 1799-1801. Laurenti, Synops. Reptil. 8vo. Vicn. 1768. Meyer, Synops. Reptil. 8vo. Gotting. 1795. Latreille, Contin. of Buffon. Hist. Nat. des Am- phib. Ditto, Hist. Nat. des Salamandres, 8vo. Paris, 1800. Brongniart, Essai d'une Classif. Nat. des Reptiles. Societe Philom. A. iii. T. 2. Oppel, Ord. Fam. u. Gattung. der Amphibien. 4to. Munich. 1811. Merrem, Tent. System. Amphib. 8vo. Marb. 1820. Roesel von Rosenhof, Hist, nat. Ranar. nostrat. fol. Norib. 1746-61. Ed. Alt. auct. germ. s. t. Naturgesch. der Froesche, &c. fol. Niirnb. 1800-15. Steinheim, Entwickelung d. Frosche. 8vo. Hamb. 1820. Hasselt, De metaraorph.