109 ANIMAL KINGDOM. external vibratile cilia, as in the bero'e pileus represented in Jig. 32. This figure represents Fig. 32. one of the ciliograde acalephae in which the mouth («) is directed downwards, and leads, by a narrow oesophagus, to a wide stomach (b), and from this the intestine proceeds straight through the axis of the body to the anus (c) at the opposite pole. The longitudinal nerves (g), as in holothuria, proceed from a nervous ring around the oesophagus. The ovaries (d) extend along the sides of the intestine ; the surface of the body is provided with eight longitudinal bands of pectinated broad vibratile cilia (hh), and two long ciliated tentacula (Jf) extend from two curved lateral sheaths. (See ACA- LEPHAE.) 5. Echinoderma, simple aquatic animals, for the most part provided with a calcified ex- terior skeleton or a coriaceous skin, the body for the most part radiated, globular, or cylin- drical, often provided with a distinct nervous, muscular, respiratory, and vascular system. These animals have received the names of echi- noderma, from the spines or tubercles which generally cover their exterior surface, as seen in the annexed figure of the echinus esculentus (Jig. 33.J The mouth (b) is here in the centre Fig. 33. of the lower surface, and the intestine (b,b.) connected to the shell by a mesentery (c), on which vessels are ra- mified, passes in a convoluted manner upwards to the oppo- site axis where the anal aperture (a) is surrounded by the five openings of the ova- ries (d,d.) The mouth is surrounded with a maxillary apparatus containing five teeth, and the exterior of the complicated and solid shell is seen to be provided with moveable cal- careous spines. These animals are for the most pait free, but some are fixed, as the crinoid echinoderma, the vascular system is unpro- vided with auricle or ventricle, and the diges- tive canal is seldom furnished with distinct glandular organs. There is sometimes a simple stomach with one aperture and numerous late- ral coeca, and sometimes a lengthened intestine with two terminal openings. Some marine animals without an echinodermatous covering are placed in this class from the similarity of their structure in their more essential organs, as is the case with the holothuria represented in Jig. 34. The mouth (a) is here surrounded with Fig. 34. ramose tenta- cula (c) and an osseous ap- paratus. The intestine is long, convolu- ted, vascular, supporied by a mesentery, and termi- nates in a cloaca (i) at the opposite axis of the bo- dy. The rami- fied internal branchiae ( ff) open from'the cloaca; the great systemic artery receives the aerated blood from the branchiae, and the organs of generation (m) open near the anterior part of the body. The irritable coriaceous skin is supported by five broad longitudinal subcutaneous muscular bands, and five crowded series of tubular mus- cular feet extend from its surface. (See Echi- noderma.) The SECOND SUB-KINGDOM Or DIPLO-NEU- rose division comprehends four classes of helminthoid animals and the same number of entomoid classes, viz. 6. Entozoa, parasitic,simple,internal,or fixed animals, for the most part of a lengthened cylindrical form, without distinct organs of sense or any internal skeleton, the moutli or anterior part of the body generally provided with recurved sharp spines, the body generally covered with an elastic white transparent inte- gument, the nervous system seldom distinct, the vascular system without auricle or ven- tricle, without respiratory organs, and with the sexes generally separate. (See Entozoa ) 7. Rotifera, minute aquatic animals with distinct nervous and muscular systems, provided with eyes, lateral maxillae, a dorsal vessel, an intestine with two apertures, and with vibratile cilia disposed generally in a circular form