593 CETACEA. situated at the anterior broad part of the open- ing, which is eight inches anterior to the anus. In all the females of the zoophagous tribe of Cetacea which Hunter examined, the parts of generation were very uniformly the same; consisting of the external opening, the vagina, the body and two horns of the uterus, Fallopian tubes, fimbria?, and ovaria. " The external opening is a longitudinal slit, or oblong opening, whose edges meet in two opposite points, and the sides are rounded off, so as to form a kind of sulcus. The skin and parts on each side of this sulcus are of a looser texture than on the common surface of the animal, not being loaded with oil, and allow- ing of such motion of one part on another as admits of dilatation and contraction. The va- gina passes upwards and backwards towards the loins, so that its direction is diagonal re- specting the cavity of the abdomen, and then divides into the two horns, one on each side of the loins; these afterwards terminating in the Fallopian tubes, to which the ovaria are at- tached. From each ovarium there is a small fold of the peritoneum, which passes up to- wards the kidney of the same side, as in most quadrupeds. " The inside of the vagina is smooth for about one-half of its length, and then begins to form something similar to valves projecting towards the mouth of the vagina, each like an os tincse : these are about six, seven, eight, or nine in number. Where they begin to be formed, they hardly go quite round, but the last are com- plete circles. At this part, too, the vagina becomes smaller, and gradually decreases in width to its termination. From the last pro- jecting part, the passage is continued up to the opening of the two horns, and the inner sur- face of this last part is thrown into longitudinal rugs, which are continued into the horns. Whether this last part is to be reckoned com- mon uterus or vagina, and that the last val- vular part is to be considered as os tincse, I do not know; but from its having the longitudinal ruga?, I am inclined to think it is uterus, this structure appearing to be intended for dis- tinction. " The horns are an equal division of this part; they make a gentle turn outwards, and are of considerable length. Their inner surface is thrown into longitudinal rugae, without any small protuberances for the cotyledons to form upon, as in those of ruminating animals; and where they terminate the Fallopian tubes begin. " In the Bottle-nose Whale (Delphinus Tur- sio), where the Fallopian tubes opened into the horns of the uterus, they were surrounded by pendulous bodies hanging loose in the horns. " The Fallopian tubes, at their termination in the uterus, are remarkably small for some in- ches, and then begin to dilate rather suddenly; and the nearer to the mouth the more this dila- tation increases, like the mouth of a French horn, the termination of which is five or six inches in diameter. They are very full of lon- gitudinal rugae through their whole length. " The ovaria are oblong bodies, about five inches in length; one end attached to the mouth of the Fallopian tube, and the other near to the horn of the uterus. They are irre- gular on their external surface, resembling a capsula renalis or pancreas. They have no capsula but what is formed by the long Fallo- pian tube. " How the male and female copulate I do not know; but it is alleged that their position in the water is erect at that time, which I can readily suppose maybe true; for otherwise, if the connexion is long, it would interfere with the act of respiration, as in any other position the upper surface of the heads of both could not be at the surface of the water at the same time. However, as in the parts of generation they most resemble those of the ruminating kind, it is possible they may likewise resemble them in the duration of the act of copulation, for I believe all the ruminants are quick in this act. " Of their uterine gestation I as yet know nothing, but it is very probable that they have only a single one at a time, there being only two nipples. This seemed to be the case with the Bottle-nose Whale, caught near Berkeley, which had been seen for some days with one young one following it, and they were both caught together. " The glands for the secretion of milk are two, one on each side of the middle line of the belly at its lower part. The posterior ends, from which go out the nipples, are on each side of the opening of the vagina in small sulci. They are flat bodies lying between the external layer of fat and abdominal muscles, and are of considerable length, but only one-fourth of that in breadth. They are thin, that they may not vary the external shape of the animal, and have a principal duct, running in the middle through the whole length of the gland, and collecting the smaller lateral ducts, which are made up of those still smaller. Some of these lateral branches enter the common trunk in the direc- tion of the milk's passage, others in the con- trary direction, especially those nearest to the termination of the trunk in the nipple. The trunk is large, and appears to serve as a reser- voir for the milk,* and terminates externally in a projection, which is the nipple. The lateral portions of the sulcus which incloses the nipple are composed of parts looser in texture than the common adipose membrane, which is pro- bably to admit of the elongation or projection of the nipple. On the outside of this there is another small fissure, which I imagine is like- wise intended to give greater facility to the movements of all these parts. The milk is probably very rich ; for in that caught near Berkeley with its young one, the milk, which was tasted by Mr. Jenner, and Mr. Ludlow, surgeon, at Sodbury, was rich like cow's milk to which cream had been added. " The mode in which these animals must * The description of this structure has lately been reproduced as a new discovery by Geoffroy St. Hilaire.