ANUS. 180 the parietes of the lower extremity of the in- testine ; these are the longitudinal muscular fibres,—the mucous membrane, and the sub- mucous cellular tissue. The longitudinal fibres of the alimentary tube exist through its whole extent, but like the circular are differently mo- dified in different situations; thus along the oeso- phagus they are very fully developed, also along the arches of the stomach ; in both these situa- tions the fibres are strong and somewhat red; whereas on the parietes of the small intestines they are very indistinct and pale; on the caecum and colon they are still pale, but very distinct, being collected into three flat fasciculi or bands. On the rectum, as on the cesophagus, they are again fully developed as to thickness and num- ber ; their colour is still rather pale. In the two superior thirds of this intestine, or as low down as the prostate gland, they predominate over the circular fibres, which are internal, whereas in the lower third the latter prevail; the former terminate, some by becoming con- tinuous or intermingled with the fibres of the levatores ani, others with the cutaneous sphinc- ter so low as the border of the anus, and some are inserted into the submucous tissue of the intestine ; these fibres are continuous superiorly w.th those of the colon ; they serve to continue that successive series of contractions or shorten- ings of the intestine, which essentially assist in the process of defecation. As the longitudinal fibres of the rectum resemble those of the ceso- phagus, so the inferior circular fasciculi or the sphincters are like the muscles of the pharynx, not merely in their increased strength and colour, but also in their vital power. Over the lon- gitudinal fibres the will has no control, whereas the inferior circular are to a certain extent under its influence. Here, then, as in the organs of deglutition, we perceive the animal and organic powers still distinct as to their elementary na- ture, but becoming intimately, nay inseparably associated for wise and obvious purposes. In the act of defecation the offices of the se- veral muscles connected with the anus may be summed up as follows:—When the contents of the rectum, particularly if of a solid con- sistence, are being expelled, the whole rectum descends, and the perinaeum becomes promi- nent in consequence of the viscera being forced against it by the contraction of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. The presence of the faeces irritates the muscular fibres of the rectum; the longitudinal fibres shorten the intestine, while the successive actions of the circular urge down the fecal mass; these two orders of muscular fibres are the true antagonists to the sphincters. During this stage, however, the sphincters are relaxed, and the anus be- comes dilated, partly by the contents of the rec- tum distending it, and partly by the levatores ani muscles, which are nevertheless in a suffi- ciently relaxed condition to allow the protru- sion of the rectum and anus, while they still support the latter to a certain extent, and thus exert a sort of check against its forcible de- scent ; they also tend to open the orifice of the anus. During this forcible expulsion, a small portion of the mucous lining is frequently protruded. The expulsion of the last portion of feculent matter is then effected by the sub- sequent strong and gradual contraction of the levatores ani compressing the rectal pouch, and raising the rectum and anus to their former position, and lastly, the sudden action of the sphincters clears and closes the orifice. The mucous membrane lining the rectum is in every respect highly organized, it is thrown into several folds, and is larger and looser than the other coats, hence portions can be easily removed by operation, and are not unfrequently detached by gangrene. As it approaches the anus, it is very red, soft, and fungous, being highly vascular, presenting the orifices of several glands, follicles, or lacuna?. It is here very loosely connected to the muscu- lar fibres, and is frequently found thrown into irregular folds; these are protruded somewhat during defecation, and when morbidly enlarged or thickened, are not unfrequently the source of considerable pain and inconvenience. As the mucous membrane is not contractile, these folds are necessarily increased when the longitudinal fibres of the rectum contract and shorten the intestine; they are then protruded together with the fecal matter. Immediately above the plaited margin of the anus the skin and mu- cous membrane become continuous ; the ter- mination of the cuticle appears rather abrupt, just within the internal sphincter. Some de- scribe it as continued higher up, and gradually lost on the surface. I have not been able to exhibit it satisfactorily higher than the point indicated, nor does it appear to me that it extends through this orifice by any means to the same extent as through the other outlets of the body, the mouth, nose, urethra, or va- gina. In the latter passage in particular it is very distinct, even in health ; and in disease, as in cases of prolapsus uteri, its develop- ment becomes considerable; whereas in pro- lapsus ani, that is, a protrusion of the mucous lining of the rectum, at a little distance above the anus, I have not found the protruded mass to become covered with cuticle: I have seen cases of long standing in which the surface presented the same soft, vascular tissue as it does at first. It does not controvert this state- ment to find tumours about the margin of the anus (hemorrhoids or polypi) covered with a thickened or developed cuticle; for in such cases the cutaneous covering is derived from the elongation of the surrounding skin, which has increased in density from exposure to the air, and from continued irritation. The same remark will apply to cases of artificial anus, no matter in what situation : in all these the villous surface, which protrudes during the peristaltic act on, retains its mucous charac- ters, and does not become covered with cu- ticle. From these facts it may be inferred that cuticle is never developed in any situation in which it did not originally exist, but that circumstances favour the increase or more full development of it in those situations where it naturally occurs, even though its normal con- dition be extremely delicate and fine. Nerves and vessels.—The submucous tissue