AVES. 293 weak, in consequence of the protection which the extended sternum affords to the viscera of that cavity. The External oblique (19) is chiefly remarka- ble for the transverse arrangement of its fibres; these arise anteriorly by short fleshy digitations from the inferior ribs, and by a large but very thin tendon from the posterior ribs and the edge of the ilium and pubis; they are inserted by aponeurosis into the anterior margin of the pubis, and join the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle in front of the thin and tendinous i-ectus abdominis. This muscle, by drawing downwards and backwards the posterior part of the sternum and sternal ribs, opens the angle between these and the vertebral ribs, depresses, in consequence, the anterior part of the sternum, and thus dilates the thorax, and becomes a muscle of inspiration. The Internal oblique comes off fleshy from the anterior moiety of the edge of the pubis, and tendinous from the posterior moiety of the same bone; it is much smaller than the pre- ceding, and is directed forwards and inwards to the last rib, which it draws backwards, and thus assists the preceding in the compression of the abdomen and abdominal air-cells, and in the dilatation of the thorax. The Transversalis is a muscle of greater extent; it arises from the whole anterior margin of the pubic bones by cameous fibres, and by digitations from the three posterior ribs ; its tendon unites with that of its fellow in the mesial line, extends immediately over the pe- ritoneum over the whole abdomen as far as the posterior margin of the sternum to which it is attached. The Rectus abdominis is not intersected by tendinous digitations ; its origin is by a broad thin tendon from the lower and posterior half of the pubis; at about the middle third of the abdomen it becomes cameous, and is inserted into the posterior margin of the sternum. A mesial tendon or linea alba sepa- rates the fleshy portions of the two muscles. The Diaphragm arises by fleshy digitations from the sternal ribs; in the Ostrich these digitations are five in number on either side : the carneous fasciculi do not, however, extend so far upon the central aponeurosis as even to be united laterally to one another, and consequently this muscle has frequently been denied to birds. From the lungs being con- fined to the back part of the thorax, the dia- phragmatic aponeurosis attached to their inferior surface is not extended as a transverse sep- tum between the chest and abdomen,but allows the heart to encroach upon the interspace of the lobes of the liver, as in reptiles. The contraction of the muscle tends directly to dilate the lungs, but is less perfect as an inspiratory action from the aponeurosis or central tendon being perforated by large cribriform apertures for the passage of the air into the abdominal air-cells. The Wing-Muscles.—The muscles of the anterior extremity, especially those inserted into the humerus, are prodigiously developed, and form the most characteristic muscles of the bird. The muscles of the shoulder, however, are but small, and those of the distal segments of the wing still more feeble. The Trapezius (20), the lower half of which seems only to be present in birds, arises from the spines of the lower cervical, and a varying number of the contiguous dorsal vertebra?, and is inserted into the dorsal margin of the sca- pula and the corresponding extremity of the clavicle ; the clavicular portion can commonly be separated from the scapular. The Rtwmboidcus lies immediately beneath the preceding, and is always single; it passes in a direction contrary to the trapezius from the spines of the anterior dorsal vertebra; to the dorsal edge of the scapula. The Levator scapula arises by digitations from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and from the first two ribs; it is inserted into the posterior part of the dorsal edge of the scapula, which it raises and pulls forwards. The Serratus magnus anticus (21) is most developed in birds of prey; it arises by large digitations from three or four of the middle ribs, and converges to be inserted into the ex- tremity of the scapula. The Serratus parvus anticus or Pectoralis minor, as it is termed in Man, arises by digita- tions from the first and second ribs, and is in- serted into the commencement of The inferior margin of the scapula. This is the largest of the muscles of the scapula in the Penguins. A muscle, which may be regarded either as a portion of the Pectoralis minor or as the ana- logue of the Subclavius muscle, arises from the anterior angle of the sternum, and is inserted into the external margin of the sternal extremity of the coracoid bone. The Supra-spinatus (22) arises from the ante- rior part of the outer surface of the scapula, and is inserted behind the largely developed inter- nal tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle which seems to represent both the Infraspinatus and Teres major (23) has a more extensive origin from the outer margin of the scapula to its extremity, and is inserted into the internal tuberosity of the humerus. The Subscapularis arises from the anterior part of the inner surface of the scapula, and is inserted into the humeral tuberosity. It is divided into two portions by the Pectoralis minor. The Latissimus dorsi (24, 24,) is but a feeble muscle in this class, and is constantly divided into two very distinct slips. The anterior por- tion arises, more superficial than the trapezius, from the spines of the four or five anterior dorsal vertebras, and is inserted near the tendon of the deltoid into the outer side of the humerus. The posterior slip comes from the spines of the dorsal vertebra? above the origin of the gluteus magnus, and sometimes from the anterior mar- gin of the same muscle, and is inserted by a broad and thin tendon immediately in front of the preceding portion. • The Deltoides (26) is comparatively a small muscle; it arises from the anterior part of the