CRANIUM. 737 tal to the two parietal bones (fig. 373, a). The lambdoidal (o) consists of two diverging lines formed by the articulation of the posterior border of the two parietals with the superior half of the occipital; and extends from the superior to the lateral angles of that bone. The sagittal is the line of union between the parietals themselves, and runs longitudinally from the superior part of the lambdoidal to the centre of the coronal suture. On each side of the skull is the squamous suture (fig- 373, e); it has none of the serrated characters of the other sutures, but is an arched line ex- tending from the great wing of the sphenoid to the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and traversing so much of the border of its squamous process as embraces the parietal bone. The squamous suture and the lambdoidal suture are connected by a short transverse line formed by the articulation of the mastoid angle of the parietal bone with the mastoid process of the temporal, and which is called addita- mentum suturcc squamosa (fig- 373, g). From the lateral angle of the occipital bone to its jugular process, that is, from the termination of the lambdoidal suture (where it is joined by the before-mentioned supplement of the squa- mous suture) to the jugular foramen, there is a line formed by the posterior border of the mastoid process and the occipital bone termed additamentum sutura lumbdoidalis. The transverse frontal suture (fig. 373, a) is situated transversely, but forms several angles in its course. It extends from one external angular process of the frontal bone to the other; commencing at either angle, after uniting that angle to the malar bone, it enters the orbit, and unites the frontal bone to the great wing and to the small wing of the sphe- noid ; it then passes out of the other side of the orbit, joining the same bone to the eth- moid, lachrymal, nasal process of the superior maxillary arid nasal bones themselves; enters the orbit of the opposite side and retires from it, articulating the frontal to bones analogous to those in the other orbit. Other sutures are occasionally enumerated, such as the sphenoidal, which entirely sur- rounds the sphenoid bone; and the ethmoidal, which bounds the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone. Both of these, so far as they deserve the name of sutures, are comprehended in the transverse frontal suture. The articulations of the temporal with the occipital, sphenoid, and parietal bones have been designated as the petro-occipital, petro- sphenoidal, spheno-temporal, and sphenopari- etal sutures; but, with the exception of the last, (which is squamous, and truly a part of that suture,) they are not sutures. It ought further to be remarked that, while the bones of the calvaria are much thinner than those of the base, they are comparatively thicker in their borders to allow of that serra- tion from which the term suture is derived. To study, in combination with each other, the facts enumerated in the foregoing descrip- tion, it is necessary to take a survey of the external and internal surfaces of the skull itself. For this purpose the external surface may be divided into four regions : the superior, the inferior, and the two lateral. The superior region extends from the nasal process of the frontal bone to the occipital protuberance, and is bounded on each side by the linea temporalis; a curved line, which, commencing at the external angular process of the frontal bone, passes backwards, traverses the parietal below its protuberance, and is re- ceived on the extreme point of the root of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. To proceed from before to behind, there are, on the median line, the nasal process and the rough notch for the articulation of the nasal bones; the nasal protuberance; the glabella bounded laterally by the frontal processes; the line indicating the junction of the two foetal portions of the frontal bone; the centre of the coronal suture; the whole length of the sa- gittal suture, with the foramen parietale on each side of it; the superior angle of the occipital bone ; a part of the occipital bone itself; and, lastly, the occipital protuberance. Laterally, and on each side, there are the frontal process, the superciliary ridge, the depression between them, and the supra-or- bitary foramen ; the frontal protuberance ; the coronal suture; the parietal protuberance ; the lambdoidal suture; and so much of the side of the occipital bone as is above the transverse ridge. The inferior region extends from the pos- terior part of the nasal process to the occipital protuberance, and is circumscribed by a line, continuous with the extremities of the supe- rior curved ridge of the occipital bone, and passing on the outside of the mastoid and in the direction of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, to the crest which is on the temporal process of the great wing of the sphe- noid. The facts to be here noticed are nu- merous, and, to facilitate their enumeration, this region may be divided into three parts, one anierior to the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone, one posterior to the articu- lating processes of the occipital bone, and a middle one between these two. The anterior division contributes to form the nose and the orbits. For the first, there may be observed on the median line, the nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone, articulated, in front, to the nasal process of the frontal, and, behind, to the cre?t in front of the body of the sphenoid. On the same line, but below and behind this, is the azygos process, and inferior part of the body of the sphenoid, with the channels to form, with the vomer, the palatine canals. On either side of the nasal lamella is the slit for the ethmoidal nerve and vessels • the cribriform plate and its foramina; and the space which assists to form the nares. More laterally, and still passing from before back- wards, is the internal angular process of the frontal bone, to unite with the lachrymal ; the cellular mass of the ethmoid, with its turbi- nated processes on one of its sides, and the