173 ANUS. the general laws of physiology. With the exception indeed of the generative organs which are concentrated in a peculiar part of the body, it is easy to observe that each seg- ment of the body is almost the exact repe- tition of all the rest: they all possess the same organs, and, however the total number of rings may vary, there results no change of any im- portance in the general structure of the animal. Now it may be laid down as a law in phy- siology, that a parity of organization neces- sitates a similitude of action; and it results that as in depriving an earthworm of a given number of segments no organ is removed of which it does not still retain the analogue, no function is completely destroyed; and conse- quently that if such a mutilation should weaken the vital action, it does not change its nature. This holds good for both the segments of the animal: each continues to possess all the organs essential to individual existence, and consequently if their resisting energy be suf- ficiently great, there can be no reason why they should not continue to live independently of one another, and become two distinct worms.* But if the anterior moiety thus becomes a perfect animal, it is probable that this may not happen to the posterior portion, but that the new individual formed by this part will always continue deprived of generative organs. For the anterior moiety retains exclusively the reproductive organs of the original individual, and there is nothing which authorizes the belief that the earthworm possesses the power from being simply mutilated, of reproducing the whole apparatus on any part of the posterior moiety. This, however, is a circumstance which it would be easy to determine. From the sketch that we have given of the organization of the annelida, it will be seen that there exists in this branch of zoology many hiatuses. Anatomists, in fact, have hardly paid attention to any but the leech, the earth- worm, and the nai's, and we possess only a vague notion of the internal structure and physiology of the erratic and tubicolar species; their comparative study would form an interest- ing subject of research. Bibliography.—Cuvier, Anat. Comparee, t. i. —Bulletin des Sciences par la Socicte Philoma- thique, an vii. et x. Lamarck, Discours d'ouver- ture du cours des animaux sans vertebres, pro- nonce en Mai 1806, et Histoire des animaux sans vertebres. Blainville, De l'organization des ani- maux, t. i. tab. 7.—Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, art. Vers, t. lvii. Audouin &)• Milne Edwards, Recherclies pour servir a l'histoire natu- relle du littoral de la France, t. ii. Moquin Tandon, Monograph, des Hirudines, 4to. Montp. 1827. Mortem, De lurabrici terrest. hist. nat. 4to. Bruss. 1829. Pallas, Miscellanea Zoologica, 4to. Lugd. Bat. 1775. Home, Lectures on Comp. Anat. Duges, Annales des Sc. Nat. t. xv. Thomas, Memo'ires pour servir a l'histoire nat. des sangsues, 8vo. Paris, 1806. Miiller, Vermium terrestrium et fluviatilium, &c. historia, 2 parts, 8vo. Copenhag. and Lips. 1773-74; Ejus, Von Wurmern des siissen und salzigen Wassers, 4to. Kopenhag. 1771; Ej. Zoo- * See the article Organisation of the ' Dictionaire Classique d'Histoire Naturelle,' and the Intro- duction to my < Elemens de Zoologie.' logia Danica, fol. Copenh. 1788-1806. Schweigger, Handb. d. Naturgeschichte d. skeletlosen ungeglie- derten Thieren, 8vo. Leipz. 1820. Weller, Circa animalium quaedam classium inferiorum incremen- tum et vitam, 8vo. Halle, 1817. Klein, Descript. Tubulorum marinorum, 4to. Danz. 1777. Otto, De Sternapside et Liphostomate diplochaito, vermibus duobus marinis, 4to. Bresl. 1820. Leo, De struc- tura lumbrici terrestris, 4to. Regiom. 1820. Clesius, Beschreibung d. medicinischen Blutigels, 8vo. Hadamar, 1812. Kuntzmann, Anat.-Physiol, un- tersuchung uber d. Blutigel, 8vo. Berl. 1817. Knolz, Naturhist. Abhandlung uber d. Blutegel, 8vo. Wien. 1820. Johnson, A treatise on the medicinal leech, 8vo. Lond. 1816—Further Obs. on the leech, 8vo. Lond. 1820. Poupart, Anat. Hist, of the leech from Journ. des S^avans 1697, Phil. Trans. 1697. Mo- rand, Anatomie de la Sangsue : Mem. de Paris, 1739. Bebiena, De Hirudine sermones quinque : Comment. Bonon. t. 7. Cuvier, Sur les vaissaux Sanguins des sang-sues : Soc. Philom. An 7. Wichmann, Vom Gurtel des Regenwurms : Beschaft. der Gesells. Naturforsch. Bd 3. Chamisso, De ani- malibus e classe Vermium in circumnavig. terrre observatis, 4to. Berol. 1819. Delle Chiaje, Mem. sulla storia degli animali senza vertebre del regno di Napoli, 4 vol. 4to. Nap. 1823-29. Derheims, Hist. Nat. des Sangsues, 8vo. Paris, 1825. Nicolai, Diss, de structura lumbrici terrestris, 4to. Berl. 1820. Olivi, Zoologia Adriatica, 4to. Bassano, 1792. Sorg, Circa respirationem insectorum et vermium, 12mo. Rudolst. 1805. Savigny, Mem. sur les animaux sans vertebres, 8vo. Paris, 1816; Ejus, Systeme des annelides, dans le grand ouvr. sur l'Egypte, fol. Paris. (H. Milne Edwards.) ANUS, (in anatomy,) from Anus vel An- nus, a round, a circle, (syn. ostium recti, podex, cuius. Gr. tt^wjcto;. Fr. anus. Germ. A fter. Ital. ano.) is a term commonly applied to the lower extremity of the rectum : properly speaking, it is the inferior orifice of the alimentary tube, through which, in the higher orders of animals, the excrementitious portion of the food, as also the excretions from the di- gestive apparatus, are discharged ; for obvious reasons it is endowed with powers to assist in expelling, as also with the faculty of retain- ing these for a considerable time : such oppo- site but important qualities would infer the existence of a somewhat complicated muscular apparatus, more or less under the influence of the will, as also a structure in other respects worthy of attention. The presence of an anus indicates a complex system of digestive organs ; hence in many of the inferior or simpler classes of the invertebrate division of animals it is absent, and in many of the superior of this division, as well as in several of the vertebrata, it presents considerable variety as to structure, function, and position. In some of the zoophytes, such as the in- fusory animalcules there is no central digestive cavity, and of course no distinct outlet. In them absorption takes place by imbibition through pores into cells, in a manner somewhat similar to a sponge; and most probably excretion (if any occurs) takes place through the same orifices. In others of this class, such as the acalepha1, where a rudimental cavity appears in the body of the animal, a single orifice admits the food necessary for its support, and the excremen- titious portion (if any) is ejected through the same opening. In the actinia?, also, where a