CRANIUM. 724 which it is itself exercised. The immediate effect of frequently repeated stimulation of a voluntarymuscle, whether by physical or mental stimuli, in a living or newly killed animal, is gradual diminution or ultimate extinction, or what is usually called Exhaustion of its Irri- tability ; which is gradually restored when the stimulation is discontinued and the muscle is at rest. But the theoretical conclusions which have been drawn from this fact have greatly exceeded the legitimate inferences. It is by no means clear that such increased action of involuntary muscles, as results from causes of the kinds just mentioned, which exalt or increase their contractile power, is necessarily followed by any corresponding depression. On the con- trary, in the case of violent exercise, in many instances of mental agitation and excitement, and in the course of certain febrile and inflam- matory diseases, we see the heart's action greatly and permanently increased, without evidence of any subsequent loss of power which can reasonably be ascribed merely to the cir- cumstance of increased action. It is true that the effect of many stimulating substances, such as alcohol, is first to excite, and after atime to weaken or depress, the actions of the heart and circulating system ; but as we know that an equal or greater degree of excite- ment from exercise, from exciting passions of mind, or from inflammatory disease, may exist without producing any such subsequent de- pression, we ought to regard the loss of power which follows the excessive use of such sub- stances, as an ulterior effect of these substances themselves, rather than as the result of the mere circumstance of previous increased action.* Although, therefore, we consider all exertions of the irritability of muscles as necessarily im- plying intervals of relaxation, and are aware of the exhaustion of irritability by excessive sti- mulation, yet we do not see that the operation of those agents which augment the vital power, particularly of the involuntary muscles, is ne- cessarily followed by a corresponding loss of power. Further, it has been often alleged that the vital power of Irritability is not only expended or exhausted by excessive action, but likewise increased or accumulated by rest. But there is no evidence whatever that rest does more than merely restore the power that had been lost by previous exertion. A muscle or set of muscles which has been weakened by excessive excitement, and regained its power by rest, may remain quiescent for an indefinite time thereafter, and will not only not continue to gain power, but will gradually lose, after a time, that which it had previously possessed. The idea of the accumulation of Irritability by long-continued inaction has been thought to be supported by the fact, that the stimulating effect of Heat on all vital action, is greatest when it is applied after long-continued Cold. But this seems manifestly to be owing to the * See Gregory's Conspectus, art. De Remcdiis Stimulantibus. principle that the stimulating effect of heat on vital action is proportioned, not merely to the temperature that may be applied, but chiefly to the degree of change of temperature under- gone in a given time; of which point many illustrations might be given, and which neces- sarily implies that the effect of Heat must be much increased by its being applied after Cold. Another law, which may be deduced from observation of repeated exertion of living con- tractile parts, is of great importance both in physiology and pathology; viz. that the ulti- mate effect of such repeated exertion, with sufficient intervals of repose, is to augment both the bulk and strength of muscular fibres, and facilitate the subsequent excitation of vital action, whether in voluntary or involuntary muscles. This is seen in the state of hyper- trophy of the muscular fibres of the arms of labourers, of the legs of dancers,—of the heart, in those who have disease of the valves of the aorta,—of the bladder, in those who have disease of the prostate gland or stricture of the urethra; and is in fact only a part of a more general law,—that the habitual exertion (within limits consistent with health) of all vital powers, is naturally attended with an increased flow of blood to the organs exerting those powers, and with an increase of their nutrition. And the counterpart of this is seen in the very slow and gradual, but ultimately extreme dimi- nution, not only of the vital properties, but of the bulk and characteristic appearance, of mus- cular parts which have been, from any cause, kept very long in a state of absolute inaction. According to the observation of Andral, the structure of muscles may in these circum- stances be so altered, that they become ulti- mately hardly distinguishable from cellular texture. The act of Nutrition, and therefore the organization of muscular fibres, as well as of other living parts, is manifestly intended by nature to be, in a certain degree, dependent on the exertion of their own vital power; and one effect of that exercise of vital power is to solicit or attract the living fluid to the part concerned in it, in a manner which the re- searches of physiologists have not yet satisfac- torily elucidated. ( W. P. Alison.) CRANIUM (in anatomy) Gr. xqanov; Ft. Crane; Germ, llirnschadel; Ital. Cranio. The cranium is the protective investment of the brain, on which it is moulded, and the form of which, in warm-blooded animals, it represents. It also incloses and protects the organ of hearing. In cold-blooded animals there is not this adjustment of the surfaces of the brain and its case; but, although in them the parietes of the cranium are expanded beyond the limits of the brain,* the principle of formation is neverthe- * Thus, according to Dcsmotilins the area of a vertical section of the brain in the European tor- toise is nearly one-third less than the area of the cranial cavity ; and in Fishes, whether osseous or cartilaginous, the disproportion is constantly still greater.—Ed.