676 CIRCULATION. blood in the jugular vein, and to draw it in some degree towards the heart. In many persons, particularly the young and those of a thin habit of body, the jugular veins in the neck are fre- quently very distinctly seen to become full during expiration, and to be rapidly emptied and collapsed during inspiration,—a fact which shews clearly enough that the blood passing through this vein enters the chest most easily when that cavity is dilated. The position, however, of the body has a very considerable influence on this rapid evacuation of the jugular veins in such instances. Again, there are several direct experiments upon animals which are much opposed to the views at present un- der consideration. Dr. Arnott* has shewn very successfully that such a power as that supposed to aid the venous circulation could have very little effect in pro- moting the flow of fluids through soft tubes, which collapse as easily as the larger veins do, because not more than an inch of fluid at the most can be drawn through one of them by a syringe, without its sides being brought toge- ther so as to close the mouth of the syringe, and this objection is in no way removed by the circumstance that the veins are kept open by the vis a tergo of the heart, because even al- though they should be open, a force from be- fore, to adopt the incorrect expression frequently applied to a suction power, if strong enough to make any impression on the flow of the blood, would act, to a certain amount, just in the same way as if no force from behind existed; that is, it would tend to make the sides of the vessel come together, and would thus offer an obstacle to the further progress of the blood. In repeating some of Barry's experiments, Mr. Ellerbyf found that when he introduced a tube into the jugular vein of an ass for two or three inches only, there was no suction ex- erted through it, but that the fluid in which its further extremity was immersed rose only when the tube was thrust eight or nine inches into the vein so as to reach the chest, in which case, of course, the vein was held open by the rigid tube, and the suction power was enabled to act through it to an extent which does not take place in the natural state of the jugular vein. Messrs. Ellerby and DaviesJ also found that the venous circulation was for a short time not materially impeded by opening the chest or the introduction of tubes into it through the parietes. It must be apparent to every one that the suction power or vis a fronte can exert lit- tle, if any, force of traction on the blood in the large or superficial veins of the limbs, for on making pressure upon the trunks of one of these, so as to prevent the action of the vis a tergo, we find that if the limb is at rest the motion of the blood in the part next the heart is wholly arrested. But if, while we maintain the pressure on the vein at one place we empty the vein for some way towards the heart, close the vein on the side next the heart, and then remove the pressure from the remote * Elements of Physics, vol. i. t Lancet, vol. xi. p. 326. { Lancet, vol. xi. 606. situation, the blood is at once impelled through the portion of the vein which had been emptied, by the force of the heart alone. Messrs. Ellerby and Davies have shewn that the same pheno- mena, or the absence of a vis a fronte and evi- dence of a vis a tergo, attend the flow of blood in the largest veins even, which are situated in the immediate neighbourhood of the chest; for after the application of a ligature upon the vena cava inferior, it was found that the part of this vein between the ligature and the chest was not emptied towards the heart, and that when the part of the vena cava in the immediate vicinity of the chest was emptied, and pressure then applied at the entrance of the vena cava into the auricle, the blood rose to fill the emptied portion of the vena cava, although no suction power could in this place operate. It was also found that no fluid rose in the remote extremity of a tube introduced into the femoral vein.* These experiments shew that a suction power, whether produced in the way supposed by Dr. Carson, or in that stated by Sir D. Barry, can have very little effect in promoting the flow of blood in the veins,—a conclusion which is rendered still more certain from some other ge- neral considerations, such as the following : 1. The whole of the vessels belonging to the pulmonary circulation are placed within the chest, and consequently the flow of blood in the pulmonary veins must be independent of any suction power connected with respiration.f 2. In the fetus, as there is no pulmonary respiration, both the pulmonary and systemic venous circulations go on without any assist- ance from a suction power. And 3. In the portal circulation of the higher animals and in the venous circulation of fishes breathing by gills, as well as of those reptiles in which air is forced into the lungs by a process of deglutition, there can be no aid derived from a suction power. We have already, in our description of the varieties of form in the circulatory organs of animals, adverted to the intimate relation which very generally subsists between the structure and functions of the organs of circulation and respiration. We shall now mention a few other circumstances connected with the func- tions of circulation in the adult human body, „ which seem to depend upon this relation of the motion of the blood to the respiration. The influence of the mechanical operations of respiration is not confined to the venous cir- culation, for it has been shewn by direct expe- riment that the force of the blood in the arteries varies also from the same cause, being greater during expiration than during inspiration. This greater force of the blood in the arteries during expiration, known to Haller, Lamure, and Lorry, was proved by the experiments of Hales, Poiseuille, and MagendieJ formerly mentioned. * See also Macfadyen's Remarks, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxii. p. 271 ; Cams in Meckel's Archiv. iv. p. 413 ; and Remarks in the Edin. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ii. p. 462. t See the late Prof. Turner's Essay on the Mo- tions and Sounds of the Heart. Med. Chir. Trans, of Edin. vol. iii. t Journ. dc Physiol, vol. i.