CETACEA. 591 the Lead, immediately under tlie skin, and common adipose membrane. These cells re- semble those which contain the common fat in the other parts of the body nearest the skin. That which lies above the roof of the mouth, or between it and the nostril, is more inter- mixed with a ligamentous cellular membrane, and lies in chambers whose partitions are per- pendicular. These chambers are smaller the nearer to the nose, becoming larger and larger towards the back part of the head, where the spermaceti is more pure. " This spermaceti, when extracted cold, has a good deal the appearance of the internal structure of a water melon, and is found in rather solid lumps. " About the nose, or anterior part of the nostril, I discovered a great many vessels, having the appearance of a plexus of veins, some as large as a finger. On examining them, I found they were loaded with the spermaceti and oil; and that some had corresponding arteries. They were most probably lym- phatics ; therefore I should suppose, that their contents had been absorbed from the cells of the head. We may the more readily suppose this, from finding many of the cells, or cham- bers, almost empty; and as we may reason- ably believe that this animal had been some time out of the seas in which it could procure proper food, it had perhaps lived on the super- abundance of oil. " The solid masses are what are brought home in casks for spermaceti. " I found, by boiling this substance, that I could easily extract the spermaceti and oil which floated on the top from the cellular membrane. When I skimmed off the oily part, and let it stand to cool, I found that the spermaceti crystallised, and the whole became solid; and by laying this cake upon any spongy substance, as chalk, or on a hollow body, the oil drained all off, leaving the sper- maceti pure and white. These crystals were only attached to each other by edges, forming a spongy mass ; and by melting this pure spermaceti, and allowing it to crystallise, it was reduced in appearance to half its bulk, the crystals being smaller and more blended, consequently less distinct. " The spermaceti mixes readily with other oils, while it is in a fluid state, but separates or crystallises whenever it is cooled to a certain degree; like two rMfferent salts being dissolved in water, one of which will crystallise with a less degree of evaporation than the other; or, if the water is warm, and fully saturated, one of the salts will crystallise sooner than the other, while the solution is cooling. I wanted to see whether spermaceti mixed equally well with the expressed oils of vegetables when warm, and likewise separated and crystallised when cold, and on trial there seemed to be no difference. When very much diluted with the oil, it is dissolved or melted by a much smaller degree of heat than when alone ; and this is the reason, perhaps, that it is in a fluid state in the living body. If the quantity of spermaceti is small in proportion to the other oil, it is, perhaps, nearly in that proportion longer in crystallising; and when it does crystallise, the crystals are much smaller than those that are formed where the proportion of spermaceti is greater. From the slowness with which the spermaceti crystallises when much diluted with its oil, from a con- siderable quantity being to be obtained in that way, and from its continuing for years to crys- tallise, one would be induced to think, that perhaps the oil itself is converted into sper- maceti. " It is most likely, that if we could dis- cover the exact form of the different crystals of oils, we should thence be able to ascertain both the different sorts of vegetable oils, much better than by any other means; in the same manner as we know salts by the forms into which they shoot."*] Okgans of Generation.—The organs con- cerned in the reproduction of the species do not exhibit the same type of conformation in the Phytophagous as in the Zoophagous species. In the former the mamma? are pectoral, in the latter inguinal or rather pudendal, since they are situated on each side of the vulva : in both orders their number never exceeds two. The vulva, which resembles in its form that of the Ruminants, presents nothing peculiar in its structure. The penis is attached to the rudimental bones of the pelvis; in the Phytophaga the glans is complicated, but in the Zoophaga it is of a simple elongated fusiform shape: in all the species it is provided with a prepuce. [According to Hunter, the parts of generation in both sexes of this order of animals come nearer in form to those of the Ruminants than of any others; and this similarity is, perhaps, more remarkable in the female than in the male; for their situation in the male must vary on account of the modification of the external form of the body. The testicles (a, a, Jigs. 277, 278) retain the situation in which they were formed, as in those quadrupeds in which they never come down into the scrotum. They are situated near the lower part of the abdomen, one on each side, upon the two great depressors of the tail. At this part of the abdomen, the testicles come in contact with the abdominal muscles anteriorly. The vasa deferentia (c, c) pass directly from the epididymis (b, b) behind the bladder (d, d) or between it and the rectum (e) into the urethra (f) ; and there are no bags similar to those called vesicula? seminales in certain other animals. The structure of the penis is nearly the same in them all, and formed much upon the same principle as in the quadruped. It is made up of two crura (g, g), uniting into one corpus cavernosum, and the corpus spongiosum seems first to enter the corpus cavernosum. In the Porpoise, at least, the urethra is found nearly in the centre of the corpus cavernosum ; but towards the glans seems to separate or * Philos. Trans. 1787, p. 390.