592 CETACEA. Fig. 277. £ Male Organs of a Porpesse. emerge from it, and becoming a distinct spongy body, runs along its under surface, as in qua- drupeds (h). The corpus cavernosum in some is broader from the upper part to the lower than from side to side; but in the Porpoise (Jig. 277) it has the appearance of being round, becoming smaller forwards, so as to terminate almost in a point some distance from the end of the penis. The glans does not spread out as in many quadrupeds, but seems to be merely a plexus of veins covering the anterior end of the penis, yet is extended a Fig. 278. Male Organs of a Dolphin. good way further on, and is in some not more than one vein deep. The crura penis are attached to two bones, which are nearly in the same situation and in the same part of the pelvis as those to which the penis is attached in quadrupeds; but these bones are only for the insertion of the crura, and not for the support of any other part, like the pelvis in those animals which have poste- rior extremities, neither do they meet at the fore part, or join the vertebrae of the back. The erectores penis (g, g, Jig. 277) are very strong muscles, having an origin and insertion similar to those of the human subject. The prostatic portion of the urethra (J\ Jig. 278) is surrounded by a muscle of prodigious thickness (k,k), destined to compress and forcibly expel the contents of that part of the canal. The acceleratores muscles (I) are likewise very strong; and there is a pair of strong and long muscles ( m, Jig. 277) arising from the anus, and passing forwards to the bulb of the penis, that run along the under surface of the urethra, and are at last lost or inserted in the corpus spongiosum. These muscles draw the penis into the prepuce, and throw that part of the penis that is behind its insertion into a serpentine form. These muscles are common to most animals that draw back the penis into what is called the sheath, and may be called the retractores penis. The female organs in the Phytophagous Cetacea have been described by Steller as they exist in the liytina, and by Home in the Dugong; the latter author has given a figure of the uterus with part of the vagina: (see Jig. 279.) In both species the vagina (a) is characterized by the longitudinal ruga; of its inner surface. The body of the uterus (c) commences by a single os tineas (6) in the Fig. 279. i Uterus of the Dugong. Dugong, and gives off the cornua uteri (d, d) at right angles.* The structure of the Fallo- pian tubes and ovaries is not described. Steller states that in the Rytina they resemble those of the Mare. The vulva he describes as of a tri- angular form, with the clitoris, which is of a gristly texture, and an inch and a half long, * See Home, in Phil. Trans. 1820, p. 321.