ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 156 reception of the astragalus, makes with the latter a perfect mortise joint, which admits of motions of flexion and extension, but allows of no motion whatever laterally or horizontally; for it must be recollected that those motions of inclination of the foot, known under the names of adduction and abduction, are not movements in the ankle-joint, but take place in the joints of the tarsus: but the un- natural mobility in question is very great when the fibula is broken at its lower part; this is shewn, when, after the surgeon has bent the limb to relax the muscles, the leg is fixed by one hand placed at its lower extremity, whilst the other moves the foot from within outwards; the foot is then seen to move in a transverse line and to quit the axis of the leg; the mal- leolus intern us projects inwards, and the mal- leolus externus is moved upwards and out- wards, and all these appearances vanish, when by a contrary movement we bring the foot to its natural position. When we leave the limb for a moment to itself, we notice that there is a remarkable change in the point of incidence of the axis of the leg upon the foot. The tibia and upper fragment of the fibula, although really remain- ing in their natural position, appear driven in- wards, while the foot is rotated outwards. The changes of direction of the leg and foot are such, that if the axis of the leg were pro- longed inferiorly, instead of falling on the astragalus, it would leave this bone, and con- sequently the whole foot, more or less on its outer side; hence the impossibility patients experience of bearing upon the foot,which only presents its inner edge to the ground. J%. 51. Fig. 52. Partial luxation of the Tibia inirards, or Pott's luxation. This change is a necessary and constant effect of the displacement of the foot, when the fibula ceases to support it on the outer side, and when the peronasi muscles begin to con- tract. The foot and external malleolus which make part of one system, move in one direc- tion; the tibia and upper fragment of the fibula move, or, to speak perhaps more correctly, remain, in another. The centre of this new motion is no longer in the articulation, but, in an oblique line, passing through the joint, and extending from the malleolus interims to the point of fracture of the fibula: this line is well expressed in Jig. 51, representing the frac- ture of the fibula, and taken from the engrav- ing which accompanies the work of Pott. The retiring angle seen (Jig. 51, 52, a) in this partial luxation of the tibia inwards, on the outer part of the articulation, and the pro- jecting one (b) existing at the inner, consti- tute the most striking features of the accident; these angles correspond exactly to the extremi- ties of the line above-mentioned, in the direc- tion of which the weight of the body acts, when the foot being turned outwards this line may be seen to traverse the leg obliquely from the lower part of the upper fragment of the broken fibula to the malleolus internus. We cannot omit to notice also, that there is in all these cases a remarkable rotation of the whole foot on its long axis, in such a direction that the upper surface of the astragalus looks obliquely upwards and inwards, (Jig.52, c,) the inner edge of the foot is turned downwards, the sole inclined outwards, the outer edge raised, and the dorsum turned directly upwards. The extent of this rotatory motion is besides always proportioned to the displacement out- wards ; both are attributable to the same causes, viz. the weight of the body, and the action of the perona?i muscles, when the patient has at- tempted to walk after the fracture has occurred. It is on these combined movements when not corrected by a proper mode of treatment, that the deformity of the foot, and all the consequent difficulties in walking, depend. Complete luxation of the tibia inwards from the astragalus, complicated with a simple frac- ture of the fibula.—This is a very severe, and, fortunately, a very rare accident. In alluding to it, Dupuytren says,* that " the foot is not only susceptible of being carried outwards, but also upwards at the same time;" a double displacement, which he had observed to occur only once in 200 cases of fractures of the fibula treated in the Hotel Dieu for fifteen years, " but the case was so marked," he says, " that in future it cannot be mistaken or passed over in silence." It cannot occur unless the fibula is fractured; for this condition is indis- pensable to any displacement of the foot in- wards or outwards; it requires besides a com- plete laceration of the short thick ligaments placed between the tibia and fibula, the strength of which is such that, in most experiments on * Sui' la Fract. de l'Extremite inferieurc dii Pe- rone, in Annuaire Med. Chir. des Hopitaux de Paris, 1809, 4lo. and folio.