688 CIRRHOPODA. the action of which the general mass of the body is drawn deeply within the shell." This we have failed to observe in the species which have come under our notice. When the arms are fully exserted, they are separated one from the other, fan-like. This motion is probably produced by a muscular expansion, described by M. St. Ange as covering the visceral mass dorsally, the fibres of which are grouped into six bundles on either side, cor- responding to the arms. The same observer describes also certain tendons which he found crossing one another at the median line ; these are probably connected with another layer of muscles, expanded over the dorsal surface of the visceral mass, fitted to approximate the arms of either side towards one another. The muscles of the jaws cannot be satisfactorily examined on account of their minuteness. In the Balanids, the valvular opercule is moved by a set of muscles attached to the circle of shelly plates that surround the opening of the parietal cone. Its adductors, which close the aperture with great force, are attached to the extremities of the valves on either side. The visceral mass is, in the Balanids, fixed to the shell by three muscular bands, partly attached, around the mouth, to a process of the epider- mis, and partly spread over the mantle. Motility and Sensation.—The nervous sys- tem of the Cirripeds consists essentially of two nervous cords running along the abdominal surface, and swelling out into distinctly formed ganglions, at intervals corresponding to the feet-bearing lobes. The first pair of ganglions is situated above the oesophagus (Jig. 339). They are united by a very short nervous cord.— From this supra- cesophageal gan- glion and the u- niting cord, there arise anteriorly three or four nerves, which are distributed to the muscular tunics. The principal ner- vous cords, leav- ing the first gan- glion posteriorly, descend to encir- cle the oesopha- gus. In this course, they give off branches to the salivary glands and other neighbouring parts, and particularly, (as M. St. Ange has pointed out,) a nerve of communication with a small lateral ganglion (k, k,Jig. 339) on either side, situated near the stomach and below the salivary organs. This is connected also with the second pair of ganglions. From this se- cond pair, several branches arise, some of which go to the stomach, and two to the first pair of arms. The other arms receive only one branch each (/, i), which is divided into two, one for each of the jointed processes. In its course along the abdominal surface, the double ganglionic cord—the centre of the nervous system—lies immediately beneath the skin, between the bases of the arms. The fifth and the sixth pairs of ganglions have the appearance of being closely united. The tu- bular process, which terminates the anal ex- tremity of the body receives two nerves, one from each of those going to the sixth pair of arms. Dr. Grant directs our attention to the fact that all the anterior parts of this system are very imperfectly developed compared with the posterior parts, and with the same parts in other articulated animals, which have their heads free, and organs of sense more com- plete. The sense of touch is the only one enjoyed by the Cirripeds, so far as we can discover. The ciliated arms of some of the species are acutely sensitive: they are withdrawn imme- diately on being touched by any foreign body, and when the surrounding fluid is unfit for respiration. Some observers have also re- marked that they shrink from a strong light brought to shine upon them suddenly. In the adult animals, there are certainly no organs which can be regarded as eyes; but, according to Mr. Thompson, what he be- lieves to be the free-moving young have very well developed eyes, like those of some Crus- tacea. Some of the littoral Cirripeds, when left dry at ebb-tide, seem to be sensible of certain changes being produced in the state of the sur- rounding air by the approach of a living being to the place of their habitation. We have frequently remarked, on drawing near a spot densely peopled by the small acorn-shells that so abundantly cover most of our rocks on the sea-shore, a peculiar faint crackling noise, sud- denly produced, gradually subsiding after the lapse of a few seconds, and not repeated until a movement was made towards another spot; and, on searching for the cause of this singular sound, we have satisfied ourselves that it is uniformly produced by the sudden ^closing of the opercules of the Balanids, which seem generally to remain open in ordinary cir- cumstances. We have seen this motion again and again follow immediately the movement of the hand towards particular spots, (not, however, nearer the shells than twelve or four- teen inches,) so that we could not but con- clude that the animal was made sensible, through the medium of the air, of the pre- sence of some foreign body, and, fearing dan- ger, closed its shell for self-protection ; just as the limpet, warned of the approach of hurtful agents by the slightest touch of its shell, fixes itself more securely to its rocky footing. What the nature of the sense is which is thus used by the Cirripeds, we have no means of determining. Digestion.—The minute swimming Crus- tacea appear to constitute the principal food of the Cirripeds. Sometimes, however, the shells of minute Mollusca are found in their