BLOOD. 414 length, the clot extends as usual through the whole mass, but it is colourless on its upper part, and only red in the part into which the globules have subsided. Professor Miiller believes that the fibrine exists in a state of solution in the serum, an opinion which to us appears hardly reconcilable with the known che- mical properties of this substance ; we are more inclined to suppose that, like the proper glo- bules, it is merely suspended in the mass of the blood in a state of extreme subdivision, and possessed of transparency too perfect to admit of its being distinguished amidst the sur- rounding fluid. There are circumstances under which the blood only coagulates with difficulty, or in which it even loses this property entirely. In cases of poisoning with hydrocyanic acid, for instance, the blood remains fluid and thick after death; the same thing also occurs after death from fever of a typhoid type, from lightning, &c. Another phenomenon presented by the blood which is of very common occurrence, and depends on the manner in which it coagu- lates, consists in the formation of what is called an inflammatory crust or buffi/ coat: the coagulum, instead of being uniformly red, then appears covered with a greyish or yel- lowish viscid and very tough pellicle of various degrees of thickness. The pheno- menon in question is principally observed in individuals labouring under acute inflammatory affections of the serous or synovial membranes, of the substance of the lungs, &c. but also occurs among persons in good health, although plethoric. The experiments of M. Ratier go to prove that various circumstances, altogether independent of the physiological state of the individual, may also exert great influence on the formation of the buffy coat: thus, ceteris paribus, it is more readily produced if the blood withdrawn be received in a deep and narrow vessel, and if the opening in the vein be large, and the jet be free. The cause of the buffy coat has been very satisfactorily ex- plained; it depends on the more rapid subsi- dence than usual of the red globules, in con- sequence of which the more superficial parts of the coagulum contain none. From the ex- periments of Professor Miiller it would also appear that this subsidence of the globules takes place more quickly if a thick solution of gum be added to the blood, so as to increase its density, whilst, when it is deprived of its fibrine by stirring with rods, these bodies remain for a very long time suspended. Now it follows, from the investigations of Sir C. Scudamore, that buffy blood contains a larger proportion of fibrine than usual, a state to which the more rapid deposition of the glo- bules, and the formation of the inflammatory crust, which is its consequence, may be at- tributed. Thus far we have only spoken of the blood in a general manner, and without respect to the part of the system in which this fluid is examined; it is, however, very far from being- identical in every part, and there are wide differences between the physical and physio- logical properties of arterial and of venous blood. The blood which is tending to the several parts of the body is in the first place of a bright vermilion red colour (arterial blood); whilst that which has already passed through the different tissues, and is on its way back from them, is of a dusky or blackish red of various degrees of intensity (venous blood). Arterial blood also coagulates more quickly than venous blood, and, from the researches of Dr. John Davy, appears to have father a less capacity for caloric,* and a somewhat in- ferior specific gravity (1,049 : 1,051); we are, however, led to think that in the normal state the contrary of the latter proposition will be found to obtain, for Messrs. Prevost and Du- mas have shown that in this case arterial blood contains a larger proportion of globules than venous blood.f When the physiological action of arterial and of venous blood is investigated, still more striking differences are discovered; the first maintains vital excitation in the economy, and the second is insufficient to support life. Physiologists have even gone so far as to regard the influence of the venous blood upon the brain as deleterious; % but more recent experiments show that though inadequate to keep up life, it is far from being a poison; on the contrary, it rather tends to prolong existence, for frogs whose vascular system is filled with this liquid die less speedily than those placed under similar circumstances, but which have lost almost the whole of their blood by ha:morrhage.ยง The blood thus modified by the influence of the organs it permeates, is still susceptible of resuming its primary colour, and of ac- quiring at the same time its vivifying pro- perties : it is enough to expose it to the con- tact of oxygen, to give it back all its peculiar qualities. We find, in fact, that if venous blood be agitated with atmospheric air, or better still with oxygen gas, it speedily assumes the vermilion tint that characterizes arterial blood, and if the air thus employed be afterwards analysed, a certain .quantity of oxygen will be found to have disappeared, and its place to be occupied with a corresponding measure of carbonic acid. Now that which happens here under the influence of mere chemical affinity, also takes place in the ani- mal economy, and it is even thus that venous blood in being exposed to the contact of atmospheric air in the respiratory apparatus, whatever its nature, changes into arterial blood and again becomes fit to minister to life. (See Respiration.) On the other hand, if ver- milion-coloured blood be subjected to the action of carbonic acid, it speedily acquires a * Philos. Trans. 1815. t Ann. de Chimie, t. xxiii. p. 67. f Bichat, sur la Vie et la Moit. See also the article ASPHYXIA. ยง M. Edwards, Influence des Agens Physiques sur la Vie, translated by Dr. Hodgkin.