337 AVES. course, in the same manner as the vessels of the uterus of the human subject. " There are no regular emulgent arteries in birds; the kidneys deriving their blood from various sources, which will be pointed out as they occur " The inferior extremity is supplied with two arteries, which have a separate origin from the aorta. One corresponds with the femoral ar- tery, and the other deserves the name of ischia- dic artery. "The femoral artery (23, fig. 170, 171) is a small trunk, which takes its origin from the side of the aorta, opposite to the notch in the bones of the pelvis immediately under the last rib. This notch is formed into a round hole in the recent subject by a ligament which is extended from it to the rib; and it is through this hole that the femoral artery makes its exit from the pelvis; just before it passes out upon the thigh, it sends off a long branch (25), which runs backwards the whole length of the margin of the pelvis, dis- pensing arteries to the abdominal muscles on one side, and the obturator interims on the other. This branch also appears to supply one to the oviduct. The femoral artery, immediately after leaving the pelvis, separates into two branches; one goes upwards and outwards, ramifying amongst the muscles in that situation ; the other turns downwards, and is distributed to the flexors of the limb and round the joint, and sends an artery to the edge of the vastus inter- nus, which can be traced as far as the knee. The kidneys appear to derive some irregular inconsiderable branches from the femoral artery while it is within the pelvis. "The ischiadic artery (26, fg. 166, 170) is the principal trunk of the lower extremities, exceeding very much in size the femoral. When it is produced by the aorta, it appears to be the continuation of that trunk ; the remaining part of the aorta becomes so much and so suddenly diminished, and seems, as it were, to proceed as a branch from the back part of the vessel. " The ischiadic artery, while in the pelvis, is concealed by the kidneys, in which situation it gives a branch from its lower side, which di- vides into three others that are distributed to the substance of the kidneys ; one of these on the left side is continued out of the kidney to be lost upon the oviduct. The artery leaves the pelvis by the ischiadic foramen in company with the great nerve, while, within the foramen, it gives a branch obliquely downwards under the biceps to the muscles lying in the pelvis; and as it passes over the adductor it sends off another along the lower edge of that muscle, which is chiefly lost in the semi-membranosus. It then detaches several small branches to the muscles on the outer and fore part of the thigh, some of which anastomose round the joint with the branches of the femoral artery. Just as the ischiadic arrives in the ham, it furnishes a very large branch downwards, which divides into two ; one goes under the gastrocnemius, to which and the deep-seated flexors its branches are distributed as far as the heel; the other is analogous to the peroneal artery; it goes to the outside of the leg, sup- VOL. I. plies the peroneal muscles posteriorly, and passes along the outer edge of the flexors of the toes to the heel, above which, and behind the flexor tendon, it divides, running on each side of the heel, and forming several articular arteries around the joint, and communicating with the other branch, and with the anterior tibial, and the metatarsal branch of the plantar artery. " The articular arteries go off next from the artery in the ham ; the two principal ones are deep-seated. One proceeds under the vastus internus to the external part of the joint; the other is large, and situated upon the inside. It forms two vessels : one is the true articular artery, and spreads upon the ligaments of the joint; the other is distributed in the substance of the flexor of the heel, which is placed upon the inside and fore part of the leg, and comes out upon the edge of this muscle to be lost in the integuments. " The posterior tibial artery (28, Jig. 171) is extremely small; it only supplies muscular branches to the internal head of the gastrocne- mius, and some of the flexors of the toes ; it is lost on the inside of the heel in anastomoses with the peroneal artery, and other small superficial branches. " The trunk of the artery of the leg now gets upon the posterior surface of the tibia, and sends off, through the deficiency left between the tibia and fibula at the superior part, a branch which is distributed to all the muscles upon the fore part of the leg. The artery then creeps along the back of the bones for some way, and passing between them above, where the fibula is anchylosed with the tibia, it re- appears on the anterior part of the leg in the situation of the anterior tibial artery; at this place it detaches some very small branches, which frequently divide and unite again, to produce a most singular reticulation or plexus of vessels, which closely adheres to the trunk of the artery, and is continued with it as far as the articulation of the tibia with the metatarsal bone, where it disappears without seeming to answer any useful design. This plexus resem- bles in appearance exactly the division of the arteries of the extremities, which has been described by Mr. Carlisle in the tardigrade quadrupeds, but differs from it in this cir- cumstance, that the trunk of the arterv is pre- served behind it, without suffering any material diminution of its size. " The anterior tibial artery furnishes no branch of any importance during the time it is proceeding along the fore part of the leg. It passes under the strong ligament which binds down the tendons of the anterior muscles of the leg, and over the fore part of the joint on the inside of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, at which places it distributes some branches which inosculate with the other arteries round the joint; it then pursues its course in the groove along the anterior surface of the meta- tarsal bone, and covered by the tendon of the flexor digitorum. On coming near the foot it sends off an artery, which divides, behind the joint of the internal toe, into two branches;