CIRCULATION. 650 are acquainted. Mr. Lister finds thai the dif- ferent Ascidia; of a branched animal are not only connected together by the polypiferous stem, but have a common circulation. In each indi- vidual there is a heart consisting of one cavity only, and pulsating about thirty or forty times in a minute. In the common stem, the mo- tion of the globules of the blood indicates distinctly two currents running in opposite directions. One of the currents enters the Ascidia by its peduncle and proceeds directly to the heart; the blood issuing from the heart is propelled into the gills as well as the system at once, and upon its return from thence the returning current proceeds out of the animal by its peduncle again into the common stem, whence it goes to circulate through another of the ascidia attached to the stem. The direc- tions of the currents appeared to be reversed every two minutes or less. According to Mr. Lister, when one of the ascidis is separated from the common stem, its circulation goes on in an independent manner; the blood return- ing from the body being conducted into the heart, but the alternation of the directions still continues,—a circumstance which points out an important difference between the compound and the simple ascidiae, in which last the cir- culating fluid is generally believed to pass from the gills into the heart, and to hold continually the same direction. Articuluta. ■— In this class of animals, varied as the forms of the circulatory organs appear, the position of their principal parts is much more constant than in the Molluscous animals. In some, as the Decapodous Crus- tacea, there is a short and thick muscular heart connected with the systemic arteries. In others, the contractile part of the vascular system is much more like a dilated artery than a circumscribed heart, as occurs in some other Crustacea, spiders, and insects; and in the Annelida the greater part of the large vessels seem to be endowed with a contractile power by which they propel the blood. Annelida.—Although the Annelida form the highest division of the class Articulata in the arrangement of Cuvier, their circulatory organs may for the most part be regarded as more simple than those of most of the others. The circulation is best known in the Naides, the Leech, Earthworm, and Sandworm. In all of these, the blood, which is generally red, moves gradually forwards in the vessels situated on the upper surface of the animal, and backwards in the vessels placed below or on the abdomi- nal side. There are also numerous cross vessels which transmit the blood from one side to another, or from above downwards, or from be- low upwards, in each of the compartments or joints of the animal. The upper vessels, being generally the most contractile, are considered as the arteries; the lower vessels as veins.'* The organs of circulation appear to be sim- plest in the Naides. In these animals, the contractile part or heart is represented by an artery above. This vessel turns round at the * See the article Annelida, p. 169. head into the vein which is below. The artery sends its blood partly into the gills, placed along the whole length of the body, from which it again receives the returning blood, and by numerous lateral branches, which may be re- garded as the only capillary vessels, it sends blood across the body of the animal into the vein. The motion of the blood appears to be partly progressive and partly oscillatory. Lumbricus. — In the common earthworm, there are two principal vessels, the one (fig. 323, a,) placed above and the other (v) below, and extending the whole length of the body; these two principal ves- sels communicate together by very numerous small cross branches (c), and, in the neigh- bourhood of the ovaries, by from five to eight very remarkable neck- lace-shaped or moniliform ves- sels (h, H). At the place of junc- tion of these mo- niliform vessels with the lower longitudinal one, there are small di- latations of that vessel, which are believed to aid in propelling the blood by their con- tractions. There are also three other longitudinal ves- sels, much smaller than the principal or median ones, which join with the cross anas- tomosing twigs. The upper principal vessel pulsates in an un- dulatory manner, the contraction taking place first at the posterior part, and proceeding gra- dually forwards. In these animals, however, the course of the blood does not appear to be very well known. It is believed to be from behind forwards in the upper vessel and from before backwards in the lower, but there must be also lateral motion. Both the upper and lower vessels are said to give off pulmonary branches. Arenicola.—In the sandworms also, besides the principal upper and lower vessels, there are two smaller ones, placed one on each side of the abdominal nervous cord, and two others upon the intestine; between these there is a very minute net-work of smaller branches. The branchial arteries are derived from the upper longitudinal vessel, the branchial veins lead into the lower. The greater part of the blood proceeds from the upper vessel into the gills by the branchial arte- Lumbricus.