645 CIRCULATION. Fig. 317. Frog. fined surface for the distribution of the pulmo- nary capillary vessels. In the aquatic Reptiles having gills, such as the larvae of the Frogs and Salamanders in their transitory conditions, and the Protean animals, Fig. 318. Proteus Mexicanus (Axolotl). which are very similar to them, but do not un- dergo, so far as is known, any further metamor- phoses, the branchial organs are formed by an extension or minute subdivision of branches of the aortic trunk, supported upon the arches of the hyoid bones. In all of these Reptiles, the ventricle consists of a single cavity (fig. 318, H), which propels its blood into the bulb or commencement of the aortic trunk (.4 ). The aortic trunk divides into two branches, each of which subdivides again into three or four ves- sels upon each side of the neck. These vessels ( B), passing round the gullet or upper part of the alimentary canal in the form of lateral arches, unite again together behind, to form the descending aorta. The branchial apparatus of the animals now under consideration is formed entirely upon these lateral arches of the aortic trunk. In the larva of the Salamanders, in the Proteus, Axolotl, Menobranchus, and Siren,* the small branches of each gill are formed by the minute subdivision of a loop of vessel prolonged from the outer part of three of the arches on each side into leafed processes of the cuticular system attached to the hyoid ar- ches ( B, b). The larva of the Frog has, in the earliest stage of its existence, gills of the same kind as those just described; but in its more advanced condition these external gills disappear, and the larva of the frog breathes by internal gills more resembling those of fishes than the ex- ternal branchiae of the Newt or Proteus. The gills of the tadpole of the Frog are covered by the skin, and consist of a great number of small leaflets, receiving the minutely subdi- vided loops of vessel given off for some way along each of the four vascular arches as they pass round the neck along the cartilaginous hoops of the hyoid bone. The vascular arches are double in that part of their course where they are connected with the gill, the blood being transmitted from one branch to the other in passing through the leaflets of the gill. In the larvae of the Batrachia, from a very early period of their existence, as well as in the Pro- tean Reptiles, there are lungs which seem to be used as adjuvant respiratory organs, for they are generally filled by the animal with air from time to time. These lungs, more or less per- fectly developed in different kinds of Protean Reptiles, and at different stages of the existence of the Batrachian larvae, all receive a pulmo- nary vessel from the vascular arch of the aorta which is nearest the heart, whether this arch is connected with a branchial apparatus or not. In all these animals the anatomical relations and the mode of development of the blood- vessels of the gills proves distinctly their re- turning vessels to be, as much as those which conduct the blood into them, branches of the arterial system; but the lungs on the other hand, however rudimentary, are almost always furnished with proper pulmonary veins which lead to the auricle of the heart. The following is the course which the blood takes in this interesting class of animals. The 1 Wc omit the consideration of the Amphiuma, Menopoma, and Coecilia.