ARACHNIDA. 212 Fig. 104. representing a vertical section of a fecundated ovum at the moment ofexclusion,and before any organ has been de- veloped. The vitellus or yolk (a) forms the greatest part of the contained liquid mat- ter, and the egg is almost entirely filled by it: its colour is gene- rally that of yellow ochre, and sometimes has a saffron tinge. In some species the yolk is grey, white, or reddish brown; and in each case the colour of this part determines the ge- neral tint of the egg. If the yolk be consi- derably magnified, it is seen to be composed of an infinite number of minute globules of various sizes, swimming in the albumen, or surrounded by it, and resembling so many small yolks. The albumen (6) is a transparent crystalline liquid, without distinct organical parts, and consequently not presenting any globules, sur- rounding the vitellus as far as the cicatricula, and intermediate in bulk or quantity to these. If an ovum be opened, and the liquid which it contains be poured out upon glass, the albu- men is seen to surround the globules of the vitellus and cicatricula exactly as the serum of the blood envelopes the crassamentum. In the interior of the egg the albumen is situated, like the cicatricula, externally to the yolk, and fills the interspace between the yolk and the exterior membrane of the egg. It is in this interspace that the first lineaments of the embryo appear, and here the head, thorax, members, integuments, and their appendages, and all the internal organs, without excepting the intestines, are successively developed. The cicatricula or germ (c) is the smallest and most important part of the ovum. It is situated immediately beneath the exterior co- vering, and at the centre of the circumference of the egg. It is distinguished by the naked eye in the form of a little white point. If it be examined with more care, we perceive that it is of a lenticular figure, and is composed of an innumerable quantity of whitish granules. Under the microscope these granules are seen to be of a globular figure, somewhat similar in this respect to those of the yolk, but more opake, and of a smaller diameter. When segregated and diffused they present a striking analogy to the grains of pollen, but with this difference, that the pollen of vegetables is composed of vesicles filled with organic molecules, whilst each of these globules of the cicatricula must be regarded as simple. The cicatricula or germ is the centre of radiation of all the changes which take place in the ovum. All the parts which it contains seem subordinate to it, as we shall see by carefully tracing their development. A remarkable fact observed by Heroldt in the ova of some undetermined species of spiders is this, that in place of a single cicatricula, there appear to be several spread over different points of the surface of the ovum ; but these small germs rapidly coalesce into one mass, which soon assumes the ordinary form of the single cicatricula. The component parts of the ovum being known, we proceed to the metamorphoses which they undergo up to the time when the young spider breaks through the shell. Fig. 105. First period.—The im- pregnated ovum being de- posited, and the temperature being favourable, develop- ment commences. The changes always begin at the margins of the cica- tricula, which appear to be resol ved into granules,which extend into the albumen and vitellus. The centre of the germ remains the same, the only appreciable difference is the enlargement of its circumference: (A, gives the natural size of the ovum.) Second period.—The germ is much larger, its margins are dispersed in numerous granules; the centre is not yet affected by this tendency to molecular dispersion, but has undergone a notable modification. It changes its situation and begins to move towards the extremity of the ovum, leaving in the place which it for- merly occupied a train of globules; it now, to compare small things with great, bears some resemblance to a comet, the nucleus of which is represented by the centre of the germ; the tail, which is formed by the dispersion of the globules, is transparent, and the vitellus which it covers may be as distinctly seen through it as the fixed stars through the tail of a comet. Third period.—The nucleus of the germ (jig. 106, a), which has continued to change its place, is arrived near the extremity of the ovum, but has not quite reached it. The tract which it has traversed is marked by an infinity of granules, which are then so much dissemi- nated that they extend al- most to the opposite extre- mity of the ovum. It is then that the kind of comet which it represents is seen at its greatest development, and with all the characters that have been indicated. The movement of the nucleus of the cicatricula authorizes the supposition that that body has not, at least at the earlier periods, a very intimate connexion with the vitellus. Fourth period.—The nucleus of the germ has not gone beyond the point which it had attained, but it presents a new change. The molecules are disseminated into an infinity of granules, nothing remains of the comet but the tail, which is still more extended; but we see then that the granules dispersed in the albumen have a tendency to reassemble at the point where the germ was originally situated. Fifth period.—The germ of the ovum, which appears to be disseminated in the albumen, has undergone a very curious transformation. Its nucleus has disappeared, all its granules are decomposed into almost imperceptible mo- lecules, which, in destroying the limpidity of the albumen, have given it a clouded appear-