482 CAROTID ARTERY. Fig. 202. muscle; the other has had the muscle re- moved. Besides these follicles there is in several species a pouch, somewhat resembling those above described, but differently situated. It is always single, and in the badger and hyena is placed between the anus and the tail; in the ichneumon it surrounds the anus, and in the civet it is found between the anus and the opening of the prepuce in the male, and be- tween the anus and the vulva in the female. The secretion of this sac in the latter animal is well known as a scent of a most powerful musk-like odour. The sac opens by a longi- tudinal slit, and in the interior are seen two cavities in which the substance is secreted, and which are furnished with a muscular coat for its expression. Generative si/stem. — Male organs. The structure of the testes is similar to those of the other mammiferous animals, but they vary con- siderably in situation. In most of the genera, as in the bears, the cats, the martens, the hy- enas, the ichneumons, &c. they are perma- nently suspended in a pendulous scrotum. In the civets they are enclosed under the skin of the perineum, and in the otter under that of the groin. In the seals, in which a pendulous scrotum would be exposed to continual danger of injury or destruction, they remain con- stantly within the abdomen, being retained in their situation by a production of the peri- toneum, resembling the broad ligaments of the uterus. The vesicula seminales do not exist in most of the Carnivora. They are found in the coatis, but not in their congeners. The pros- tate gland, or at least a glandular body ap- parently analogous to it, is found throughout the order. It varies in form and exceedingly in size; in the otter and the other mustelidte it consists of a thin layer only, whilst in the dogs and cats it forms a large and conspicuous bulb around the urethra. Cowpers glands also are found in many of these animals, but are wanting in the planti- grades, in the mustelida, the dogs, and the seals. In the Felida (the cats and the civets) and still more in the hyena, they are on the other hand of great size, and the muscle which envelopes them is of considerable thickness. The penis is found to vary but little in its form and direction in this order. It is, in al- most all, directed forwards, and contained within a sheath formed of an extension of the integuments of the abdomen. In the cats the extremity, during its relaxed state, is turned backwards, and the urine is consequently voided in that direction, but during its erect condition it assumes the same position as in the other Carnivora. Almost the whole of the carnivorous order possess a bone of the penis, of various size and length. The hyena is a remarkable exception, as in its congeners, the dogs, &c, it is of considerable size. This is the case also with the ursidtE and the mustelidte; but in the cats and the ichneumon it is small. The anterior extremity of this bone is fixed in the glans, and the posterior is attached to the corpus cavernosum. In some genera, particu- larly the dogs, the corpus spongiosum under- goes a remarkable degree of tumefaction, which retains the two sexes in coitu for a considerable time. The female organs.—The clitoris is found in all the Carnivora. It is contained in a sort of pouch within the vulva in the wolf, and at some distance in front of this part in the civet. In some of those species in which the penis of the male is furnished with a bone, the clitoris of the female has also a rudimentary one. This, however, is not constant. • It is not found in the dogs or civets, but exists in the cats, the bears, and the otter. The uterus is two-horned,and resembles that of most other mammifera. The mammary glands are situated along the sides of the belly, and the number of teats varies greatly, without any general law as regards the affinities of the species. Most of the plantigrades have six; but the lion has four, the cat eight, and the panther six; the bitch, again, has from eight to ten. The placenta consists, in the cat, the dog, the marten, and others, of a perfect zone sur- rounding the fcetus, and attached by its whole external surface to the uterus; in the polecat it is formed of two rounded masses connected together. For the Bibliography, see that of Mammalia. (T. Bell.) CAROTID ARTERY, (human anatomy,) (arteria carotis; Gr. xa^am;; Fr. carotide ; Germ, die Carotis, Kopfpulsader;) the great artery which on each side distributes blood to the different parts of the head. The term carotid, derived from xapoq, sopor, appears to have been first applied to. the arteries of the head by the ancients from a supposition that a state of drowsiness or deep sleep depended on compression or some other affection of these vessels exercising an influence over the circular tion of the blood in its passage through them to the brain : in accordance with the same