320 AVES. in a zonular form : they are chiefly remarkable for their large cavity and wide orifice. In the Common Fowl and Turkey the glands are more complex, and form a complete circle. In the Cursores the arrangement of the glands is different in almost every genus. In the Ostrich they are of an extremely complicated structure, and are extended in unusual numbers over an oval space on the left side of the proventriculus, which reaches from the top to the bottom of the cavity, and is about four inches broad. The Rhea differs from the other Struthious birds in having the solvent glands aggregated into a single circular patch, which occupies the posterior side of the proventricular cavity. In the Emeu the gastric glands are scattered over the whole inner surface of the proven- triculus, and are of large size; they terminate towards the gizzard in two oblique lines. In the Cassowary the glands are dispersed over the proventriculus with a similar degree of uniformity; but they are smaller, and their lower boundary is transverse. Among the Grallatores, the Marabou, or Gigantic Crane, (Ciconia Argala and Ma- rabou,) has the nearest affinity to the Rhea in the structure and disposition of the gastric glands; they are each composed of an aggre- gate of five or six follicles, terminating in the proventriculus by a common aperture; and they are disposed in two compact oval masses, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface of the cavity. In the Heron (Ardea cineria) the solvent glands are of more sim- ple structure, and are more dispersed over the proventriculus; but still they are most nume- rous on the anterior and posterior surfaces. In the Flamingo the gastric glands are short and simple follicles, arranged in two large oval groups, which blend together at their edges. The Natatores present considerable differ- ences among themselves in the disposition of the solvent glands. In the Cormorant ( Pha- lacrocorax carbo) they are arranged in two circular spots, the one anterior and the other posterior; while in the closely allied genus the Sula, or Gannet, they form a complete belt of great width, and consequently are extremely numerous. In this respect the Gannet, or Solan Goose, has a nearer affinity to the Pelecan, with which both birds weregenerically associated by Linnffius. In the Sea-Gulls the gastric glands form a continuous zone ; and in the Little Auk (Alca Alle) they are spread, according to Sir Everard Home, over a greater proportional extent of surface than in any other bird that lives on animal food, and the form of the digestive organs is peculiar to itself. The cardiac cavity or proventriculus appears to be a direct con- tinuation of the oesophagus, distinguished from it by the termination of the cuticular lining and the appearance of the solvent glands. The cavity is continued down with very gradual enlarge- ment below the liver, and is then bent up to the right side, and terminates in the gizzard. The solvent glands are situated at the an- terior or upper part of the cavity every where surrounding it. but lojver down they lie prin- cipally upon the posterior surface, and where it is bent upwards towards the right side they are entirely wanting-.--- In the graminivorous lamellirostral Water-birds, as the Swan, Goose, &c. the gastric glands have a simple elongated exterior form, but have an irregular or cellular internal .surface : they are closely arranged so as to form a complete zone. In general the muscular or pyloric division of the stomach immediately succeeds the glan- dular or cardiac division ; but in some Birds, as the Auk and Parrots, there is an intervening portion without glands. It is always widely dif- ferent in structure, and hence has received a dis- tinct name, the' gizzard' (gigerium, ventriculus bulbosus ). The gizzard is situated below or sacrad of the liver, on the left side and dorsal aspect of the abdomen, generally resting on the mass of intestines; although, according to Blumen- bach, the Nutcracker and Toucan, as well as the Cuckoo, differ in having the gizzard situated on the abdominal part of the cavity. Hence this peculiarity not being restricted to the Cuc- koo affords no explanation, as has been sup- posed, why it should not incubate. In the Owl, also, the gizzard adheres to the membrane cover- ing the internal surface of the abdominal muscles. In all birds the gizzard forms a more or less lengthened sac, having at its upper part two apertures ; one of these is of large size, com- municating with the proventriculus (a, fig. 161, 162), the second is in close proximity with, and to the right side of the preceding, leading to the duodenum (b, fig. 161); below these apertures the cavity extends to form a cul-de- sac (c, fig. 161,162.) At the middle of the anterior and posterior parts of the cul-de-sac there is a tendon (e, fig. 156, 157) from which the muscular fibres radiate. Gizzard of a Swan.