DEATH. 803 that no expression remained more than that of the repose of the muscles. The nature of the disease also modifies the facial expression of the dying. In some we observe the impress of the previous suffering, as in peritonitis and in cases of poisoning by irritants; in others the character is derived from a peculiar affec- tion of some part of the respiratory apparatus, as of the diaphragm in pericarditis; or from an affection of the facial muscles themselves, as in tetanus and paralysis. But the condition of the mind is perhaps more often concerned in the expression than even the physical cir- cumstances of the body. For, as some kind of intelligence is frequently retained, and strong emotions are experienced till within a few moments of dissolution, the features may be sealed by the hand of death in the last look of rapture or of misery—of benignity or of anger. Every poetical reader knows the pic- ture of the traits of death (no less true than beautiful) drawn by the author of the "Giaour." But such observations are not confined to poets. Haller could trace in the dying coun- tenance the smile which had been lighted by the hope of a happier existence : " AdfuU gentis J'ugienti anima spei non rarb in mori- bundis signa vidi, qui serenissimo vultu, non sine blando subrisu, de vita excesserunt." * Watchers of the dead have often affirmed, and we can ourselves testify to the fact, that a smile has appeared upon the countenance some hours after death, though no such expression had been witnessed at the time of the event; which is not difficult of interpretation if we consider that an extremely slight muscular action is sufficient to give any kind of expres- sion, particularly that of complacency,—that mortal rigidity is produced by a species of contraction in muscular fibres, (to be discussed more fully hereafter), and that this change seldom takes place till several hours after death. SIGNS OF ACTUAL DEATH. The discrimination of true from apparent death is not a matter of mere physiological interest. It is of great importance that the medical practitioner should be able to decide in doubtful cases whether the resources of art may be dispensed with, or the rites of sepul- ture be permitted, as well as to give evidence, in certain medico-legal inquiries, of the pre- cise period at which an individual expired. We have not space to record the numerous cases that may be met with in various authors, proving that even the most sagacious and ex- perienced observers have been at times de- ceived as to the reality of death. In the works of the ancients there are frequent allusions to premature interments. Pliny has a chapter, " De his qui elali revixerunt;" and among other cases mentions that of a young man of rank, who was revived by the heat of his funeral pyre, but who perished before he could be rescued from the flames. " Hsec est con- ditio mortalium," is the reflection of the phi- losopher, " ad hasce ejusmodi occasiones for- * Elcm. Phys. lib. x\x. § 23. tunte gignimur, lit de homine ne morti quidem debeat credi." Celsus asks, " si certa futura; mortis indicia sunt, quomodo interdum de- serti a medicis convalescant, quosdamque fama prodiderit in ipsis funeribus revixisse ? " " Complura fuerunt exempla," says Lord Bacon, " hominum, tanquam mortuorum aut expositorum a lecto, aut delatorum ad funus, quinetiam nonnullorum in terrfi conditorum, qui nihilominus revixerunt."* In the writings of Winslowf and Bruhier J will be found an ample collection of melan- choly instances of premature interment, besides those which are scattered through various sys- tematic works upon forensic medicine. Un- intentional vivisection, moreover, has befallen other instances than the celebrated subject of Vesalius. Few of our readers have not shuddered at the tale of the dismal fate of the Abbe Prevost, who, having been struck with apoplexy in the forest of Chantilly, was taken home for dead, but recovered his con- sciousness under the scalpel, and died im- mediately afterwards. We must not recount the marvellous recoveries recorded by French authors, of Madame Mervache, the wife of a jeweller at Poitiers, who was restored to life in her grave, by the attempts of a robber to despoil her of the rings with which she had been buried; and of Francois Civille, a Nor- man gentleman, whose custom it was to add to the signature of his name, " trois fois mort, trois fois enterre, et trois fois par la grace de Dieu ressuscite." The English reader will find an interesting selection of cases in the Appendix to Dr. Smith's Principles of Fo- rensic Medicine, and in the article Premature Interments in the Encyclopaedia Britannica. We shall only add that Bruhier collected fifty- two cases of persons buried alive, four of per- sons dissected prematurely, fifty-three of per- sons who recovered without assistance after they were laid in their coffins, and seventy-two falsely reported dead.§ We shall arrange the indications of death under three heads :— 1st. Signs of the extinction of vital functions and properties. 2dly. Changes in the tissues. 3dly. Changes in the external appearance of the body. 1. The arrest of the circulation and respi- ration would at first appear to afford decisive evidence that a person is no longer alive. But this sign is liable to the two-fold objection that we cannot distinguish with absolute certainty the minimum of the functions mentioned, from their complete annihilation, and that re- coveries have taken place after their real or * Hist. Vita; et Mortis, § x. t Dissert, an mortis incerta sint indicia. t Dissert, sur l'Incertitude des signes de la mort. § Louis in his Lettres sur la Certitude des signes de la mort, insinuates that some of Bruhier's cases are apocryphal. A more recent and perhaps a more authentic collection of cases will be found in M. Julia de Fontenelle's " Recherches medico- legales sur 1'incertitude des signes de la mort," &c, 1834.