ABDOMEN. 12 The fascia transversalis is best seen by re- moving the muscles which lie anterior to it: it is then distinctly observed to extend from the outer margin of the rectus muscle internally over the posterior surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen, and gradually to assume the character of a thin but condensed cellular la- mella over the abdominal surface of the lateral wall : it may, however, be traced internally as far as the linea alba behind the rectus muscle, but here it is extremely thin, and has totally lost the fibrous character. Inferiorly this fascia adheres to Gimbernat's ligament and to the reflected margin of Poupart's, from which it is said, by some French anatomists, to originate. Along the line of Poupart's ligament and ex- ternal to it along the crista ilii, this fascia is united with the fascia iliuca, the union be- ing indicated by a white opaque line formed by a thickening of the membrane, taking the course of Poupart's ligament and the crista ilii, except where it is interrupted for the passage of vessels or other parts. Superiorly, the fascia transversalis also degenerates into a cellular lamella, which passes on the transversalis muscle to the diaphragm. It is for a short distance above Poupart's ligament that this fascia demands most attention; here it forms the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and at a point a little external and superior to the middle of Poupart's ligament it presents an opening or separation of its fibres, through which the sper- matic vessels and vas deferens united by lax cellular tissue pass into the inguinal canal, carrying around them a funnel-shaped mem- brane which seems to be a prolongation from or continuation of the margins of this opening, but which is in texture merely a condensed cel- lular layer. This prolonged membrane is the first covering which the spermatic cord receives upon its formation, which takes place as its several constituent parts meet at the opening or slit in the fascia transversalis ; it immediately invests the cellular tissue connecting these parts, which is the tunica vaginalis of the cord ; as it proceeds, the cremaster muscle adheres to it from the external oblique and transversalis muscles, and this again receives at its exit through the external abdominal ring another cellular expansion, to which we have already alluded. The opening or slit in the fascia transversalis which we have just described is denominated by anatomists the internal abdominal ring, although, if we speak with reference to the mid- dle line, it is external to the opening in the tendon of the obliquus externus, which is called the external ring. It would certainly be more consistent with the ordinary use of these ad- jectives in anatomy to reverse their application, or if the term anterior were applied to the ex- ternal ring, and posterior to the internal, every purpose would be answered. The direction of the internal abdominal ring is vertical and inclined very slightly outwards. When the fibrous character of the fascia trans- versalis is obvious, we can generally observe two very distinct portions of it, one on each side of the ring. The fibres of the external portion pass upwards and inwards; those of the internal portion, which are generally stronger and more developed than in the external, pass upwards and outwards so as to decussate with the external fibres at the upper extremity of the ring. The outer margin of this internal portion often presents towards the ring a lunated ap- pearance, over which the vas deferens turns at a sharp angle ; it can be best seen by examining the parts from behind after the peritoneum has been removed.* The fascia transversalis is continued upwards along the posterior and lateral surface of the abdominal muscles and over the diaphragm under the form of a fine lamina of very condensed cellular membrane, which adheres pretty closely to the muscles, but especially to the diaphragm, where it seems to be incorporated with the proper cel- lular covering of that muscle. We refer to the article Groin, Region of the, for further particulars respecting the fascia transversalis. In the iliac fossa we find a very distinct fibrous expansion covering the whole abdo- minal surface of the iliacus internus muscle. This is the fascia iliaca. It is seen by raising the peritoneum and the subperitoneal cellular tissue from the fossa. Inferiorly this fascia is connected with the fascia transversalis along the line of Poupart's ligament, except where that connexion is interrupted by the passage of the vessels under the ligament. That space comprises the interval between the inner margin of the tendon of the Psoas and Gimbernat's ligament; and here the fascia lies close to the horizontal ramus of the pubis, and passes be- hind the vessels into the upper part of the thigh, where it adheres to the linea ilio-pectinea, and seems to become continuous with the fascia lata. Externally the fascia iliaca is con- tinuous with the fascia transversalis along the crista ilii, where an opaque line indicates the union, and just internal to which it splits to ensheath the circumflexa ilii artery. On the inner side of the iliac fossa this fascia unites with the pelvic fascia along the brim of the pelvis, this union being likewise indicated by an opaque line similar to that already noticed along the crista ilii. To arrive at this point the fascia, in proceeding from without inwards, passes over the iliacus internus, then over the psoas magnus and parvus, upon which it is thinner than elsewhere ; it then passes behind the iliac artery and vein, and arrives at the pelvic margin. Posteriorly this fascia is con- tinuous with a thin and less fibrous expansion which covers the psoas and quadratus lumborum. muscles, adheres to the ligamentum arcuatum, and is identified superiorly with the cellular expansion on the diaphragm, and externally with the fascia transversalis. It has already been stated that the iliac fascia passes behind the iliac vessels. These vessels have also anterior to them a fibrous or cellulo- fibrous expansion, which is connected on the inner and outer side to the fascia iliaca. Some * This lunated margin is very well delineated by Cloquet in the third figure of the first plate annexed to his work on Hernia, now translated by Mr. A. M. M'Whinnie.