AllTICULATA. 245 vitality corresponds to the distribution of the nervous system into as many centres as there are corporeal segments."* With respect to the agreement between the number of segments of the body and the ganglions of the nervous sys- tem, it must be observed that in the higher crustaceans, arachnidans, and insects, the gan- glions, though originally as numerous as the segments, subsequently become concentrated by progressive development into masses which are fewer in number, and that also in some of the lowest annelidans, as the leech-tribe, the ex- ternal segments are more numerous than the internal ganglions. In many of the molluscous class two nervous cords proceed backwards from the supraceso- phageal ganglion or brain, and are afterwards brought into communication by ganglionic masses on the ventral aspect of the body ; but in the Articulata the uniting ganglions are always confined to the mesial line of the body, are perfectly symmetrical in their arrangement, and are accompanied by a symmetrica! or bila- teral form of the whole body. It is this homo- gangliute disposition of the nervous system which essentially distinguishes the Articulate from the Molluscous and other divisions of the Animal Kingdom, and it is an infallible guide to the true affinities of the classes possessing it. The Cirripeda present a striking example of this fact: these animals, on account of their inarticulate body enveloped in a fleshy mantle and protected by a multivalve shell, were for a long time classed with the mollusca: but the views of those naturalists who considered that they had closer relations to the Arti- culata, although that opinion was founded on a knowledge of their nervous system only, has since been corroborated by every additional fact which has been discovered respecting them. Latreille, in his " Families Nalurelles du Rfegne Animal," first placed thecirripeds in the Articulate series, but being guided by their adult organization, and supposing that they were deficient in visual organs, and underwent no metamorphosis, he joined them with the an- nelidans, to form a division of Articulate ani- mals, " Elminthoida," distinct, from the " Con- dyiopeda," whicli include the insects, arach- nidans, and crustaceans, or the Articulata with jointedfeet. The later researches of Mr. I. V. Thompson and Dr. Burmeisterf have proved that in the immature state the Cirripeds un- dergo repeated metamorphoses or moults ; that they move freely in the water by means of setiferous articulated members, and during this period guide their wanderings by the aid of distinctly developed, though simple eyes. Besides the cirripeds the higher organized infusoria and intestinal worms have been proposed by some naturalists to be added to the articulate division of Animals : but as they are neither articulated nor possess articulate * See his celebrated memoir, " Sur un nouveau rapprochement a elablir entre les classes qui com- posent lc regne animal." " Annates du Museum d'Histoirc Naturelle, 4to, torn. xix. p. 73. t Hoitrage zur Naturgcschichtc dcr llankcnfuesser, 4to. Berlin, 1U34. members, and as their nervous cords are sim- ple and not brought into communication by a regular series of ganglions, we prefer to leave the llotifera and Ceelelmintha with the Entozoa and Echinodermata, as a separate and higher subdivision of Cuvier's Radiata, and thus pre- serve the Articulata as a distinct and well de- fined subkingdom, characterized by a dispersion of the nervous system in a series of ganglions, symmetrically arranged and brought into com- munication by a double nervous cord ; by an articulate or jointed structure of the body or its appendages, by the lateral position and hori- zontal movements of the jaws, when these are present, and by the presence of distinct respi- ratory organs. The subdivisions of this sub- kingdom are not founded on the modifications of any single system, but principally rest on the conditions of the sanguiferous and respira- tory organs, in connexion with exterior form, modes of locomotion and generation. I. The Cirripeds, (cirripedia, cirripeda, cir- rhopoda); oceanic animals called barnacles and acorn shells : they are characterized by their fixed condition, being either sessile, or attached to foreign bodies by means of a peduncle; their generation is, consequently, hermaphrodite, without the intercourse of se- parate individuals, but the male and female organs are distinctly developed in each animal. The blood is colourless and is propelled by a dorsal vasifovm heart, but the venous system is diffused. The branchiee are internal. The cir- ripeds undergo metamorphoses, but are ulti- mately inclosed in an inarticulate defensive covering of shelly pieces varying in number, form, and size. II. The Annelidans, (Annelida, red-blooded worms,) are always locomotive; and, conse- quently, although hermaphrodites, they enjoy the intercourse of the sexes, and reciprocally fecun- date each other. Their blood, which is gene- rally red, like that of the vertebrate animals, circulates in a closed system of arteries and veins, which sometimes has appended to it several well-marked propulsive cavities or hearts; they respire by means of organs some- times developed externally, sometimes remain- ing on the surface of the integument, or lodged in its interior. Their body, which is of an elongated form, and covered with a soft skin, is always divided into numerous transverse segments, of which the first, called the head, scarcely differs from the others, except by the presence of the mouth and of the principal organs of the senses. Many possess branchia?, arranged the whole length of the body, or situ- ated at the middle; others, which for the most part inhabit tubes, have the branchiro collected at the anterior part of the body; in others, again, the respiratory organs are in the form of internal air sacs. The annelidans never possess articulated limbs, but many have, instead thereof, stiff bristles, or hooks, frequently inclosed in tubular prolongations of the integument. The other articulate classes, viz., insects, arachnidans, and crustaceans, differ from the preceding classes in the possession of arti- culated limbs, terminated by claws; and in