313 AVES. of the mandibles are bent downwards abruptly (Jig. 148), have all transverse horny lamina; Fig. 148. which are nearly allied to the Anatidte, the la- teral laminas are developed into small conical tooth-like processes, which serve to hold fast the fishes, which the Goosander destroys in great numbers. Fig. 149. Bill of tJie Flamingo. arranged along their edges, which, when the bird has seized any object in the water, serve, like the whalebone laminre of the Whale, to give passage to the superfluous fluid. The aquatic habits of all these birds are in harmony with this structure. In the Goosanders (Mergus), Bill of the Goosander. The bills of the Toucans and Ilornbills are remarkable for their enormous size, which is sometimes equal to that of the whole bird. The substance of the beak in these cases is extremely light and delicately cellular, without which the equilibrium necessary for flight would have been destroyed. The singularity of the structure of these bills demands a more particular consideration. The osseous portions of the mandibles of the Toucan (fig. 150) are adapted to com- Fig. 150. Bill of the Toucan. bine, with great bulk, a due degree of strength and remarkable lightness, and their structure is consequently of a most beautiful and delicate kind. The external parietes are extremely thin, especially in the upper beak : they are elastic, and yield in a slight degree to moderate pressure, but present considerable resistance if the force be increased for the pur- pose of crushing the beak. At the points of the mandibles the outer walls are nearly a line in thickness; at other parts in the upper beak case. In the specimen which we dissected (see Proceedings of the Zoological Society, Part ii. p. 141) the upper mandible was so firmly fixed to the cranium as only to be moved with that part, while the lower mandible was freely moveable when the head was fixed. The Flamingo is remark- able for applying the upper mandible to the soil, which it shovels backwards in searching for its food. they are much thinner, varying from one- thirtieth to one-fiftieth part of an inch, and in the lower beak are from one-twentieth to one- thirtieth of an inch in thickness. On making a longitudinal section of the upper mandible (a,Jig.150) in the Rhamphastos Touco, its base is seen to include a conical cavity about two inches in length and one inch in diameter, with the apex directed forwards. The walls of this cone consist of a most beautiful osseous net-work, intercepting irregular angular spaces, varying in diameter from half a line to two lines. From the parietes of the cone a net- work of bony fibres is continued to the outer parietes of the mandible, the fibres which imme- diately support the latter being almost invariably at right angles to the part in which they are in- serted. The whole of the mandible anterior to the cone is occupied with a similar net-work, the meshes of which are largest in the centre of