349 AVES. Peculiar Secretions.—The unctuous fluid with which Birds lubricate their feathers is secreted by a gland which is situated above the coccyx or uropygium. This gland consists of two lateral moieties conjoined. As might be expected, it is largest in the birds which frequent the water. In the Swan it is an inch and a half in length, and has a central cavity, which serves as a receptacle for the accumulated secre- tion ; but this cavity has not been observed in other species. Each lateral portion is of a pyrifonn shape, and they are conjoined at the apices, which are directed backwards and are perforated by numerous orifices. The longitu- dinal central cavities also present internally nu- merous angular openings, in which there are still smaller orifices. The surrounding glandu- lar substance consists of close-set almost paral- lel straight tubules,and is not irregularly cellular. The tubules extend to the superficies of the gland, without ramifying or intercommunicating, and preserve an equable diameter to their blind extremities. The tubules are longest at the thickest part of the gland, and become shorter and shorter towards the apex. Tegumentary system.—This is composed, as in Mammalia and Reptilia, of the corium or derm, epiderm, and its appendages, and an intermediate layer of unhardened epiderm with colouring matter, called rete mucosum. The curium, or true skin, is very thin, as in the cold-blooded Ovipara. It adheres to the subcutaneous muscles by cellular tissue, which is frequently the seat of accumulation of dense yellow fat; and it is moved by muscles which at the same time raise and ruffle the plumage which it supports. The rete mucosum rarely contains any co- louring matter where the feathers grow ; at this part the skin is of a pale, greyish colour, or pink, from the colour of the blood which circulates in it. But in the naked parts of the integument, as the cire, the lore, the comb, the wattles, the naked parts of the head and neck in some birds, and the tarsi and toes, the rete mucosum frequently glows with the richest crimson, orange, purple, green, black, and a variety of other tints, of which the planches calorics and the different zoological monographs of families of birds afford nu- merous examples. The epidermis is in some places continued as a simple layer over the corium, following- its wrinkles and folds, as around the naked necks of some Vultures. It is moulded upon the bony mandibles to form the beak, and in some birds adheres to osseous protuberances on the cranium, where it forms a species of horn; and it is remarkable that these instances occur chiefly in those orders of birds, the Cursorcs and Rasores, which are most analogous to the Ru- minantia among quadrupeds : the Cassowary and Helmeted Curassow are examples. The cuticle is sometimes developed into spines or spurs, as upon the wing of the Secretary-bird, Cassowary, the Apteryx, and the Palameclea; and upon the tarsi of the Gallinaceous Birds. The claws which sheath the ungueal phalanges of the feet assume various forms adapted to the habits and manner of life of the different orders. A remarkable artificial form is given to the claw of the middle toe in certain birds; the inner edge being produced and divided into small parallel processes like the close-set teeth of a comb (fig: 132.) These teeth are not reflected or recurved, as they might be expected to be, if they had been intended to serve as holders of a slippery prey, but are either placed at right angles to the claw or are inclined to- wards its point. The Common Barn-Owl (Strix 'flammea), the Goat-sucker genus (Caprirhul- gus), the Heron and Bittern kind (ArdeidtB, Vig.), afford examples of this structure; and as each species of bird appears to be infested by its peculiar louse (Nirmus), the solution of the final intention of so singular a con- trivance, which is limited to so few species, and these of such different habits, may yet be afforded by the entomologist. At least it would be worth while to examine the pa- rasitic animals of the species so provided, with the view of determining whether they pos- sessed superior powers of adhesion which might require the application of a comb in the birds infested by them.* With respect to the scales which defend the naked parts of the legs of birds, they do not differ from those of Reptiles. Their form and disposition, as has been already observed, have afforded distinctive characters to the zoo- logist. In most of the Raptores, the Psitta- cida, the Rasores, the Grallatdres, and the Natal ores, the scales are polygonal, small, and disposed in a reticulate form ; the birds so characterized formed the Retipedes of Sco- poli. In the rest of the class the tarsi are covered anteriorly with unequal semi-annular scales, ending on each side in a longitudinal furrow, and these birds were termed the ' Scu- tipedes.'f The four classes of vertebrate animals have each their characteristic external covering: the cold-blooded Ovipara are naked, or their ex- ternal surface is defended only by hard scales or plates (squama and scuta); but the warm- blooded classes require to be invested by an integument better adapted to maintain the high degree of temperature peculiar to them: hence quadrupeds are clothed with fur and hair, and birds with down and feathers. Feathers are the most complicated of all the modifications of the epidermic system, and are quite peculiar to the class of birds. The eloquent Paley well observes that " every * Mr. Swainson objects to the theory which ascribes to the serrated claw the function of freeing the plumage from vermin, because its presence is partial in the class of Birds. " To suppose," says he, " that nature has given to one or two families of birds the exclusive power of freeing themselves from an enemy which in like manner infests all birds, is preposterous." The assertion that the different species of Nirmi infest all birds in like manner is much easier than the proof. t In one section of the Tyranni, Cuv. the scuta; surround the tarsi as complete rings. Where the carneous parts of the muscles are continued low down upon the legs, as in the Owls, a covering of feathers is co-cxtended to preserve their tempera- ture.