709 CONCHIFERA. Fig. 36 4. Pholas. Petricola. these appendages are the first parts of the cardinal teeth. There ) is one fact which deserves to be insisted on in connexion with this genus ; it is that there are no ligaments found, and that the cardinal edge, folded in upon itself (ventre sur lui- meme), is not flattened and placed in the same manner as in the other conchifera. Another circumstance of equal impor- tance to be mentioned is that the processes, of which we have just spoken, are buried in the substance of the animal, and covered with a duplicative of the mantle which accompanies them as they plunge amid the visceral mass. Without leav- ing the genus Pholas, the cuil- lerons may be seen gradually contracting in their breadths, be- coming shorter, and approaching nearer and nearer to the edge. But if other shells be examined, which obviously form the links of transition from the Pholuda to the Saxicava, or Petricola, the processes are found to turn upon the edge, to become coherent with it so as to form a salient margin, and by their free extremity to produce a projection (b, Jig. 364). In our opinion the toothings of the hinge of all the other bivalve shells are produced in the same manner; but with such modifications as rarely admit of those relations being traced which are to our mind obvious in those genera that have just been particularly mentioned. With regard to the shells of the genera in which the hinge is complicated, of which the cardinal edge is thickened, and the cavity of the hook partly filled by the external layer of the shell, it is difficult to imagine in what manner the suc- cessive growth of the hinge has taken place, and to make out its analogy in point of struc- ture with that of the Petricola pholucliformis and of the Pholuda generally. To discover this it is necessary to break a great number of the shells, or to make various sections of the edge, when the. direction of the denticulations with which it is furnished must be followed. The teeth of the hinge will then be seen arising from the summit of the hook (c, jig. 364), becoming developed, and forming a solid arc, surrounded and hidden by the matter of the cardinal edge itself, and these arcs thus disen- gaged will be found to present the strongest analogy with those of the Pholada. It is from viewing the hinge in this manner that we have been induced to think that its structure was in reality of sufficient importance to make it be constantly appealed to for the distinguishing characters of genera. Naturalists have agreed to designate as the cardinal teeth those solid projections which arise on the edge of the hinge. These projec- tions on the one valve are for the most part accompanied with corresponding depressions on the other for their reception mutually. The depressions are called cardinal pits. These cavities and these projections present a great variety of modifications which cannot be well understood without a long and careful study of the conchiferous tribes generally. When the teeth are collected under the hook, they pre- serve the title of cardinal (b, Jig. 36.5); when Fig. 365. one or two in number, and remote from the centre of the hinge, they are named lateral teeth. Of these lateral teeth one is an- terior (c, Jig. 365), the other posterior (d, Jig. 365). The anterior lateral tooth is com- monly situated at the extremity of the lunule, and the posterior lateral tooth at the extre- mity of the ligament. The cardinal teeth, properly so called, vary in number. When there are but two, the one is anterior, the other posterior; when there ate three or more, those in the middle are entitled median teeth. If the hinge be composed of a great number of teeth, it is said to be serial (b, b, Jig. 366). Fie. 366. A rca.