AVES. 317 dular follicles are found abundantly developed on the tongues of the Chelonian and Saurian reptiles. Similar elongated follicles are situated along the margin of the lower jaw, resembling in their parallel pectinated disposition the bran- chiae of Fishes. In the Goose the corresponding follicles are longer and wider, and are situated near the sides of the tongue. In the Raven these mucous follicles are narrower but longer. The food, after being embued with the secre- tion of the preceding glands, is poised upon the tongue and swallowed partly by means of the pressure of the tongue against the palate, partly by a sudden upward jerk of the head. The posterior apertures of the nostrils being generally in the form of narrow fissures are undefended by a soft palate or uvula; and the laryngeal aperture, which is of a similar form, is in like manner unprovided with an epi- glottis, but is defended by the retroverted papilla; at the base of the tongue. In many birds, indeed, as the Albatross and Coot, there is a small cartilage in the usual place of an epiglottis, but insufficient to cover more than a very small part of the laryngeal aperture. Nitzsch has devoted a treatise to these rudimen- tary epiglottides in Birds.* With respect to the fauces the remarkable instance of a dilatation of these parts in the Pelecan must not be forgotten. The exten- sibility of the membrane between the rami of the lower jaw admits of its formation into a bag (a, fig. 146), which is calculated to contain ten quarts of water, and serves as a receptacle for fishes, making in that state a conspicuous appen- dage to the huge bill; when empty it can be contracted so as to be hardly visible. By means of this mechanism a quantity of food can be transported to the young ; and, as in disgorging the bleeding fishes the parent presses the bottom of the sac against her breast, this action has probably given rise to the fable of her wounding herself to nourish the young with her own blood. A remarkable provision of an analogous na- ture is met with in the Bustard as a sexual pecu- liarity^/^.155). In the male there is a membranous sac extending for some way down the an- terior part of the neck capable of holding several quarts of water; it communicates with the mouth by an aperture be- neath the tongue. It is not found ex- cept in the mature bird. It is sup- posed to serve the purpose of provid- ing the female and young during the breeding season Fig. 155. Futicial bug of the Bustard. * See Meckel's Archiven, 1826, p. 613. with water, and hence may not be developed to its full extent except at that period. The Swift presents an analogous dilatation of the membrane of the fauces at the base of the lower jaw and upper part of the throat: it is most developed at the period of rearing the young, when it is generally found distended with insects in the old birds that are shot while on the wing. This receptacle is of a rounded form, and communicates with the fauces by a wider opening than that of the Bustard ; it is also proportionally of less extent. A similar structure obtains in the Rook and probably in other Insectivorous birds. The oesophagus (H, fig. 171 : a, fig. 156, 158), like the neck, is usually very long in birds : as it passes down, it generally inclines towards the right side; it is partially covered by the tra- chea (G,fig. 171), and connected to the sur- rounding parts by a loose cellular tissue. It is wide and dilatable, corresponding to the im- perfection of the oral instruments as comminu- tors of the food. In the rapacious and especially in the piscivorous birds it is of great capacity, enabling the latter to swallow the fishes entire, and serving also in many Waders and Swim- mers as a temporary repository of food. When the Cormorant has by accident swal- lowed a large fish, which sticks in the gullet, it has the power of inflating that part to its utmost, and while in that state the head and neck are shaken violently, in order to promote its passage. In the Gannet the oesophagus is ex- tremely capacious, and, as the skin which covers it is equally dilatable, five or six herrings may be contained therein. In both these species it forms one continued canal with the stomach. In the Flamingo, on the contrary, the dia- meter of the gullet does not exceed half an inch, being suited to the smallness of the objects which constitute the food of this species. Besides deglutition the oesophagus is fre- quently concerned in regurgitation; and in the Birds in which this phenomenon occurs, the muscular coat of the gullet is well deve- loped, as in the Ruminant Mammalia. The Raptores, for example, habitually regurgi- tate the bones, feathers, and other indiges- tible parts of their prey, which, in the lan- guage of the falconer, are called ' castings.' A Toucan, which was preserved some years alive in this country, was frequently observed to regurgitate partially digested food, and after submitting it to a rude kind of mastication by its enormous beak, again to swallow it. The oesophagus possesses an external cel- lular covering, a muscular coat, an internal vascular tunic, and a cuticular lining. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres ; in the external stratum they are trans- verse ( a, fig. 159), in the internal longitudinal (b, fig. 159); the reverse of the arrangement observed in the human subject. Ingluvies.—In those birds which are om- nivorous, as the Toucans and Horn-bills, in the frugivorous and insectivorous birds, and in most of the Grallatores, which find their food in tolerable abundance, and take it in small quantities without any considerable inter-