CEPHALOPODA. 532 In Onychoteuthis the inner lip (d, fig. 218) is tumid, and merely subplicated; the angles of the external labial membrane are extended along the middle of each foot for a short dis- tance. In Sepia the inner lip is fringed, as in Nautilus. The outer lip is tied down by mus- cular bands to the bases of the arms, but sends forward eight short, conical, unarmed processes. In Loligopsis and Cranchia the outer-lip sends off a muscular band to the base of each arm, but has no free processes. In Octopus the suckers commence immediately round the mar- gin of the oral aperture, which is so con- tracted that the mandibles can seldom be seen without dissection: the inner-lip is fimbriated, as in Sepia. In Ocytho'e it is tumid and entire, but pli- cated both circularly and transversely. The tongue is a large and complicated organ, and is constructed on the same plan in both orders of Cephalopods. In the Nau- tilus it is supported by an oblong horny transversely striated substance, /which appears to represent the body of an os hyoiaes (a, fig. 236.) The posterior ex- tremity of this substance is free, or connected only by a few filaments with the parts above, but its anterior extremity is embraced by a pair of retractor muscles (b), which originate from the posterior margins of the lower mandible. The fleshy substance of the tongue, thus supported, is produced ante- riorly, and forms three caruncles (c), very soft in texture, and beset with numerous papillae, having all the characters of a perfect organ of taste. The anterior or terminal caruncle is the largest, and four delicate retractor or depressor muscles (d) are inserted into it. Behind the caruncles the dorsum of the tongue is encased with a thin layer of horny matter, about five lines in length, from which arise four longitu- dinal rows of slender prickles (e), which are from one to two lines in length, and are in- curvated backwards. The number of these prickles is twelve in each row, singularly cor- responding with the number of tentacles given off from the labial processes. It is unnecessary to allude to the obvious utility of this structure in seizing the morsels of food, and directing them towards the gullet, after they have been broken up by the mandi- bles. Behind this horny part the tongue agaiti becomes soft and papillose (_/'), but the papilla are coarser and larger than those on the anterior portions. Two broad fleshy processes {g, g,) project forwards from the sides of the fauces : these also are papillose, and are perforated in the middle of their inner surfaces by a small aperture (h, h), which leads into a glandular cavity, situated between the folds of the mem- brane, and analogous to the superior pair of salivary glands in the Poulp, Calamaries, &c. In the Dibranchiate Cephalopods the tongue Fig. 218. Section of the Beak, with the Tongue of an Onychoteuthit. is similarly composed of an anterior and pos- terior papillose and a middle spiny portion. In the specimen from which the figure (218) was taken, the anterior fleshy portion (e) was slightly divided into three parts, but was retracted by a single round muscle, and the papillae were relatively fewer and coarser than in the Nautilus : at its sides there were several orifices of glandular follicles. The horny plate, covering the middle part of the tongue, is bent at right angles; the recurved hooks in the Onychoteuthis are confined to the anterior and vertical surface ; they commence above or be- hind in seven rows; but, as they descend, first the two outer on each side blend together, and then each united row joins the next, so that there remain but three rows at the lower part of the sheath. In the Cuttle-fish the seven rows of lingual spines continue distinct. In the Onychoteuthis the posterior portion of the tongue (g) is inclosed, as in the Nau- tilus, between two faucial or pharyngeal folds of membrane (h, K), but their inner surfaces, instead of being merely papillose, are beset with rows of small recurved spines, which must greatly assist the act of deglutition. The superior salivary glands (i) are not con- fined to the outside of the buccal mass, as in the Octopus, but extend between the layers of membrane which form the pharyngeal fold, forming here a flattened mass (i); their duct opens at the bottom of a longitudinal fissure on the inner surface of the fold; styles are repre- sented passing into the ducts of these glands in the figure. In most of the Dibranchiata a second and generally larger pair of salivary glands are