341 AVES. contribute to the secretory vessels of the liver, but proceed to the superior part of that viscus, to terminate in the vena cava, as does also the umbilical vein. " The vein which returns the blood of the inferior extremities is divided in the pelvis into two branches, which correspond with the femoral and ischiadic arteries; the one passes through the ischiadic foramen, and the other through the hole upon the anterior margin of the pelvis; but the proportion they bear to each other in magnitude is the very reverse of what occurs in the arteries; for the anterior vein is the principal one, whilst the other is not a very considerable vessel, and receives its supply of blood from the muscles at the pos- terior part of the joint. " The femoral vein {a a), immediately without the pelvis, gives branches on both sides, which receive the blood of the extensor and adductor muscles at their superior part: the trunk passes obliquely under the accessory muscle of the flexor digitorum, and over the os femoris, where itliessuperricially; itthenwindsunderthe adductor muscles, and gets into the ham (b b), where it receives many muscular branches, and comes into company with the artery and nerve. It here divides into the tibial (c c) and peroneal veins. The first is joined by some branches from the surface of the joint answer- ing to the articular arteries; it also receives the anterior tibial vein which accompanies the artery of the same name. The tibial vein pro- ceeds down the leg along with the artery on the inside of the deep-seated flexors of the heel: it turns over the fore part of the articu- lation of the tibia with the metatarsal bone, in order to get upon the inner side of the me- tatarsus ; above the origin of the pollex, it receives a communicating branch from the peroneal vein, and immediately after two branches from the toes: one of them comes from the inside of the internal toe; the other arises from the inside of the external and mid- dle toes, unites at the root of the toes in the sole of the foot, and is joined by a branch from the pollex, before its termination in the internal vein of the metatarsus. " The peroneal vein derives its principal branches along with those of the peroneal artery, from the muscles on the outside of the leg. The trunk of the vein comes out from the peroneal muscles, and passes superficially over the joint at the heel, and along the outside of the metatarsus; near the pollex, or great toe, it sends a branch rourftl the back of the leg, to communicate with the tibial vein; after which it is continued upon the outside of the external toe to the extremity, receiving anas- tomosing branches from the tibial vein. " Where the veins run superficially upon the upper and lower extremities, they seem to supply the place of the branches of the cepha- lic, basilic, and the two saphc.na; but the analogy is lost upon the upper arm and thigh, these branches forming deep-seated trunks; this constitutes the greatest peculiarity in the distribution of the veins in the extremities of birds.'' Respiratory organs.—In the course of this article we have frequently had occasion to allude to the extent and activity of the respiratory func- tion in the Class of Birds ;* nevertheless the organs subservient to this function manifest more of the peculiarities of the Reptilian than of the Mammalian type of formation. The lungs are confined, as in the Tortoise, to the back part of the thoracic-abdominal cavity, being firmly attached to the ribs and their interspaces; and, as in the Serpent, they communicate with large membranous cells which extend into the abdomen and serve as reservoirs of air. In those aquatic Birds, which are deprived of the power of flight, as the Penguins, the air receptacles are confined to the abdomen; but in the rest of the class they extend along the sides of the neck, and, escaping at the chest and pelvis, accompany the muscles of the extre- mities. They also penetrate the medullary cavities and diploe of the bones, extending in different species through different proportions of the osseous system, until in some birds, as the Horn-bill, every bone of the skeleton is permeated by air. There is, indeed, no class of Animals which are so thoroughly penetrated by the me- dium in which they live and move as that of Birds. The lungs (w, Jig. 172) are two in number, of a lengthened, flattened,oval shape, extending along each side of the spine from the second dorsal vertebra to the kidneys, and laterally to the junc- tion of the vertebral with the sternal ribs. They are not suspended freely as in Mammalia, but are 1 confined to the back part! of the chest by cellular membrane,and the pleura is reflected over the sternal surface only, to which the strong aponeurosis of the S diaphragmatic muscles is attached. They are con- sequently smooth and even on the anterior m9ht lun9 °f a Goose. surface, but posteriorly are accurately moulded to the inequalities of the ribs and intercostal spaces. The lungs in general are of a bright red colour, and of a loose spongy texture. The bronchi (u,fig. 163; a,Jig. 172) penetrate their mesial and anterior surfaces about one-third from the upper extremities; they divide into four, five, or six branches, which diverge as they run along the anterior surface; some in- complete cartilaginous rings are found through their entire extent. The orifices of the air-cells of the lungs (c c, Jig. 172) open upon the posterior parietes of the bronchial tubes, while the extremities of these tubes terminate by wide openings {b b, Jig. 172) in the thoracic and abdominal air- receptacles. These orifices are oblique, and * .According to Lavoisier, two Sparrows consume as much oxygen in a given lime as one Guinea-pig.