CILIA. 627 explaining what he meant by the term. Having subsequently discovered that a current existed in the fluid in an opposite direction to that followed by the embryo, he ascribed the mo- tion to an attraction and repulsion exerted by the substance of the embryo on the surround- ing fluid,* more especially at the region of the body where the respiratory organ was afterwards to be developed, and justly conceived that the chief purpose served by it was to renew the water on the respiring surface of the embryo. The attraction and repulsion again he supposed to be produced by an oscillatory motion which he perceived on the surface of the embryo. This oscillatory motion, although he describes it as taking place in the substance of the animal, seems to be nothing else than the usual undu- latory play of moving cilia, such as has been already described in other instances,—indeed he himself compares it to the undulation on the arms of polypi. I have distinctly perceived the cilia, though they are very small, in the embryo of the small species of Lymnoea com- mon in this country. It is the one represented in the figure, but considerably magnified. The current takes place along the whole of the sur- face indicated by the small arrows, which also mark its direction, being opposite to that in which the embryo moves. The cilia, though they probably exist over all this surface, were distinctly seen only on the part inclosed be- tween the dotted lines at a; it required a dou- blet of otie-thirty-fifth of an inch focus to make them visible. Appearances similar to those described were discovered by Dr. Grant in the ova of Marine Gasteropoda. In examining the embryos of the Buccinum undatum and Purpura lapillus, which are inclosed in groups within transparent sacs, he was struck with a rapid and incessant motion of the fluid in the sac towards the fore part of the embryo, and he observed that this motion was produced by cilia placed around two funnel-shaped projections on the fore part of the young animal, which form the borders of a cavity in which he perceived a constant revolution of floating particles. He also ob- served these circles of cilia in the young of other testaceous Mollusca, as the Trochus, Nerita, &c. in which the embryo was seen re- volving round its axis. lie met with the same appearance in the naked Gasteropoda, as the Doris, Eolis, &c. The embryo of these re- volves round its centre, and swims rapidly forward by means of its cilia, when it escapes from the ovum. My own observations on the ova of the Buccinum agree generally with those of Dr. Grant. The larger cilia are placed round the prominent border of a cavity on the fore part of the body, but the surface of the foot and other neighbouring parts is also ciliated, though the cilia are there much smaller. Dr. Grant assigns various uses to these motions ; it seems not to have occurred to him that they were connected with respiration, although there can be little doubt that they are principally subservient,to that function. * Nova Acta, xiii. p. 771. Acephala.—The rotation of the embryo of bivalves was discovered by Leeuwenhoek, and described by him in one of his epistles, dated October, 1695.* On examining the ova of a species of Fresh-water Mussel with the micro- scope, he observed the embryo turning slowly round within the egg, like a sphere revolving on its axis. This was at a time when the shell could be distinctly perceived on the young mussel; he had failed in discovering the phe- nomenon in some ova of the same species which he had examined at an earlier period of advancement.! He adds, that he was so much delighted with the spectacle of the young Mus- sels turning round within the egg, that he spent two hours along with his daughter and his draughtsman in contemplating it. Baster,J who wrote in 1762, seems to have observed an appearance of the same kind in the ova of the Oyster, if we may judge from a reference by Cavolini, for I have not been able to consult the original. More recently (1827) Sir E. Home and M. Bauer§ perceived the motion in the embryo of the Fresh-water Mussel, as de- scribed by Leeuwenhoek, but erroneously attri- buted it to a small worm which pierces the egg and preys on the young mussel, and which, according to their view, by dragging on it pulls it round in the manner described. Lastly, Carus subjected the phenomenon to a more careful investigation, in the course of his re- searches on the development of the River Mus- sel. || According to his observations the em- bryo, at the time the motion becomes percepti- ble, has acquired a flattened triangular shape (fig- 308), the two halves of the shell cover its two surfaces, and are united together by the hinge at the Fig. 308. base of the triangle. When the ovum is placed under the microscope, the embryo is seen moving round in a ho- rizontal direction, as indica- ted by the larger arrows, ap- pearing as if it turned on the centreof thelowermost shell. Embryo of Mussel, When the embryo is extract- ed from the egg, a current is perceived in the water opposite that part where the current en- ters and issues in the adult animal, (as shown by the small arrow,) and Carus therefore attri- butes its rotatory motion to an attraction and repulsion exerted on the water by that part of the embryo, which is afterwards to form the respiratory organ. The attraction and re- pulsion of the water he supposes to be pro- duced by an oscillatory motion observable in the substance of the animal at its surface, as in the embryo of the snail, which motion, as we have already seen, is in reality an undulatory movement of minute cilia. As in the snail also, he conceives the phenomenon to be con- nected with respiration. For an account of his * Ep. 95. Cont. Arc. Nat. 1697, p. 26, 27, in Op. torn. ii. t Ibid. p. 20. | Opusctila Subseciva, torn. ii. p. 146. * Phil. Trans. 1827, p. 39. || Nov. Acta, xvi. p. 27, sqq.