• 409 CARTILAGE. Pathological conditions.—Cartilages are not subject to many diseases. Inflammation, ulce- ration, and ossification are almost the only ones to which they are liable; and of these the first is very indistinctly marked; the last scarcely deserves to be called disease. Cartilages are supposed to owe this exemption from morbid actions to their extremely low degree of vitality. Destitute of red vessels, and supplied with no more nervous influence than is barely sufficient to constitute them a part of the living system, they escape those changes to which highly organized parts are exposed; and, were it not for their connexion with more delicate and excitable tissues, their exemption would be still more complete. Some eminent pa- thologists have gone so far as to consider them incapable of any morbid action; espe- cially the diarthrodial cartilages. " Les carti- lages diarthrodiaux ne jouissent point de la vie," says Cruveilhier, who asserts that he could not excite disease in them by any of his experiments; and that he saw them perfectly sound in the midst of every other diseased structure. Mr. Key * also seems to allow them very little vitality in health, and to consider them very nearly passive in what are called their diseases. Inflammation is rarely to be met with. Its characters are so slightly marked in diarthro- dial cartilage, that we infer its existence, not so much from the signs which are present, as from observing that ulceration is a common occur- rence—a state which we suppose to have been preceded by inflammation. The only marks of inflammation to be seen, even when most de- veloped, are a softening of the cartilage, and in two instances detailed by Sir B. Brodie, vessels injected with red blood could be traced extend- ing from the bones into the cartilages covering them. Severe pain accompanies this disease; but, as in all the cases on record, ulceration, or some other disease was also present, it cannot be determined how much of the pain belonged exclusively to it. The costal cartilages are subject to painful affections which usually occur in patients who have had syphilis, or to whom mercury has been administered inju- diciously. These depend on inflammation of the perichondrium. They may terminate in ulceration or in osseous deposition, and have a close resemblance to periostitis. Ulceration of cartilage is a very common occurrence in joints, but is extremely rare in other situations. It may be met with at any period of life, or in any articulation, but it is in the hip and knee we moit frequently find it, and in persons who have passed the age of puberty and are under thirty or thirty-five. A striking peculiarity attends this affection, namely, that the formation of pus is by no means a constant accompaniment. The form and situations of ulcers in diarthrodial cartilages are very various. Sometimes they are small and deep ; sometimes very superficial, like an abra- sion—at one time attacking the free, at another the attached surface; and may commence in * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xviii. the centre or at the circumference. These ulcers may be divided into primary and secondary, the former arising independently of any disease in the adjoining tissues, the latter being preceded by a morbid state of the bone or synovial membrane. The primary ulcer commences towards the centre of the cartilage, and always on its free surface. It is accompanied with much pain, but when exposed to view exhibits no sign of inflammation. There is no vascularity to be observed, no granulations, frequently no pus, nor any unhealthy appearance of the synovial membrane. Should the ulcer, however, have extended itself quite through the cartilage to the bone, the latter usually becomes carious, pus is secreted abundantly, and the synovial membrane sympathizes. The surface of the ulcer differs very much in different cases ; in some it appears smooth, and of the colour of healthy cartilage, as if a portion were chiselled out. In others, and more generally, it is a little yellowish, dull looking, and slightly irregular. The edges are often irregular, never elevated nor undermined. The ulceration sometimes spreads superficially over a large extent; at other times it is small and deep, or it may destroy all the cartilage and expose the bone, which will also be found diseased. Most generally the remaining cartilage, if any, retains its healthy structure to the very edge of the ab- sorbed portion. Another appearance is often observed; a part of the cartilage is reduced to a fibrous state, the fibres being attached at one extremity to the bone, while at the other they are free, and have no lateral connexion. This condition of carti- lage is said, by Sir B. Brodie, to be frequently, but not constantly, the first stage of ulceration ; and he conceives it may often exist where no ulceration is ever to follow. Mr. Key looks on it as " a disease of a peculiar character." And we have frequently found it in the dissecting room, where there was not the slightest mark externally or internally of any other morbid action. The writer has observed it oftener on the patella than elsewhere ; and as this is so seldom the part first involved in the ulcerative process, it probably depends on an action of a different nature. The writer has also seen it oftener in joints long dead than in the more recent, and has therefore thought it might possibly be caused, in some cases at least, by the action of the synovial fluid, or by decomposition. Secondary ulceration may commence in the bone or in the synovial membrane. («) When the bone is previously diseased, that side of the cartilage which was turned to it is first affected. The adhesion of the two tissues is diminished ; we find it more easy to separate them. After some time a separation actually takes place, and a vascular net-work, sometimes a layer of granu- lations, occupies the interval. The surround- ing cartilage is softened. The ulcer, with cha- racters differing little from the primary form, goes on more or less rapidly, until an opening is made quite through into the cavity of the joint. When this opening is effected, the mat- ter, which in this form of ulcer is always pre-