CILIA. 612 tube {m, n) were slight vortices in the current, and at o near the end of the tube it came over from the opposite side. Two currents were continually going on in the mouth and the stomach, one always flowing down the sides in the direction e, e, and the opposite one in the axis. Neither the cause of these currents nor their use has been ascertained. Such are the phenomena of the ciliary and other apparently allied motions in the Marine Polypi. Spallanzani seems to have first noticed them; he observed the currents produced by the Flustree, but erroneously attributed them to the agitation of the arms, the cilia on which he had not perceived. Dr. Fleming* described the current along the tentacula in the Valkeria cuscuta (a genus which he has separated from the Sertulariae, among which it was previously included,) and distinguished the cilia with their undulatory motion. Dr. Grantf discovered the cilia on the arms of the Flustree and described their undulatory motion, to which he ascribed the motion in the water. He also pointed out the revolving motion of particles within the mouth, stomach, and rectum, and conjectured that it was owing to the action of internal cilia, which conjecture I have been able to verify. Dr. Grant also discovered the vibratory and probably ciliary motion within the mouth of the polype of the Pennatulae. LoeflingJ first observed the agitation of granular matter within the stem and branches of the Sertu- lariffi. Cavolini afterwards more correctly de- scribed this as a current of fluid holding granules in suspension, running first in one direction and then in the other. Lastly, Mr. Lister observed anew these internal currents of the Sertularise, described them more mi- nutely, and showed that they extended into the stomach of the polypes. Mr. Lister has also described the phenomena in the Flustrae previously observed by Dr. Grant. He dis- covered the currents within the stem of the Tubularia, which, as far as I know, had not been previously noticed. c. Sponges.—In the various species of sponges, water, the element in which they live and grow, passes in currents through pores and canals in their substance, in a con- tinuous manner, entering at one place and issuing at another. This phenomenon has not been directly traced to the agency of cilia; it comes nevertheless to be considered here, as such an agency is highly probable, and at least the motion of the water is not owing to any contraction of the canals in which it flows, but is obviously caused by some other kind of impulsion communicated to it by the surface along which it passes. In a common sponge we see a number of pretty large orifices on the surface, each opening on the summit of a conical eminence or pa- pilla (Jig. 296, a). These openings are named * Mem. of Wera. Soc. fol. p. v. p. 488. t On the Structure and Nature of Flustra?. Ed. New Phil. Journal, vol. iii. 1827. X Schwedische Abhandlungen, 1752, p. 121. Fig. 296. by Dr. Grant the " faecal orifices." Innume- rable small pores occupy the rest of the surface, and give to it its peculiar character. These pores penetrate to a certain depth, and lead into canals (b), which, uniting together and gradually growing larger, terminate in wide tubes, which open at the faecal orifices. The pores, excretory canals, and faecal orifices thus form continuous passages through the sponge. In the fresh state they are lined throughout with a smooth gelatinous coating. When a living sponge is examined atten- tively in its native element, the water is per- ceived entering at the pores and issuing from the faecal orifices, its course being indicated by the motion of any floating particles that may be present. The issuing currents are stronger than the entering, and are rendered con- spicuous by excrementitious matters or some- times ova, conveyed out at the fascal orifices. When sections of the sponge, including a greater or less extent of the internal canals, are placed in water, the fluid, according to Dr. Grant's observations, is still evidently moved along the internal surface of the portions of canals, although their continuity with the rest is destroyed. Dr. Grant could not detect cilia either in these canals or the pores which lead to them, but he discovered these organs on the ova of the sponge, which there- by execute remarkable spontaneous motions, and he is inclined to attribute the currents in the adult sponge also to cilia, which he conceives may probably exist, though, from their small- ness, he has not been able to perceive them. At any rate he has shewn by most satisfactory observations, that the current cannot be ascribed to contractions in the canal, for in none of his numerous experiments instituted for the pur- pose, could he discover any sign of irritability, at least any sign of contraction of the tissue of the sponge on the application of stimuli. Naturalists even of the earliest times, whose attention was directed to the phenomena exhi- bited by the living sponge, have remarked that water entered and passed out from its porous substance, but the true course of the fluid seems to have been unknown, it having been erroneously supposed to enter and issue by the same orifices. Dr. Grant,* to whose labours we owe most of the correct information ob- tained respecting the structure and functions of the sponge, demonstrated that the current is continuous, and flows always in one direction as above described, and proved that the motion * Edin. Phil. Journal, vols. xiii. xiv. Edin. New Phil. Journal, vols. i. and ii.