CELLULAR TISSUE. 509 of its having escaped their notice by being covered and concealed by the protruded blad- der. A second class of congenital malformations of the abdominal parietes arises from an excess in the development of certain parts, as a nu- merical increase in the muscles, vessels, or nerves entering into the formation of the abdo- minal parietes, or from the development of a part of a second foetus in connexion with the abdomen. Of the former it is extremely rare to meet with instances among the muscles or vessels of the abdomen; occasionally we do find an unimportant increase in the number of the costal attachments of one or more of the muscles. As to the latter several cases are recorded in which foetuses exhibited an arm or leg, or even a portion of the trunk of another implanted upon the abdominal wall, or, as is a very rare occurrence, included in it; con- stituting a subdivision of that form of mon- strosity which has been called Diplogenesis. We refer to the article Monstrosity for details on this subject. Morbid conditions of the abdominal parietes. —These are such as are common to all parts compounded of the same elements as enter into the formation of the abdominal walls, which it would be superfluous to particularise here. Congenital malformations of the abdominal cavity .—In many acephalous foetuses the ab- dominal cavity is more or less curtailed of its due proportions, the deficiency existing at its superior part. Where the inferior part of the thorax or the pelvis is malformed, the abdo- minal cavity will also be necessarily more or less affected. Under this head we may refer to the ano- malies which arise from the congenital mal- position of the viscera, which may extend to the whole contents of the abdomen, or may affect only one or more viscera. Sucli are the cases of complete transposition of the viscera, where those which in the normal state are on the right side are found upon the left, and vice versa; thus the liver is found on the left, the pylorus on the left, the cardiac extremity of the sto- mach and the spleen on the right, &c. &c. The aorta and vena cava too change places, and the openings in the diaphragm alter their po- sitions along with the parts which respectively pass through them. The same transposition generally extends also to the thoracic viscera. In many of the instances in which this trans- position has been observed, the individuals have lived to the adult period of life without ex- hibiting any symptom indicative of the unusual position of the internal organs.* Single viscera are likewise often found trans- posed or in unusual positions, occasioning necessarily corresponding changes in the parts which are connected with them. It is unne- cessary to allude further to them here, as they * See Metzger de Translocations Viscerum,1779 ; also instances in Haller, Op. Minora, t. iii. ; and several cases of modern date, of which one of the most complete is that published by Bryan in the Transactions of the Irish College of Physicians, vol. iv. will be treated of in the articles appropriated to those viscera. The morbid conditions of the abdominal cavity are the results of disease affecting its lining membrane or its contained viscera and other parts intimately connected with it. See Peritoneum and Intestinal Canal. For the Bibliography see that of ABDOMEN and Intestinal Canal. (R. B. Todd.) CELLULAR TISSUE. — Tela cellulosa, textus mucosas, corpus, cribrosum, cellular mem- brane, reticular membrane, filamentous, areolar, laminar tissue, &c. (Fr. tissu celluleux; Germ. Zellgeweben.) The cellular tissue is the most universally diffused element of organization, and constitutes the basis of every animal body. It consists of a soft, areolated, and elastic sub- stance. A somewhat similar structure also exists in vegetables, constituting their most simple or elementary texture. In systematic works the cellular tissue is generally considered as a solid substance; but as it really exists in the animal body, it is a compound of solid and fluid materials; for in no part of any animal is the cellular membrane ever entirely devoid of fluid. This union of fluid and solid parts is indeed indispensable to organization, since there is no animal, or even vegetable, in which it may not be demonstrated. In the zoophyte the entire body appears to consist of the cellular tissue, and even in man it enters so largely into the formation of the different organs, pervading equally the most delicate and the most solid parts, that it con- stitutes a species of mould of the whole body and of its individual parts ; indeed, if we ex- cept the enamel of the teeth, and, as some authorities contend, also the nails, the hairs, and the epidermis, there is no solid in which it may not be detected. Many anatomists have included the adipose tissue under the general denomination of cel- lular membrane, but as the vesicles of the former are distinct from the cells of the latter, both as regards their formation and the nature of their contents, we rather incline to adopt the views of Malpighi, W. Hunter, Beclard, and others, who contend that the adipose and cellu- lar tissues are distinct and separate structures. (See Adipose Tissue.) Arrangement.—The most striking and im- portant fact relative to the cellular tissue is its uninterrupted continuity throughout the whole body, there being no part or region, however insulated it may appear to be, in which this communication may not be demonstrated. Whilst we fully admit this general communica- tion, it is yet necessary to state that the cellular tissue may be appropriately divided into two parts: the first division, called from its dis- position the common or interstitial portion (textus cellularis intermedins vel laxus), is that which occupies the spaces left between the various organs in all parts of the body; the second division is distinguished by the name of the special cellular membrane (t. cellularis