298 AVES. it is-rapicHy and forcibly depressed; the resistance of the nir thus suddenly struck occasions a reaction on the body of the bird, which is thereby raised in the same manner as in leap- ing from the ground. The impulse being once given, the bird folds the wings by bending the different joints, and raises it preparatory to another stroke. Velocity of flight depends upon the rapidity with which the strokes of the wings suc- ceed each other. A simple downward stroke would only tend to raise the bird in the air; to carry it forwards the wings require to be moved in an oblique plane, so as to strike backwards as well as downwards. The turn- ing in flight to the right or to the left is prin- cipally effected by an inequality in the vibra- tions of the wings. To wheel to the right the left wing must be plied with greater frequency or force, and vice versa. The outspread tail contributes to sustain the posterior part of the body; when depressed during a rapid forward flight, the anterior part of the body is raised, and flight retarded; when the tail is raised the anterior part of the body is lowered. Some birds bend the tail to one side, using it as a rudder when the hori- zontal course of flight is required to be changed. The first launch of the bird into the air is pro- duced by an ordinary leap from the ground, and depends, in some degree, on the length of the legs. Those birds which have very short legs and very long wings, as the Swallows, &c, cannot leap high enough to gain the requisite space for the expansion of their wings, and consequently have much difficulty in raising themselves from the ground, and generally pre- fer throwing themselves from some high point. The manner of flight varies exceedingly in different birds, some dart forward by jerks, closing their wings every three or four strokes; the Woodpeckers, Wagtails, and most of the small Insessores are characterized by this kind of undulatory motion : other birds, as the Swal- low, Crow, &c. fly smooth and even : the Kite and Kestrel Hawk and the great Albatross some- times appear to buoy themselves in the air with- out any perceptible motion of the wings. The rapidity with which a strong Bird of Prey flies in pursuit of his quarry is inconceivably great. The anecdote of the Falcon belonging to Henry IV. King of France, which flew in one day from Fontainbleau to Malta, a distance of 1350 miles, is well known, and many similar instances are on record. The flight of a Hawk, when its powers are fully exerted, is calculated at one hundred and fifty miles an hour. The Eider-Duck's usual flight has been ascertained to be at the rate of ninety miles an hour. The famous Race-horse Eclipse is said to have gone at the rate of a mile in a minute for a very short distance; but this speed, if it could be continued, would not be half so great as that which many birds put in practice during their long journeys of migration. Of the Nervous System.—There is a remark- able uniformity in the form and structure of the brain (fig. 134, a, b, c, d) and medulla spinalis (e, e) in the different orders of birds. These great divisions of the cerebro- spinal axis are always readily distinguishable from one another by the greater breadth and glo- bular form of the brain, which is proportionally much larger than in the other oviparous verte- brata. The high degree of development which the spinal cord and cerebellum present, as compared with the cold- blooded Reptilia, has an evident relation to the extraordinary loco- motive powers with which the feathered class is en- dowed . In a Pigeon weighing eight ounces with, and seven ounces without its feathers, or three thou- sand three hundred and sixty grains, the cerebro- spinal axis weighs forty- eight grains, the weight of the spinal cord be- ing eleven, and that of the brain thirty-seven grains. Of the Brain. — The brain of the bird differs from that of the reptile in the superior size of the cerebrum, and the more complex structure of the cerebellum; it differs from the brain of a mammal in the smaller size of the cerebellum, resulting from the want of the lateral lobes, and in the absence or rudi- mentary condition of the fornix; and it differs from the brain of every other vertebrate class in the lateral and inferior position of the optic lobes or bigeminal bodies.* It cannot be at once distinguished, as Cu- vier asserts, by being composed of six out-2 ward and visible masses, since the two hemi- spheres, (a, a,) the two optic lobes, (b, b,) the cerebellum, (c,) and medulla oblongata, (d,) s We have lately as- certained that the corpus callosum is wanting in some of the marsupial animals; its presence is therefore no longer characteristic of the class mammalia.