AMPHIBIA. 95 is admirably adapted to the purpose of swim- ming, which is performed either by a succes- sion of curves, as in the amphiuma and the siren, or by the alternate flexure of the tail, as in the tritons and the menobranchus. Having given this general sketch of the os- teology of the amphibia in the adult state, it will be interesting to examine the structure of the skeleton in the tadpole. It has already been observed that in this early condition of its existence the animal resembles fishes in all the most remarkable characters of its organi- zation. We find accordingly that the limbs, which are at first scarcely perceptible by the most minute examination, become gradually developed, passing through a rudimentary form beneath the integuments, from which they do not emerge until they have acquired considerable size and a very defined figure. The hinder legs are first seen, and are early employed as a feeble assistance to the more effective tail, as instruments of progression. The tail is developed, however, to a great degree, occupying the same relative size and situation as it is found to do in fishes. The coccygeal vertebra are numerous, forming a long column, not ossified, but retaining its cartilaginous structure, at least in those forms in which it is deciduous; but in the salamanders, the tritons, the proteus, and all others of the urodela, it becomes ossified instead of being absorbed. In the frog and other anoura, as the permanent organs of progression acquire their full development, the tail is slowly re- moved by interstitial absorption, not suddenly falling off as some have supposed, but be- coming gradually smaller and smaller until it .wholly disappears. The cranium under- goes no other important change than that of the gradual ossification and expansion of its different elements, the centres of ossification being at first wholly disunited as in fishes, and afterwards assuming the more consolidated structure and closer approximation to each other, by which they approach the reptilia. II. Muscular system.—The similarity which has been already shewn to exist in the osseous system of fishes and of the tadpole and peren- nibranchiate amphibia, would naturally lead to the conclusion that a corresponding affinity would be found in the muscular apparatus. The muscles which are employed for progres- sion in those early forms of vertebrated beings, are found to consist of oblique layers, abutting upon a median line, and extending along the whole length of the tail on each side. A similar general direction obtains in the muscles both of the trunk and tail in the long-bodied forms of the permanently tailed amphibia. The direction of their action therefore is horizontal, and their progression is effected by the alternate action of the muscles on each side. These oblique caudal muscles in the tadpole of the tailless tribe, become absorbed with the vertebrae to which they are attached, as the animal gradually assumes its permanent form; but its aquatic habits are still provided for by the extraordinary magnitude of the flexors and extensors of the thigh, leg, and foot, which are in perfect ac- cordance with the great length of the bones of this extremity, which has been described. The muscles which form this important apparatus of motion are exactly analogous to those which are so peculiarly developed in the human leg. Thus the large glutei extend the femur, the rectus and triceps extend the leg, and by their united and sudden action forcibly throw the whole limb into a straight position, whilst the gastrocnemii, which are here as in the human subject of sufficient size to form a considerable calf of the leg, enable the foot with the wide expanse of its toes, connected as they are by a tense web, to strike with great force and effect the resisting medium in which they live, assisted by the flexors of the toes, which are called into action at the same instant. The same beau- tiful mechanism is no less adapted for the pe- culiar nature of their progression on land; by it they are enabled to take those long and vigo- rous leaps which particularly characterize some of the genera of the acaudate family of this class, it is obvious that the same sets of muscles must be developed for the performance of the energetic and sudden movements above- mentioned as are required to sustain the upright form of the human subject in its erect position, those, namely, which extend at once the thigh upon the pelvis, the leg upon the thigh, and the heel upon the leg; and hence arises the remarkable similarity in the conformation of the leg in these otherwise remote forms, and hence too the act of swimming in man must be a tolerably accurate imitation of the same effort as exhibited by the frog. III. Organs of digestion.—The foregoing consideration of the various structures of the organs appertaining to locomotion would pre- pare us for corresponding differences in those belonging to this important office. These variations, however, are not found exactly to follow those which have been described in the former class of organs. The tadpole condition of the higher amphibia does not correspond in the nature of its food, nor consequently in the structure of the alimentary canal, with the class of fishes, nor indeed with that per- manent tadpole, as it may be called, the larviform axoloth. The teeth, as has been already stated, vary in the different genera not so much in their size and form as in their situation. Thus the whole of the amphibia have teeth in the palate; the sala- manders have them also' in both the upper and lower jaws, the frogs in the upper only, and the toads in neither. In the two latter genera the palatine teeth are placed in a trans- verse line, interrupted in the middle. In the salamanders they form two parallel lines, con- taining not less than thirty on each. In the menopoma they occupy the anterior palatine margin of the vomer, forming a line on each side parallel with the maxillary and inter- maxillary teeth. In the axoloth they are arranged in the quincuncial order, and are nu- merous. But the most remarkable form and arrangement of the palatine teeth is found in the siren, in which they have the quincuncial arrangement; they are placed on two small