CARTILAGE. 498 sac, and, in some instances, distinctly outside it. Laennec often found them between the tunica vaginalis testis and the tunica albuginea, and on one occasion in the lining membrane of the lateral ventricles of the brain. Andral saw three of these bodies in the serous mem- brane of the brain; one of them floated loose and unattached in the sac of the arachnoid; the other two were attached to the choroid plexus by a delicate cellulo-vascular prolonga- tion. He also often found them in the peri- toneum, sometimes perfectly isolated, at other times appended to the serous membrane.* 2. Accidental cartilages of incrustation, occurring in plates, are very irregular in size and shape. They are most frequently found in fibro-seious membranes, as the dura mater, the pericardium, and the immediate coverings of the testis and spleen. Upon this last viscus they are seen more frequently than in any other situation whatsoever. Bichat supposed they were altered portions of the fibrous membrane, having so generally met with them where the latter existed. The subserous cellular tissue is the proper seat of them. We often find them between the middle and internal coats of ar- teries, in what may likewise be called a sub- serous cellular tissue. (See Artery.) It is exceedingly rare to meet with them under mucous membranes. Andral saw one solitary instance of a true cartilaginous mass developed in the submucous cellular tissue of the stomach. The subcutaneous cellular sub- stance is likewise nearly exempt from them; but the same experienced pathologist relates, that one of the lower extremities of a woman who died in La Charite in the year 1820, was affected with elephantiasis; underneath the skin, and occupying the place of the muscles, which were reduced to a few pale fibres, was found an enormous mass of condensed hard cellular tissue, possessing, in many places, all the physical characters of cartilage. In all these instances there is every reason to believe, from the closest examination, that the newly formed substance is developed at the expense of the cellular tissue alone, and that neither the fibrous nor the serous membranes are al- tered, nor indeed any adjoining texture. These last seem to be replaced by the accidental for- mation, but they are only absorbed to make room for it, and not transformed into the new substance. An exception must, perhaps, be made in favour of mucous membrane, which appears capable of undergoing this change. Laennec relates the case of a child, in the membranous portion of whose urethra he found a large calculus. The mucous mem- brane of the part presented several patches, of the size and thickness of a man's nail, which appeared to him semi-cartilaginous, and were incorporated with, and formed part of, the mucous membrane. In like manner Beclard found the mucous membrane of the vagina, in a case of prolapsus uteri, studded over with cartilaginous spots ; and he observed a similar * Andral's Pathological Anatomy, translated by Townsend and West. appearance on the prepuce of an old man, who had had phymosis from the time of birth. What is the cause of these formations ? Most probably they have their commencement in some obscure inflammatory action. It is true we often find them where there is no other appreciable lesion whatsoever, nor any trace of inflammation in the neighbourhood ; but, on the other hand, they seem to be but a step re- moved, in structure, from coagulable lymph, and are sometimes imbedded in it; and the irritation and consequent inflammation pro- duced by foreign bodies must be allowed to have occasioned them in the instances just related from Bichat and Beclard. 3. The irregular or amorphous masses which we sometimes see in the thyroid gland, ovaries, uterus, testes, brain, liver, lungs, spleen, kidneys, and heart, are supposed to differ from the preceding classes, not only in form, but in connexions and origin. They appear to be united by continuity of substance with the tissues in which they are developed, and, in fact, to be altered portions of them. But it is by no means proved that cellular tissue may not, even in these cases, be the nidus of such concretions, and that the organs have not rather been absorbed to make room for them, than transformed into them. In false articulations, old cicatrices of the liver, lungs, &c, we find a substance resembling car- tilage ; but its description belongs to " Fibro- cartilage," to which we refer. Chemical composition.—On this subject there is some difference among writers; Dr. Davy* found diarthrodial cartilage to consist of Albumen 44-5 Water 55 0 Phosphate of lime 00 5 100-0 Berzelius professes his ignorance of its com- position. Neither diarthrodial nor non-articular cartilage yielded gelatine, and he doubts " whe- ther the mass which constitutes them be of a peculiar nature, or similar to what we find in the fibrous coat of arteries." t By boiling costal and si/narthrodiul cartilages, gelatine is developed. lie looks on them to be imperfectly developed bone, and to have the composition of its animal part, with the addition of 3-402 per cent of earth in the false ribs of a man of twenty. In 100 parts of this earth he gives the fol- lowing analysis from Frommherz and Gugert: Carbonate of soda .... 35 068 Sulphate of soda 24-241 Muriate of soda 8-231 Phosphate of soda .... 0 925 Sulphate of potass .... 1-200 Carbonate of lime .... 18-372 Phosphate of lime .... 4-056 Phosphate of magnesia . 6-908 Oxyde of iron, and loss. 0-999 100-000 * Monro's Elements of Anatomy, vol i. t Traite de Chimie, torn. vii. Par. 1833.