AGE. 70 to open, that the nasal bones lengthen, that the cells of the malar and upper maxillary bones are enlarged, that in consequence of this ex- pansion of their cavities the outer lamina pro- jects, and that the lower jaw is elongated. The stationary condition of the tabula vitrea is conformable to the arrest in the increment of the brain; the extension of the outer table to the increasing power and action of the muscles attached to it; the development of the sinuses and cells to that of the voice and certain of the senses; and the projection of the jaws to the increased number of the teeth. But although these changes commence as early as the seventh year, they are not complete till the twenty-first, or even later. At this time the countenance becomes settled, not merely by the full deve- lopment of the muscles, which express the predominant emotions of the individual, but also by the complete adjustment of the bony arrangements just enumerated. Those portions of the osseous system which are employed in protecting the organs enclosed by them from external compression or injury, have attained a degree of growth far surpass- ing that of the bones devoted to locomotion and to the mechanism of sensation. The ribs, for instance, defending the lungs and the heart, and playing so important a part in respiration, are farther advanced in the ossific process than the bones of the extremities. But the most striking fact of this kind is presented in the spinal column. The annular portions of the vertebra which form the canal of the medulla spinalis, are found strongly ossified at birth, but the bodies of these bones, which are to be used hereafter in supporting the weight of the head and trunk, are very slightly expanded, and all but devoid of earthy particles, while the processes to which the muscles employed in the flexion and extension of the column after- wards contract attachments, are either only shaped in cartilage, or may be said to have no existence. Passing from the bones to the muscles, we observe the latter no less incomplete in infancy as it regards their physical characters; they are pale, flabby, and easily torn ; they contain less fibrine than in after years; their contractility is weak though easily excited; and the fasciculi and fibres are but loosely connected from the want of the fascia; and aponeuroses which brace them in later periods. As life advances, the fibres become redder, more distinct, and stronger. A readiness to contract is manifested very early, but it is not till maturity that these organs are able to maintain contraction for any length of time. They suffice well for the quick and buoyant motions of the lively child, but fail in those violent and prolonged exertions required by the labours of manhood. The form of the muscles changes materially in the progress of years ; thus, they swell out in the middle, and occasion a great difference in the proportions of the limbs. Those portions of the locomotive apparatus attached to the muscles and articulations, viz. the tendons and liga- ments, undergo corresponding changes. In infancy they are soft and gelatinous; gradually they become firmer, their gelatine acquires a more glutinous character, and the membrane which envelopes them ismore condensed. Every one knows the different products obtained by boiling the tendinous parts of young and adult animals; in the one they have the qualities of jelly, in the other of glue. The readiness with which the joints of a child are strained or dis- located is likewise well known. The imma- ture condition of the infant is strongly marked in the ankles, which are turned inwards, and would never suggest the use to which the feet are to be applied, but for our familiarity with the change that afterwards occurs. The car- tilages and fibro-cartilages are subjected to a development corresponding to that of the fibrous tissue. Into the composition of the vocal appa- ratus we know that muscular, fibrous, and cartilaginous tissues enter; and, as these are altered by age, the mechanism which they constitute might a priori be expected to suffer similar modifications. The larynx of the infant is small and almost circular; consequently the lips of the glottis and the superior ligaments are very short. This configuration, viewed in connection with the immaturity of the muscular tissue, accounts for the shrill wailing cry, which is the only vocal sound produced at this early period of human existence, and the only one required, since the quick instinct of maternal affection can interpret these simple notes into an eloquent language. No very appreciable alteration takes place in these parts at the time when speech is acquired, for this attainment has more con- nection with the development and command of the muscles of the pharynx and mouth, as well as with the organ of intelligence, which enables the human being to discriminate sounds and to imitate them. Fortunately the oral and pha- ryngeal muscles are some of the foremost in development, being required in suction and deglutition. A progressive change goes on in the larynx, though it is not very evident till the period of puberty in the male, when the thyroid cartilage is elongated, and with it the thyro- arytenoid muscle. At this epoch occurs the moulting of the voice, or an accession of gravity in the tones, occasioned by the elongation of the parts just mentioned. The projection of the pomum Adami takes place at the same time. In the female larynx scarcely any change occurs, and the voice in consequence remains acute. We have already spoken of the facial bones and their cavities, parts which exercise a very decided influence on the sonorousness of the voice. We must now hasten to the consideration of the parts employed in that other distin- guishing function of animals, viz., sensation. There are two grand divisions of the organs of sensation, those which we understand,and those which we do not. The former consist of the various kinds of animal mechanism whereby the external causes of sensation are modified, the latter of the nervous substance intermed iate to the external excitant, and that state of consciousness which we denominate sensation. We know