586 CETACEA. " The crystalline humour (d) resembles that of the quadruped ; but whether it is very convex or flattened, I cannot determine; those I have examined having been kept too long to pre- serve their exact shape and size. The vitreous humour adheres to the retina at the entrance of the optic nerve. The optic nerve (J') is very long in some species, owing to the vast width of the head."* The crystalline lens is of a spherical form, but slightly flattened anteriorly : it is inclosed in a strong and dense capsule, and is placed at a very small distance from the cornea, so that it diminishes the space for the aqueous humour, while it increases that for the vitreous; this exists in a greater degree than is shown in the subjoined figure, as Soemmering, from whose work ' De oculorum sectione horizon- tali' the figure is taken, himself allows. From the peculiar colour and eccentric position of the nucleus of the lens in the Whale's eye, in which it is of a dark colour, and placed in the posterior half of the lens, we are led to suspect that the section of the lens in Soemmering's plate is imaginary.] Ear.—The ear is without any external con- cha ; no doubt a sphincter has the office of closing the entrance of the auditory canal, to preserve the tympanum, which some call fi- brous, and others cartilaginous, from the contact of the water. The Eustachian tube exists according to some anatomists, others deny it. The senses of sight and hearing, not- withstanding their apparent imperfection, appear to be endued with great delicacy. Whale- catchers assert that Whales, Cachalots, &c. see and hear at a great distance, and that, in order to approach them, many precautions are neces- sary ; otherwise these animals would avoid them by a sudden retreat, and it would become necessary to recommence the long and labo- rious chase. We ought, nevertheless, to add that Scoresby, who speaks of the delicacy of hearing of the Whales, states that they remain insensible to the noise of the report of a cannon. [For the most accurate and philosophical description of the Organ of Hearing in the present tribe we again recur to Hunter's ad- mirable paper on the organization of the Cetacea. He observes, that " the ear is con- structed much upon the same principle as in the quadruped; but as it differs in several respects, which it is necessary to particularize, to convey a perfect idea of it the whole should be described. As this would exceed the limits of this paper, I shall content myself with a general description, taking notice of those ma- terial points in which it differs from that of the quadruped. " This organ consists of the same parts as in the quadruped ; an external opening, with a membrana tympani, and Eustachian tube, a tympanum with its processes, and the small bones. " There is no external projection forming a funnel, but merely an external opening. We * Philos. Trans. 1787, p. 440. can easily assign a reason why there should be no projecting ear, as it would interfere with progressive motion; but the reason why it is not formed as in birds, is not so evident; whe- ther the percussions of water could be collected into one point as air, I cannot say. The tym- panum is constructed with irregularities, so much like those of an external ear, that I could suppose it to have a similar effect. " The external opening begins byasmall hole, (a, Jig. 275), scarcely perceptible, situated on Fig. 275. Organ of Hearing, Porpesse. the side of the head a little behind the eye. It is much longer than in other animals, in con- sequence of the size of the head being so much increased beyond the cavity that contains the brain. It passes in a serpentine course (b), at firsthorizontally,thendownwards,and afterwards horizontally again, to the membrana tympani, where it terminates. In its whole length it is composed of different cartilages, which are irre- gular and united together by cellular mem- brane, so as to admit of motion, and probably of lengthening or shortening, as the animal is more or less fat. " The bony part of the organ (r, c) is not so much inclosed in the bones of the skull as in the quadruped, consisting commonly of a distinct bone or bones, closely attached to the skull, but in general readily to be separated from it; yet in some it sends off, from the posterior part, processes which unite with the skull. It varies in its shape, and is composed of the im-