638 CIRCULATION. in Abhandl. der kijnigl. Akad. der Wissensch. zu Berlin fur 1816-1817. *Gruithuisen, in Salzb. Med. Chir. Zeitung, 1818, Bd iv. ; Nov. Act. Acad. Cass. Leop. vol. x. G. R. Treviranus, Vermischte Schriften, 4to. Bd iii. Bremen, 1820. Hugi, in Isis for 1823. *Carus, Von den aussern Lebens- bedingungen der weiss-und kaltbluetigen Thiere, 4to. Leipz. 1824; Nov. Act. Ac. Cces. Leop. vols. xiii. and xvi. Fleming, in Mem. of Wer- nerian Society, vol. iv. *Huschke, in Isis for 1826. *\R. Grant, in Edin. Phil. Journal, Edin. New Phil. Journ., Edin. Journal of Science, and Trans, of Zoological Society. Sir E. Home, Phil. Trans. 1827. *Raspail, Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris, 4to. vol. iv. 1827; Chimie Or- ganique, 8vo. Paris, 1833. Meyen, Isis for 1828. E. H. Weber, in Meckel's Archiv. 1828. Fr. Esch- scholz, System der Acalephen, 4to. Berlin, 1829. Dutrochet, in Annales des Sc. Nat. t. xv. 1828. *W. Sharpey, in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxxiv. July, 1830. Guillot, in Magendie Journal de Physiologie, xi. 1831. *Eltrenberg, Ueber Infnsorien, in Abhandl. der k. Acad, der Wissensch. zu Berlin fur 1830 and 1831, Miiller's Archiv. i. 1834. R. Wagner, Isis for 1832. Jo. Miiller, Handbuch der Physiologie, Bd i. 8vo. 1833. H. Rathke, in Dorpater Jahrbucher, &c. Bd i. 1833. *Jos.J. Lister, in Phil. Trans. 1834. *J. E. Purkinje 8f G. Valentin, in Miiller's Archiv. Bd i. translated in Dublin Journ. of Med. and Chem. Science for May, 1835, and in Edin. New Phil. Journ. vol. xix. July, 1835; also, by the same authors, Commentatio Physiologica de Phe- nomeno Motus vibratorii continui, &c. 4to. Wratislav. 1835, (the only systematic treatise on the subject.) ( W. Sharpey.) CIRCULATION (in Physiology), (Circu- latio, Circulus, Cireuitus Sanguinis ; Fr. Cir- culation du Sang; Germ. Blutlauf; Ital. Cir- colazione del Sangue;) designates in its more extensive signification the course through or- ganised beings of their nutritious fluid; as limited to man and the higher orders of ani- mals, the course of the blood from the heart to the most minute vessels, and from these back to the heart. By modern writers on physiology the circu- lation of the blood is generally included under the nutritive functions, because one of the most important purposes served by the motion of this fluid through the various textures and organs of the body is the supply of those new ingredients which are necessary to carry on the process of growth and the changes of nu- trition. A very slight acquaintance with ani- mal physiology teaches us, however, that the function of circulation has another very im- portant and immediate use, viz. the support of that condition of the textures and organs which is necessary to enable them to exercise their vital properties. It was on account of the apparent necessity of a constant supply of blood for the support of the animal powers, that Galen placed circulation, along with re- spiration, among the vital functions. In the following article it is intended to de- scribe more particularly the course of the blood in the human body and the powers by which it is moved, and also to state the general facts ascertained regarding the function of cir- culation in other animals. For the sake of clearness it will be neces- sary to divide the subject into several de partments. The first of these will compre- hend a description of the course of the blood in man; the second of its course in animals. In the third will be considered the phenomena presented by the blood during its motion, the properties of the organs in which it circulates, and the powers by which it is propelled ; and in the fourth will be mentioned the more im- portant circumstances connected with the other functions which modify the circulation. The term circulation applied by its cele- brated discoverer, Harvey, to the motion of the blood, is sufficiently expressive of the general fact that this fluid, or the greater part of it at least, in being carried through the body, moves in a circular course, or, that in performing its jour- ney through the body, the blood always re- turns to the same place from which it set out. The term is equally applicable to the func- tion by which a supply of nutritious fluids is kept up in the lowest animals, in which a pro- gressive motion of a fluid of the nature of blood takes place, as well as in the highest; for in nearly the whole of them there is a central part of the circulatory organs, which forms the rallying point, as it were, of the rest, from which the blood begins its course and to which it is brought back, in a longer or shorter period of time, after having passed through the dif- ferent organized parts. I. Course of the blood in man. The organs of circulation consist of the heart, arteries, veins,and capillary vessels. We refer the reader to the articles on these different organs for all details relative to their anatomical structure. In man and warm-blooded animals there are two passages through the interior of the heart, through each of which a stream of blood is propelled at the same time, so that the heart is alternately receiving and giving out a certain quantity of blood upon each side. The two auricles serve as receiving cavities for the blood which is constantly flowing into the heart from the veins or those vessels which have the office of returning blood to the centre of the circulation. By the contraction of the muscular parietes of the auricles, the blood is propelled from these cavities into the ventricles, which, in their turn, contract with force and thus propel their contents into the arteries, or those vessels which serve to transmit blood outwards from the centre of the circulatory organs. The auricles and ventricles of the opposite sides acting simultaneously, and the size of these cavities on the right and left sides of the heart being nearly equal, the quantity of blood which is made to pass through each of them at one and the same time must also be nearly equal. The cavities on the left side of the heart are adapted to propel the blood into those arteries which are subservient to the nutrition of the body, while those on the right side of the heart send the blood to the lungs for the purposes of respiration. The construction of the heart and the connection of its parts with the arte- ries and veins are such that the whole of that