AMPHIBIA. 104 water, described by Dr. Milne Edwards, formed by duplicatures of tbe lining mem- brane of the branchial cavity. The eel too, as is well known, will live for a long time out of water, from its branchial cavity being capable of retaining a sufficient quantity of water to bathe the branchiae for a considerable time, thus preserving those organs in a respirable state. XIII. Of transpiration and of secretion.— The particular condition of the skin already described, naked and consisting of a moist mucous surface, would render it probable that cutaneous transpiration should be exceedingly extensive and rapid in these animals; this is in fact the case to such an extent, that when exposed to too great a degree of heat, the eva- poration of transpired fluid is sufficient to pro- duce a very rapid decrease in the weight of the animal; which, if exposed for a sufficiently long period to its influence, becomes almost dried up and dies. One object, and that not an unimportant one, of the sensible transpiration of fluid in these animals, the frogs especially, is un- doubtedly to preserve the skih in a condition fit for the performance of that cutaneous respi- ration which has been described.- But its still more obvious purpose is to afford a quantity of fluid for evaporation from the surface, in order to reduce and equalize the temperature of the body when exposed to a degree of heat, sufficient to incommode or injure it. This will appear very reasonable when we reflect that these ani- mals will die in a few minutes, if placed in water of 107 degrees of Fahr., though respiring freely with the head above the water, whilst, on the contrary, they will support for hours the action of damp air of the same temperature. The water which is thus transpired is not the result of the absorption of fluids taken in by the mouth, for these animals do not appear to drink. It is received by absorption on the surface of the skin, to which part it is after- wards restored when necessary. But in order to be re.idy whenever circumstances call for its use, the fluid thus absorbed is conveyed into a membranous cavity, formed generally of two lobes, opening into the cloaca, where it is re- tained, to be again absorbed, and again con- veyed to the surface for the purposes just men- tioned. When a frog is suddenly alarmed, or seized, it ejects from its cloaca a quantity of pure, limpid water, for the purpose of lighten- ing itself, that it may leap with greater facility. This fluid is expelled from the sac in question, and is often mistaken for urine, and the sac for a urinary bladder. Hence, if a frog be kept in a moist situation, without having access to water in any form but in vapour, the skin is always kept moist, and the water-bag always filled. Such is the function attributed in the first place by Townson to the sac in question, and after him by Dumeril, Altena, and others ; but Cuvier, Dr. Grant, and many other anato- mists consider that it is the true urinary blad- der. That Townson's opinion is correct ap- pears, says Altena, " from the circumstance that the ureters do not terminate in the bladder, but in the rectum itself." Dr. Grant states, that on the contrary, "the bladder receives the ureters." The kidneys are of a lengthened form, in the aquatic genera, but are shorter in the frogs and other anoura. XIV. On the restoration of lost parts.— The fact that parts lost by accident, or re- moved for the purpose of experiment, become reproduced in many of the lower animals, has been known for ages. The actual multipli- cation of the species in many, perhaps all the polygastric animalcula, by spontaneous sepa- ration,—that of the hydra by artificial division, —the restoration of lost arms in the different species of asterias, of the anterior or posterior extremity of the body in the earthworm, of the claws of the lobster, and other Crustacea, and of portions of the head in the pulmo- niferous mollusca, are, all of them, phenomena which have attracted the attention, and occu- pied the experiments of physiologists, at va- rious periods. The experiments of Plateretti, Spallanzani, Murray, Bonnet, and others, have shewn that it is not in the invertebrate forms alone that we are to look for this phenomenon, but that the amphibia, and even some reptilia, will reproduce either the limbs or the tail, when removed. This restoration of the tail in the saurian reptiles is indeed a common occurrence, and it often happens that the new tail is double through the whole of the restored length. Of all the observers of this curious phe- nomenon in the amphibia, Bonnet* stands pre- eminent for the laborious and patient zeal with which all his experiments were conducted, no less than for the conscientious strictness with which they are recorded. In many experi- ments he cut off the anterior or posterior limbs of the common water salamander or triton, which he found to be invariably restored, and even the toes were reproduced, and acquired some degree of motion. The tails were also amputated at various distances from the base, and were always renewed. The same limb was in some cases removed and restored four times consecutively. In all cases it was ob- served that warmth encouraged and that cold retarded the regeneration of the part. The restored portions were not generally well- formed, but in some instances varied by excess, in others by defect. One of the most extra- ordinary results was that which followed the extirpation of an eye from one of these ani- mals. In the course of a year this organ was completely restored, and its organization was found to be perfect. Dumeril records a remarkable experiment of this nature, in his latest work on the rep- tilia. The subject was the triton mar- moratus. Three-fourths of the head were cut off, and the animal was deposited at the bot- tom of a large vessel having half an inch depth of water, which was constantly renewed. It continued to live, and to move slowly. The * (Euvres, in 4to. Neufchatel, 1769.