613 CILIA. of the water was not produced by contraction and dilatation of the tissue of the sponge, which he showed to be destitute of irritability. Dutrochet had made observations on the same subject, which were published subsequently* to those of Dr. Grant, and not anteriorly as he supposes; he perceived the constant direction of the current, and ascribed the phenomenon to endosmosis and exosmosis. 3. Ciliary motion of the ova of Polypi and Sponges.—The ova or gemmules of several of these zoophytes execute independent move- ments, and produce currents in the surrounding water. This singular fact was, it appears, first noticed by Mr. Ellis in 1755,f in ex- amining a species of Sertularia, the (Jampanu- laria dichotoma; but he described the ova or embryos which he had seen in motion, as young polypi, already somewhat advanced in their formation. Cavolini,J in 1784 and 1785, observed the same phenomenon in the ova of the Gorgonia and Madrepore, and investigated it more fully. He saw the egg-shaped gem- mules or ova, on quitting the parent, rise to the surface, and swim with their large end for- wards, in a horizontal direction, till they fixed themselves on some spot where they were deve- loped. Dr. Grant,§ in 1825, discovered similar motions in the ova of the sponge, and detected the moving cilia. The cilia covered the whole surface of the ovum, except the pos- terior tapering extremity, and in its motions the large end of the ovum was always directed forwards. When an ovum fixed itself, its cilia still continued to play, by which a current along its surface was kept up for some time. Dr. Grant also investigated the movements of the ova of the Campanularia, previously seen by Ellis, and of the Plumularia falcata. The ova of both these zoophytes are contained within transparent capsules, two or more being in each capsule, surrounded by a clear fluid. Dr. Grant distinctly perceived cilia vibrating on the surface of the ova, and causing, while within the capsule, an eddying motion of the surrounding fluid, but propelling the ova through the water when extracted from their capsule, as in the sponge. The ciliary motion has also been found in the ova of fresh-water polypi, having been discovered by Meyen|| in those of the Alcyonella stagnorum, which is probably the same with, or at least nearly allied to the Bell-rlower Polype. By means of the remarkable provision here de- scribed, the ova of these fixed zoophytes are dis- seminated, and conveyed to situations suitable to become the abode of the future individuals. The same provision undoubtedly serves also to move the water along their surface for the pur- pose of respiration. It exists, as will be after- * L'agent immediat du mouvement vital devoile, 1826, p. 179, and Annalesdes Sciences Naturelles, 1828, torn. xv. p. 205. t Hist. Nat. des Corallines, p. 116. J Memorie per servire alia storia de' Polypi Marini, Nap. 1785, p. 8, p. 48 of German trans- lation. 6 Edin. New Phil. Journal, vol. i, p. 150. II Isis, 1828, p. 1225, sqq. Isis, 1830, p. 186. wards shown, in the ova of many other ani- mals. 4. Acalepha.—Many species of Medusae are furnished with cilia, or at least with moving organs bearing a close resemblance to the cilia of other animals, though in the Medusa they present several peculiarities. The cilia are found in all the Medusae belonging to the order Ciliograda of Blainville, or Ctenop/iora of Eschscholz, of which the genus Beroe is a good example. Eschscholz* describes them as small pectinated or comb-like organs, ranged in longitudinal rows or stripes on the external surface of the body, with their flat surfaces in apposition. Each comb-like organ consists of many small, flattened, pointed filaments, united together by a common base, the points being directed towards the posterior extremity of the body. They are moved like fins, being slowly raised and suddenly struck back, by which means the body is carried through the water. In the Beroe and others of similar form, the cilia point towards the closed extremity of the body, so that the opposite or open end is carried forward. The animal seems to have the power of moving more or fewer of these organs as it may incline, by which means other motions besides direct progression are per- formed. The cilia, when separated from the body with a piece of skin, continue to move briskly for some time. A longitudinal vessel runs under each row of cilia, com- municating with the rest of the vascular system, and containing a fluid, in which yel- lowish particles are suspended. Eschscholz regards these vessels as arteries, and considers the cilia as respiratory as well as locomotive organs. Dr. Grant, in describing the cilia of the Beroe pileus,f represents the parallel fila- ments of which the comb-like organs consist, as united together by a membrane as far as their points, like the rays in the fin of a fish. Schweigger compares the vessels which run underneath the rows of cilia, to the canals com- municating with the tubular feet of the Sea- urchin and Asterias; and Dr. Grant seems also inclined to ascribe the motion of the cilia, whose filaments he conceives to be tubular, to their being alternately filled and emptied of fluid derived from the longitudinal vessel, like the tubular feet of the Echinodermata. This view of their mode of action, however, is scarcely reconcilable with the observed phe- nomena, as will be afterwards shown in con- sidering the structure of the cilia in general. Audouin believed that in the Idya, a genus nearly allied to the Beroe, the fluid of the longitudinal vessel, which he supposes to be water, is sent into the cilia; he therefore regarded them as respiratory organs. If the vessel under the cilia in this case, as in the Beroe, communicate with the rest of the vas- cular system, and its contained fluid be re- garded as blood, then the cilia of the Idya, which, according to Audouin, are permeated by the fluid, would bear a certain analogy to the gills of fishes. * System der Acalephen, p. 3. t Zoological Trans, vol. i. p. 9.