520 CEPHALOPODA. Fam. 1. NAUTILIDJE, Nautilites. Animal, organized as described in the character of the order. Shell external; spiral, or straight; septa smooth, and simple; the last chamber the largest, and containing the animal: siphon central, or marginal and in- ternal. Ex. Genera Nautilus, Lamarck; Cli/- menes, Munster; Campulites, Des- hayes; Lituites, Breyn; Orthoceratites, Breyn. Fam. 2. AMMONITIDJE, Ammonites, Snake-stones. Animal unknown, presumed to resemble the Nautilus. Shell external; spiral or straight; septa sinuous, and with lobated margins; the last chamber the largest and lodg- ing the animal: siphon central, or mar- ginal and external. Ex. Genera Baculites, Lamarck; Ha- mites, Parkinson; Scaphites, Parkin- son ; Ammonites, Bruguiere; Turru- lites, Lamarck. The Dibranchiate Order of Cephalopods also had its representatives in the seas of the ancient world, as the shells called Belemnites, or thunder-stones, the fossil shells of the Sepias discovered by Cuvier, and the horny rings of the acetabula found by Buckland in the fossil faeces of Ichthyosauri, sufficiently testify; but our knowledge of this order is chiefly founded on observation of existing species. These are extremely numerous; they frequent the seas of every clime, from the ice-bound shores of Boothia Felix to the open main, and floating Sargasso or gulf-weed of the Equator; they seem, however, to be most abundant in temperate lati- tudes. Many species frequent the coasts, creep- ing among the rocks and stones at the bottom ; others are pelagic, swimming well, and are found in the ocean at a great distance from land. The Dibranchiala present great variety of size, and although the bulk of the gigantic species has been undoubtedly exaggerated, yet the organization of this order is favourable to the attainment of dimensions beyond those presented by the individuals of any other group of Invertebrate animals. The remains of the large Uncinated Calamary caught by Banks and Solander in the Southern Ocean, parts of which are still preserved in the Hunterian Museum, and the fragment of the Cephalopod weighing one hundred pounds, taken by the French naturalists in the Atlantic Ocean under the line, and preserved in the Museum of the Garden of Plants at Paris, afford indubitable testimony of the formidable size to which some individuals of this order attain. The species included in the higher divi- sion of Cephalopods very naturally resolve themselves into those which possess the eight ordinary arms, forming the tribe Octopoda; and into those which have the additional pair of elongated tentacles, forming the tribe De- capoda. The Decapods are further characterized by having a pair of fins attached to the mantle; by having the funnel either adherent at the antero-lateral parts of its base, and without an internal valve, or articulated at the same part by two ball-and-socket joints to the mantle, and provided with a valve internally at its apex ; by having fleshy appendages to the branchial hearts, and glandular appendages to the biliary ducts; by having generally a single oviduct, with detached superadded glands ; and, lastly, by the shell or its rudiment being single, mesial, and dorsal. The Decapodous tribe is that which is most nearly allied to the Tetrabranchiate Order. This affinity is not only indicated by the additional number of external arms, and the frequent de- velopment of an internal circular series of eight short labial tentacles, but by several internal characters; as the single oviduct and detached glands for secreting the nidamentum ; the valve of the funnel; the laminated rudiment of a chambered shell in the Cuttle-fish, and the fully developed chambered and siphoniferous shell of the Belemnites and Spirula. The observa- tions of Peron and Lamarck having proved that the animal of the Spirula possesses eight short arms and two long tentacles, all provided with acetabula, like the Sepia, we regard it as the type of the first family of the Decapo- dous Tribe, or that which immediately succeeds the Tetrabranchiuta. Tribe DECAPODA. Fam. 1. SPIRULIDM. Animal, corresponding in external form to the Decapodous type; internal or- ganization unknown, presumed to be Dibranchiate. Shell partly internal; cylindrical, multilo- cular, discoid; the whorls separated ; septa transverse, concave next the out- let, and with regular intervals. Siphon marginal and internal, uninter- rupted. Genus Spirula, Lam. The character of the family is also that of the single genus of which it is at present composed. Ex. Spirula Australis, Lam. Fam. 2. BELEMNITIDJE, Belemnites, Thunder-stones. Animal unknown.* Shell internal, composed of an external calcareous sheath formed by a succes- sion of hollow cones, the exterior being the largest; of an internal horny sheath, also of a conical form, containing at its apex a chambered shell, the septa of * As it is certain that the animals of this family of extinct Cephalopods possessed the ink-bag, they must consequently have been enveloped by a mus- cular mantle ; and we may, therefore, infer that they resembled the Dibranchiates in their locomo- tive and respiratory organs, and consequently in the general plan of their organization. In the structure and position of their siphoniferous came- rated shell they are intermediate to Spirula and Sepia, and as the animal of Spirula is proved to be a Decapod, the probability is very strong that the animal of the Belemnite was of the same type.