CONCHIFERA. 703 be found running completely along it, at the bottom of which a brownish and semi-corneous filament is often to be perceived ; this is neither more nor less than a filament of the byssus prepared to be detached by the animal, in order to which the animal stretches forth its foot until it encounters the object upon which the other fibres of the byssus are fixed ; to this it applies the point of the foot, which then se- cretes a small quantity of glutinous matter, continuous with the silky filament lying along the bottom of the furrow of which we have spoken. When the pasty matter has acquired sufficient consistency, and is firmly fixed to the stone or other body at the bottom, the animal retracts its foot, and in doing so detaches the new fibre to the base of the pedicle. The mode in which the filaments of the byssus are formed, is consequently entirely different from that in which hair or the horns of the higher animals are evolved, and it is easily under- stood when the intimate structure of the foot of the byssiferous mollusks is known, when we are aware that this organ consists in its centre of a pretty considerable fasciculus of parallel and longitudinal fibres. By a faculty peculiar to the class of animals that now engages our attention, the fibres situated at the bottom of the groove of the foot become horny, and are detached in succession in the form of threads as they become consolidated. Certain genera are celebrated for the abundance and fineness of the byssus ; that of the Pinna;, among others, which was even known to the ancients, may be spun into threads like silk or wool, and may be used to manufacture tissues of an unchangeable colour, and of great strength and durability. With reference to form, the foot presents a variety of interesting modifications. Some- times it is short and truncated, as in the genus Pholas; sometimes more elongated, but still truncated at the summit, as in certain Razor-shells (Solen), (a, fig. 355); in which the edges of the truncation are regu- larly toothed. A few of the acephalous mollusks have the foot cylindrical (a, fig. 356), as the Su- lenes ; when it presents this form, the organ is generally terminated by a kind of glutinous point, or disc, which enables the animal to fix itself at different heights in the deep cylindrical hole it digs for itself in the sand. The foot, which is shaped like a tongue, is named linguiform, as in the Solen strigilutus; it is cluviform when it is thicker at its extremity than at its base: it is found of this shape in certain other Solens. The foot again is vermiform when it is very slender and much elongated, as in the Loripes and Lima. When it is thus formed, it appears to us to be incapable of subserving motion. In a considerable number of species the foot is conical, as in the Cockle, (a, fig. 357); and in this case it is generally folded into two nearly equal portions, so that by its means Fig. 357. the animal can leap pretty actively. It is secu- riform when its free edge is arched like the cutting face of an axe, as in Petunculus, {a, fig. 358). When it presents this form its edge Fig. 358. is generally divided into two lips, which, being- separated, present with some degree of ac- curacy, although much contracted, the sem- blance of the locomotive plane of certain Gas- teropoda. When this structure occurs, the Fig. 359. foot is said to be bifid, as in Nucula, Trigonia. It is said to be flattened when it is thin and laterally depressed, as in Tellina and Donax; to conclude, it is designated as bent when it consists of two portions connected at an angle with one another (6, fig. 359), of which the genera Cardium, Nuculti, and Trigonia present examples. Various other modifications, of less importance than those we have particularized.