CIRCULATION. 639 blood which has served the purposes of nu- trition, and the other uses for which the blood is destined throughout the body, on being re- turned to the heart, is directed by the cavities on the right side of that organ to the lungs, and made to pass through them before returning to the left side of the heart to repeat its course through the nutritive vessels of the body. In all those animals in which there exists a disposition of the heart and bloodvessels such as that described, the circulation is said to be double, because the blood is moved in two circles at once, and the respiration is said to be complete, because the whole of that blood which has passed through the nutritive vessels of the body is subjected to the respiratory action of air in the lungs. The blood returned from the lungs of a bright red colour, or arterial blood, on being expelled from the left ventricle (jig. 312, H) Fig. 312* Circulation in Man. • In all the figures relating to the circulation in different animais the same letters indicate corres- ponding parts as follows : H, the heart or the common ventricle ; h, the common auricle ; A, the aorta or trunk of the systemic arteries ; a, its branches ; a*, the carotids. V, the great systemic veins or vena cava infe- rior; v, its branches; «*, the vena cava superior; c, the capillary vessels; P, the pulmonary artery; p, the pulmonary vein ; B, the branchial artery; b, the branchial vein ; D, the ductus arteriosus ; d, ductus venosus ; f, foramen ovale; U, umbilical arteries ; u, umbilical vein ; by the muscular contraction of that cavity, passes into the aorta or great artery of the system (A), and is distributed hi various pro- portions to all parts of the body by the branches of the aortic trunk (a) and their in- finitely minute ramifications. The smallest arteries lead, by an intermediate set of minute tubes to which the name of capillary vessels is given, into the systemic veins (v), all of which (the veins of the intestinal canal excepted) join- ing gradually together into larger and fewer branches, form at last the great trunks of the superior and inferior venae cava? ( V, v*), which carry back to the centre of the circulation the whole of the blood that had passed from the left ventricle into the aorta. In passing from the arteries to the veins through the capillary vessels, the properties of the arterial blood are changed; its colour is altered from bright scarlet to dark purple, it expends some of its substance in the nou- rishment of the textures, and a considerable quantity of its thinner part transudes through the small vessels, constituting the lymph that is taken up by the absorbent vessels. The venous or dark blood, as it approaches the heart upon its return, has its composition fur- ther changed by its admixture with the chyle or imperfectly formed blood, which is the pro- duct of digestion, and which is poured along with the lymph from the thoracic duct into the great veins of the head and superior ex- tremities. By the changes thus produced in its com- position, &c, the venous blood which returns to the heart is rendered unfit for nutrition, until it has been acted upon by the atmos- pheric air in the lungs, which restores to it its bright red colour and arterial composition and properties. The great systemic veins are therefore con- nected with the right side of the heart (if), and the stream of venous blood brought by them to the right auricle (h!), next issues from the heart by the pulmonary artery (P), into which it is propelled by the contraction of the right ventricle (H.') as it passes through that cavity. The minute branches of the pulmo- nary arteries and veins (P, p), and the capil- lary vessels by which they communicate with one another, are wholly distributed on the membrane lining the air-cells of the lungs. In passing through these vessels then, the venous blood is exposed to the action of the at- mospheric air contained in the pulmonary cells; and, after having acquired arterial properties, is returned to the centre of the circulation by /, arteries of the intestine or alimentary canal; i, the cceliac artery ; L, vena ports; I, hepatic vein ; !*, hepatic artery; K, advehent renal veins ; h, renal veins ; ft*, renal artery. In those instances in which the parts are double, those on the right side are distinguished by the accentuation of the letters indicating them, thus P' right pulmonary artery, P left ditto. We beg to remind the reader that most of these figures are merely plans, and that strict anatomical accuracy is not to be looked for in them.