336 AVES. aorta, even higher than the zone of the gastric glands. It descends obliquely for a short way, and then gives off a branch which soon divides into two or three others that are spread upon the lower part of the oesophagus, and the side of the zone of the gastric glands, uniting with the other arteries of the oesophagus above, and extending downwards upon the posterior side of the ventricle, and anastomosing with the an- terior gastric artery. The trunk of the coeliac now divides into two very large branches, which from their distribution we have chosen to call the posterior and the anterior gastric arteries. "The posterior gastric artery, almost as soon as it is formed, detaches the splenic artery; and very soon after it furnishes from the poste- rior side of the vessel the right hepatic artery. This branch proceeds to the right lobe of the liver, which it enters on the side of the hepatic duct; after having divided into two or three minute arteries on its way to the liver, it sup- plies the hepatic duct with a branch which accompanies the duct to the intestine, and is there lost. The posterior gastric artery then runs down upon the back of the gizzard, and opposite to the origin of the first intestine it sends off an artery, which proceeds directly to one of the coeca(in the Fowl), upon which and the side of the next intestine it is expended, inosculating at the end of the caecum with branches of the mesenteric artery, which are distributed to the adjoining portion of the small intestine. The posterior gastric then furnishes a large vessel which runs upon the gizzard, and divides into two chief branches, which penetrate the sub- stance of the digastric muscle, in which they are lost. " The next branch of the posterior gastric artery is the pancreatic. It runs between the two pancreatic glands, dispensing branches to each and to the duodenum. After this the trunk of the posterior gastric divides into two branches, which furnish twigs to the muscular parietes of the ventricle, and run along the margins of the upper and lower portions of the digastric muscle. Supplying them with nume- rous twigs, and anastomosing with the ramifi- cations of the other gastric arteries. " The anterior gastric artery descends to the angle formed by the bulbus glandulosus and the gizzard, and there sends off a small branch which spreads upon the zone of the gastric glands, and inosculates with the first ramifica- tions of the coeliac, and immediately afterwards it detaches a large artery, which runs round the superior margin of the digastric muscle, which it furnishes with many twigs, and communi- cates freely with the corresponding branch of the posterior gastric artery. " Three small hepatic arteries take their origin from this branch of the anterior gastric, just as it passes over the highest part of the margin of the gizzard ; these vessels enter the fissure in the left lobe of the liver. The ante- rior gastric artery now proceeds along the fore part of the gizzard, sending one or two branches into the muscular substance, and near the ten- don it terminates in two large vessels, one of which is distributed upon the left side of the digastric muscle, and the other passes a little over the tendon, and then divides into two arteries, which produce several branches that disappear in the substance of the gizzard, and between the digastric muscles and the parietes of the ventricle, anastomosing with the vessels of the posterior side. " The superior mesenteric artery (21 ,jig. 170) takes its origin from the fore part of the aorta, a little below the coeliac, and proceeds for some way without detaching any branches; after which it experiences the same kind of division and subdivision that takes place in mammalia; and the numerous arteries which are thus ulti- mately produced are spent upon the small intes- tines. One of the first and largest branches of the superior mesenteric, however, is allotted to supply one of the coeca, and to establish a com- munication with the inferior mesenteric and gastric arteries. This branch, soon after it leaves the trunk of the superior mesenteric, divides into two. One descends upon the rec- tum, where it meets with the inferior mesenteric artery, with which it produces a very remark- able anastomosis, similar to the mesenteric arch in the human subject; this united artery sup- plies the rectum and origin of the caeca. The second portion of this branch of the superior mesenteric runs in the space between the last part of the small intestine and the coecum of one side, sending numerous branches to each, and at the end of the caecum communicates in a palpable manner with another branch of the superior mesenteric artery, which runs upon the adjoining part of the small intestine. "A branch (22, Arteria spermatica) arises from the anterior part of the aorta, just below the lungs; it is designed for the nutrition of the organs of generation, and except in the season for propagation, it is so small as to be discovered with difficulty ; but when the testicles become enlarged, it is considerably increased in size in the male bird, and much more so in the female, when the ovary and oviduct are developed for producing eggs. It nearly equals the superior mesenteric artery during the period of laying, in which state we shall describe it. It is a single artery, like the cceliac and mesenteric, proceeds at a right angle from the aorta, and soon sends off a branch, which goes into the kidney of the left side, to which it gives some twigs, and afterwards emerging from the kidney, it runs in the mem- brane of the oviduct, upon which it is distri- buted. After this branch is detached, the artery projects a little farther forwards into the cavity, and divides into two branches; one of these goes to the ovary, in which it ramifies, and furnishes an artery of some size to each of the cysts containing the ova. The other is dis- tributed in numerous branches to the mem- brane and superior parts of the oviduct, and inosculates with the other arteries of the oviduct. It deserves to be remarked, that this and all the other arteries which are furnished to the oviduct have a tortuous or undulating