251 ARTICULATION. merits of this kind are composed of fibres which are closely interwoven with each other, and they sometimes receive accessions from bundles of ligamentous fibres coining from neighbouring bony prominences (these fibres being generally called accessory ligaments.) Capsular ligaments are not calculated to re- strict the extent or direction of motion be- tween the bones which they surround, and we consequently find them only in that kind of joint which admits of motion in all directions, viz. the enart/irosis or ball-and- socket joint, of which the only examples in the human subject are to be met with in the hip and shoulder. The internal or articular surface of capsular ligaments is to a great extent lined by one lamina of the synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it from the articular portion of the most moveable of the bones which form the joint. Funicular ligaments are found in the form of rounded cords or flattened bands: they exist generally on the exterior of joints, very rarely on the interior, and always externally to the„sac of the synovial membrane. They pass from bone to bone, adherent sometimes to the syno- vial membrane of the articulation, sometimes to the intervening fibro-cartilage. In ginglymoid joints they are always placed on the sides, and are called lateral ligaments ; sometimes they cross or decussate with each other, whence the appellation crucial, and sometimes a ligament of this class assumes a nearly circular course, and forms a greater or smaller portion of the circumference of a circle, the remainder of the round being completed by the bone into which the extremities of the ligament are fixed ; a ring is in this way produced within which the head, or a special process of another bone, is enclosed, as is seen to be the case particularly with the head of the radius in the superior radio-ulnar articulation, and with the processus dentatus in the joint between the axis and atlas: die ligament in such instances is called coronary. When a ligament is concealed in the interior of a joint, although situated exter- nally to the synovial sac, or, to speak more correctly, in the space between the articular surfaces, it is called an internal ligament, e. g. the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint, the mu- cous ligament of the knee, or the transverse ligament of the same articulation. Elastic ligament.—Hitherto we have been examining ligamentous structure, one of whose most prominent characteristics is the want of elasticity ; but we now come to a kind of liga- ment which forms a most valuable constituent in the mechanism of some joints, and is emi- nently distinguished for the great elasticity which it possesses. It differs from ordinary ligament by its yellow colour, (whence the French ap- pellation tissu jaune,) as well as by its elasti- city. We find it in the human subject most developed in the ligamenta subflava of the vertebrae. In joints, as elsewhere, this tissue is employed to restore to the position of quie- scence, parts which have been previously acted upon by muscular contraction. John Hunter fully appreciated the value and utility of this structure in supplying the place of muscle, with less expense of exertion to the economy, and assigned it a place in the arrangement of his museum.* The thyro-hyoid and crico-thyroid ligaments in man are formed of this struc- ture. 5. Synovial membrane.—The articular syno- vial membranes, (by the older anatomists called, and confounded with, the capsular ligaments,) like all others, possess in common with serous membranes the form of a sac shut in all points; they line the whole interior of the joints, and secrete from their internal surface a peculiar fluid, obviously destined for the lubrication of the articular surfaces. These membranes are remarkable for their great tenuity; they are transparent; in a state of inflammation, their vascularity, which is imperceptible during health, becomes very apparent by the general redness which the membrane assumes; and their internal or secreting surface is easily dis- tinguished from the external, by contrasting the smooth and glistening appearance of the former with the roughness which the latter receives from the cellular tissue and ligamentous fibres which adhere to it. The internal surface of the membrane is sometimes thrown into folds with fringe-like margins, which project into its cavity or sac. These folds contain more or less of cellular tissue and a number of pellets of fat, which being supplied with ves- sels, the margin of the synovial fringe is some- times tinged red. These folds are compared, and certainly with much justice, to the epi- ploic folds of the abdominal serous mem- branes, more especially to the appendices epiploicaa of the great intestine. Beclard sup- poses that these fringes are specially the seat of the synovial secretion, which being perspiratory likewise takes place, though less abundantly and manifestly, from the rest of the synovial surface. The best examples of these folds occur in the knee and hip-joints, in the former of which they have been absurdly called alar ligaments. Some idea may be formed of the manner in which the synovial membrane is related to the other articular structures by examining the an- nexed figure, (fig. Ill,) representing a vertical section of the knee-joint. The cut margin of the synovial membrane is indicated by a, which after lining the posterior surface of the patella and ligamentum patella?, is reflected upon the condyles of the femur, whence it is carried in front of the crucial ligaments to line the arti- cular surface of the head of the tibia, and from that is again reflected upwards, and is con- tinuous with the portion lining the posterior car- tilaginous surface of the patella. This descrip- tion is founded on the opinion, which I believe to be correct, that the analogy between serous and synovial membranes is accurate, in so far as their possessing in common the form of shut sacs is concerned. On this subject, how- * Vide Home's Lect. on Comp. Anat. Lcct. i. vol. i.