392 BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. Walther, and one of Quatrefages ;* and there are still one or two others, about which some doubt exists. What proportion these cases would bear to those in which the separation was demonstrated, it is almost impossible to determine, because there can be no doubt that, of the numerous recorded cases, many of the descriptions appertained to the same indivi- dual, the total number of cases being in my opinion much less than is supposed. It is easy to explain how this source of error has been introduced. The unfortunate persons who are subjected to this infirmity are often objects of general curiosity. They wander from town to town for the purpose of obtaining a livelihood by exhibiting themselves to me- dical societies and to private individuals, and the history of a single person may thus be found repeated in the different periodicals of the same and even of different countries. To determine the mode in which this vice of conformation is effected is very difficult. We cannot admit that Duncan's! explanation of the mode of its formation is correct, because it is opposed to every principle which we are ac- customed to recognize as presiding over the developement of our organs. He attempted to prove that an obstacle to the expulsion of urine affords a satisfactory explanation of this phenomenon, and he believed that the bladder, by its distention, removes the bones of the pubis from each other, ruptures the hypogas- trium, and then disorganises itself. We should have conceived that a very little reflexion would have removed from his mind so singular an opinion. The disease is almost always conge- nital, although during intra-uterine life the foetus can have but little urine to void, and cannot, consequently, have a distended blad- der. Duncan himself, however, strangely enough states the case of a little boy who was affected by the disease, although the urethra, placed in front of the root of the penis, strongly curved towards the anus, allowed of the easy passage of the renal secretion. And there are cases on record well authenticated, where no separation of the pubis existed. Isenflamm also states that the disease was manifested, in his experience, ten weeks after birth. The opinion of Duncan, therefore, cannot, it is apprehended, be sustained. Those persons who believe this disease to be a primitive monstrosity are divided into two classes. The one suppose it to be merely an organic deviation, in which the urethra is placed above instead of gliding beneath the pubis. This, however, is not the prevailing doctrine; that which has obtained the most general currency is based upon the theory of arrested development. Supposing that the two moieties of the body do not, until late, meet upon the median line anteriorly, they say, if, by any cause, the sides of the hypo- gastric parietes cease to advance, the one to- wards the other, during their allotted time, the bladder will pass between them, and will * Theses do Strasbourg, 1832. t Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal for 1805 soon lose its anterior moiety, supposing this moiety to be already formed, from whence the fungous state which it offers after birth. So powerful are the authorities by which this mode of explaining the phenomena is supported, so completely is it said by the ardent supporters of teratology to be in consonance with its principles, that it would appear to be almost heretical to support a somewhat different view of the subject taken by M. Velpeau. He be- lieves that extrophy of the bladder is not simply owing to an arrested development, first, because in the normal state the bladder is neither split nor open, neither anteriorly nor posteriorly; secondly, because the pubic circle is completely formed before the bladder is per- ceptible; thirdly, because the aspect of the fissure that the urinary sac should present never exists; and, fourthly, because the theory in question has for its support only such ana- logies as do not appear to us to have been completely established. If an hypothesis be required, it appears to be more in conso- nance with observation to assume that this vice depends upon an alteration of the abdo- men, either pathological or purely mechanical, contracted during embryo life. The parietes of the abdomen are extremely attenuated and fragile up to between the second and third months, and for some time beyond this the parietes do not acquire any thing like the density below that they do above the umbilicus. At this time the space is so small between the umbilicus and the sexual organs, that the smallest fissure may become the origin of a large ulceration, and such lesions are seen at all degrees. Indeed it is scarcely possible to set forth the variety of lesions to which the young foetus is subject: foetuses have been seen in which the parietes of the abdomen were alone destroyed. In one of three months the bladder was already comprised in such a perforation, and the borders of the whole weie so jagged, thin, and unequal, that it could be referred to nothing else than a laceration. It is held in this place, therefore, that extrophy is frequently a disease, or the effect of a diseases, but not a monstrosity; an ulceration, a perfo- ration of the penis or of the hypogastrium, being the common point of origin. The bladder is only secondarily altered. If the foetus continues to live, the borders of the de- stroyed bladder are united to the circumference of the abdominal opening, or, at least, to the posterior surface of the remaining portion of the hypogastrium. The cicatrisation once ef- fected, the rest is explained by the mucous nature of the organic septum, which occupies the place of the pelvic or abdominal parietes. The umbilicus may or may not be implicated in the loss of substance ; the pubes, which are commonly destroyed, and not simply sepa- rated as has been believed, may be also pre- served ; and the vesical tumour may in some cases only occupy a space of a few lines, whilst in others it may implicate a great por- tion of the hypogastrium. Those organs which are normally in relation with the pubis present certain anomalies in