368 BACK. never be followed by troublesome haemorrhage. In the fascia we generally find a vein,described by God man of Philadelphia under the name of the dorsal azygos. It arises at the lower part of the back by irregular roots, runs up single for some time along the middle line, and then divides into two branches, one of which pierces each trapezius, and enters into the transversalis colli vein. It is small and of little importance. The other veins are not of sufficient size to deserve particular notice; they are found in company with the arteries. Nerves.—The nerves of this region are the posterior branches of all the spinal nerves. The cervical and brachial plexuses also send some filaments; but its nervous supply is, like its vascular, very scanty. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics, too, are not so numerous as elsewhere. We trace them running to the cervical, axillary, and inguinal glands, according to their proximity to these. With the exception of two or three on the cer- vical portion of the trapezius, lymphatic glands are not met with here. The back is peculiarly subject to anthrax in debilitated constitutions, and in some cases the tumour acquires great magnitude. It some- times happens that several anthraxes occur in succession, until a large portion of the integu- ments and fascia is destroyed, and the patient sinks under the disease. Pressure is frequently the exciting cause. By pressure the vessels are so obstructed that the vitality of the part is impaired, and its organization is too low to enable it to recover from the deadening effects, especially if the constitution be previously in- jured. Here too we often meet with furunculi: they are most common in the nape of the neck. Fistula; in the lumbar region, depending on diseased kidney, sometimes present themselves. There is no peculiarity in the cutaneous or other diseases to which it is liable in common with other regions. BACK, MUSCLES OF THE.—The mus- cles of the back are very numerous and complex. There is much variety in their origins and inser- tions in different subjects, and in many cases it is not easy to decide with which of two adjoining muscles we are to connect certain bundles of fibres ; a distinct impression, therefore, is not always obtained from an examination of the part, nor will a repetition of the dissection pre- sent us with the same view in another subject. Hence it happens that anatomists differ as to the number of muscles to be met with, some dividing into two or more muscles what others consider as one ; this proves another source of difficulty. The names and the enumeration of them, as given by Albinus, we shall follow pretty closely : we esteem them the best on the whole, and they have the advantage of being generally adopted in these countries : viz. the trapezius or cucullaris, latissmus dorsi, rhom- boideus major, rhomboidcus minor, levator un- guli scapula, serratus posticus superior, serratus posticus inferior, splenitis capitis, splenitis colli, sacro-luntbalis, kmgissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, semi-spinalis dorsi, cervicalis dcscendens, trans- versalis colli, truchelo-mastoideus, complexus, spinalis colli, multifidus spina, inter-spinalcs, inter-trunsversales, rectus capitis posticus major, rectus capitis posticus minor, obliquus capitis in- ferior, and obliquus capitis superior. These muscles are placed in pairs, one on each side of the median line; none of them can be said to be exactly in the middle. We shall examine them in the order they present themselves to us in dissecting. We find these muscles disposed in layers, and each layer differing from the others in the shape or use of the pieces which compose it. Six such layers may be enumerated. The first consists of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi, muscles somewhat triangular in form, and destined to act principally on the upper extre- mity. The second consists of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae. These are qua- drangular, approaching a square shape, and act on the scapulae. The third layer is formed of the serrati, of similar shape, but acting on the ribs. Thefourth consists of the splenii; these, more elongated than the last, rotate and erect the head and neck. The fifth layer is com- posed of very long muscles, acting chiefly as erectors of the spine and head, viz. the sacro- lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis, and semi- spinalis dorsi, cervicalis descendens, transver- salis colli, trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. The sixth layer, again, is formed of short mus- cles, rotating and erecting the head or minute portions of the spinal column ; these are the recti and obliqui of the head, the spinalis colli, inter-spinales, inter-transversales,and multifidus spinae. First layer.—The trapezius and latissimus dorsi, which form the first layer, almost com- pletely conceal all the other muscles of this region, and in superficial extent are scarcely succeeded by any two muscles in the body. The trapezius is thin, triangular, and very extensive. One of its surfaces is turned to the integuments, and covered by the superficial fascia, and by a fine layer of cellular tissue which closely adheres to it. The trapezius arises from the internal third of the superior oblique ridge of the os occipitis, from the liga- mentum nuchae, and from the spinous pro- cesses of the last cervical and of all the dorsal vertebrae. The superior fibres run downwards, outwards, and a little forwards, the middle transversely, and the inferior upwards and out- wards ; all converge, and are inserted into the external third of the posterior border of the clavicle, the acromio-clavicular ligament, the acromion process, the upper edge of the spine of the scapula, and the tubercle which termi- nates this spine at the base. The origin of this muscle is by tendinous fibres which are from half an iuch to an inch long in the occipital portion ; in the cervical they are very short until we come down to the sixth cervical vertebra, where they begin to lengthen; at the first dorsal they are an inch and a half in length, again they diminish, and at the fourth dorsal spine they are scarcely to be seen; but at the tenth they again increase in length, and form a triangular tendon. It some-