666 CIRCULATION. of the arteries as of a muscular nature, was un- successful in producing obvious contractions in them. The repetition of the experiments of Verschuir by many others has been attended with very various results ; some confirming his observations, others having entirely failed in producing any obvious contraction, or not being disposed to consider it of a muscular kind. Among the last may be mentioned Nysten, Bichat, Wedemeyer, and J. Midler. It must be obvious that, laying aside the difference of opinion regarding the nature of the contractions when they are admitted to occur, in a question of this kind a positive re- sult deserves more consideration than a nega- tive one, provided the phenomena stated to have been observed are such as to be appre- ciable by all. Among the experiments favour- able to the view that the large arteries are en- dowed with irritability, maybe mentioned those described by Hastings,* and a series of unpub- lished observations by Dr. Thomson, to which we have access, which seem to prove in a very satisfactory manner the frequent occurrence of contractions in the larger arteries after stimula- tion ; and to point out as a cause of the failure of some at least of the previous experiments, the long time which commonly elapses between the application of the stimulus and the occur- rence of the contraction ; together with the cir- cumstances formerly remarked by Verschuir, that the contraction is not an invariable conse- quence of the stimulation, and that it occurs much more readily in some animals than in others. According to Dr. Thomson the contraction of the larger arteries is in general not percepti- ble before from three to ten minutes after the application of the stimulus. When galvanism is used, the shocks need not be strong, but must be frequently repeated in order to induce contraction. Many have remarked the gradual or sudden contraction of the trunks of arteries which have been laid bare in Man as well as in the lower animals. When exposed, an artery is some- times equally contracted for some length along its tube; at other times its surface assumes a waved appearance from the occurrence of irre- gular contractions or alternate contractions and dilatations, and not unfrequently the coat of the artery is much constricted at one point only, as if a tight cord had been passed round it. Appearances of this kind, which seem to indicate very distinctly the possession of the property of irritability by the arteries, are well known to many surgeons; they were noted by Drs. Jones and Thomson, in the experiments upon which Dr. Jones's work on Hemorrhage was founded; and also by Dr. Parry, who nevertheless refuses to consider them as irri- table contractions. At p. 74 of his work on the Powers of the Arteries, Dr. Parry, referring to Experiment 13th, says, "thus a very narrow ring of the carotid became, while it was under examination, contracted as if a * Inaug. Dissertat. Edin. 1817, et loc. cit. See also Hunter on the Muscularity of the Arteries, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xxii. p. 256. small ligature had been half tightened around it." So also in Experiment 24th, he relates that a part of the carotid artery of a ewe was diminished by a third of its original diameter under exposure, after having been half an hour denuded, while the neighbouring parts had be- come rather dilated, and that while he was pro- ceeding to measure one of these dilated por- tions, he " saw it shrink to nearly the same size as the constricted part." It appears to us manifest, that, whether these irregular diminu- tions of the diameter of the artery, obviously occasioned by a shortening of its fibres, are at- tributed to the exposure of the artery to the air, or the violence done during the dissection of it by the scalpel, they must equally be regarded as the consequence of stimulation of one kind or other, and are therefore of the nature of mus- cular contractions. Hoffmann first noticed the contractions of the arteries from the application of acrid che- mical stimuli to their coats; and it appears from numerous subsequent experiments, that contractions are more readily induced in this than in any other way. Were there no other proofs of the contractility of the arteries than those derived from the effect of chemical agents, we should not feel inclined to place much reliance on them, on account of the pos- sibility of there having been induced a perma- nent alteration of the texture from chemical action; but the results of such experiments form an important confirmation of those which are performed with mechanical and galvanic irritation. We cannot, however, acquiesce in the opinion of Wedemeyer* and others who compare the distinct and well-marked contrac- tions of particular parts of the arterial tubes, such as those above alluded to, to the general constriction of other textures, and more parti- cularly to the shrinking of the skin which occurs from the influence of cold, passions of the mind, &c. From these considerations we are induced to adopt the opinion that the contractions which under certain circumstances occur in the ar- teries resemble muscular contractions more nearly than any other vital phenomenon. The positive evidence of direct experiment obviously proves that the contractions in general follow the application of some stimulus to the artery ; but these contractions differ from that of mus- cular parts chiefly in the length of time which elapses after the application of the stimulus before the change of size begins, in the slow- ness with which the contraction is succeeded by relaxation, and in the want of obvious cor- respondence between the force of the stimulus and the extent of contractions which follow it. Besides the more marked contractions of parts of their tubes, the arteries are subject in various circumstances to undergo a slow and gradual diminution of their diameter through- out their whole length, which is considered by many physiologists to indicate the possession by them of a property of the nature of contrac- tility different from irritability in its pheno- * Loc. cit.