AVES. 319 the macerating grains. This phenomenon is the nearest approach in the class of Birds to the great characteristic function, the presence of whose special apparatus, the mammae, has af- forded the universally recognized title of the higher division of warm-blooded Vertebrata; and the analogy of the' Pigeon's milk' to the lac- teal secretion of the mammalia has not escaped popular notice. In the subjoined figure one side of the crop (6),shows the ordinary structure of the parts, the other (e), the state of the cavity during the period of rearing the young (Jig. 158). The canal which is continued from the in- gluvies to the stomach was called by Hunter the second or lower oesophagus; at its com- mencement it is narrower and more vascular than that part of the gullet which precedes the crop, but gradually dilates into the first or glandular division of the stomach, which is termed the ' proventriculus' (ventriculm succenturiatus, bulbus glandulosus, echinus, infundilndum, the ' cardiac cavity' of Home), (c, Jig. 156, 157, 166). In birds with a wide oesophagus (a, fig. 165), as the omnivorous and piscivorous tribes, the commencement of the proventriculus (e, fig. 165), is not indicated by any change in the di- rection or diameter of the tube, but only by its greater vascularity, by the difference in the structure of the lining membrane, and by the stratum of glands which open upon its inner surface, and which are its essential cha- racteristic (c. fig. 159). Hence it is .fig. 159. by some compara- tive anatomists re- garded as a part of the oesophagus. The proventri- culus varies, how- ever, in form and magnitude in dif- ferent birds. In the Rasores it is larger than the oeso- phagus, but much smaller than the gizzard. In the Psittacida and Ardeidcc (Parrot and Stork tribe) it is larger than the gizzard and of a different form. In the Ostrich the proventri- culus is four or five times larger than the triturating division of the stomach, being con- tinued down below the liver, and then bent up upon itself towards the right side before it termi- nates in the gizzard, which is placed on the right and anterior part of this dilatation. The experiments of Reaumur, Spallanzani, and Hunter, and those of Tiedemann and Gmelin, prove that the secretion of the pro- ventricular or gastric glands is analogous to the gastric juice in man and mammalia. In the majority of birds the gastric follicles are simple, having no internal cells, dilated fundus, or contracted neck; but from their external blind extremity proceed with an uniform diameter to their internal orifice. This form obtains in the zoophagous and omnivorous birds. In the Dove-tribe the follicles are of Part of the proventriculus of a Swan dissected. a conical shape. In the Swan they are tubuli- form ; in the Goose and Turkey they present internal loculi; in the Ostrich and Rhea these loculi are so developed that each gland forms a racemose group of follicles, terminating by a common aperture in the proventriculus. The subjoined figures from Home's Com- parative Anatomy (vol. ii. pi. lvi.) show the different forms of the solvent or proventricular glands in different birds. Fig. 160. Eagle. Ostrich. The gastric glands are variously arranged. Among the Raptores, we find them in the Golden Eagle disposed in the form of a broad compact belt; in the Sparrow-Hawk this belt is slightly divided into four distinct portions. In the Insessores the glands are generally arranged in a continuous zone around the pro- ventriculus; but in some of the Syndactyli, as the Hornbill, the circle is composed of the blending together of two large oval groups. Among the Scansores the Parrots have the gastric glands disposed in a continuous white circle, which is at some distance from the small gizzard. In the Woodpeckers the glands are arranged in a triangular form, with the apex towards the gizzard. In the Toucan they are dispersed over the whole proventriculus, but are more closely aggregated near the gizzard ; the lining membrane of the cavity is reticulate, and the orifices of the glands are in the inter- spaces of the meshes. Among the Rasores the Pigeon shows its affinity to the Passerine Birds in having the gas- tric glands of a simple structure, and arranged