BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. 385 in health the mucous surfaces of the intestinal tube and of this organ form a strong contrast, more particularly if the vessels of both have been injected with coloured size; the former will then assume the colour of the injection, the lat- ter will continue pale, although numerous ves- sels become apparent in the submucous tissue. The mucous lining of the bladder in the healthy state does not present any distinct follicles or cryptae except near the cervix, which become veiy distinct in chronic disease. A cuticular or epidermoid covering cannot be detected in health, although in certain states of disease a substance very similar to cuticle is occasionally discharged in shreds and flakes. When the blad- der is empty and contracted, the mucous mem- brane is thrown into numerous rugae, existing chiefly in a transverse direction, which are most distinct if a very recently contracted bladder be examined. When the organ is distended, these rugae disappear, so that their existence may be considered as evincing a want of elasticity in this tissue. This membrane presents some pecu- liarities throughout the extent of a small region named the ' trigone' or the ' velum' of the bladder: this term is applied to a small triangular space, nearly equilateral, situated about the middle of the inferior region, and leading to the neck of the bladder. The base of this space is a lunated line leading from the orifice of one ureter to the other ; the sides are marked by lines which converge forwards from these open- ings to a slight projection at the neck of the blad- der named the ' uvula,' which is immediately behind or rather in the orifice of the urethra. Throughout the area of this space the mucous membrane is very smooth and free from ruga? or folds, as it adheres closely to the fibrous or compact cellular substance beneath : it is also more vascular, being generally of a delicate rose colour, or variegated with fine vessels, and when minutely examined with a magnifying lens numerous fine villi can be discerned. On the whole this surface appears to be delicately and peculiarly organized, and no doubt possesses higher sensibility than the remainder of the in- ternal surface of the organ. The posterior part of the trigone is thinner than the anterior ; the line which marks its base is a thickened band of the circular or transverse muscular fibres,behind which the inferior fundus of the bladder is fre- quently dilated into a pouch which presses against the rectum, and where a calculus some- times rests, so as to elude the search of the sound unless the finger be introduced into the rectum : in old persons this pouch sometimes remains constantly full of urine, the muscular coat of the bladder not being able to contract it. The lines which form the sides of the tri- gone, and which extend from the orifices of each ureter to the uvula, are composed of a slight projection of the mucous membrane, be- neath which is some cellular tissue, and in some cases a few pale muscular fibres are dis- tinctly seen. These lateral lines are not in general very distinct, at least in the healthy bladder; their distinctness is owing to little more than being the borders of this space. In VOL. I. some cases, particularly when the prostate has been enlarged or the urethra obstructed, they are found very distinct, the muscular fibres they contain being thickened even in a greater degree than the other portions of the muscular coat of the bladder. These lateral fasciculi appear to be little more than some of the lon- gitudinal muscular fibres of the bladder con- verging towards its cervix. Sir C. Bell, however, has attached a particular importance to these muscles, which he denominates the " muscles of the ureters :" his description of their attachments and use is as follows, in his own words :—" The use of these muscles is to assist in the contraction of the bladder, and at the same time to close and support the mouths of the ureters." "They guard the orifices of the ureters by preserving the obliquity of the passage, and by pulling down the extremities of the ureters according to the degree of the con- traction of the bladder generally."* It appears very questionable how far this statement as to the structure of these lines is generally correct, and it is still farther doubtful whether the use assigned is correctly ascribed or not; for it may be remarked that these lines are often very faintly traced, that the muscular structure within them is sometimes very in- distinct, that in females it is scarcely observable, in very young children also of either sex it is not well developed ; whereas if such an import- ant office as that of guarding the ureters de- pended on these muscular fibres, it is most probable, and indeed is even certain that their presence would be constant and their deve- lopment more uniform. Again, the fact of the dead bladder when fully distended with fluid, or even with air when the urethra is tied, and the contents not escaping through the ureters, is a strong proof that the oblique or valvular direc- tion of the latter is the true cause of the non- regurgitation, and that it does not depend on the contraction of any particular muscular fibres. Again too, in animals this structure, as described by Sir C. Bell, is not at all obvious although the ureters have the same oblique course as in man ; it would rather appear that these muscular bands, which are occasionally very distinct along the sides of the trigone, are only portions of the longitudinal fibres, and that their action will be to shorten the trigone, to draw its base forward, and thus to assist in emptying the bladder. They may doubtless assist in fixing the orifice of the ureters and moving these in proportion as the surrounding parts are affected, but the opinion that the preservation of the valvular or oblique course is depending upon them appears to be invalidated by the fore- going remarks, as well as by the following expe- riment. The healthy bladder of an adult male, recently dead, was opened to a small extent on its fore-part, and the sides of the trigone were cut by a sharp-pointed bistoury passed beneath each of them ; the urethra was then tied, and the bladder carefully closed : its cavity was next fully distended with water, and the fluid was * Medico-Clur. Trans, vol. iii. p. 178. 2 c