ARACHNIDA. 213 ance, through which, however, the globules of the vitellus may be distinguished. A single point remains perfectly transparent, and this is observed at the extremity of the egg (jig. 107, a,) opposite to that which the germ occupied may distinguish traces of rings, four in number on either side; these are the rudiments of the legs. (Fig. 109, 1, 2, 3, 4.) - They occupy the lateral aspects of the Fig. 107. after its displacement. Heroldtcalls this clouded albumencolliquamentum. Up to this period the vitellus seems not to un- dergo any change ; all that has been hitherto observed takes place in the albumen and in the circular space between the yolk and the shell. Sixth period. — The colliquamentum, or clouded albumen, which was extended over the yolk so as to conceal it, is now concen- trated upon the point last occupied by the nucleus of the germ, and has assumed a pearly colour (Jig. 108). Its consistence is pretty Fin. 108. solid ; it is opake, so that the globules of the yolk can no longer be distin- guished through it, al- _6 though they are elsewhere more conspicuous on ac- count of the retreat of the clouded albumen towards this single point; from this moment the colliqua- mentum, which seems to have changed its nature, receives a new name, and is designated by Heroldt the cambium. The cambium covers more than a fourth part of the circumference of the yolk; its form is already pretty well marked, and two parts may be distinguished in it; one large (6), the other small (a), which are separated by a kind of contraction. The form of the larger division is elliptical, and it is in its substance that the thorax, the legs, and the essential internal parts of the foetus will soon be perceived to develope themselves. The smaller division is of a rounded form, and seems, as it were, an appendage to the preceding; it is destined to give origin to the head, the or- gans of sense, and the appendages of those of mastication. So much being premised, we may call, with Heroldt, the larger division cambium thoracicum, the lesser one cambium cephalicum. We may also, for the better comprehension of the changes which are about to succeed each other, divide the superficies of the ovum into four regions. That which contains the cambium may be called the pectoral region, the opposite portion may be called the dorsal, and the two intermediate parts the lateral regions. We may observe that in other species of araneae where the ova are spherical, the germ is at once converted into colliqua- mentum, and then into cambium, without a change of situation. The Aranea diudema offers an example of this circumstance ; in other re- spects there is no important difference observable. Seventh period.—The two portions of the cambium, the cephalic and thoracic, have as yet presented only the appearance of an opake and homogeneous mass, but now we Fig. 109. a 6 anterior part of the ovum ; they are also visible on the pectoral region, towards which they are prolonged in- feriorly. The extre- mity of the first leg is contiguous to that of the opposite side ; but the three others, though of greater length, yet do not reach so low down, but leave a triangular interspace between them, which is filled with a cloudy and somewhat transparent matter, through which the vitelline globules are visible. This triangular space, which is subsequently to be covered by the legs, seems to give origin to the trunk and to many parts contained in the abdomen. In tracing the two portions of the cambium through the changes which they have undergone, we find that the thoracic portion is represented by the legs and their intermediate space, and that the cephalic por- tion is anterior to this. The alterations of the latter part are not less remarkable ; instead of being rounded anteriorly it is truncated, and we may perceive a ring at the sides, which is not divided on the inferior middle line of the body, and which represents the maxillary palps (b). One may even distinguish, as if through a cloud, the rudiments of the mandibles. It is probable that all the parts which appertain to the head, as the eyes, the mandibular hooks, and the maxilloe, have their limits well defined from this period. With respect to the head, («) it is neatly separated from the chest; and this fact it is of importance to dwell on, since in all the full-grown spiders the conflu- ence of the two parts is most intimate, and their original separation only indicated by a groove of greater or less depth. The ovum, also, now presents some other new appearances; these are a kind of furrows or arched folds (c c), which are seen on the vitellus behind the legs; and which deserve attention, since they indicate the formation of the common teguments of the foetus. And we must here observe that the parts which are already de- veloped have an intimate connection with the vitellus. Thus,, if an ovum be opened with all the precautions requisite for so delicate an operation, and if the matter of it be extended on a piece of glass, we see that the parts formed in the cambium preserve their general figure, and that the internal layer of the mucous and whitish matter of which it consists is in intimate communication with the vitellus. It is implanted upon the yolk just as fungi and other parasitic plants are attached to the trunk of a tree: the yolk, then, is subservient to the nutrition of the most exterior parts of the body. Eighth period.—The exterior parts which are developed in the cambium, viz. the feet, the mandibles, and the head, are more neatly de- fined. The ovum (fig. 110) now presents a