292 AVES. and into the sides of the lower jaw from the articulation as far forward as the commence- ment of the horny bill. In the Cormorant there projects backwards from the spine or squamous element of the occipital bone, an osseous style about an inch in length, of a trihedral figure and tapering to a point. It is not anchylosed as a process of the occiput, but is moveably articulated to it; and its description has been referred to this section because it does not constitute a regular part of the skeleton, not representing any essential element of the bony fabric, but is to be regarded like the bony tendons of the legs as an ossification of the intermuscular aponeu- rosis of the temporal muscles to which it affords a more extensive and firmer origin. This, indeed, is its essential use,* for the mus- cles of the upper part of the neck are inserted into the occipital bone, and glide beneath the posterior or superadded fasciculi of the tem- poral muscle. Analogous parts appended to the true spinous processes of the vertebra are met with abundantly in the inferior vertebrate classes, especially in fishes, where they extend frequently above the spines of the whole ver- tebral column, increasing the surface of origin of the lateral series of muscles. The muscle analogous to the Biventer maxilla (18) arises by two portions, the one from the lateral depression of the occiput, the other from the depression behind and below the external meatus audilorius; they are in- serted into the back part and angle of the lower jaw. A similar disposition of the digastricus is met with in many of the mammalia; even in the Orang-utan (Simla Satyrus) it is equally devoid of a central tendon, and is unconnected with the os hyoides. The openers and closers of the mandibles present very slight differences of bulk in rela- tion to the development of the parts they are destined to move; their disproportion to the bill is, on the contrary, truly remarkable in the Horn-bills, Toucans, and Pelican, and the bill is but weakly closed in these in comparison with the shorter-billed birds. The upper mandible is moved by three muscles on either side. The first is of a radiated form, arises from the septum of the orbits, and converges to be inserted into the external and posterior end of the pterygoid bone, just where this is articulated to the tympanic bone. It draws forward the pterygoid bone, which pushes against and raises the upper jaw. The second muscle analogous to the External Pterygoid arises from the space between the posterior part of the orbit and external meatus auditorius, and is inserted into the internal process and contiguous surface of the tympanic bone; it affects the pterygoid process, and con- sequently the upper mandible in the same way as the preceding muscles, and assists in opening the bill. The Pterr/goideus hiternus is a long and * See Yarrell ' On the Anatomy of the Cormo- ant,' Zool. Trans, v. iv. p. 235. slender muscle; it arises from the pterygoid process and body of the sphenoid, and is in- serted principally into the inner side of the lower jaw and tympanic bone; it also sends off a small tendon to the membrane of the palate. This muscle draws forward the lower jaw and depresses the upper one. In the Cross-bill (Loxia curvirostra) there is a remarkable want of symmetry in the muscles of the jaws on the two sides of the head corresponding to their peculiar position. Those of the side towards which the lower jaw is drawn in a stale of rest (which varies in different individuals) are most developed, and act upon the mandibles with a force that enables the bird to dislodge the seeds of the fir-cones, which constitute its food. The articulation of the lower jaw is strength- ened and its movements restrained by two strong ligaments, one of these (a) is extended from the ligament completing the lower part of the orbit, or from the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, and is inserted at the outer protuberance near the joint of the lower jaw, and must prevent the bill from being too widely opened. The second ligament extends from the zygomatic process of the temporal bone directly backwards to the posterior part of the articular depression of the lower jaw, and is designed to guard against the backward dislo- cation of the lower jaw. The muscles of the ribs. — The levatores costarum arise from the posterior part of the extremities of the transverse processes, and converge to be inserted into the anterior margin of the succeeding posterior rib. Those of the first and second ribs represent the Scalcni, and are of larger size, arising from the last and penultimate cervical vertebras. The Intercostales exlerni appear to be con- tinuations of the Levatores costarum, and are usually divided into an anterior and posterior moiety corresponding to the marked separation and moveable articulation between the vertebral and sternal portions of the ribs ; the anterior division arises from the costal appendage and extends to the anterior extremity of the rib ; to afford a more advantageous origin to this inspiratory muscle would appear, therefore, to be one of the uses of the costal appendages, as well as to strengthen the connection of the ribs to each other. The Internal intercostals commence at the sternal extremities of the ribs, as in mammalia, but extend backwards no farther than the costal appendages; their fibres run in an opposite direction to the external intercostals, and are shorter, the insertion into the posterior suc- ceeding rib being by a thin but wide aponeu- rosis : in the Penguin they are, however, wholly muscular. Two other layers of inter- costal muscles, corresponding to the triangu- laris sterni, and having the same direction of fibres, are extended from before backwards and outwards to the four anterior sternal por- tions of the ribs ; arising from the superior and external angle of the sternum. The muscles of the abdomen are small and