CEPHALOPODA. 828 meet the breeze. What their real function may be is still to be determined; but the re- moval of the erroneous impressions entertained on this subject is the first step towards the at- tainment of the truth. In our common Octopus, and most other species of this genus, the feet are connected together for some distance beyond the oral sheath by membranes and muscles which form a circular fin. This is their sole locomotive organ when swimming; and by its powerful contraction they are driven through the water with a quick retrograde motion. In a species which we have recently described* {Octopus semipalmatus) the fin is extended only between the four dorsal arms: a structure which must occasion a characteristic difference in its mode of swimming. The disposition of the muscles of the web- like fin is as follows. There are two transverse layers of fibres, the external arises from a white line extending along the back-part of each foot; the internal from the sides of the same feet between the attachments of the suckers. These two strong muscular bands are con- nected together as they pass from arm to arm in the middle of the webs, and decussate one another, so that the external become internal and vice versa. Within these a thin layer of longitudinal fibres extends to the free margin of the webs ; and there is also a layer of ob- lique longitudinal fibres externally, which arise from the white line at the middle of each foot: these fibres are shown at (k, k,Jig. 216,) the transverse fibres at /, I. In the Cephalopods which possess the re- tractile peduncles, the ordinary arms are gene- rally short, and the first or dorsal pair are commonly exceeded in length by the second ; sometimes, indeed, as in the species of Loli- gopsis, of which the figure is subjoined, (Jig. 209,) they go on progressively increasing in length to the ventral or fourth pair, which here resembles in its great development the arms of the Octopods. The peduncles are always longer, and more slender than the arms; they exhibit these characters in the highest degree in the genus Loligopsis, in which they are frequently mutilated and lost; but the examination of the nerve proceeding to the mutilated stump sufficiently attests, in such cases, the importance of the organ of which this animal has been accidentally deprived. The tentacles serve to seize a prey which may be beyond the reach of the ordinary feet, and also to act as anchors to moor the Cepha- lopod in safety during the agitations of a stormy sea. Each arm is perforated near the centre of its axis for the lodgment of its nerve (a, fig. 214) and artery (b); and upon making a transverse section of the arm, these are seen to be lodged in a quadrangular or rhomboidal space (e) of a light colour and apparently soft homogeneous texture, but in which a few radiating fibres may be discerned. This part is surrounded by four * See Proceedings of the Zoological Society for March, 1836. Fig. 214. Section of an Arm and Suckers of a Poulp. groups of transverse striae forming as many seg- ments of a circle, external to which there are two thin circular strata of fibres. On making a longitudinal section of the part the striated segments are seen to consist of longitudinal muscular fibres, and of the surrounding strata, the fibres of the internal are longitudinal, and those of the external transverse. It is easy to conceive that, like the tongue in Mammalia, the arms thus organized may be lengthened, shortened, curved, and bent in all conceivable directions. The acetabula or suckers with which the in- ternal surface of the arms of the Dibranchiates are provided, vary in relative position, in size, in structure, and in mode of attachment, not only in different species, but in different arms in the same individual, and sometimes in diffe- rent parts of the same arm. Thus in the pe- duncles of Loligopsis Veranii,the suckers on the long cylindrical stem are sessile, while those on the expanded extremity are supported on long peduncles; and another remarkable instance will presently be mentioned of suckers having different structures for different functions in the same arm. In the Dibranchiate genera which are charac- terized by a soft thin skin, as the Argonaut, Octopus, and Eledone, the suckers are soft and unarmed; in those genera which have a hard and thick skin, as the Calamary and Onychoteuthis, cuticular appendages are deve- loped in the cavities of the suckers. An excellent description of the unarmed acetabulum as it exists in the genus Octopus, is given by Dr. Roget. The circumference of the disc is raised by a soft and tumid margin (e, Jig. 214); a series of long slender folds of membrane (f), cover- ing corresponding fasciculi of muscular fibres, converge from the circumference towards the centre of the sucker, at a short distance from which they leave a circular aperture (g) : this opens into a cavity (h), which widens as it descends, and contains a cone of soft substance