198 AHACHNIDA. (Manque de l'anastomose qui reunit les ileux arteres mesenteriques, Mem. de Paris, 1776); Du Verney, (Sitr les vaissaux omphalo-mesenteriques, Mem. de Paris, 1700) ; Chaussier, (Sur les vaissaux ompha- lo-mesenieriques ; Nouv. Mem. de Dijon, A. 1782. Societ. Philomath, anil); andTyson,(Unusual con- formation of the emulgents, Philos. Trans. 1678.) (J. Hart.) ARACHNIDA; a^ayyn, aranea; Eng. urachnidans; Fr. arachnides; Germ. Spinne ; Ital. Ragni. This class of animals was for a long time confounded with that of insects, but it has been distinguished therefrom by many modern natu- ralists, and more especially by Lamarck, who has applied to it the term ' arachnides,' now universally adopted. The characters indeed which the arachnidans present are perfectly distinct, and prevent them from being confounded either with crustaceans or insects, although one cannot avoid perceiving that they have numerous relations with the animals of these two classes, and they are con- sequently placed in natural arrangements be- tween the crustaceans and insects. Zoologists have assigned the following cha- racters as peculiar to and distinguishing this class. Body divided into thorax and abdomen; apterous. Legs, eight in the adult state. Head continuous with the chest. Eyes smooth. Sex- Class ARACHNIDA ual orifices situated either on the thorax or base of the abdomen. To these external characters may be added others derived from the anatomical conditions of different organs. Thus all arachnidans pos- sess exclusively an aerial respiration, either effected by a sort of lungs, or by means of tracheal tubes, as in insects. This difference in the respiratory organs is accompanied with one not less marked in those of circulation ; for example, all the pulmonary arachnidans possess vessels which carry blood, while, on the contrary, all those which have trachea; are deprived of bloodvessels. Lastly, the latter species (or trachearies) alone undergo metamor- phoses analogous, in some respects, to those of insects; while the former (or pulmonaries) suffer only changes of integument. We shall treat further on these peculiarities hereafter. Our object here not being to treat of classifi- cation, we shall refer the reader for this subject to the works of Cuvier, Leach, Latreille, Walckniier, Duges, and limit ourselves at pre- sent to a tabular exposition of the principal divisions and subdivisions admitted in this class down to the genera with which it is most essential to be acquainted. Latreille, whose method is that most gene- rally adopted by zoologists of every country, divides the arachnidans into two great orders, as follows :— Orders. {Pulmonary sacs for respiration, 6 to 12 ocelli Pulmonaria. Trachea for respiration, not more than 4 ocelli Trachearia. The same author establishes in the first order two families, which are characterized as follows : 'Palpi simple, pediform; tnandibula armed with 1 Families. 1st Order. a moveable and perforated claw, emitting a I ARANEIDAZ Arachnida Pulmonaria. poisonous liquid Abdomen inarticulate, terminated by spinnarets Palpi produced, cheliform, or shaped like pin-' cers Mandibulce provided with a moveable digit .. ^Abdomen articulate, without spinnarets .PEDIPALPI. M. Walcknaer, who has made a special study of the family of araneida or spinning arachnida, and who has published many works on their methodical distribution and their habits of life, has very recently considered them with the express view of arriving at a natural arrange- ment, of them; the result of his labour may be seen in the following