544 CEPHALOPODA. of repose, and the vesicles are contracted and invisible, the skin be slightly touched, the co- loured vesicles show themselves, and in an in- stant, or sometimes with a more gradual mo- tion, the colour will be accumulated like a cloud or a blush upon the irritated surface. If a portion of the skin be removed from the body and immersed in sea-water, the lively contractions of the vesicles continue; when viewed in this state under the microscope by means of transmitted light, the edges of the vesicles are seen to be well defined, and to pass in their dilatations and contractions over or under one another. If the separated portion of integument be placed in the dark, and exa- mined after a lapse of ten or fifteen minutes, all motion has ceased; but the vesicles, when re-exposed to a moderately strong light, soon, in obedience to that stimulus, recommence their motions. As the vibratile microscopic cilia have been recently traced through the higher classes of the animal kingdom, it is not an un- reasonable conjecture that equally inexplicable motions of the colouring parts of the integu- ment may also be detected in other classes than that in which we have just described them, and thus a clue may be obtained towards the explanation of the influence of geographical position on the prevailing colours of the animal kingdom. Besides the colouring matter, another kind of product is secreted between the corium and cuticle, viz. the shell: this presents diffe- rent degrees of development in different genera. M. De Blainville in Fiance, and Leach, Broderip, Gray, and Sowerby, among the able naturalists of our own country, maintain that the Argonaut shell is not the product of a Cephalopod, but of some inferior Mollusk, allied to the Carinarise, whose shell Linnaus indeed placed in the same genus with the Argonauta, in consequence of the close rela- tionship subsisting between them, both in form and structure. The principal grounds for this opinion are the following. The Ocythoe has no muscular or other attachment to the Argo- naut shell. When captured, and placed alive in a vessel of sea-water, it has been seen vo- luntarily to quit the shell, and in one instance without manifesting any disposition to return to it. In this state, viz. without its shell, it was described by Rafinesque as a new genus of Cephalopod under the name of Ocythoe, and De Blainville, who first recognized this genus as being founded on an animal identical with the Cephalopod of the Argonaut, or the Nautilus primus of the ancients, retained the name in orderto distinguish the supposed parasite from the shell which it had, according to this theory, adopted. Agreeably with the absence of any natural connexion between the Ocythoe and the shell in question, is the fact that this animal is not found in any constant or regular position in the shell. In most examples we have found the funnel and ventral aspect of the body turned towards the external wall of theshell, as in the figure (Jig. 206). The Cranchian speci- men figured by Mr. Sowerby was in the same position. In the specimen which M. De Blain- ville* has carefully delineated for this pur- pose, the back of the Ocythoe is next the invo- luted convexity of the shell, the funnel is towards the opposite expanded concavity, but turned out of the middle line, and separated from the parietes of the shell by the retracted feet. In the figure which illustrates Brode- rip's excellent Memoir,+ the animal is repre- sented with the funnel next the involuted crest of the shell. In another specimen in the unique collection of the same Naturalist, the Cephalo- pod is retracted on a mass of ova, its arms hud- dled together, and its funnel projecting from the middle of one side of the shell; on the op- posite side numerous suckers are seen expand- ed and applied to the inner surface of the shell, demonstrative of the abnormal mode of its ad- hesion to that body. Whatever be the position in which the Ocythoe is found, the whole of the exterior surface of its mantle is coloured as in the naked Cephalopods, which seems to indicate that it has not been permanently excluded from light by an opake ca^aveous covering, such as the Argonauta shell must have formed if it had been applied to the body of the Ocythoe ub ovo. What is more remarkable, and con- trary to the analogy of true testacea, is, that there is little or no correspondence between the disposition of the colour of the Ocythoe and that of the Argonaut shell. The external sur- face of the skin of the Ocythoe has the same entire epidermic covering as in the naked Poulp, yet the Argonaut shell is furnished with a delicate epidermis in its natural state. All Mollusks which are naturally pro- vided with external shells have them for pro- tecting either a part or the whole of the body ; and in the latter case the interior of the shell is always kept clear, that the animal may retire to it for safety; but this retraction into the hol- low of the shell is impossible to the Ocythoe, at least in those numerous cases in which the shell is found more or less filled with masses of ova. Other Cephalopods, with external shells, indubitably their own, as the Pearly Nautilus, have adequate muscular attachments ; and it may reasonably be asked does the Argo- naut afford a valid exception to this rule ? Such an exception indeed it must form if the shell be really secreted, as the Continuator of Poli asserts, by the Cephalopod inhabi- tant ; and not only in this particular, but in every principle which has been established in reference to the relations of a shell to the body and the reciprocal influences affecting them in the Molluscous classes. The naturalists who maintain that the Ce- phalopod of the Argonaut and the shell are parts of one and the same animal, insist on this unde- niable fact, that from the time of Aristotle to the present day the Argonaut shell has never been found with any other inhabitant than the Ocythoe ; and, what is of more weight, that the Ocythoe has never been found in any other shell than the Argonauta. Whereas the Hermit-Crab * Malacologie, torn. ii. p. 1, t Zoological Journal, vol. iv.