ABDOMEN. 16 do well to note. M. Meniere* has described a case in which a very large vein, arising from the external iliac, passed up along the linea alba to the umbilicus, was continued along the obliterated umbilical vein, and opened into the vena portae. In another case, recorded by Manec, the vein originated in the same manner by two roots, reached the umbilicus, taking a course parallel to the umbilical artery, formed an arch outside the navel, and having re-entered the abdomen, opened into the vena portae. In another instance which occurred to Cruveilhier the superficial veins in the hypogastric region were enormously enlarged, at the umbilicus they ended in a trunk as large as a finger, which communicated with the vena cava as it passed under the liver.f Berard proposes to explain, by the supposition of the existence of such anomalies as those above described, the occurrence of fatal hemorrhages from wounds inflicted at the umbilicus, which have been attributed to the persistence of the um- bilical vein.J c. The lymphatics.—Those on the anterior wall communicate above with the axillary glands, and below with those of the groin : the deep-seated lymphatics of the posterior wall communicate with the glands which lie along the lateral and anterior surfaces of the lumbar spine. d. The nerves.—The nerves of the abdo- minal parietes are derived from the inferior intercostals and from branches of the lumbar plexus. The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth intercostal nerves termi- nate in supplying the transverse and oblique muscles and die recti; the twelfth lies in front of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and gives several filaments to that muscle. The ilio- scrotal and inguino-cutaneous nerves are the branches of the lumbar plexus which mainly supply the inferior part of the oblique and transverse muscles. One branch of thegenito- crural, which is found in the inguinal canal, also sends some twigs to these muscles. The posterior wall is supplied by the sub- divisions of the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. Physiological action of the abdominal parietes and muscles.—We have already alluded to the peculiarity which distinguishes the abdominal cavity when compared with the other great cavities, namely, that its walls are in greatest part composed of contractile tissue. At first view the muscular apparatus of the abdomen would appear to be a great constrictor muscle destined principally to exert its influence on the cavity and its contents ; but when we take into account the attachments of those muscles * Archives Gen. de Med. t. x. p. 381. The vascular distribution which existed in this subject presents, as Meniere has remarked, a striking simi- larity to that which is naturally found in the Saurian, Ophidian, and Batrachian reptiles, viz. a division of the general venous system which communicates with the hepatic vena portae. t Velpeau, Anat. Chir. cd. 2. vol. ii. p. 32, and Manec, Dissertation inaugurate. Paris, 1826. t Diet, de Med. art. Abdomen. ' to the ribs, the vertebrae, and the pelvis, it becomes evident that they must likewise be destined to act upon the thoracic and pelvic cavities, as well as upon the vertebral column. In the constitution of the abdominal parietes we observe, as Berard* remarks, the most happy adaptation of structure to uses. A completely osseous covering would have greatly interfered with the functions of the abdominal organs, which are liable to experience changes both extensive and often very rapid, either by reason of the introduction of alimentary matter, whether solids or fluids, or by the disengage- ment of gases within the digestive tube, or by the progressive development of the impregnated uterus. We may moreover add that an exact repetition of the structure of the walls of the thorax would not have been well adapted to the abdomen for the same reason, namely, the too great resistance which it would afford to compression from within, thereby interfering with the distensibility of the enclosed viscera. The resistance, too, which a wall so constituted would afford to impulses from without could not have been so easily adapted to the impetus of the forces likely to act upon them as a purely muscular wall whose contractions and the intensity of them are obedient to the will. The consideration of the action and uses of the abdominal muscles naturally comes under two heads: — 1. their action upon the abdo- minal cavity and its contents ; 2. their influ- ence on the trunk generally, or parts of it. It is the muscles that enter into the compo- sition of the anterior and lateral walls of the abdomen which act chiefly on the cavity and its contained viscera. The solidity of a con- siderable portion of the posterior wall, and the great strength of die lumbar muscles, give to that wall such a power of resistance as enables it to receive the compressed viscera without at all yielding. A reference simply to the attach- ments of the muscles of the anterior and lateral walls is sufficient to shew that these muscles when contracted must diminish the capacity of the abdomen, both in the lateral and antero- posterior directions; and as the posterior wall is but little influenced, the viscera will be pushed partly upwards against the diaphragm, and partly downwards into the cavity of the pelvis, where their further descent is opposed by the levator ani. Hence it appears that a degree of antagonism exists between the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles, as well as also between those muscles and the levator ani. It is extremely difficult to maintain the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm at the same moment in a state of contrac- tion ; in general they alternately yield the one to the other: and when it does happen that they are simultaneously contracted, the abdominal viscera must suffer an unusual de- gree of compression ; and it is not improbable that vomiting is sometimes produced by such a cause, and defecation, no doubt, is likewise aided by it. The danger of the protrusion of some of the hollow viscera between the fibres * Loc. cit.