CILIA. 615 within the tentacula, were moved in two diffe- rent directions, namely, from the base to the point, and from the point to the base ; and (supposing the arm spread out horizontally,) the outward current was along the under part of the tube, and the returning one along the upper: (see//.) I also observed these internal currents of the tentacula in a young specimen of Actinia senilis, which seemed to have been very recently discharged from the parent; in it also there were radiating currents on the disc, but they stopped at the base of the tentacula. Thus the external currents on the disc and ten- tacula were found in one species, and they occur on the disc in some other species in the young state, but their occurrence in this situa- tion is by no means general in adult Actiniae. The phenomena described are in all proba- bility connected with the processes of nutri- tion and respiration. They bear a striking analogy to those I have observed in the Echino- dermata. The ova of the Actinire were observed by Rathke to revolve round their axis, and occa- sionally to move straightforwards in the water. He could detect no cilia or other moving organs.* 6. Echinodermata.— The animals of this class in which I have observed the ciliary motion, are different species of the Sea-star (Asterias), and the Sea-urchin (Echinus). In proceeding to describe the phenomena in the Asterias, I must first take the liberty of ex- plaining some points in the anatomy of that animal, referring the reader for other details to the proper sources, especially the monograph of Tiedemann.f On the under surface of the Asterias, (I speak of the Asterias rubens in particular, fig. 298, A, B, C, as it is a large species and common on our shores,) we observe the mouth in the centre, and the tubular feet (I, fig. B) projecting in rows along the under part of the rays. Nearly the whole surface of the animal is beset with three kinds of eminences. First, hard calcareous processes, (a, fig. C,) placed like studs at some distance from each other. Secondly, claw-like processes (6, b); these sin- gular organs are more thickly set; they consist of a solid stem of soft substance, bearing at the extremity a sort of pincers or forceps of hard calcareous matter, like the claw of a crab. They resemble analogous organs found on the Sea-urchin, only that the maxillas or pincers in the latter consist of three pieces; they were named antennas or feelers by Monro, but Mul- ler regarded them as parasitical animals. The third sort of processes (c, c,) are named the respiratory tubes, and are the most important in regard to our present subject. They are short, conical, membranous tubes, communi- cating at their base with the internal cavity of the body, and perforated at their point by an orifice which can be very perfectly closed. Most of them are placed in groups or patches, and, corresponding with each group of tubes, the fibrous membrane forming the wall of the body presents on its inside a pit or shallow depression (e), perforated with holes, through which the tubes communicate with the general cavity. Like the tentacula of the Actiniae, which they resemble in several other respects, they can be distended with water and elon- gated, or emptied, contracted, and shortened. Fig. 298. A, Asterias viewed from above. B, Cross section of a Ray. C, Part of the section at m, fig. A, magnified. * Dorpater Jahrbiich. fur Litt. Stat, und Kunst. Bd. i. Heft. i. p. 84—86, quoted by Purkinje and Valentin, p. 32. I have since seen the indepen- dent motion of the ova when extracted from the animal. It was shown to me by Mr. Graham Dalyell, who had long before observed it. The cilia could be distinctly perceived. f Anatomie der R'ohren Holothurie, &c. Land- shut, 1816.