584 CETACEA. anterior part of the vermiform process of the cerebellum. The pineal gland is a small flattened body about two lines in length, connected as usual to the thalami optici. These appear in each ventricle in the form of an oval flattened body (i, fig. 273). They are joined together posteriorly by the medullary commissure. Tiedemann did not observe any soft commis- sure. The third ventricle is continued anteriorly into the infundibulum. The corpora striata (rf) are proportionally of small size, as Hunter observed in the brain of the Whale. They are united anteriorly by the anterior commissure. The fornix is also of inconsiderable size. The slender anterior pillars of the fornix proceed to the mammillary bodies, and send forwards two small triangular medullary lamella? to the under surface of the anterior part of the corpus striatum, from which the septum lucidum is continued. The fornix then bends backwards along the under surface of the corpus callosum and above the thalami, and its hinder crura sink down, diverging from each other to form the cornua ammonis (g). These bodies are small, thin, but broad, and exhibited no den- ticulated folds. The taenia fimbriata (h) are attached as usual to the external border of the cornua. The lateral ventricles are capacious though short; they extend, as in the human brain, into an anterior, a middle, and a posterior horn ; the latter, however, is very small. In each ventricle there is a large plexus choroides, which is remarkable for the transverse parallel folds of membrane which support the divisions of the artery. With respect to the cerebral nerves, Tiede- mann states that, although in the Dolphin the brain was removed with every precaution from the skull,yet he could not perceive the slightest trace of the olfactory pair. Hunter and Tyson equally failed to detect them in the Porpesse. Treviranus, however, believed that with the aid of a magnifying glass he had detected very delicate filaments in the situation of the olfac- tory nerves in the Porpesse. But supposing that there was no illusion here, which could hardly have happened to so accurate and close an observer, these fibres represent only a very rudimental condition of the olfactory nerves; and we may observe that the shortness of the anterior lobes of the brain, and the smallness of the striated bodies are closely related to the absence or imperfect development of the first pair of nerves. With respect to the other cerebral nerves, they are relatively larger in proportion to the brain than in man. The optic nerves (2, fig. 272) rise partly from the thalami, partly from the anterior bigeminal bodies and the corpora geniculata; they curve round the crura cerebri, and unite as usual before the pituitary gland. The angle at which the nerves diverge from each other after the decussation is more open than in other Mammalia. The accessory nerves of the eye are of large size, as the third (3), the fourth (4), and the sixth (6) pair. The fifth pair (5), which emerge from the sides of the pons, but arise from the medulla oblongata between the corpora restiformia and olivaria, have a smaller proportional size than in man. The nerves concerned in the actions of respiration, as the facial (7), the pneumogastric (10), and the recurrent (11), are well deve- loped, in relation to the large size of the muscles which effect the respiratory movements in the dense medium of water. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (9) and the lingual (12) are also very large, corresponding to the vigorous associated actions of the tongue and pharynx, which must take place during deglutition in the Cetacea. But perhaps the most remarkable nerve for its great relative size is the acoustic (8), which certainly testifies to the delicate sense of hear- ing in the Dolphins.] The organs of the senses, with the exception of that of smell, are composed, in all the Cetaceans, of the parts which essentially con- stitute them in terrestrial Mammalia, and are only modified with reference to the habitually aquatic life of the animals of this order. But little inquiry has been made as to their utility in these animals, the length of time they con- tinue serviceable, and the characteristic diffe- rences which might be drawn from them for the distinction of the species. Eye.—The eye of the Herbivorous Cetaceans alone is provided with a lateral lid or membrana nictitans; that of the Spouting Whales is de- void of lachrymal glands ; but its lids are fur- nished below with little glands which secrete a mucous matter, adapted like the tears for lubricating the sclerotica. [Hunter observes that " the eye in this tribe of animals is constructed upon nearly the same principle as that of quadrupeds, dif- fering, however, in some circumstances; by which it is probably better adapted to see in the medium through which the light is to pass. It is upon the whole small for the size of the animal, which would lead to the supposition that their locomotion is not great; for, I believe, animals that swim are in this respect similar to those that fly; and as this tribe come to the surface of the medium in which they live, they may be considered in the same view with birds which soar; and we find, birds that fly to great heights, and move through a considerable space, in search of food, have their eyes larger in proportion to their size. " The eyelids have but little motion, and do not consist of loose cellular membrane, as in quadrupeds, but rather of the common adipose membrane of the body ; the connexion, however, of their circumference with the com- mon integuments is loose, the cellular mem- brane being less loaded with oil, which allows of a slight fold being made upon the sur- rounding parts in opening the eyelids. This is not to an equal degree in them all, being less so in the Porpoise than in the Piked Whale.