68 AGE. glands, are in a state of high development, as indicated both by their size and by their tendency to disease. The stomach and duo- denum are fully formed, but the sensibility of their mucous membrane is adapted only to the milk, of the mother; any other kind of food has a greater or less tendency to produce irritation. This membrane is thick, extremely villous and vascular, and consequently of a rose-colour.* In young persons it assumes a milky or satin-like appearance; in the adult it becomes slightly ash-coloured, especially in the duodenum and in the commencement of the ileum ; in the old subject it is more de- cidedly ashy. Its whitish appearance, according to Aiidral,f is found either in very old persons or in younger subjects who have died of ma- rasmus. In the adult the small intestines, according to QrftlaJ; bear a proportion of eight to one as compared with the distance from the mouth to the anus; in the infant the propor- tion is no less than twelve to one.§ The large intestines are longer with respect to the small intestines in the infant than in the adult; but their calibre is proportionally smaller. Ascending to the mouth we might be tempted to say that there is evidence of incompleteness in the ab- sence of teeth; but a moment's consideration assures us that the organs collected in this part are all eminently adapted to their function. The food is already prepared by the mother, and only needs to be extracted and conveyed into the pharynx; actions which are perfectly achieved by the lips, cheeks, and tongue. When the period has arrived at which this food can no longer be furnished with safety to the mother, and when all the purposes are accomplished which were intended in this close connexion between the two beings— purposes in all probability of a moral as well as a physical character'—the infant is prepared for a more independent existence by the emer- gence of teeth. This event generally begins about the sixth or seventh month by the appear- ance of the two middle incisors in the lower jaw; these are followed by the corresponding teeth in the upper jaw; next are seen the lateral incisors below and above : the rest appear in the following order;—the first molars, the canines, and the second molars; those of the lower jaw having generally the priority of emergence. The milk-teeth, as they are called, by the end of the seventh year have given way to the second and permanent series. For the different characters of the two sets, the order of their appearance, and other par- ticulars, we beg to refer the reader to the article Teeth. That the first series should be only temporary is a necessary provision, in conformity with the change in the conforma- tion of the maxillary bones which ensues at the same time. We must not leave the alimentary tract with- * Billard, Traite des Maladies des Enfans, &c. t Precis d'Anat. Pathol. ', | Lecons de Med. Leg. t. i. p. 62. § This statement is at variance with that of Meckel, who says that the small intestine is much shorter in the early period.-. Op. cit. t. iii. p. 424. out observing that the fibres of the stomach and intestines in infancy and childhood are, like those of the heart and other involuntary muscles, more irritable than in after life ; hence the contents of these viscera are propelled more rapidly, and the evacuations are more frequent; their tissue is also softer, and their colour more approaching to white. The liver undergoes a great change after birth both in form and in function. The pecu- liar circulation of which it formed so important an organ during fcetal life being abolished, the left lobe which nearly equalled the right in volume, is diminished to a third of its original size. But while the umbilical vein and the canalis venosus are obliterated, the vena porta? is developed, and the bilious secretion becomes the predominant function. Of the further changes which this organ experiences, we have very little knowledge, except that the whole bulk is greatly lessened, and that the colour of its parenchyma becomes darker, and that it is more subject to disease in after periods. Oc- casionally we meet with instances in which the fcetal proportions of the liver continue through life (Andral). The bile has not been carefully examined with reference to particular ages, but it is known to be less viscid and to contain a smaller quantity of its peculiar principles in infancy ; while its greater liability to con- cretions at more advanced periods indicates an alteration in its composition. The gall-blad- der, though small at birth, contains bile, green in colour and bitter in taste, and soon becomes enlarged. The spleen also increases in volume, but what alteration takes place in the progress to maturity, in its function, must, of course, be doubtful until the function itself be better understood. Probably its enlargement is con- nected with the distended condition of the venous system. Of the changes in the pan- creas and salivary glands, we know little more than that their texture increases in firmness. The lacteals, lymphatics, and their respective ganglions have a very marked development. It is to be regretted that no observations have as yet been made upon the composition of the chyle at different ages. There are doubtless many alterations corresponding to the varying activity of the digestive function, and to the kinds of aliment used at those periods. So much for the organs and functions which are concerned in augmenting or modifying the nutrient matter. Before proceeding to those of the relative life, we must allude to the organs of excretion. The kidneys at birth have not lost the traces of their lobular forma- tion, but these are soon effaced. The weight of these organs at birth is to that of the whole body as 1-80; in the adult 1-240. The me- dullary portion is more abundant than the corti- cal in early life. The supra-renal capsules soon be- gin to shrink from their fcetal size. The ureters are large, and the bladder has a more elongated form than in after periods ; it also occupies a higher situation above the pelvis. The func- tional qualities of these forms are not so well ascertained as the analogy of their organization to