383 BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. affecting the sac itself; hence a process of this sort may enlarge indefinitely, and has been known in some cases to have formed a part of the contents of an inguinal hernia. Pouches of this nature, for there may be several in the same individual, sometimes contain calculi, the latter having probably been the cause of the former, inasmuch as the muscular coat having been excited by the irritation of the stone to increased action, has forcibly pressed the latter into one of the cells of the mucous membrane, which has then become enlarged and protruded, so as to contain the calculus impacted in it. The consequence of this occurrence to the indi- vidual, however, is often a fortunate remission of suffering, because the stone being now fixed in a cell, ceases to excite pain or irritation: it is by occurrences of this nature that the boasted and sometimes fortunate efficacy of certain lithontriptic medicines as cures for stone is to be explained. The exact arrangement of the muscular fibres at the neck of the bladder has not been very accurately explained ; some describe them as arranged circularly so as to constitute a true sphincter: this opinion is maintained by John Bell, System of Anatomy, vol. iv. p. 159; also by Palfin, Anat. torn. i. p. 163; by Meckel, Anat. vol. iii. p. 564; by Bayleand others. Sir Charles Bell also describes a sphincter vesicae to exist, but places it in a different situa- tion from that usually assigned. His description of this muscle is as follows :—" to exhibit it, cut off all the appendages to the bladder except the prostate gland, make an incision into the fundus and invert it, dissect off the inner mem- brane from around the orifice of the urethra; a set of fibres will be discovered on the lower half of the orifice running in a semicircular form round the urethra ; these make a band of about half an inch in breadth, particularly strong on the lower part of the opening, and having mounted a little above the orifice on each side, they disperse a portion of their fibres in the substance of the bladder; a smaller and weaker set will be seen to complete their course surrounding the orifice on the upper part, to these sphincter fibres a bridle is joined which comes from the union of the muscles of the ureters; this is the most posterior part of all the muscles which embrace the urethra, it re- sembles the sphincters of the other hollow vis- cera; forexample,that of the pyloric orifice of the stomach."* The great advantage of the sphincter as thus described must be, as Sir C.Bell says, to prevent the fluids from the seminal vessels and from the ducts of the prostate gland, falling- back into the bladder, as also to protect the ori- fices of these ducts from exposure to the urine when the bladder is closed, and that without this arrangement it would be inconceivable how the contents of the vesicular seminales could be discharged forwards, or how the urine could be retained while the seminal discharge was being made. We must remark, that after frequent examinations of this region, we cannot satisfy ourselves of the existence of this particular ar- * Treatise on Diseases of the Urethra, &e. p. 14. rangement, although we are convinced that the orifice is furnished with a sphincter such as we shall presently describe. Moreover, we believe that the prostatic secretion is more or less ex- pressed at each evacuation of the urine, inas- much as the longitudinal, the principal detrusor fibres of the bladder, are fixed into, expand upon, and must compress this gland, especially at the commencement of the process, although they obviously can have no effect on the vesi- culas seminales, vasa deferentia, or their contents. The existence of a true muscular sphincter is denied by Sabatier, Anat. torn. ii. p. 403; Marjolin, torn. ii. p. 473; also by Bichat, Anat. desc. torn. v. p. 147; byBoyer, Anat. torn. iv. p. 490; by Cloquet, Anat. torn. ii. p. 1050; by Portal, Anat. torn. v. p. 401 ; the latter, however, describes the urethral orifice as surrounded by oblique muscular fasciculi. Winslow also, Anat. torn. ii. p. 210, denies a true sphincter, but ascribes the office of such to the muscular fasciculi which pass from the pubis to the bladder. Wilson (Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 57,) denies the existence of any regular sphincter, but thinks, from the distribution of some fibres at the beginning of the urethra, and which pass round it semicircularlv from the forepart and meet the descending fibres behind, that the contraction of these, assisted by those of the urethra nearer the penis (compressores urethra1), may be considered as sufficient to prevent the urine passing from the bladder into the urethra. Several of the foregoing writers who deny a muscular sphincter to the bladder, consider, nevertheless, that its orifice is closed by a pe- culiar tissue which resists the ordinary tendency of the muscular coat to expel its contents, but which is capable of yielding to the increased force which is exerted in the ordinary evacua- tion. Thus Bichat describes, as placed between the mucous lining and the external cellular tissue, a dense white fibrous substance, con- tinuous with the muscular fibres which are in- serted into it, a small process of this prolonged posteriorly to the uvula, and another anteriorly to the vei'uinontanum. This substance is not muscular, and presehJiTa 'passive organic resistance. Cloquet, Boyer, and Marjolin con- cur in the same account; it is difficult, how- ever, to reconcile with such a condition of parts the phenomena which not unfrequently occur in disease, such as paralysis and incontinence of urine in cases of injury of the spine, or of the nervous system; or again, retention of urine from irritation in this situation caused either by local inflammation, or through sympathy with some adjacent diseased organ, or by some pe- culiar acrimony in the urine. A muscular struc- ture is more reconcilable with these, and with many other pathological facts, than an elastic, or fibrous, or resisting tissue, such as this part is stated to be furnished with. The result of our examination convinces us that the organization of this part is very peculiar, and that the neck of the bladder is closed by a power more than that of a mere elastic tissue. Elasticity no doubt resides in this structure, and w7e admit to a con- siderable extent, as it does in almost every ani-