AORTA. 191 kind, the number of branches is most fre- quently increased to four, by the left vertebral arising from the arch between the left carotid and left subclavian, as in the phoca vitulina; next to this in frequency is the instance of the inferior thyroid arising from the arch between the innominata and left carotid, then the in- ternal mammary, and, lastly, the most un- usual is the thymic artery : it is more unusual to find the number of branches coming from the arch increased to four, in consequence of the innominata being absent, the right carotid and right subclavian arising separately ; in such a distribution the right subclavian most fre- quently arises from the left extremity of the arch after the left subclavian; it may, how- ever, be the first branch of the arch to the right, or it may arise between the two carotids, or, as more rarely happens, between the left carotid and left subclavian. The number of branches arising from the arch will be in- creased to five or upwards, when two or more of the above-mentioned anomalous branches arise from it at the same time. Of the second kind of anomaly, or that by diminution of the number of branches, the most frequent is where these are reduced to two, of which there occur the following varieties : a. the in- nominata sometimes gives off the left carotid as an additional branch, and the left subcla- vian arises separately, as in many quadrumana, several of the carnivora, as the lion, cat, dog, weazel, several rodentia, &c.; b. sometimes there are two arteriae innominate, each dividing in a symmetrical manner into the subclavian and carotid of its own side, as in cheiroptera and the dolphin ; c. sometimes when the arch gives off but two trunks, one of them divides into the two carotids, and the other into the sub- clavians; d. the right subclavian may arise distinct, and a common trunk give oft" the two carotids and left subclavian; the origin of a single trunk from the arch of the aorta sup- plying the arteries of the head and upper extremities is equivalent to a division of the aorta into an ascending and descending trunk, already noticed. The third kind of anomaly partakes of the characters of the two pre- ceding, although the number of branches is the same as in the normal state : its varieties are, a, the left vertebral arising from the arch, whilst the left carotid comes from the inno- minata ; b, the two carotids may arise from a common trunk between the origins of the right and left subclavians, as in the elephant; c, the right subclavian and right carotid may arise as distinct branches, whilst the left carotid and left subclavian come from a common trunk, forming a complete inversion of the usual order; d, the left carotid may arise from the innominata, whilst the right carotid comes from the part of the arch in the situation usu- ally occupied by the origin of the left carotid. Anomalies of the branches of the descending aorta are less frequent; the following are among the more remarkable: a, the cceliac and dia- phragmatic may arise above the diaphragm ; one or both of the diaphragmatics may be given off by the cceliac; sometimes the cceliac and superior mesenteric arise by a common trunk as in the tortoise; sometimes there are two or more renal arteries on one or both sides, and sometimes the primitive iliacs are given off much higher than usual, in which case they are sometimes connected by a cross branch before they divide into the external and in- ternal iliacs : it sometimes happens, when the iliacs are given oft' higher than usual, that the inferior mesenteric arises from the left of them. The diseased conditions of the aorta are described in the articles Artery and Heart. The aorta, as Beclard remarks,* is more sub- ject than any other artery to the ovoid dila- tation in its ascending, and the lateral dila- tation in its descending portion; it is also very subject to osseous or calcareous deposits, to fissures and ulcerations, to tubercles and small abscesses in its parietes, and to aneurism. Wounds of the aorta are constantly mortal. Laennec has observed a particular lesion of this vessel; it was a fissure of the internal and middle coats, from which the external tunic was extensively separated by a quantity of blood which had been effused between it and the middle tunic. The late Mr. Shekelton has described, in the Dublin Hospital Reports, a form of aneurism of the lower part of the abdominal aorta, in which the blood forced its way through the internal and middle coats, dissected the middle from the external for the space of four inches, and then burst into a lower part of the canal of the artery, forming a new channel which eventually superseded the old one, which the pressure of the tumour obliterated. Granular excrescences are sometimes formed on the valves of the aorta, which Corvisart conjectured to be of venereal origin. The in- ternal tunic of the aorta sometimes presents a red appearance, not peculiar, however, to this vessel, and occurring in certain forms of fever. Obliteration or constriction of the aorta is a condition rarely met with; its existence may be traced either to pressure on the vessel from without, morbid thickening of its coats, or the formation of coagula internally; this latter occurrence being most usually a consequence of the spontaneous cure of aneurism. Aneurisms of the aorta produce various effects on surrounding parts ; thus the heart, lungs, trachea, oesophagus, pulmonary artery, large veins, thoracic duct, and the various organs in the abdomen placed in their vicinity, may suffer derangement of their functions, displacement, atrophy or partial destruction, according to the degree of pressure to which they are subjected. Aneurisms occurring in the ascending por- tion of the aorta, which is within the pericar- dium, are often attended during life by many symptoms very similar to those of disease of the heart itself, while their pressure may produce a diminution of the calibre of the pulmonary artery, obstruct the free passage of the blood through the vena cava superior, and even in- * Dictionnaire dc Medecine, art. Aortc.