139 ANIMAL. and fluids they'Surround and include. This tonicity or peculiar contractility disappears in great part with the cessation of life : a wound made in a dead body never gapes as it does in a living one. Something of the same kind exists in vegetables; the sap as- cends with greatly increased velocity in the young shoots under the influence of stimuli of different kinds, and its flow is checked by nar- cotics and altogether arrested by poisons; it is probable, therefore, that it takes place in con- sequence of a vital tonicity or contractility in the sides of the sap-vessels which contain it. From this general review of the physical construction and vital phenomena of the two grand classes of organized beings, vegetables and animals, it is impossible not to remark the strong features of resemblance, and yet the numerous points of difference they exhibit. Both have a beginning, which happens very much in the same way in each; both live as individuals by the susception of aliment and its prepration by a variety of processes, which, in their essence, differ but little from one an- other ; both continue themselves as kinds in a surprisingly similar manner ; both exhibit the changes denominated age ; both have a merely temporary existence, consequently both exhibit the phenomenon entitled death, and both are decompounded after the cessation of life, their constituent elements assuming new shapes, in obedience to the genera! laws of chemical affinity, which had been set at nought during the existence of the individuals in either class. Notwithstanding these striking points of re- semblance between vegetables and animals in all that is essential or general, it is impossible, as we have seen, to condescend upon par- ticulars without immediately detecting differ- ences that distinguish in the most marked manner the individuals of the oi.e class from those of the other. It is always in their lowest or most simple species that we remark the most striking similarity between vegetables and animals, and it is among these that we constantly find ourselves most at a loss for characters distinctive of each. We observe no evidence of anything like a connected chain of being from the lowest or most simple, to the highest or most complicated vegetable, and from this through the most inferior animal upwards to man ; it is, on the contrary, in the extremes or lowest grades of each that the greatest similarity prevails; here vegetables and animals approximate very closely, here they literally inosculate, but from this common point they begin to form two distinct series, which diverge ever more and more widely from one another as they ascend. Without attention to particulars, it would seem impos- sible to adduce as ultimate terms of distinction between vegetables and animals, other faculties than those of voluntary motion and sensation as peculiar to the latter, in virtue of the one of which powers they are rendered in a great mea- sure masters of their own existence, whilst by the other they are endowed with consciousness of many of the various acts that take place within, and of the phenomena that occur without them. Even this distinction, how- ever, is only applicable as regards species con- siderably raised above the lowest; would we indicate the differences between the most in- ferior members of eiti.er series we must con- descend upon particulars, and, in some in- stances, even call in analogy and inference to our aid in laying down the chart of their re- semblances and dissimilarities. COMPARISON OF ANIMALS WITH ONE ANOTHER. This head is also comprised within that of our entiie Cyclopaedia. The glance we shall cast over the field it embraces will, therefore, be very cursory, and the views taken of the objects it presents extremely general. Fliysical qualities and material constitution of animals —In point of size, animals differ most widely from one another. The existence of some is only made known by the aid of a powerful microscope, the length of others ex- ceeds a hundred feet, and their weight amounts to many tons. These extremes include animals of every intermediate bulk. The form assumed by animals presents many more interesting particulars for study and in- vestigation than the mere bulk of their bodies. The consideration of this accident has even been made the ground of a classification of the objects included within the animal kingdom by several naturalists, and although not adopted as the sole basis of any one now generally received, it nevertheless furnishes the element upon which several of the classes even of the most recent are established. Some animals present themselves in the likeness of a globule, others of a filament, and others of a small flattened membrane (the cyclides). Various animals, again, from exhibiting no uniform or regular shape, have been entitled amorphous or heteramorplious. Animals which exhibit a determinate form naturally arrange themselves into two classes; their bodies are either disposed around a centre, or they consist of two similar halves cohering along a middle plane or axis; the first are the radiata, the second the binaria or symmetrica of naturalists. The radiata are not a very extensive class of animals, neither is their organization extremely complicated. The symmetrical is a much more numerous class than the radiated, and includes within its limits creatures of such simple structure as the en- tozoa, and of such complicated fabric as quad- rupeds and man. Of the symmetrical animals, some consist of a mere trunk without appen- dices or limbs; those that are provided with limbs, again, have them in the shape of feet, fins, wings, or hands, according to the media in which they live. In some the body forms as it were a single piece, in others it is divided into portions, such as head, trunk, and tail. Sometimes it is naked; at others it is covered with shells, scales, spines, hair, &c. Some- times the general integument is continuous, unpierced by any opening that leads to the interior, at others it is reflected inwards, and lines extensive cavities there contained.