BONE, NORMAL ANATOMY. 431 them in so complicated a piece of machinery as the skeleton. These varieties have been reduced by anatomists to four classes, viz. 1. the long or cylindrical; 2. tlie broad or flat; 3. the short or thick ; and 4. the mixed or irre- gular bones. The long bones are distinguished by their length, which greatly exceeds their other dimensions. They are to be found only in the extremities, and are adapted for locomo- tion and for supporting the weight of the body. They are never exactly cylindrical, being al- ways contracted in the middle or shaft, and enlarged at each end ; and their transverse sec- tion is oval or triangular, never round. The broad or flat bones are thin, generally arched, and fitted to protect delicate organs; we find the best specimens of them in the cranium. The short have nearly equal length, breadth, and thickness; they are seen in the carpus and tarsus. The mixed or irregular bones are usually classed with the short, but it is more convenient to separate them : the vertebra? are good examples of these. The ribs and bones of the pelvis may also be ranged with them, combining the characters of two of the pre- ceding classes. Each of these divisions exhibits certain peculiarities of structure to which we shall allude hereafter.* If we prepare bones by careful maceration and drying, and then saw them through, or, what is better, fracture them with a smart blow of a hammer, we observe the density of texture to differ very much in different portions. The outer part is generally much more dense and close than the interior, and is called the com- pact, vitreous, or cortical substance. The inte- rior, open and areolar in its appearance, is the spongy, cancellated, or reticular substance. These two are arranged in a peculiar manner in each class of bone. In the long there is a considerable thickness of compact substance in the shaft, surrounding a cavity, and but little of the spongy, whilst towards the ends the compact gradually becomes thin as paper, the spongy increasing in quantity and filling up all the interior, as if formed by the expansion of the compact tissue {jig. 186, a). In the flat bones the compact substance is formed into two plates with a thin stratum of spongy substance called the diploe between {fig. 186, b). In very thin bones the diplue is often absent. The short bones are spongy throughout, with a thin layer of the compact tissue on the surface; they are like the extremities of the long bones: and the irregular, resembling in shape two or more of the former classes, have a corresponding arrange- ment of the two tissues. A vertical section of three long bones is re- presented at Jig. 186, where A is the head and neck of the femur, and 13 the upper extremities of the tibia and fibula : a indicates the com- pact tissue; 6 the reticular; at c it may be seen how thin is the layer of compact tissue cover- ing the head of the femur. In the shaft of the long bones there exists a cavity of considerable size filled with marrow, and called the medullary cavity. This is widest in the centre, gradually getting smaller towards * See further particulars respecting foramina, processes, epiphyses, Sec. as connected with mecha- nical contrivance, under the article Skeleton. the extremities, where its place is occupied with spongy substance. The interior of this cavity is rough; bony processes project into it, and form a kind of net-work resembling the spongy substance at the ends, but with more open and less regular cells. By some anatomists the term spongy is confined to the cellular arrange- ment at the ends, that in the middle being