662 CIRCULATION. lumn of blood of seven feet and a half high into the area of the inner surface of the heart: he hence calculates the pressure on the in- ner surface of the human heart to be nearly 51£ lbs. The pressure on the interior of the horse's heart he estimates at 113 lbs. upon similar principles. As pressure applied in any direction to a fluid column is equally transmitted through all its parts, and as the blood in the arteries forms continuous columns which all branch off from the aorta, it might a priori have teen con- cluded that the force of the blood must be the same in all the arteries of any considerable size. Hales, though he does not state this proposition very explicitly, seems yet to have taken it for granted; for, in estimating the pressure of the heart, he takes into account merely the height of the column without re- ference to the size of the artery. We shall find this proposition to be satisfactorily proved to be correct by direct experiments subse- quently performed. The experiments of Hales were liable to two principal objections : 1st, that the coagulation of the blood in the long glass tube adapted to the artery must have prevented its free motion; and, 2nd, that the length of the tube, besides giving rise to the necessity of frequently re- moving it and various other inconveniences, must have occasioned a considerable loss of blood in filling from the arteries of small ani- mals. Both these sources of fallacy have been provided against most successfully by M. Poiseuille,* an ingenious ex- Fig. 329. perimenter of Paris, who, by the adoption of a simple con- trivance, has been enabled to measure with great accuracy the arterial pressure of the blood, and has thus confirmed and extended the interesting re- searches of Hales. The instrument employed by Poiseuille, to which he gives the name of Hemadynamome- ter, (fig. 329,) consists of abent glass tube of the form here repre- sented, filled with mercury in the lower bent part (a, d, e). The horizontal part (b), provided with a brass head, is fitted into the artery, and a little of a solu- tion of carbonate of soda is interposed between the mercury and the blood which is allowed to enter the tube for the pur- pose of preventing its coagula- tion. When the blood is al- lowed to press upon the fluid in the horizontal limb, the rise of the mercury towards (c) measured from the level to which it has fallen towards (d) gives the pressure under which the blood moves. Magendie's Journal, vols. viii. & ix. Brcschct's Poiseuille's He- madynamometer. Repert. d'Anat. et de Physiol. 1826. One of the most important facts established by Poiseuille's experiments is, that the pressure of the blood is within certain limits nearly the same in arteries of very different calibre and at different distances from the heart; as proved by the rise of the mercury of the hemadyna- mometer to nearly an equal height when this instrument was connected with the iliac, caro- tid, radial, facial, and other arteries in some of the lower animals. It is hence apparent, that, in order to ascertain the whole amount of force with which the blood is propelled in the aorta, or the statical force of the heart itself, it is sufficient to measure by means of the tube the momentum of the blood in any one of the arteries. Poiseuille estimates the force with which the blood is propelled in the commencement of the aorta in man at 4 lbs. 3 oz.,—a result which agrees remarkably with that obtained by Hales.* Poiseuille, however, considers the pressure backwards within the heart to amount to 13 lbs. only, as he calculates this in a different way from that followed by Hales, viz. by multi- plying the pressure of the blood in the aorta into the surface of a plane passed through the base and apex of the left ventricle,—a mode of calculation which it appears that Dr. Hales had not lost sight of; for, at page 21 of the work on Hemastatics, he proposes it as the " means of estimating the force of the blood which the muscular fibres of the ventricle must resist." Poiseuille estimates the force with which the blood moves in the radial artery of man at four drachms. Hales had remarked that the blood in the tube connected with an artery rose regularly a little way at each systole of the ventricle, and remained always somewhat higher during the straining of the animal, that is, while the muscles of expiration were in action. These phenomena, known to Haller, were demon- strated experimentally by Magendie, and re- ceive a still more decided confirmation from the experiments of Poiseuille made with the hemadynamometer.f We would here remark that, it having been shewn by the above-mentioned experiments that the force of the heart is sensibly the same in the trunks and larger branches of the arte- ries, it is manifest that the angles of rami- fication and the friction of the blood against the sides of the vessels can give rise to very little if any diminution in the force of the heart transmitted by the elasticity of the arterial parittes. We shall afterwards see that the case is very different in the smaller vessels. We would also call the attention of the reader to an interesting application of the fact of the complete transmission of pressure through the fluid contained within the bloodvessels in all directions, in the immense force which the * The power of the heart has also been calcu- lated from the force supposed necessary to raise the foot of one of the legs thrown across the other in the pulsatory movement which is then seen to occur,—one of the most inaccurate methods that could be adopted. t See Part IV. of this article.