237 ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. and subsequently in the largest portion of its circumference, of the cellular coat alone. The long continuance and gradual increase of some aneurisms, as contrasted with their sudden and rapid growth afterwards, have been explained on this supposition. Diffused aneurism.—An aneurism is termed diffused when the blood, removed from the circulation, is not confined within a pouch or sac, and therefore passes in every direction throughout the cellular tissue of the limb. This may be occasioned by the rupture or ulceration of an aneurismal sac, but far more frequently by some violence applied to the artery itself in such a manner as to open its cellular as well as its other coats. Thus a spicula of a fractured bone, or a pointed sequestrum, in coming from a necrosed limb, may produce the disease ; but the most common examples that fall under a surgeon's observation are furnished by awkward or ignorant persons in their at- tempts to perform the operation of phlebotomy. In the latter case there is an external wound communicating with the injured vessel, and then it also presents a familiar illustration of traumatic aneurism. When the blood is thus diffused throughout the cellular tissue, there is always the greatest danger; not so much from the loss of a large quantity to the circulation as from the rapidity with which a limb so circumstanced runs into a gangrene,—a rapidity so great that the mor- tification either is not or seems not to be pre- ceded by inflammation, and its occurrence is often the first notice a surgeon receives of the extent and nature of the accident. When the injured artery lies deep and is covered by a dense and resisting fascia (as in the instance of the posterior tibial artery being ruptured by a blow), it may bleed for some time without affording any indication beyond the pain and tension complained of by the patient, and a slight tumefaction of the limb. When, how- ever, the fascia has yielded or sloughed and per- mitted a more extended diffusion of the blood, the part becomes swollen, glassy, and cedema- tous, pale if the blood did not occupy the cellular tissue underneath, but of a livid colour, like that of a bruise, if it does. The joints in the neighbourhood are kept flexed, and any attempt at motion gives intolerable pain. In a very short space of time circumscribed spots of gangrene appear, which, on separating, per- mit masses of very dark coagula to protrude, accompanied by an oozing, or perhaps, a flow of arterial blood, under which a patient will very soon sink. And it may be, the real nature of the case has not been suspected until this blood has made its appearance. Doubtless, if a diffused aneurism has been occasioned by a wound, the rush of blood at the moment, its colour, and the difficulty of controlling the hae- morrhage will point out what has happened; or if there had been a circumscribed aneurism that on a sudden lost its defined character while the limb began to enlarge above and below it, there would be good grounds for suspicion; but in any other case it is so difficult to sepa- rate the pain and tension and the other symp- toms from those which might naturally super- vene on a severe injury, that the appearance of a tendency to gangrene is too often the first circumstance to create alarm. There are many symptoms in which the diffused aneurism differs from the circumscribed, that render the diagnosis of the former particularly diffi- cult. It has been already stated that the " bruit de soufflet" is, even when present, not a pathognomonic symptom, and if the vessel lies deep it is not to be heard at all. Pulsation of the tumour, the most satisfactory symptom of an aneurism, is generally absent, and when otherwise, is very weak, fluctuating, and indis- tinct. To those who reflect that the effused blood is thrown out amongst inelastic and unresisting structures, that no portion of it is returned to the circulation, but that it lies a coagulated mass amongst the surrounding cellular tissue, the absence of these symptoms will not require explanation. Traumatic aneurism.—But if, as very fre- quently happens, the accident that caused the aneurism has also created an external wound communicating with the injured vessel, and permitting the escape of a portion of the blood through it, although still a diffused aneurism, the leading circumstances of the case are essentially altered. This is the form of disease termed by the French traumatic aneurism, the name having reference not so much to the fact of its having been produced by violence, as to the co-existence with it of a solution of continuity in the skin and other structures external to the vessel. Thus, although an aneurism may be caused by the prick of a lancet in the bend of the arm, or by a bayonet- wound in the thigh, yet if the external wound is healed, or, being unhealed, if it is so oblique or devious that the blood flowing from the artery does not escape from the limb, it may not be called traumatic, whilst a common pop- liteal aneurism that had arisen spontaneously, if it is accidentally opened, assumes the cha- racter just designated. The chief peculiarity of this case, then., is the external wound, and if it be conceded that it is the resistance of the unyielding structures that presses the coagu- lum against the vessel, and thus accomplishes the cure of those forms of aneurism already described, it will be seen that a material part of the process must be deficient, and, therefore, that the principles applicable to the former cannot be made available here.^ In order to the proper understanding of thi part of the subject, it will bevnecessary to take a familiar case for illustration^ A person in attempting to open a vein in the arm strikes his lancet into the artery, and is, perhaps, unconscious of the extent of the mischief he has occasioned. The arm is tied up, but it swells and becomes intolerably painful. When the bandage is removed, the wound is found not to have united, and a coagulum is pro- bably seen plugging it up, which loosens occa- sionally and allows the escape of a considerable quantity of red and florid blood. In the meantime the diffusion throughout the limb is extending in every direction, and the hremor-