468 BURS/E MUCOSjE. the hip, shoulder, knee, and ankle, but are not, as it was supposed until of late years, con- fined to the extremities, for we shall presently point out instances of their occurrence both in the head and trunk. Amongst the most re- markable in the inferior extremity we find, in the neighbourhood of the hip-joint, a very large one between the tendon of the psoas muscle and the capsular ligament; a large one between the great trochanter and gluteus maximus; one between the gluteus maximus and vastus externus; one between the gluteus medius and trochanter; one between the gluteus minimus and trochanter; one between the pectineus and femur. These are all large and regular in their existence ; but there are other smaller ones fre- quently met with, particularly at the posterior part of the joint connected with the small ten- dons and muscles placed there. About the knee-joint there are likewise several vesicular burse*: immediately above the articulation, be- tween the extensors and front of the femur, there is an extremely large one, oftentimes ex- tending several inches upwards, and still more remarkable in many instances for communi- cating with the synovial membrane of the joint; a fact which has been well appealed to by the general anatomist in proof of the anatomical identity of these two structures. There is a large one, likewise, at the inner and lower part of the articulation between the tibia and the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis and semi- tendinosus : posteriorly between the origins of the gastrocnemii and the bone there is also found a bursa; and a similar one between the pophteus muscle and the joint. These, like the large one in front, generally communicate freely with the articular synovial membrane. There is also a bursa generally found between the semi-membranosus and the internal lateral ligament. Around the ankle there are but few vesicular bursa? : posteriorly, however, between the tendo Achillis and os calcis, there is found a very large one; and smaller ones are frequently met with connected with the flexor pollicis longus, and some of the other muscles in their passage here. In the superior extremity we find likewise, several vesicular bursas: around the shoulder-joint there is a very large and regular one placed between the deltoid muscle and the capsular ligament; there is one between the clavicle and coracoid process; one between the scapula and subscapular muscle; one be- tween the subscapular muscle and the capsule. Lower down there is a bursa between the humerus and the tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi; and also a bursa fre- quently between these two tendons, at a little distance from their insertion. About the elbow- joint there is a vesicular bursa between the tendon of the triceps and the olecranon; one in front, between the tendon of the biceps and the tubercle of the radius : there is also one between the head of the radius behind, and the extensor muscles passing over it. Around the wrist-joint there are no vesicular bursa? of any size or importance. There is in the trunk a large vesicular bursa, usually found between the latissimus dorsi and scapula, lu the head we often see a distinct bursa interposed between the two divisions of the masseter muscle. b. The deep vaginal bursa are invariably found connected with tendons and with the fibrous sheaths through which these tendons are transmitted. They are somewhat more complex than the preceding, for instead of representing a simple shut sac, they form, like serous membranes, by reflexion a double sac, one of whose portions, corresponding, for ex- ample, to the plura costalis, lines the interior of the fibrous sheath, while the other, answering to the plura pulmonalis, invests the surface of the tendon. There is, however, this difference between the pleurae and the synovial sac, that in the latter there is no longitudinal septum, no mediastinum resulting from the reflexion of the membrane; for the reflexion occurs not along the channel, but at either extremity of the fibrous sheath: thus the bursa, if completely detached from all surrounding structures, would represent a large tube, containing within itself a smaller one; these two being continuous by their extremities alone. The deep vaginal bursa? generally occur in the neighbourhood of ginglymoid articulations, and by far the largest and most interesting are those connected with the flexor tendons of the wrist and ankle. They are always of very great size, not only passing a considerable way up- wards upon the forearm and leg, but likewise extending downwards into the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, and branching out at their distant extremity into several distinct sheaths for the respective tendons belonging to the different toes and fingers. Upon the phalanges the synovial sheath is firmly bound down by a dense unyielding fibrous membrane, a cir- cumstance well worthy of remark; for, as we shall presently see, it modifies in a very im- portant degree the characters of inflammation occurring here. Besides these, we have a re- markable vaginal bursa connected with the long head of the biceps muscle; and smaller ones are found investing the tendons of the circum- flexus palati, obturator internus, Sec. Having thus considered the forms and rela- tions of the different sorts of bursa?, we may next proceed to offer a few remarks applicable alike to all, upon their structure, contents, uses, development, and diseases. Here, however, our labour is much abridged by the fact already alluded to, and now admitted upon all hands, that the membrane forming the bursae, and the synovial membrane of joints, are anatomically and physiologically the same. They are, in fact, the same in form, being both shut sacs; the same in structure, being both essentially composed of cellular membrane; the same in function, for they are both designed to facilitate the motion of contiguous organs; and, as we shall presently see, they are both similarly af- fected by disease. Were we to enter at length into these particulars upon the present occasion, we should but anticipate details belonging pro- perly to a more general head, that, namely, of synovial membrane. Hence the few remarks we are now about to offer must be received as merely supplementary to those found under that article.