ACALEPHiE. 37 Body oval or circular, gelatinous, supported by an internal, solid, subcartilaginous body, and provided with very extensile tentacule-like cirri pendent from the whole of the lower sur- face. Gen. Velella. Porpita. Rataria.* Of the genera above enumerated, Eschscholtz has described about two hundred species. Messrs. Quoy and Gaimard have made us ac • quainted with several others ; but of all these a comparatively small number only have been described in detail: so that, although in the account which we are now to give of the anatomy and physiology of the acaleplvae, we shall, for the sake of brevity, make use of the sectional designations, it must be understood that the descriptions apply only to a few species, and that, with regard to the others grouped along with these, we can only say it is probable that they are similarly con- structed. I. Locomotion. The principal organ of locomotion in the physograda is the air-filled vesicle or bladder, which exists, of various sizes, in all the species. In physalus, ( Fig. 6.) it is a large organ, forming a great portion of the general mass of the animal. It is placed * The following neat but artificial arrangement of acalephee forms the subject of a communication lately made to the Zoological Society by M. Lesson, foreign member of that body : we are indebted for it to our friend Mr. Owen. I. Without a central solid axis. A. Body simple, entire. 1. Symmetrical, termi- nated at each pole by an opening .... 1 Beroidee. 2. Non-symmetrical, the upper pole disciform or umbelliform, imper- forate 2 Medusas. B. Body multiple or aggre- gated. a. Homogeneous. 3. Composed of two pieces adhering together, and capable of separation . 3 Diphydes. 4. Composed of numerous pieces aggregated toge- ther 4 Poli/toma. b. Heterogeneous. 5. Animal furnished with appendages of different kinds. * Vesicle small, regular, placed at the summit of a kind of stalk fur- nished with lateral am- pullae, and terminal suckers 5 Physaophorce. '** Vesicle large, irregular, without stalk or am- pullae, but having ter- minal suckers and cir- riferotis processes . . 6 Physaliee. II. With a central cartilaginous axis. 6. Body simple, with suckers and lateral ten- taenia. a. Body irregularly oblong, with a veitical lamina on its upper surface . 7 Velellce. b. Body discoid, flat above. 8 Porpitee. R. B. T. superiorly, and, for the most part, rises above the surface of the water. It has an elongated form; the longest diameter being the hori- zontal. It is somewhat pointed at one end, at the other truncated ; and at either there is a small opening, the place of which is marked by a superficial dimple, surrounded by delicate muscular fibres, acting as sphincters. When (Fig. 6.) Physalus Utriculus, (Esch.) the bladder is squeezed by the hand, so as to force the contained air towards one of these openings, the air makes its escape through it; but whenever the pressure is taken off, the opening again closes. M. De Blainville states that he has satisfied himself that this air-blad- der is really a dilatation of the intestinal canal; and that he regards the two openings mentioned above as the mouth and the anus. We are ignorant of the data upon which M. De Blain- ville grounds his conclusion. It does rtot ap- pear that any observer has found alimentary matter lodged within the air-sac. But whether or not it be an organ of digestion, it is cer- tainly an organ of locomotion, although only a passive one; for it is by its contained air that the animal floats on the surface of the water, so as to expose a large superficies of its crest and bladder to the wind, by which it is driven to and fro frequently with great velocity. The walls of this sac are muscular, so that by their contraction its cavity can be considerably dimi- nished. And thus, partly by the escape of air forced out through the openings, and partly by the compression of what remains, the specific gravity is so much altered as to admit of the