CIRCULATION. 644 mals, that is to say, the arterial blood returning from the lungs to the left auricle (fig. 314, h) is directed entirely into the arteries of the system (A) from the left compartment of the ventricle (HJ, and the venous blood brought back to the right auricle (h') by the venae cava? (V v*) is directed wholly into the pul- monary vessels (P) by the right ventricular compartment (H'). Fig. 316. Lacerta ocellata. In all Reptiles, however, the descending aorta is formed by the union of two branches, the right and left aortic arches (figs. 314, 315, 316, and 317, A', A); the right corresponds with the systemic aorta of birds, and rises from the left ventricular compartment, the left arch joins the right on the back, and leads generally from the right ventricular cavity into the descending aorta. The ^arteries of the head and upper extremities (fig. 314, a*), arising from the right aorta (A'), which corres- ponds with the aorta of birds, and is con- nected with the left ventricular compartment, are supplied with highly arterialized blood proceeding directly from the lungs. The left arch of the aorta (A), being connected on the other hand with the right ventricular com- partment (H), obtains, like the pulmonary artery, venous blood from the right auricle; and consequently the common trunk of the aorta, formed by the union of the right and left aortic arches, must carry to the posterior parts of the body a mixture of arterial and venous blood.* It may be remarked, however, that in theTurtle and some Lizards the left aortic arch does not join the right upon the back until after it (the left) has given off the great coeliac or rather visceral artery, which supplies the whole of the alimentary canal and digestive organs with ve- nous blood (fig. 315, I). The leftaorta is thus much diminished in size before it sends its com- paratively small communicating branch to the right.f From this disposition of the parts, it is obvious that in these animals the abdominal viscera must receive the greater part of the venous blood brought from the right side of the heart by the left aortic arch, while the right aortic arch which gives the carotid, brachial, ver- tebral, intercostal, and other arteries must carry to the parts it supplies in the first part of its course nearly pure arterial blood, and, after it is joined by the left, blood which contains a small proportion only of the dark or venous kind. In the Turtle, some Lizards and Ser- pents again, the arterial and venous blood must be mixed in the ventricular cavity though par- tially divided; the two streams of blood pro- pelled into the aortic and pulmonary vessels must therefore be nearly of the same kind, and thus a part only of the blood which is sent to the lungs is made to undergo a respiratory change. In some of the Chelonia, the exis- tence of ductus arteriosi, leading from the pul- monary artery on each side into the arch of the aorta, insures a still more complete mixture of the arterial and venous blood.J In most of the adult Batrachia the ventricle (fig. 317, if J, being single and giving rise to one arterial trunk only (A), the pulmonary arteries (P',P) derive their blood from the great systemic aortic trunk of which they are branches; one coming off from each of the aortic arches which unite to form the descend- ing aorta. The venous blood returning from the system {V v*) to the right auricle, is mixed in the common cavity of the ventricle with the arterial blood returning to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins (/>), and this mixed blood being propelled into the aortic bulb is distri- buted in part to the system and in part to the lungs. In these animals then, only a small quantity of a mixed blood is exposed to the action of the air in the lungs, which, from the simplicity of their structure, offer only a con- * In the Crocodile, the left branch coming from the right ventricle is small and very short. f See Bojanus' beautiful Anat. Monography of the Tortoise. t In this respect, ^as well as in the mode of origin of the left aortic arch, the Tortoise and Tur- tle differ from one another.