CEPHALOPODA. 637 for it is divided into four lobes, and these are connected by a fifth portion, which passes transversely below the fundus of the crop. All these larger divisions are subdivided into numerous lobules of an angular form, which vary in size from three to five lines. These lobules are immediately invested by a very delicate capsule, and are more loosely sur- rounded by a peritoneal covering common to this gland and the crop. The liver is supplied by large branches which are given off from the aorta, {r,fig. 219.,) as that artery winds round the bottom of the sac to gain the dorsal aspect of the crop. It is from the arterial blood alone, in this, as in other Mollusks, that the secretion of the bile takes place, there being but one system of veins in the liver, corresponding to the hepatic, which returns the blood from that viscus, and conveys it to the vena cava at its termination. The colour of the liver is a dull red with a violet shade; its texture is pulpy and yielding. When the capsule is removed by the forceps, the surface appears under the lens to be mi- nutely granular or acinous, and these acini are readily separable by the needle into clusters hanging from branches of the bloodvessels and duct. The branches of the duct arising from the terminal groupes of the acini, form, by repeated anastomoses, two main trunks, which unite into one at a distance of about two lines from the laminated or pancreatic cavity. There appears to be one example in the Dibranchiate Order where the liver is divided into four lobes, as in the Nautilus; this occurs, according to Dr. Grant, in the Luligupsis guttata ; but in the figure which is given of this structure the lobes are each distinct from the rest, and divided at the middle line; while in the Nautilus the four lobes are united together. Rathke, on the contrary, who has given an elaborate account of the Anatomy of Loligopsis under the name of Perothis,* describes and delineates the liver, in the two species of that genus dissected by him, as a simple undivided viscus, of an ellip- soid figure, situated in the middle line of the body (12, jig. 223). In Onychoteuthis Banksii the liver is a single elongated laterally com- pressed lobe, obtuse and undivided at both extremities. In the Sagittated Calamary it is single, elongated, and cylindrical. In Sepia and llossia it is divided into two lateral lobes, both of which are notched at the upper extre- mity. In the Argonaut the two lobes are united for a considerable extent along the mesial line, but are greatly produced laterally, and advance forwards, narrowing towards a point, so as partially to enclose the alimentary canal. In Octopus the liver is a single oval mass, flattened anteriorly. In Eledonc it pre- sents a spherical form, corresponding to the ventricose form of the visceral sac. In the two latter genera the ink-bag is enclosed within the * nnp»9«o mniilatus, a name applied to this genus by Eschscholtz, in consequence ot the gene- rally mutilated condition of the tentacles. See Mem. de l'Acad. Imp. de Petersbourg, torn. ii. pt. 1 & 2, p. 149. VOL. I. capsule of the liver, but in the Argonaut and ii» all the Decapodous genera this is not the case. The proper capsule of the liver is very delicate, and apparently nothing more than the outer ter- mination of the cellular tissue which connects the lobules of its parenchyma. When this is inflated from the biliary ducts, it is seen to be Fig. 223. composed of cells, formed by the ulti- mate ramifications of the duct, with very thin parietes,and re- latively larger than those of the liver of the Snail. Thisisthe structure observable in the river of the Octopus, according to Muller,* and Rathke' observed the same structure in the terminal cceca of the hepatic duct in Loligopsis. In the Octopo- dous Dibranchiates, which have a large crop, and the lower pair of salivary glands of corres- pondingly large di- mensions, the two biliary ducts are simplecanals, which are continued from the lower end of the liver, embracing the origin of the intes- tine, and uniting be- low it to terminate by a common orifice in the pyloric ap- pendage. But in the Decapodous tribe they continue tosend Viseera in situ, Lolujopsis. off branches, which Lot. Esclischoltxii. subdivide and form clusters of ccecal appendages, through a greater or less proportion of their entire course. The follicles thus appended to the biliary ducts are larger than those which form the liver; they are figured by Monro in the Loligo sagittata as the ovary, but were considered by Mr. Hunter to represent the pancreas in the Cuttle- fish, from which species he took the preparation of these parts in his collection.! These folli- cles are described with much care and detail by Rathke in the genus Loligopsis, and, ac- cording to him, in one species (10, Jig. 223), (Lol. Eschscholtzii,) they terminate, not in the hepatic duct, but separately and directly in the pyloric appendage. We have found these cystic follicles appended to the hepatic duct in Scpiola, Onychoteuthis, Sepioteuthis, and in the genus Rossia, in which they present the largest proportional development hitherto ob- * De Glandularum Struct. Pen. p. 71. f See No. 775, Physiological Catalogue, 4to. vol. i. p. 229. 2 N