675 CIRCULATION. seen to contract on the application of a stimu- lus in the web of the frog's foot by Drs. Thom- son and Hastings. This, however, occurs much more rarely than the contraction of the small arteries. It has been remarked that in some animals muscular fibres are prolonged from the auricle upon the adjoining part of the vena cava; and Spallanzani, M.Ilall,Flourens,* and others have recorded the fact of the rythmic contraction of parts of the great veins adjoining the auricles. But, excepting in these situations and in the caudal heart, observed by M. Hall in the Eel, muscularity of the veins cannot be considered as having any effect in promoting the flow of the blood in these vessels. The progressive motion of the venous blood takes place with li'.tle force, and is therefore subject to considerable variations from external pressure. Thus the flow of the blood may be much accelerated by raising a limb, or retarded by keeping it in the depending posture from the mere effect of gravitation, and the common practice of making a person who is bled in the arm call the muscles of the arm into action during the operation, is a sufficient proof that the pressure of the muscles may be the means of accelerating in a considerable degree the venous circulation,—an effect obviously depen- dent on the disposition of the valves. Gravita- tion or muscular action are, however, only occa- sional causes of the acceleration of the flow of blood in the veins, and both, but particularly gravitation, may in some instances offer an ob- stacle to its progress. There are some physiologists who believe the blood to be drawn through the veins to- wards the heart by a power of suction which operates from the side of the heart or chest. The remarks we have already made in treating of the arterial and capillary circulations render it unnecessary for us to revert in this place to the arguments employed by those who have supported the above view, merely on account of their belief in the inadequacy of the heart's force to maintain the complete circulation ; we shall only now state the direct experiments or reasonings by which it has been attempted to be proved that a vis aj'ronte or suction power draws the blood towards the centre of the cir- culation. We have already, in a former part of this article, stated our reasons for believing that the elastic power of the heart itself is not attended with any production of an appreciable force sufficient to draw the blood into its inte- rior. The facts which relate to the supposition that the chest or lungs become, during their motions in respiration, the source of a suction power which acts on the venous blood may be suitably considered under the first part of the fourth division of this article, viz. IV. The relation of the circulation to other functions. 1. Respiration.—Of the opinions of those who attribute the suction of the blood through the veins to powers within the chest, there * Annates des Sciences Natur. torn, xxviii. p. 65. are chiefly two which have of late years at- tracted attention,—those namely of Dr. Car- son of Liverpool,* and of the late Sir David Barry .f According to Dr. Carson the lungs are of a highly elastic nature, and are kept in a state of forced distension by the pressure of the atmo- sphere which enters them when the chest dilates. The lungs would collapse or fall away from the walls of the chest but for the force with which they are distended, and there is thus a tendency to the production of a vacuum within the chest or to a diminution of the pressure on the exte- rior of the heart, in consequence of which the blood is forced or drawn into the heart and chest on the same principle that fluid enters the mouth in the act of sucking. According to Sir D. Barry, at each inspira- tion of air into the chest the lungs are not suffi- ciently expanded to fill the whole of the chest, or there is, in consequence of the expansion of the walls of the chest, a less pressure within the chest than on its exterior, and the blood is pro- pelled through the veins communicating with the heart by the external atmospheric pressure. Neither Dr. Carson nor Sir D. Barry state, in a sufficiently explicit manner, how much of the force impelling the blood through the veins they conceive to be of the nature of suction : they both admit that the greatest part of this force belongs to the heart or vis a tergo, but they yet state distinctly their belief that the suction power is an important cause of the mo- tion of the blood throughout the whole venous system. The works of both these authors are replete with interesting remarks on the circula- tion in general, and more especially on the flow of blood through the veins. The direct expe- riments, however, in support of their opinions are comparatively few and inconclusive. Dr. Carson shewed that the lungs are always during life in a state of forced expansion, and estimates the pressure which the lungs of the sheep are capable of sustaining, when in the expanded condition, as equal to a column of seven inches of water. Sir D. Barry observed, in experiments made upon horses, that when one end of a tube is introduced into the ju- gular vein, and the other extremity rests in a vessel containing water, the water rose during each inspiration some length in the tube, and sank again during expiration, distinctly indi- cating the diminished pressure existing within the chest at the time of the rise of the water, and proving that the flow of the blood in some parts of the veins may be accelerated during inspiration from the same cause. Poiseuille,J by the employment of the instrument for mea- suring the pressure of the animal fluids, to which allusion has already frequently been made, has confirmed Sir D. Barry's statement, that the di- minished pressure within the chest, at the time of inspiration, is such as to affect the flow of * Inquiry into the Causes of the Motion of the Blood, &c. Liverpool, 1815. t Experimental Researches on the Influence of Atmospheric Pressure upon the Progression of the Blood in the Veins, &c. Lond. 1826. \ Loc. citat.