ABSORPTION. 32 aqueous vapour diffused through the atmos- phere. This supposed power of cutaneous ab- sorption was called in to account for various physiological or pathological facts, for which it appeared to afford a plausible explanation, while, on the other hand, the easy mode in which it appeared to account for these facts was made use of as the great argument to prove its existence. The statical experiments of Sanctorius, which have, since his time, been so much multiplied and extended, were supposed to prove unequivocally that the body is capable of gaining weight independently of any substance received into the stomach, and to account for this addition, recourse was always had to the cutaneous absorption. Of late, indeed, it has been discovered, that a part of the effect ascribed by Sanctorius to the action of the skin is in reality due to the lungs, but still, after making the necessary deduction for the operation of the latter organ, there re- mained a certain increase of weight, which it was supposed could only be accounted for by admitting the existence of the cutaneous ab- sorption.* The doctrine of cutaneous absorption has, however, been altogether called in question by Seguin, who performed a series of experiments, which consisted in immersing a part of the body in a saline solution, for example, that of corrosive sublimate, the effects of which on the system at large would be easily recognized, if any part had been absorbed. The result was, that when the cuticle was entire, no effect that could be attributed to absorption took place, and the conclusion seemed not unna- tural, that under ordinary circumstances it did not exist f Currie was led to form the same conclusion by accurately weighing the body before and after immersion in the warm bath, under circumstances which were conceived to be favourable to the process,! and as the re- sults of his experiments coincided with those of Seguin and others, the doctrine of cuta- neous absorption, except under the particular circumstances mentioned above, was very generally abandoned. Experiments have been adduced to prove, that even under these par- ticular circumstances, when substances are ap- plied by friction to the surface, they do not enter into the mouths of the vessels, but being volatilized by the heat of the body, that the vapour thus produced is inhaled by the lungs ;§ an opinion which one might be inclined to think was almost too extravagant to be seri- ously maintained. The subject of cutaneous absorption has been lately investigated by Dr. Edwards, with that skill and address which he has applied to so many departments of physiology. By a number of experiments, which were performed on cold-blooded animals, where it was more * Mascagni, p. 22, 3; see also Kellie, in Ed. Med. Journ. v. i. p. 170 et seq.; and the article " Integuments" in Rees's Cyclop. t Fourcroy, Med. Eclair, t. iii. p. 232. . 241, and Ann. Chim. t. xc. p. 185 et seq. % Med. Reports, ch. xix. § Ed. Med. Journ. v. ii. p. 10 et seq. easy to observe the effects, he found that ab- sorption was carried on, to a considerable extent, when the animal, or a part of it was immersed in water. The conclusion which the experiments seemed to warrant was, that transudation and absorption are, at all times, going forwards at the surface, but that the operations proceed at different rates, according to the circumstances in which the animal is placed, and that the body gains or loses weight, in proportion to the excess of one of them above the other. The analogy of the cold- blooded animals he applies to those with warm blood, and he supposes that they are subject to the same double action, a conclusion which appears to be confirmed by some experiments that were performed on guinea-pigs immersed in moist air, when an increase of weight was found to have taken place, which, after taking every circumstance into consideration, seemed necessarily to depend on absorption.* With respect to the experiments of Seguin, Dr. Ed- wards is not disposed to call their accuracy in question, but he points out various circum- stances connected with them, which he con- ceives would tend to increase the transudation, and to diminish, or even entirely to suspend the absorption.f The experiments of Dr. Ed- wards, considered in all their relations, are generally conceived to decide the question respecting the existence of cutaneous absorp- tion, under the ordinary circumstances, and in the natural conditions of the system. §. 4. Of the specific uses of the different parts of the absorbent system, and of the rela- tion which that system bears to the other vital functions.—Whatever opinion we may form on the controverted question respecting venous absorption, and in whatever manner we may explain the action of the lacteals and the lym- phatics, there can be no doubt that their spe- cific use is to absorb certain substances which are presented to their extremities.J There is, however, so well marked a distinction between the situation and the anatomical relations of these two kinds of vessels, as well as between the substances that are found to be contained * De PInfluence des Agens, &c. ch. xii. p. 345 et seq. t De Flnfiuence, &c. ch. xiii. p. 556 et seq. See on this subject, Ma^endie/Physiol. t. ii. p. 189. . 196, and Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. " Absorp- tion;" where he endeavours to prove, that it is the veins and not the lymphatics which are the agents in cutaneous absorption. See also the remarks of M. Rullier, ch. ii.; and of M. Adelon, Physiol, t. iii. p. 10 et seq. ; also art. " Absorption," Diet, de Med. t. i. p. 124 et seq. M. Chaussier found that sulphuretted hydrogen gas, when ap- plied to the surface of the body, manifested its deleterious effects on the system, Bibl. Med. t. i. We have already had occasion to notice the opinion of Walter on this subject, p. 25, which is similar to that of M. Magendie. M. Uuisson attempts to establish a distinction between the absorption which is carried on by the membranes and by the cellular texture, De la Divis. des Physiol. Phenom. p. 251 et seq. t M. Magendie indeed doubts this position so far as the lymphatics are concerned ; Journ. Phy- siol, t. i. p. 18 et seq. and Physiol, t. ii. p. 238. . 243.