224 ARTERY. they are more numerous and larger in young than in adult and old subjects. Absorbents are not visible on the coats of any arteries except the larger trunks; however, the removal of coagula formed in the interior of all arteries after the application of ligatures may be regarded as proving the existence of absorbents in every part of the arterial system. The arteries are plentifully supplied with nerves, of which the aortic system receives more in proportion than the pulmonary artery, and the smaller arteries more than the larger trunks. The trunk of the aorta, the pulmonary artery, and the arteries of the head, neck, thorax, ab- domen, and those of the genital organs, receive their supply from the nerves of organic life. These form a very intricate plexus on their surface. The arteries of the extremities receive their supply of nerves from those of animal life in their neighbourhood. Two sets of nerves have been described as being furnished to the arteries ; one set, consisting of softer nerves, of a flattened form, are said to be lost in the cel- lular or external tunic, nervi molles ; the other set, more firm and round, penetrate the middle tunic, in which they form a thin membraniform expansion, containing distinct fibres. Meckel* justly considers the internal nerves as subdivi- sions of the larger flattened external branches. No nerves have yet been discovered on the umbilical arteries, and the arteries of the brain are supposed to be without any. The nerves of the arteries become less apparent in old age. The specific gravity of the arteries exceeds that of distilled water in the proportion of 106 to 100. They are proportionally lighter and less dense than the veins; while the veins possess more power of resistance, and are not so easily ruptured as the arteries. Physical properties.—Of the physical pro- perties of the arteries the most remarkable are the firmness of their parietes, their power of resistance, and their elasticity. It is owing to the firmness, which principally resides in their middle tunic, that they preserve their circular form in the empty state. Their power of resistance has been made the subject of experiment by Wintringham,f and, more recently, by Beclard,J from which the following results have been obtained. Their power of resisting rupture is very great, and is generally in proportion to their thickness, being greater in the aorta than in the pulmonary artery. As the arteries diminish in size, their absolute resistance diminishes; however, as their relative thickness and softness increase, their extensibility and relative resistance undergo a proportionate augmentation. The resistance of all arteries of equal volume is not the same: for instance, that of the iliac artery is greater than that of the carotid. It is in the external tunic that the power of resistance in the longi- tudinal direction resides; the resistance in the circular direction is much greater, and is owing to the middle and external tunics conjointly ; the internal tunic has very little power of re- * Op. cit. t Experimental Inquiry on some parts of the Animal Structure. Lond. 1740. \ Anatomie Generale, p. 373. sistance in either direction. The middle and internal tunics are as remarkable for their fra- gility as the external is for its toughness and great power of resistance ; hence it is, that when a ligature is tightened on an artery, the two former are divided, while the latter remains unbroken, as proved by the experiments of Dr. Jones.*' The successful employment of torsion of the arteries as a means of suppressing hemorrhage is in like manner owing to the greater power of resistance possessed by the external tunic as compared with the other two. The process by which arteries are obliterated by torsion is thus explained by M. Amussat,f to whom belongs the merit of having been the first to propose and practise it. The divided extremity of an artery is seized between the blades of a forceps, and drawn out beyond the surface of the wound : the vessel is then taken hold of with a second pair of forceps a few lines higher, and held firmly while the operator commences to twist the forceps with which he holds the extremity of the vessel in the direction of its axis, making from five to nine or ten turns, according to the size of the vessel operated upon. On examin- ing an artery which has undergone this process, it will be found that the middle and internal tunics of the twisted portion have been broken in several places by the external tunic, which, remaining unbroken, is formed by the twisting process into a sort of spiral ligature, so tightly applied round the inner tunics as to set at defiance every attempt to unravel it by twisting the vessel in the opposite direction. The arteries are highly elastic; they admit of considerable distension in the longitudinal di- rection, and quickly contract to their original length on the cessation of the distending force. In the transverse direction they yield less, and after distension resume their previous state with greater force. When a fluid is injected with some force into the arteries in the dead body, they become distended and elongated ; and if, when they are in this state, the force with which the injection was propelled be removed, they will contract to their previous state, or nearly so, expelling a portion of the fluid which had been thrown into them. During life the arteries are in a state of elastic tension, so that, when divided, their cut extremities retract with- in their sheath. The arteries are endowed with the power of contracting in a gradual manner, which they exhibit under the following circumstances:— when the passage of the blood is stopped in the principal artery of a limb, the vessel gradually contracts, its cavity is reduced in size, and ultimately becomes obliterated by degenerating into a filamentous band of cellular tissue; while the collateral branches, taking up its function of conveying blood to the distant parts, are proportionally enlarged, rendered more tortuous, and increased in length. In process of time the number of enlarged collateral branches diminishes, and one or more vessels of in- creased size become as it were promoted to * Treatise on Haemorrhage. Lond. 1805, t Archives Generates de Medecine, t. xx. Aofit, 1829, p. 606.