373 BACK. it as descending from the neck to act on the ribs and elevate them. The transversalis colli appears like a con- tinuation of the longissimus dorsi, and as such is often described. It arises along its internal side by tendinous and fleshy slips from the transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae. These unite, form a flat fleshy belly, which passes upwards, outwards, and forwards, to be in- serted by similar slips into the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae from the sixth to the second inclusive, between the cervicalis descendens and the complexus. The origin and insertion of this muscle are connected only to transverse processes—hence the name. This muscle elevates the neck and inclines it to one side. The trachelo-mastoideus lies to the inner side of the transversalis colli, by which it is in great measure concealed. It arises by ten- dinous slips from the transverse processes of two or three superior dorsal, and of three or four cervical vertebrae. The slender muscle enlarges as it ascends, passes a little outwards, and is inserted into the posterior border of the mastoid process, underneath the splenius ca- pitis. Its inner side rests on the complexus, then it covers the obliquus capitis inferior and superior, and the origin of the digastric, also the occipital artery. It is by some called the complexus minor, from the resemblance it bears to the complexus in its structure. Some anatomists consider it as the cranial portion of the longissimus dorsi and transversalis colli. The origin of its name is obvious. When in action, this muscle extends the neck, drawing the head back and to its own side. The complexus is thicker and broader than the muscles we have been now describing in the cervical region. It arises from the trans- verse and articulating processes of the four or five superior dorsal vertebra;, and from the transverse processes of the four inferior cervical, by tendinous slips: these are followed by fleshy and tendinous bundles. The muscle thus formed passes upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the os occipitis between its supe- rior and inferior oblique ridges. The complexi are close to each other above, separated only by cellular tissue which is connected with the ligamentum nucha?; lower down, however, there is some space between them. This mus- cle is covered by the trapezius above, by the splenii in the middle, and by the trachelo- masloideus and longissimus dorsi at its lowest part. It rests on the spinalis colli, the obliqui and recti capitis. The name is derived from the complicated intermixture of tendinous and fleshy fibres of which it is composed. A su- perficial portion of it is described by Albinus as the biventer cervicis, but it does not usually admit of subdivision. This muscle draws the head back on the spinal column. In the muscles of this layer there are no very striking differences to be observed in the other mammalia, nor in birds. Reptiles and fishes differ too widely to allow of a com- parison. Sixth layer.—On raising the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus we observe a beautiful series of muscles for moving the head, viz. the inferior oblique, the superior oblique, the rectus capitis posticus major and minor. These, with the spinalis colli, form a sixth layer. The spinalis, or rather semi-spinalis colli, arises by four or five fasciculi from the trans- verse processes of as many superior dorsal vertebrae; these unite, pass upwards and in- wards, to be inserted into the second, third, fourth, and fifth cervical spines, forming a thicker muscle than the spinalis or semi-spinalis dorsi. This muscle commences between the longis- simus and semi-spinalis dorsi, then it lies be- tween this last and the complexus. It is almost concealed by the complexus. It ex- tends the cervical vertebrae and inclines them to its own side. The obliquus capitis inferior arises from the spine of the second vertebra, passes outwards and a little upwards and forwards, to be in- serted into the transverse process of the first. Its origin is connected with that of the rectus posticus major, and the insertion of the spi- nalis colli. Its insertion is blended with the origin of the obliquus superior. It is fusi- form in shape, the largest of the four muscles to be met with here, and is often called obli- quus major. It covers the vertebral artery and the lamina of the second vertebra, and is itself covered by the complexus and trachelo-mas- toideus, and by the posterior branch of the first cervical nerve. It rotates the first vertebra on the second, thus turning the face to its own side. The obliquus capitis superior (or minor) has a pointed origin from the transverse process of the atlas; runs upwards, inwards, and back- wards, becoming broader, and is inserted into the os occipitis between its transverse ridges, just above the insertion of the rectus posticus major. This muscle is covered by the splenius capitis, trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. It covers the vertebral artery and the interval between the atlas and occiput. Its action is to extend the head, giving it some inclination to its own side. The rectus capitis posticus major is triangu- lar; its apex arises from the spine of the den- tata; it passes upwards and a little outwards, to be inserted by its base into the inferior transverse ridge of the os occipitis. This muscle and its fellow arise close together; passing up they separate. The insertion is overlapped by that of the superior oblique. The complexus covers the greater part of it. This muscle draws back the head, turning the face a little to its own side. The two obliqui, with this last muscle, en- close a triangular space, in which we see the posterior branch of the sub-occipital nerve enveloped in adipose tissue, the vertebral artery, the posterior half ring of the atlas, and