703 DEATH. fested even in the lowest grades. But we must observe, that throughout the whole range of animal existence we can more readily ascertain the changes produced in molecular action by diminished respiration, than by the entire sus- pension of this function ; because, in the first place, the arrest of the circulation so soon fol- lows that of respiration, that the subsequent events are assignable rather to the former than to the latter; and in the second place, it is impossible to cause one portion of the body to receive unaerated, while the others are sup- plied with aerated blood, since the function is in some animals too concentrated to allow of an operation calculated to act upon an isolated part, and in other animals too diffuse to enable us to interfere with it effectually in any given space. In the one case we run the risk of cutting off'the supply of blood from the whole animal; in the other w e should find it im- possible to prevent any one part from receiving from other parts a compensation for what it loses by the obstruction of its own particular allotment of the respiratory function. Nothing however is more common than to witness the degeneration of structure produced by blood insufficiently arterialized, the imperfection of the process depending either upon disorder in the organs of respiration, or upon a vitiated condition of the atmosphere. From facts of this nature it. is legitimate to infer that were it possible for unarterialized blood to circulate, the death of the tissues must sooner or later ensue. Of the destructive tendency of blood depraved by the other causes above enu- merated we can likewise judge approxima- tively; in other words, while there can he no question of the deterioration of structures under the operation of those causes, we are not ac- quainted with any instances in which we can attribute solely to their agency the entire cessa- tion of molecular actions. It almost always happens that other functions have previously failed, and influenced the result in question. Extinction of irritability.—Irritability might at first seem rather the result of vitality than one of its conditions ; but whether we look at the textural motions in a complex animal, or at their analogues in the entire systems of the simpler forms, we shall find irritability to be essential to the continuance of those processes in which living action consists. The alimen- tary cavity which contracts upon the nutrient fluid of the zoophyte is no less essential to the existence of the latter, than a similar action of capillary tubes in the tissues of mammalia. In each case the action is requisite, in order to bring the particles within the spheres of the textural affinities. The extinction of irritability is therefore necessarily productive of molecular death. In this instance we are compelled to speak of the privation of a property instead of defining the actual change in the part, because at present it is not ascertained what condition of the part is capable of producing contraction. Irritability is merely an expression of the fact that the substance of which it is predicated, undergoes contractions inexplicable on common physical principles. We detect nothing in the vol. r. substance, the existence of which enables us to pronounce with certainty that it may be the subject of the actions alluded to. Some have maintained that irritability ought to be ad- mitted as an ultimate fact, of which we know as much as of gravity. But we apprehend that there is this great difference in our knowledge of the two properties, viz. that although igno - rant of the cause of the attraction of gravitation, we are certain that the phenomena are co- extensive with the essential properties of mat- ter; but we are utterly unacquainted with that collection of properties to which irritability necessarily belongs. The muscle which has ceased to quiver under the galvanic wire is, for all that we can tell to the contrary, the same in composition as that which is still ca- pable of exhibiting the phenomenon. More- over the action is observed in a great variety of tissues, both in individual animals, and in the whole series; tissues which appear to have little in common saving a fibrous arrangement of their particles. But as the action in question is stopped by causes which in no way affect the fibre as such, it is plain that this is not the only requisite. Moreover there are unequi- vocal exhibitions of contractility in animals, in which it is difficult to imagine that there can beany shortening of fibres; we allude to the Infusoria, Rotifera, Medusae, &c. Tiedemann makes a separate species of this contractility, under the designation of " eontractilite des animaux gelatineux." * There is reason to suspect that ganglionic tissue is importantly concerned in the action, partly because it is a/most universally distributed through irritable substances, and partly because contraction is prevented by causes which operate upon this tissue. As long however as there are animals which manifest contractions, but in which no such tissue can be detected, it is impossible to consider the latter an essential element in the action generally; though it may be quite es- sential in the animals in which it is found ; just as a heart, though by no means necessary to the function of circulation in the abstract, is indispensable in the animal of whose system it forms a part. Irritability may be destroyed by substances, either applied directly to the part or acting upon the general system. Thus, the fibres of the heart may be paralysed by a solution of opium injected into its cavities, or by essential oil of tobacco given by the mouth. Light- ning annihilates the property all over the body. The motions of Infusoria may be arrested by a shock of galvanism,f by solutions of opium and camphor, and by the vapour of sulphur. Arsenical preparations have a similar effect. The contractions of capillary vessels in the higher animals may be arrested by a certain description of injuries of the brain and spinal marrow.} But it is needless Co multiply ex- amples. * Traite complet de Physiologie de 1' Homme, tra* duit de l'Allemand par A. J. L. Jourdan, D.M.P. 2de partie, p. 782. t Tiedemann, p. 617. } See Wilson Philip on the Vital Fnnctirms. 3 F