103 AMPHIBIA. process I have repeatedly watched. I have observed shreds of cuticle hanging about the terrestrial salamander, which would lead to the opinion that this animal does not disengage itself from its deciduous skin in the same manner as the toad j but as the individuals under notice were not in health, the observa- tion is inconclusive. But the most interesting circumstance con- nected with the functions of the integuments of these animals, or indeed with any part of their economy, is their cutaneous respiration, or the power which the dermal surface possesses of effecting those changes in the blood, which are essential to life, and which are usually per- formed by particular organs set apart for that express object, and modified according to the aquatic or atmospheric medium in which the depurating agent is applied to them. Although the experiments of Spallanzani had long ago demonstrated that carbonic acid was produced by the contact of the atmosphere with the skin of frogs, the subject had never been examined with the care and attention which its importance demands, until the in- vestigations of Dr. Edwards of Paris, given in his work " On the Influence of Physical Agents on Life," set the question at rest, and esta- blished the proposition by a series of interesting experiments, so admirably arranged, so satis- factorily conducted, and so logically reasoned upon, as to leave no vacuity in the regular line of induction, nor doubt of the strict correct- ness of his conclusions. The existence of a cutaneous respiration in frogs was proved by the simple experiment of tying a piece of bladder over the head so tightly as to produce complete strangulation, and then placing them under water. On examining the air contained in the vessel after an hour or two, a sensible quantity of carbonic acid was de- tected. On placing frogs in vessels filled respec- tively with river water and with water which had been deprived of its air by boiling, and inverted over the apertures perforated in the shelf of a pneumatic trough, containing ninety- eight and a half pints, those in the latter lived on the average little more than half as long as those in the aerated water. On trying the effect of stagnant water renewed at intervals, they were found to live two months and a half, and then died from accidental neglect of renew- ing the water. Similar results followed ex- periments made under running water. The effects of temperature in these experiments were very striking, and prove that the duration of life under water is in an inverse proportion to the elevation of the temperature from 32u to about 107, at which point the animals die almost instantly. But these effects of tempera- ture were found to be modified by an increase of respiration, whether by their rising to the surface and breathing the atmosphere, or by the quantity of aerated water being increased. Such is a rapid glance at some of the results observed by this distinguished physiologist, on the cutaneous respiration of aerated water; those which are connected with atmospheric respiration by the same surface are no less interesting. In order to render the experiments as rigorously satisfactory as possible, pulmo- nary respiration was prevented by actual stran- gulation, rather than by keeping the mouth open, a method which appears liable to some degree of uncertainty. A ligature was passed round the neck of six frogs, using the most rigid compression, so as completely to exclude any possible passage of air. One of them lived twenty days ; those placed in five ounces and a half of water had died in from one to three days. As the severity of the operation of strangulation might probably have hastened death, another mode was tried, namely, the total excision of the lungs,—an operation which appeared to produce but little suffering; the animals were then placed on moist sand. Of three frogs thus treated, two died on the thirty- third day, and the remaining one on the fortieth. Other experiments were instituted to resolve the converse of the former proposition, whether life can be prolonged by pulmonary respiration alone, unaided by that of the skin ? The re- sult of the experiments made upon tree frogs and upon the biifo obstetricans, was that pul- monary respiration is not sufficient to support life, without being accompanied by the influ- ence of the skin. The results of these experiments are not only highly interesting as regards the habits of the particular tribe of animals which were the subject of them, but still more so with refer- ence to some important questions in general physiology; but as their bearing on these points can only be shown by viewing them in relation with all the other subjects treated of in the admirable work from which they are taken, it would be out of place to consider them here. It is impossible, however, not to be struck with the evidence they afford, that the respi- ratory organ, that surface through the medium of which the blood undergoes its necessary change by the action of oxygen, whether pul- monary, branchial, or cutaneous, and whether the medium of its access be water or the at- mosphere, is in all cases similar, being a modification of the cutaneous surface. And as we see in the instance before us, the same surface capable of performing either atmos- pheric or aquatic respiration, the inference is obvious, that pulmonary and branchial organs may, and probably do, possess an identity of structure.When it is considered too that moisture is absolutely essential to atmospheric respira- tion, whether pulmonary or cutaneous, the identity of the two processes becomes still more unequivocal. This view of the subject receives considerable confirmation from the fact that branchiae are in many animals capable of exercising the office of atmospheric respiration through the medium of a very small quantity of water; as the land crabs of torrid regions are enabled to traverse immense districts under a burning sun, by means of those little reservoirs of