AVES. 282 sternal keel bespeaks the strength of the ante- rior extremity in the bird. Besides the difference of form and deve- lopment of the mesial crest or keel, the ex- tended sternum presents many other varieties in the different orders and families of birds. A zoological arrangement of the class has even been founded on the modifications of this cha- racteristic and important part of the skeleton. In every species the sternum is more or less Fig. 129. Sternum, coracoids, and clavicles of a Woodpecker. quadrilateral, more or less convex outwardly, and each of its margins affords distinctive characters. The anterior margin presents two grooves (b, b, figs. 129, 130) extending along the greater part of either side, and affording a secure articulation to the coracoid bones; and in many birds it sends forward a process from the middle part where the two grooves meet, as in the Woodpecker and Penguin (e, fig. 129). This mesial process we shall term the manubrial process, since it is analogous to that which extends from the manubrium or first sternal bone of the seal, mole, &c. The lateral margins are straight and excavated anteriorly, to a greater or less extent, for the lodgement of the sternal ribs. In some birds a process (d,Jigs. 129, 130) is given off at each angle of the union of the lateral with the anterior margin- as this process seems to supply the sternal portions of the anterior floating ribs, it may be termed the costal process. The posterior margin is most varied in its contour, and is in general interrupted by fis- sures, (f, /; jigs. 129, 130.) which are always symmetrical in their position, but vary in number and depth, so that this margin is some- times represented by the extremities of three or five long processes. In the Diurnal Raptores the sternum is a large elongated parallelogram, convex both in the direction of its length and breadth, but especially in the latter sense. The manubrial process is thick, the contour of the keel convex, and its margin extended laterally. In the Eagles and Secretary-bird the ster- num is entire, but in the Vultures and Hawks it is pierced on either side by a small round aperture situated near the posterior margin. Ossification sometimes extends along the apo- neurotic membrane stretched over this aperture so as to divide it into two, as has been ob- served in the Buzzard; or so as to obliterate it on one side only, as seen by Meckel in the Kite. In the Nocturnal Raptores the sternum is short, convex as in the preceding tribe, but weaker: there is no manubrial process. The keel is less developed, its margin less convex, and not thickened. The posterior margin is concave and presents two fissures, separated by a middle process, except in the common Barn Owl (Strix Jiammea) where it is wanting, and a large but shallow fissure is found in- stead. The greater part of the Insessorial Birds are characterized by the following form of sternum. It is large, a little longer than broad, and pinched in, as it were, at the sides, just behind the costal margin. The keel is prominent and convex along its inferior margin ; its anterior margin is slightly excavated, and terminates below in a slightly projecting angle. The ma- nubrial process is compressed, prominent, and curved upwards ; the costal processes are mo- derately developed. The posterior margin pre- sents a single deep fissure on either side, and a single lateral process, the extremity of which is constantly dilated. The lateral margins are slightly excavated. In the Corvida the keel is more excavated at its anterior margin ; the manubrial process is stronger, and is bifurcated at the extremity ; the posterior fissures are shallower; the angular processes directed outwardly and not dilated at the extremity. In the Swallows (Hirun- do) the sternum is large and the keel greatly developed; there are two posterior fissures, but they are still shallower than in the Crows"; the angular processes are not dilated at the extremities. In the Swifts (Cypselus) the sternum is entire, and corresponds in its pro- portional magnitude with the superior length and power of wing which characterizes this genus. The manubrial process is wanting, but the costal processes are moderately long and pointed. In the Humming-birds, which sustain them- selves on the wing during the greater part of the day, and hover above the plant while ex- tracting its juices, the sternum {r, s, Jig. 125,) is still further developed as compared with the body ; it approaches to a triangular form, ex- panding posteriorly, where the margin is entire, and rounded. The depth of the keel exceeds that of the entire breadth of the sternum. The coracoid depressions are deep and approxi- mated ; the manubrial process is small, but evident, and directed upwards ; the costal pro- cesses are also present, but of small size. In the Creepers (Certhia) and Hoopoes