691 CIRRHOPODA. of the process which forms a kind of caudal prolongation of the abdomen (t', t'). This canal runs to the distal extremity, and opens by a minute orifice fringed with very fine hairs. In Otion Cuvieri the two canals are continued distinct to the very point of the process, where there are two openings.* The walls of the organ, which we have compared to the seminal vesicle, have a glandular structure, which Cuvier imagined to be the testicle. The re- searches of Professor Burmeister have led him to the same conclusion. He says it can be no- thing but the testicle.f Cuvier, as well as Lamarck, regarded what we have called the testicle as the ovary, and believed that the ova were impregnated, in the course of their passage along the oviducts, by the seminal fluid flowing from the testicle investing these canals. The granular lobules of the true testicle, which were supposed to be immature ova, are found always in the same state, and what are more distinctly ova are found within the peduncle.}: The lengthened tubular process (?, t',fig- 344), through which the excretory duct of the testicle passes, is articulated; the margin of each joint is fringed with minute hairs. In Otion and Coronula, Burmeister found large canals closed at both extremities, within the process, in addition to the ducts from the testi- cle. This organ is generally found after death bent upwards on the abdominal surface ; but, during life, it is in continual motion. Its use is, probably, to cany the seminal fluid back- wards beyond the current caused by the move- ments of the arms, in the event of there being mutual impregnation between separate indivi- duals; or towards the mouths of certain ducts which communicate with the ovary within the peduncle, in case of self-impregnation taking place. In this view it must be regarded as the penis : and it is so called by the most recent authors on the subject—Wagner and Burmeister. Mr. Thompson calls it an ovipo- sitor ; and conjectures that, after their expul- sion from the ovary, (understanding by this whut we regard as the testicle,) the eggs are conveyed by it into the cellular texture of the pedicle. How they pass from this depository into the general cavity, where they afterwards form two or three foliated groups, he confesses himself unable to explain. The peduncle of the Lepads was formerly regarded merely as an organ of support, and even Cuvier discovered within it nothing but what appeared to him to be a homogeneous pulp, surrounded by muscular tissue. But, at certain seasons of the year, at least, there are, very distinctly developed, throughout the greater part of the soft matter which constitutes the bulk of the organ contained within the dense cartilaginous and muscular tunics, certain oval granules, regular, and uniform in shape, and gradually increasing in size. Poli and Lamarck * Burmeister, Beitr'age, p. 46. t Op. cit. p. 44. X Professor Wagner is satisfied that nothing but the discovery of spermatic animalcules can assure us against error in our attempts to determine what is the tcstii lc. were of opinion that these were truly eggs, but held that they were originally formed in the granular organ surrounding the intestine, (now regarded as the testicle,) and merely deposited here temporarily. But the recent researches of Professor Wagner and M. St. Ange have ren- dered it probable that it is the ovary which is contained within the peduncle. The organ in question seems to occupy the whole of the pe- duncle within the layers of muscular tissue. It is separated from the visceral cavity by a fine membrane which lines that cavity, and is a reflexion of the mantle. A transverse section of the ovary shews the eggs most fully deve- loped towards the outer margin, and scarcely formed in the centre. There are also seen in the same section two canals which run longitu- dinally through the organ, one near that side of the margin which corresponds to the anterior aspect of the body of the animal, the other in a similar situation on the dorsal aspect. Of these canals, the anterior is the larger ; and it alone was described by Cuvier, who regarded it as connected with the circulating system. The other was first described by M. St. Ange, who satisfied himself that it is a true oviduct. In Anatifa, he traced it pursuing a straight course through the ovary, and leaving it as a perfect canal just at the posterior and inferior angle of the organ, thence passing on the outer surface of the lining of the visceral cavity, in the groove of the dorsal valve, and terminating in an orifice opening into the visceral cavity not far from the brachial slit.* We have found a structure exactly resembling the above in Otion, where, however, instead of opening into the general cavity of the visceral sac, the duct is bifurcated just between the two auriform appendages, into each of which one of the branches of the duct enters and opens. M. St. Ange found eggs in progress through this duct; and they are frequently found, arranged in groups or packets, two or three in number, within the cavity of the mantle. We have not yet seen them in the duct; but the whole structure of the parts in question seems to indicate their adaptation to the function assigned to them by M. St. Ange. This being the case with regard to Anatifa, it appears to be very probable that the use of the singular auriform appendages in Otion is to afford a convenient lodging for the eggs before the young are hatched. Their deep sinuosities and folds seem to adapt them admirably to this purpose. Packets of eggs, however, are found within the cavity of the mantle in this species as in others. According to Burmeister, these packets are unattached, excepting in the earliest stage of development; but Wagner has generally found them fixed to a process of the mantle, situated near the adductor muscle of * Professor Wagner says, " at the base of the dorsal valve there exists a slit in the mantle which leads into the canal that runs through the peduncle. ] presume that this canal serves as an oviduct, and that the slit is analogous to the opening of the branchial canal in the bivalves," (in Archiv fur Anat. Physiol. &c. von D. J. MuH'er, 1834, No. 5, quoted in Ann. des Sc. Nat. iv. n. s.) We are not aware what species was anatomized by Professor Wagner;