2(58 AVES. This distinguished ornithologist proposes to divide the Tenuirostres into the following- families : Cinnyridce, Sugar-eaters; Trochilidce, Humming-birds;—in which families the beak and feet are more remarkable for their tenuity and length : and Promeropida, Hoopoes; Me- Uphagidte, Honey-suckers ; Nectariuiadce, Nec- tar-birds ;—in which the slenderness of the beak and feet is less remarkable. Fig. 118 The Fissirostres, (fig. 118 J, like the Tenuirostres, are distinguished by a habit of feeding on the wing, but as their food, instead of Rostrum of the vegetable juices, consists of Caprirnulgus. living insects, the form of the beak is modified accordingly, and is re- markable for its shortness and the wideness of its gape, especially in the typical families. In these the mode of catching the prey is con- formable to their distinguishing characters ; they receive it in full flight into the cavity of their mouths, which remain open for that purpose, and where a viscous exudation within and a strong fence of vibrissa on the exterior, assist in secur- ing the victim. The longer-billed Fissirostres, on the other hand, seize their food by their bills. The following are the families of the Fissirostral tribe: Hirundinidte, Swallows; Caprimulgida, Goat-suckers; these are characterized by the short, wide, and weak bill. Todidte, Todies ; Halcypnida, King-fishers; Meropidee, Bee- eaters; these latter fa- j^v. i 19, milies are characterized by their stronger and longer bill, and fur- ther differ from the preceding in having the external toe nearly as long as the middle one to which it is united as far as the penultimate joint; they are therefore termed Syndactyles by Cuvier. Fig. 119 represents the foot of the King-fisher. Order III. Feet with two toes before and o\ie behind. (P/g. 120.) The disposition of the toes which re- sults from the ex- ternal one being turned back like the thumb, gives the Scansores great fa- cility in climbing the branches of trees, but proporti- onally impedes their progression along level ground.* Their Foot of the Woodpecker. adaptation of the vertebrate skeleton to powers of flight. * There arc peculiar exceptions to the general character in this as in most other orders of birds. SCANSORES. Fig. 120. llJ nests are less skilfully constructed than those of the Insessores, and are generally made in the hollows of old trees ; one family, indeed, is remarkable for depositing its eggs in the nests of other birds. Their powers of flight are moderate ;* their food consists of insects and fruit. The scansorial families are the Psittacida, Parrots; Picida, Woodpeckers, Wry-necks ; Cuculida, Cuckoos ; Rhamphas-. tida, Toucans. Order IV. RASORES. Upper mandible, vaulted ; nostrils, pierced in a membranous space at their base, covered by a cartilaginous scale. Legs, strong, mus- cular; three toes before united at their base by a short membrane, and one behind, higher than the rest, furnished with short, blunt, and robust nails, for the purpose of scratching up the food. Tuil-fea- Fig. 121. Beak of the Guinea-fowl. t/iers 14—If The food of the Scratchers, or gal- linaceous birds, be- ing vegetable sub- stances, as grains and seeds, they have a large crop and ex- tremely muscular gizzard. They most- ly deposit and hatch their eggs on the ground in a rudely constructed nest of straw. Each male has ordinarily many females, he takes no part in nidification or in rearing the young; and these are generally numerous and able to run about and provide for themselves the mo- ment they quit the shell. The families of the Rasores are the Colum- bida, or Dove-tribe ; Cracida, Curassow-birds ; Phasianida, Pheasant, common Fowl; Tetra- onida, Grouse, Partridge. Order V. CURSORES. Wings very short, not used for flying; legs robust; Sternum without a keel. This order includes the Brevipennes, which constitute a tribe of Waders (Grails) in the Cuvierian system ; and form in the system of Mr. Vigors, a family of Rasores under the term Struthionida. They differ remarkably from one another, both in the form of the beak and feet, and each known species forms the type of either a separate genus or family. Among the Cueulidce, the ' Traveller's Friend,"' of South America,' and among the Psittacidai, the * ground parrots' of New South Wales, are remark- able for their preference of the ground, for progres- sion along which their elongated naked tarsus, and slender toes, of which one of the hind ones can be brought forward to the front row, favourably adapt them. * The Trichoglossi of New Holland affoid as re- markable an exception in respect of powers of flight; for instead of the usual short rounded wings of the parrot tribe, they have them elongated and pointed like those of a hawk, and dart through the forests with inconceivable rapidity.