564 CETACEA. jB. With the head of immoderate size, equalling one-third the length of the body. Family I. CATODONTIDiE. Teeth nu- merous, conical, but developed only in the lower jaw. External nostrils or blow-holes confluent; no coecum. Genus Catodon. No dorsal fin. Ex. Catodon macrocephalus; Physeter macrocephalus, Shaw. The great Sper- maceti Whale. Genus Physeter. A dorsal fin. Ex. Physeter Tursio, Linn. The High- finned Cachalot, Shaw. Family BALvENIDiE. No teeth ; their place supplied by the plates of baleen or whalebone attached to the upper jaw. Blow-holes distinct; a coecum. Genus Bal^noptera. A dorsal fin; pectoral integument plicated; baleen- plates short. CSee Jig. 259.) Species. Balcenoptera Boops, Cuv.; the Jubarte or great Rorqual. Balcenoptera rostrata, Lacep.; the Piked Whale of Sibbald and Hunter, sus- pected by Cuvier to be the young state of the Balcenoptera Boops. Balcenoptera Musculus, Cuv.; the Me- diterranean Rorqual. Balcenoptera Antarctica, Cuv.; the South- ern or Cape Rorqual. Genus BaLjEna. No dorsal fin; pectoral integument smooth; baleen-plates long. Species. Balcena mysticetus, Linn. The great Whalebone Whale of Hunter; great Mysticete. Baleena Australis,Cuv. The Cape Whale.] Organs of Motion. — Swimming is the principal mode of progression of the Cetaceans, but the Phytophagous species appear to have the power, in order to feed upon marine plants, of crawling and walking at the bottom of the sea by means of their anterior members, which in other Cetaceans are exclusively natatory organs. The head, in all, has so little mobility, that its axis can be but slightly altered, without that of the body altering also. In the form and composition of the skull the Cetaceans of both tribes present many im- portant differences, as compared wtth other mammiferous animals. In the Herbivorous genera the bones are dense and massive, and where they are not anchylosed their connection is of a loose kind. In the Dugong the skull is more especially remarkable for the large size of the intermaxillary bones (a, a, Jigs. 246, 247), which extend backwards as far as the middle of the temporal fossae, and are bent down ante- riorly over the symphysis of the lower jaw, so as to terminate nearly on a level with its infe- rior margin. This extent and shape is required in the Dugong for the lodgement of the perma- nent incisors (b, b), which are developed to a large size, one in each intermaxillary bone, and consequently the nostrils are placed much higher and further from the mouth than in the Manatee, in which, in consequence of the small deciduous incisors having no successors, the Fig. 246. Skeleton of the Dugong. intermaxillary bones are of much smaller size. The form of the bony aperture of the nostrils (c,fig. 247) in both the Dugong and Manatee is a large oval, which in the Dugong, as in the typical Cetaceans, is directed upwards. The entire cranium, and especially the frontal bones