BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 45C surface and not able to accomplish it quickly, occa.s.on much suffering, and if there is ever danger to life or limb from the disease, such cases are most likely to produce it. The sequestrum or dead bone is disposed of either by presenting externally and permitting of its removal by the process of ulceration or by manual operation, or else it is never seen, and is entirely carried off by the absorbent vessels. Mr. Russell accounted for the disap- pearance of the sequestrum in a very unsatis- factory manner. He considered the dissolution of the dead bone to be " greatly accelerated by the solvent power of the purulent matter," a property, the existence of which in pus both observation and experiment render question- able : and when thus macerated, he conceived it to be prepared to be removed by absorption or washed out by the discharge of the matter. But, if the surfaces of a sequestrum are exa- mined, that which is next to the granulations of the new bone will be found to be irregularly marked and indented, as if by the action of the mouths of the absorbents, whilst the other is comparatively smooth ; and as every part ex- posed to the action of the fluid should suffer equally if the removal of the osseous particles was effected by maceration, there are strong reasons for believing that the disappearance of the sequestrum depends not on any power chemical or mechanical, but on some vital pro- cess, and therefore probably on the action of the absorbents. When the sequestrum presents externally, either one end of the bone (almost always the superior one) protrudes through the soft parts and remains there dry, hard, and dead for a longer or shorter time, until it becomes de- tached by the slow process of nature, or is separated by a surgical operation; or else the middle of it presents, and can be seen or felt through an aperture in the surrounding new bone whilst its extremities are confined. In either case the process of removal is extremely tedious. When the end presents, it is gene- rally moveable, and seems as if very little force would be sufficient to detach it altogether; yet if an attempt is made to pull it away, it is by no means easily accomplished, and a con- siderable time elapses between the first pro- trusion and its final and complete separation. When the middle presents, the process is still more protracted. All bones do not seem equally liable to necrosis. Perhaps the tibia is as fre- quently attacked as all the other bones of the skeleton taken together; next in frequency is the humerus, the bones of the fore-arm, the thigh, the clavicle, and lastly the lower jaw. Thus far, it will be seen that we have con- sidered necrosis as a disease, distinct and dif- ferent from every other affection of the bones whatever, and that its chief and most marked characteristic is the process of regeneration. Regarded in this point of view, it is as much and even more an action of health than of dis- ease, and it can easily be understood why the constitution suffers so little, why the hectic fever is of so mild and mitigated a form, and why in a simple and uncomplicated case re- covery is nearly certain. It is also evident that this disease will not be likely to occur in a constitution contaminated with syphilis, scro- fula, scurvy or any of those other vices which the continental surgeons not only think it may be united with, but which they adduce as its occasional exciting causes. Doubtless, if the death of a bone from any cause or under any circumstances—if caries, exfoliation, and other such destructive maladies are to be included as species under the generic name of necrosis, such affections may not be inconsistent with the existence of any poison or any taint; but if the idea of a process of repioduction co- existent with that of disease must be admitted as appertaining to this affection, it will be im- possible to recognise scrofula or syphilis as connected with it in the remotest possible de- gree. Perhaps we shall incur censure for thus attempting to limit the signification of the term, but it has been observed that the nomen- clature of surgical pathology is too loose and undefined, and in no instance is the remark more applicable than with reference to the dis- eases of the osseous system; and again, patho- logy to be useful must be practical, and we can by no means assimilate caries which is so des- tructive of the limb or fatal to life—or exfo- liation, which is always attended with loss of substance—with necrosis, the essential cha- racter of which is a process of reproduction, and its natural termination recovery. In attempting to describe, or even to arrange the remaining diseases of the osseous system, the pathologist has to encounter difficulties al- most insurmountable. Some of these are na- tural to and inseparable from the subject, as 1st, the depth at which a bone may be situated will render it difficult to discover a change of shape or size, much more to ascertain an altera- tion of structure. 2d. The bones do not al- ways exhibit a very active sensibility; when attacked by chronic forms of disease, they do not cause very great pain, and consequently the evil may be well established and irreme- diable before the patient is fully sensible of his condition. 3d. These affections are not fatal at an early period ; they run a long and tedious course before they destroy life or render the removal of the limb indispensible. And hence in any individual case it may be difficult to learn even the early history or commencing symptoms, much more the nature of that pecu- liarity of constitution that disposes to these diseases, or the first changes that take place from a healthy to a morbid structure. Little, indeed, can be ascertained with certainty as to the nature of osseous tumours until the part has been removed, and then the information comes too late for any useful purpose. Another source of embarrassment exists in a want of ac- cordance as to the nomenclature of these affec- tions. One surgeon calls that exostosis which another has named osteo-sarcoma, and a third has designated as cellular exostosis an affection which he himself in another place has named spina ventosa. In order, in the present in- stance, to avoid similar confusion, we must endeavour to construct an arrangement which