ARTICULATION. 252 Fig. 111. ever, anatomists are by no means likely ever to be unanimous, because of the difficulty or impossibility of tracing by the ordinary me- thods of dissection the synovial membrane over the articular cartilages. The continuity of this membrane over the cartilage was first distinctly announced and described by Dr. W. Hunter, in the paper to which we have already referred in the Philosophical Trans- actions : after him Soemmerring described it, and still later Bichat, who insisted more par- ticularly on its analogy with serous mem- branes. Bichat's description has been followed by Meckel, Beclard, and most of the anato- mists of modem times; but its accuracy has been called in question by Cruveilhier,* Gordon,-)- Magendie,^ Blandin,§ and more re- cently by Gendrin || and Velpeau.^ The advocates for the continuity of the syno- vial membranes over the diarthrodial cartilages, found their opinion on the following facts :— 1. Synovial membranes elsewhere, lining ten- dinous sheaths or bursas mucosas, are distinctly and obviously shut sacs. 2. We do not find * Observations sur les Cartilages diarthrodiaux. Arch. Gen. de Med. torn. iv. p. 161. f Gordon says, " the continuation of the syno- vial membranes over the surface of articulating cartilages is, I am convinced from a number of ex- periments, altogether an anatomical refinement."— System of Human Anatomy, p. 261. J Compend. of Physiology, by Milligan, p. 450. § Additions a Bichat, par Beclard et Blandin, p. 345. |J Hist. Anat. dcs Inflam. t. i. p. 60. II Anat. Chir. ed. 2de, t. i. p. 176. cartilage to present the smooth and polished aspect exhibited by the articular surfaces, ex- cepting where it is connected with synovial membrane, as it evidently is to at least a cer- tain extent in the moveable articulations. 3. If by an oblique cut we raise a slice from an arti- cular cartilage, and turn it back so as to rupture it at its base, we shall find it still retained in connexion with the rest of the cartilage by a thin pellicle, which seems to have all the cha- racters of synovial membrane. A similar mem- brane may be seen by sawing a bone vertically down to the cartilage, and then breaking the cartilage by forcibly separating the segments. 4. Some observers state that they have seen the redness of inflammation affecting the synovial membranes prolonged over the cartilage,* but becoming gradually less marked towards the centre—(this, I must confess, I have never seen). 5. Bands of adhesion are also said to have been met with in some cases of chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, passing from the ar- ticular surfaces, as well as from other parts of the interior of the joint. 6. In that peculiar disease of the synovial membrane described by Brodie, the pulpy substance has been seen on the articular cartilages, as well as on the menisci.f On the other hand, the opponents of this opinion deny : 1, that the membrane demon- strable by slicing the cartilage in the way above described, is any thing else than a very thin lamina of cartilage; 2, they say that by even the most successful injection the fluid cannot be made to pass beyond the margin of the car- tilage ; 3, they assert that inflammation always stops abruptly at the circumference of the car- tilage ; 4, and that if a synovial membrane did exist on the free surface of the cartilage, there would take place a continual exhalation of sy- novia from the articular surface, contrary to what was found to be the case in an experiment tried by Cruveilhier: synovia was freely exhaled from the membrane lining the ligaments, and after having been wiped off reappeared with rapidity ; but not so over the articular cartilage, the sur- face of which became quite dry. J Cruveilhier, however, relates a case which in some degree invalidates his own conclusions ; it was one in which fungous granulations sprang from the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia in the knee-joint, and by their adhesion produced anchylosis of the joint: this fact Cru- veilhier § very candidly expresses his inability * I am uncertain whether the fourth case related by Sir B. Brodie in the last edition of his work on the joints, may not be regarded as affording an in- stance of this. In the account of the post-mortem examination it is said, " The synovial membrane was everywhere of a red colour, as if stained by the secretion," p. 15. Beclard, whose powers and accuracy of observation few will be disposed to question, speaks with the confidence of one who had seen this extension of the vessels over the car- tilage.—Anat. Gen. p. 214. + Vide the 17th, 18th, 19th, 21st, and 22d cases recorded in Sir B. Brodie's work. | Cruveilhier, loc cit. § He confesses, " ma conviction n'est pas cepcn- dant pleine ct cntiere."