116 ANIMAL KINGDOM. greater than in the amphibia. Their bones are more consolidated than in the lower vertebrata, theirpelvicarch, when developed, is more firmly attached to the vertebral column, the centres of ossification, especially of the cranial bones, generally remain detached, the extremities are for the most part more coinpetely developed, and the toes are generally provided with claws. Their cerebellum is remarkably small, their muscular irritability languid, and they have great tenacity of life. This ventricle, which receives both the venous and arterialised blood, is more or less divided by an ascending imperfect septum. The thoracic and abdominal cavities are not separated by a muscular diaphragm,and the lungs extend backwards over the abdominal viscera. Their organs of generation are double in both sexes, and symmetrically developed on the two sides of the body. The two portions of the corpus cavernosum are often detached and bifid; the chorion of the ova is generally thin or coriaceous, seldom calcified or hard, and the instincts of the parent generally extend to the protection of the young. (See Reptilia.) 22. Aves, warm and red-blooded, ovipa- rous, vertebrated animals, with four cavities of the heart, covered with feathers, and with their arms organized for flight. Their bones are the most compact and dense in texture, the most extensively anchylosed, and generally contain air admitted from the cells of the lungs. Their tympanic bone is moveable, they have horny mandibles in place of teeth, their coracoid bones reach the sternum, the sternal ribs are ossified, and they want the tarsal bones. Their diaphragm never forms a complete partition between the thoracic and abdominal cavities. The hemispheres of the brain are without con- volutions, the optic lobes are large and hollow, the cerebellum is large and sulcated, and the posterior enlargement of the spinal chord of great size. The great irritability of their mus- cular system corresponds with the great extent of their respiration, the high development of their nervous system, the rapidity of their cir- culation, and the increased energy of all their functions. Their alimentary canal is furnished with a crop, a glandular infundibulum, a giz- zard, and generally with two coeca-coli, as seen in the annexed diagram {fig. 47), showing the Fig. 47. common form of these parts in a gallinaceous bird. In these gallinaceous birds the oesopha- gus (a) sends out at a right angle with its course a large crop (6), with a contracted neck, and supplied with glandular follicles. Beneath this is the infundibulum or glandular stomach (c), with numerous large follicles placed between the mucous and musculai coats, and this opens into the large muscular gizzard (d), provided externally with two strong digastric muscles (e). The cardiac and py- loric orifices of the gizzard are close to each other (/), and towards the lower part of the small intestine a minute coecum often indi- cates the original entrance of the yolk-bag. The two long coeca-coli (g) commence by nar- row entrances (A), and the short colon ends in a common cloaca (/) for the genital and urinary secretions. Inthepredaceous birds, as the eagles (Jig.48), the oesophagus (a), the crop (i>), the infundibu- lum (c), and the gizzard (r/e), are capacious, thin, ■Fig. 48. and membranous, and form a continuous cavity for the prey, from which the indigestible parts can be thrown out in a bolus. In these birds the coeca-coli (g) are very small, sometimes unequal, or wanting. The urinary («) and genital organs (kk) enter the cloaca (I) near the anus. The right ventricle of birds has the tricuspid valve in form of a thick strong mus- cular fold, and the aorta descends on the right side. The lungs form two undivided, light- coloured lobes, fixed by pleura to the back part of the trunk, the last rings of the trachea form an inferior larynx, the bronchi pass in a mem- branous form through the lungs, and the lungs open into large membranous abdominal air- cells, which communicate with the interior of the bones. This extensive aeration of their systemic as well as their pulmonic vessels gives energy to their muscles for their aerial life and their distant migrations, and a high tempera- ture to their body for the incubation of the egg. Their plumage and their downy covering are the best suited for their aerial life and their high internal heat. Their organs of generation are double and symmetrical in the male, and