558 CEPHALOPODA. same structure as in Sepia and Rossia, but the single oviduct is relatively wider than in the latter genus, the ova being of remarkably large size. In the Calamary the ovary is more elongated, and the ovisacs and ova are relatively smaller than in any of the above genera. In the common species (Loligo vulgaris) the oviduct is single, but narrower, and more elongated than in the Sepia, and, like the vas deferens in the male, it is disposed in convolutions; its terminal gland is relatively larger and longer; and the detached nidamental glands are correspond- ingly restricted to a smaller development. In the great Sagittated Calamary, which is not uncommon on our north-western shores, we found in a large specimen taken before the beginning of the breeding season, that the oviducts commenced by separate apertures about two inches apart from the anterior sur- face of the great ovarian bag, and were imme- diately disposed in sixteen short transverse folds, beyond which they continued straight to the terminal ovarian gland. The whole length of each oviduct was two inches; the convoluted portion occupying one inch ; the straight and glandular parts each half an inch. Monro, in his anatomy of this species of Loligo, conjectured that the glan- dular appendages of the biliary ducts, of which he gave a figure, were the ova: of the oviducts and nidamental glands he had no knowledge. The latter parts are situated external to the terminations of the oviducts; they are of a narrow, elongated, flattened form, about one inch and a half in length, with a wide cavity for moulding the secretion of tire two lateral series of glandular laminae. The ova which are contained in the mem- branous part of the oviduct of the Sepia, consist of a deep yellow vitellus, inclosed, first, in a very delicate vitelline membrane, and, externally, in a thin, smooth, shining, easily lacerable, cortical tunic, or chorion. We have generally found them in great num- bers, squeezed together in a mass, so that few retained their true form. The external tunic of the ova in Rossia is stronger than in Sepia, and the form of the ovum, which is elliptical, is consequently bet- ter preserved: the oviduct, in the specimen dissected by us, contained several ova detached from one another, in progress of exclusion, as represented in the figure at f, f. The ova in Sepiola, as in the two preceding genera, are devoid of any external reticulate markings, which belong only to the ovisac or formative calyx. The delicate ova are defended by additional layers of a horny substance deposited on their external surface by the terminal gland, which may be compared to the shell-secreting segment of the oviduct in the Fowl. When the ova quit the oviduct, they are connected together by, and probably receive a further covering from, the secretion of the two large super- added glandular bodies (g,g,Jig- 239), the wide ducts of which converge and open close to the termination of the oviduct. These bodies, in the Cuttle-fish, Sepiola, and Rossia, are of a pyriform 9hape with the apices, converging and turned forwards; of large size, especially at the reproductive season, situ- ated on the ventral aspect of the abdomen, but not attached, as in the Nautilus and in- ferior Mollusks, to the mantle. They are each composed of a double series of transverse, parallel, close-set semi-oval laminae, the straight margins of which are free and turned towards each other along the middle line of the gland. When the gland is laid open, an impacted layer of soft adhesive secreted sub- stance is found occupying the interspace of the two series of laminae; in which, in Rossia, it is evidently moulded into a filamentary form, whence it escapes by the anterior orifice above mentioned. (See h, fig. 239.) The laminae are attached by their convex margins to the capsule of the gland, which is thin, and probably contractile; it is com- pletely closed at every part save the anterior outlet, forming a shut sac posteriorly, and having no communication with the oviduct or oviducts, for which these glands have some- times been mistaken.* In the Cuttle-fish the extremities of the ovarian glands rest upon a soft parenchymatous body of a bright orange colour: the correspond- ing part is rose-red in the Sepiola, and of a bright colour in all the congeneric species. In the Sepia this body is trilobate, consisting of two lateral slightly compressed conical portions, whose obtuse apices are directed forwards, and a smaller middle portion connecting the lateral ones at their posterior and internal angles. The dorsal surface of the lateral lobes is flat- tened, the opposite side excavated to receive the superincumbent extremities of the ovarian glands. To these the substance in question is closely attached by a tough connecting mem- brane, but has no correspondency of structure nor any excretory outlet. Its texture is dense and granular, with minute cells, the largest of which are in the centre of the body, and are filled with a yellowish brown caseous substance. In Sepiola the corresponding body is single, and is similarly attached to the anterior extre- mities of the two nidamental glands. In the " In the description of the anatomy of the Loligop- sis by Dr. Grant, contained in the first volume of the Zoological Transactions, it is stated that " the usual large glands of the oviducts appear to be wanting," p. 26 ; whence we are led to conclude that the oviducts are double in that genus as in the Octopods. Rathke, however, describes the oviduct as being single, and states that it is continued downwards to terminate at an aperture situated on the ventral surface of the hinder extremity of the body. This is so singular a deviation from the Cephalopodous type of structure, and makes so important a step towards the Vertebrate Organiza- tion, that we have selected the figure (fig* 223) in which the learned author above quoted illustrates this part of his observations on Loligopsis, where 14 represents the ovary, 15 the oviduct, and 16 its posterior terminal aperture. Further dissection of this remarkable genus is, however, evidently re- quired, in order to reconcile the discrepancies in the accounts of the anatomy of these animals which have hitherto been published, both as to the ge- nerative system and in reference to other important structures.