761 CRUSTACEA. either between the different rings of the body or the various constituent elements of the limbs, articulations destined to admit of mo- tion to a greater or less extent, between these different pieces. The structure of these arti- culations is of the most simple kind; the moveable piece rests upon that which precedes it by two hinge-like joints situated at the two extremities of a line perpendicular to the plane in which the motion takes place. In the in- ternal portion of the edge of the moveable piece comprised between the joints, there exists a notch of greater or less depth, destined to admit of flexion, whilst on the opposite or external side, the same edge generally glides under that of the preceding piece. This kind of articulation, whilst it js the most favourable to precision of movement and to strength, has the disadvantage of admitting motion in one plane only; therefore the whole of the rings of the body, the axis of motion being entirely parallel, cannot move save in a vertical plane; but nature has introduced a kind of corrective of this disadvantage in the structure of the limbs, by changing the directions of the arti- cular axes, whence ensues the possibility of general motions being performed in every di- rection. Between the two fixed points two opposed empty spaces are observed, left by the rings severally, and destined to admit of the occurrence of motions of flexion and ex- tension. The tegumentary membrane which fills it never becomes encrusted or calcareous, but always continues soft and flexible. The tegumentary skeleton, of which we have thus taken a summary view, supplies the apparatus of locomotion with fixed points of action as well as with the levers necessary to motion. The immediate or active organs of this apparatus are the muscles, the colour of which is white, and the structure of which presents no peculiarity worthy of notice. They are attached to the pieces which they are re- quired to move either immediately, or by the intermedium of horny or calcareous tendons, which are implanted upon the edge of the segment to which they belong. To the fixed point they are most commonly at- tached immediately. Their structure is sim- ple, and each segment, in fact, as has al- ready been said, being contrived to move in one fixed and determinate plane, the mus- cles which communicate motion to it, can constitute no more than two systems anta- gonists to each other, the one acting in the sense of Jle.vion, by which the segment moved is approximated to that which precedes it, the other in the sense of extension, by which the segment is brought into the position most remote from the centre of motion. The mus- cles that produce these opposite effects, as might have been concluded, are found im- planted into the opposite arms of the lever upon which their energy is expended. The motions in flexion tend universally to bring the extremities and the different rings towards the ventral aspect of the body; it is consequently upon this aspect that the flexor muscles are inserted, and these are in general VOL. I. the more powerful. On the contrary, and in accordance with the nature of the motion pro- duced, it is upon the superior or dorsal aspect of the segments that the extensor muscles are attached. In the trunk the two orders of mus- cles generally form two distinct layers, the one superficial, the other deep ; the former thin and sometimes absent, the second, on the contrary, very powerful wherever powerful motions are required. The muscles generally extend from the arc above to the one immediately below, passing for the most part from the anterior edge of the upper to the anterior edge of the lower segment. The extent and the direction of the flexion of which any segment is sus- ceptible, depend on the size of the inter- annular spaces above or below the ginglymoid points; and as these spaces are in general of considerable magnitude on the ventral aspect, whilst the superior arcs are in contact and can only ride one over another in a greater or less degree, it is only downwards that the body can be bent upon itself; while upwards, or in the sense of extension, it can hardly in general be brought into the horizontal line. Thus far what has been said applies more especially to the rings of the body, but the extremities present nothing that is essentially different either as regards the mode in which the tubular segments are articulated to one another, or as regards the mode in which the muscles are inserted. Each of these indeed having but one kind of motion, and even that very limited in its extent, nature has aided the deficiency, as has been stated, by increasing the number of articulations, by which extent of motion is conferred, and in varying the direction of the articular axes, an arrangement by which the animal obtains the ability of moving in every direction, but at the expense both of power, ra- pidity, and precision in its motions. Each seg- ment of a limb encloses the muscles destined to move that segment which succeeds it, un- less it be too short and weak for this end, in which case the muscles themselves have their origin at some point nearer to the median plane of the body. As a general law the muscles are observed to be more powerful in proportion as they are nearer to the centre, which is to be explained by the fact that each motion they then communicate is transmitted to a larger portion of a limb, to a lever longer in that sense in which it is disadvantageous to the power. Occasionally, however, the two last segments of a member are converted into a sort of hand, and in this case the penul- timate segment sometimes includes a mus- cular mass which may surpass in power the same system in the whole of the limb besides. Those muscles that put an extremity generally into motion, are attached to the sides of the thoracic cavity, and the apodemata supply them with surfaces of insertion of great extent and very favourably situated as regards their action. They occupy the double rank of cells formed by these lamina;; but they vary too much in their mode of arrangement to admit of our saying any thing general upon this head. The motions of translation, or from place to 3 D