AMPHIBIA. 97 changes, as the branchiae are large in propor- tion, and remain external during the whole period of their existence; the animal also acquires considerable size before these organs of aquatic respiration are lost. The heart in the early stage of these animals consists of a systemic auricle, which receives the whole of the blood from the system after circulation, and of a ventricle which propels it through a third cavity, the bulbus arteriosus, to the branchial arteries, of which there is one given to each branchial leaf. From the capillary branches of these arteries the aerated blood is received by the branchial veins, which, as in fishes, concur to form an aorta without an intervening ventricle. From the last, or posterior branchial artery, on each side is given off a branch which goes to the rudimentary pulmonic sac, and which ultimately forms the trunk of the pulmonary artery. But the most interesting and important change is that by which the continuous branches of what were originally the branchial arteries combine to form the two trunks of the aorta. This is effected by means of small communicating branches between the branchial arteries and the branchial veins, which, as the branchiae become absorbed, and their minute branches are obliterated and lost, gradually enlarge until they become continuous trunks; and the artery, which was originally branchial, then becomes the single root of the two descending aortas, and at its base gives off the pulmonary artery. The two veins which return the blood from the rudimentary air-sacs gradually enlarge as these cavities become more important, and assume the character of lungs; and at length they receive the name, as they perform the function, of pulmonary veins. These by de- grees become, as it were, distended at their point of union with the heart, and ultimately form the second auricle. This general description will be better un- derstood by a reference to the subjoined figures taken from the tabular views of M. St. Ange, of which an English edition has been published by Mr. Jones.* The following detailed description of those figures is necessary to the correct understanding of this intricate but interesting arrangement. Fig. 18. * Tabular view of the circulation in vertebrated animals. VOL. I. The first period, previous to any change having taken place in the branchiae, is given in Jig. 18. Four pairs of trunks (1, 2, 3, 4) go off from the heart. The first branch on each side (1) gives off a small anastomotic branch (5); after which it becomes divided into numerous branchial filaments (6); these, by their ulti- mate subdivision, terminate in a capillary tissue or network (7), from which arise other minute returning vessels, forming, by their junction, a single large vessel (9), which brings back blood into the general circulation after it has been aerated in its course through the branchiae. The second branch (2) also gives off a small one (14) previously to its subdivision in the second branchial leaflet, which branch enters the returning vessel; thus producing a com- munication between the two vessels 2 and 9, as in the former case. The returning vessel then terminates in the arch of the aorta, in which the two vessels 13 and 15 also terminate. The third principal vessel (3) is similarly distributed on the third branchial leaflet, and the corresponding returning vessel (16) termi- nates in the aorta, as in the other case. The arch of the aorta, thus formed, gives off a branch (21), which, after receiving the fourth branch from the heart (4), goes into the lungs (19). The second period, shewn in Jig. 19, occurs Fig. 19. when the branchiae begin to contract. The anastomotic branch (5), shewn in the former figure, is not much enlarged, and assumes the character of a continuous trunk with 1. The branches (11 and 12) have increased in size, but the original continuation of 1 going to the bran- chiae, has decreased in the same proportion. The anastomotic branch (14) has acquired the size of the arch of the aorta, whilst the continuation of 2 is diminished, and the branchial leaflet is contracted in a corresponding degree. The branch 3 has become exceedingly small; and 4, which was before the smallest, is now the largest of all. By these changes in the relative di- mensions of the different vessels, especially in the enlargement of the anastomotic branches, the whole system of the circulation is gradu- ally being altered, until, in the third period, (fig. 20,) it has assumed the character of that in the reptile, by the total obliteration of the branchiae and their vessels, and the enlarge- ment of those branches, which, at first only anastomotic, have now become principal. In the adult condition of the animal, there- H