CRUSTACEA. 772 led to their ordinary denomination of maxil- lary limbs or feet (Jigs. 408, 409, 410.) Fie. 408. Fig. 409. The forms and dimensions of these organs vary considerably, and are obviously in harmony with their uses; they are by so much the shorter and flatter as they are more peculiarly appor- tioned to the oral apparatus, a disposition which is nowhere more conspicuously displayed than among the short-tailed De- capods, in which they resemble horny laminse, armed with teeth or serrae of various sizes, and supporting an articulated palp (/>, Jig. 408) as well as a Jtabelliform or whip - shaped appendage (c), which penetrates into the interior of the branchial cavity. The last pair of all (Jig. 410) presents Fig. 410. amounts to three pairs, and in the Phyllo- soma to two pairs only. To conclude, the Limuli, a group of Crusta- ceans of the most singular conformation, are at the bottom of the scale in this respect; for in them (jig. 411) the anterior ambulatory extre- mities themselves surround the mouth, and their basilar articulations perform the office of jaws. The organs of which we have just made mention, are, according to the modifications they undergo, adapted in a more or less espe- cial manner to seize, to hold fast, and to comminute the alimentary matters upon which the animal lives. Moreover the thoracic ex- tremities in many species are themselves calcu- lated to accomplish one or all of these offices with various degrees of success, according to their form, their extent, and the mode in which Fig. 411. Limulus polyphemus, (ventral aspect.) a, carapace ; b, frontal portion of the carapace; c, thorax; d, chelifera; e, f, g, h, legs, the basilar portions of which surround the mouth and act as mandibles ; I, under-lip; m, branchial or lamellifonn appendages ; n, mouth. itself under the shape of two thin and much expand- ed lamina which serve as a kind of broad operculum to cover the whole of the oral apparatus. Starting from this complication of structure, the greatest in the series, we shall see the ap- paratus degenerating by successive degrees, at the same time that in any given group its com- position presents much less of constancy or regularity. The Sergestes among the Decapods have one pair of maxillary feet fewer than the highest number; the Edriophthalmians have no more than a single pair, whilst in the Thysanopoda and the generality of the Sto- mapoda the number of oral appendages they are terminated. The most favourable disposition to these ends is observed in the lobsters, crabs, &c; in a word in a very great number both of the short and long-tailed De- capods, in which the anterior thoracic extre- mities terminate in pincers of greater or less strength, armed with teeth and sharp hooks which give them increased powers of pre- hension. This form results mainly from the state of extreme development in which the pe- nultimate articulation frequently occurs, and its assumption of the shape of a finger, by the prolongation of one of its inferior angles. Against the finger-like process thus produced, which is of great strength and quite immove- able, the last articulation can be brought to bear with immense force, as it is put into mo- tion by a muscular mass of great size, and in relation with the extraordinary size of the pe-