43 ACALEPIIvE. stance of fishe.; being found in them.* From each sac, four vessels arise, which run out- wards to the circumference of the animal. Other species (e. g. medusa capillata) have the four gastric sacs in free communication with one another ; and, frequently, (e. g. in pelugiu, chtysaora, and cegina,) in connexion with these, there are four other sacs, lined with a more dense membrane than the former. These gas- tric appendages have the form of simple canals in equorea and timet; and of branched vessels in medusa and sthenonia. They were chiefly such pulmograda as have their disc bell-shaped that were formerly sup- posed to be agastric. It was imagined that alimentary matter being received within the campanulate depression, its orifice was con- tracted, and nourishment taken up by im- bibition through the walls of the disc. But an attentive examination of Carybdea mur- supiaiis, (Peron,) one of the animals which was believed to be agastric, has satisfied Dr. Milne Edwards that a mouth and an internal cavity connected with it do really exist. The great transparency of this animal renders the dis- covery of its internal structure a matter of con- siderable difficulty, excepting when coloured injections are used. Dr. Edwards found within the funnel-shaped cavity of Carybdea, and, as it were, pendent from its roof, a projection of very delicate tissues, evidently forming tenta- cula surrounding a central mouth, and a stomach, from which proceed four long canals leading to the tapering filaments which hang down from the margin of the body of the animal. These canals, Dr. Edwards believes to be analogous to the radiating vessels of rhizostoma. There exists just at the com- mencement of each canal, and opening into it, a group of minute cylindrical sacs, which may be regarded as biliary organs.f But in most of the pulmograda these organs are situated on the margin of the disc. Generally, they pre- sent the appearance of glands, being distinctly granular in their structure. They are opaque, have a lengthened form, and are lodged in little depressions, and surrounded by cup- shaped folds of the external integument. They are connected with the gastric appendages by small tubes.J In Aurelia phosphurea, (Lam.) (Pelagia, Esch.) which formed the principal subject of Spallanzani's observations on the acalepha?, there are four groups of membranous tubes, convoluted, and resembling in structure the intestines of vertebrate animals. Although he did not trace their connexions, Spallanzani appears to have regarded them as truly parts of the alimentary canal. He observed that they exhibit a peristaltic motion, both in the water and in air, which can be increased by the application of stimuli.§ The food of the pulmograda consists of various marine animals—small fishes, mollusks, * Gaede, Beytrage zur Anat. und Phys. der Medusen. t Ann. des Sciences Nat. xxviii. 251. } Eschscholtz, op. cit. § Travels, iv. 228. crabs, and worms. Even large fishes are some- times found entangled amongst the arms and tentacules. They are probably killed by the peculiar excretion which covers the surface of these organs, and which produces a stinging effect on man. The long filamentary appen- dages which hang from the margins of the disc in Carybdea and others, are covered with a glutinous matter to which passing objects ad- here ; the animal has the power of stretching them out and withdrawing them at pleasure, and of so folding them inwards as to carry to the mouth whatever may be attached to their sides. It would appear that some species are endowed with the power of discriminating the food most suitable to their own nature. Gaede remarks that he has never found fishes in the stomach of medusa capillata, but often worms; while in that of medusa aurita there are fre- quently fishes, rarely worms. In none of the pulmograda have either masticatory or salivary organs been discovered. The cirrigrada have, in the middle of their lower surface, a large flask-shaped stomach, the mouth of which is formed like a sucker. There appears to be a communication between this organ and the numerous tentacula which surround the mouth, through minute canals. The food consists of small animals, such as entomostracous Crustacea; the undigested re- mains of which are again ejected through the mouth. IV. Circulation.—No distinct circulating system has hitherto been discovered in the acalepha?. But perhaps the peculiar apparatus of radiating vessels connected with the gastric cavities in the pulmograda, and the aquiferous canals of the ciliograda, which seem to per- form nearly the same functions as the vascular system of higher animals, may be conveniently and properly considered under this head. In the physograda, Eschscholtz saw what he considered as the rudiments of a circulation ; namely, distinct vessels arising from the roots of the tentacula, and ramifying on the in- ternal surface of the air-bladders ; but it does not appear that he traced these further, or that he saw the movements of a fluid within them. The vessels in the ciliograda, within which a fluid is seen to move, are situated chiefly beneath the cilia-bearing arches. This fluid is supposed by most modern anatomists to be merely water; but by some it is regarded as a peculiar fluid, the product of the animal's digestive powers. If it be water only, the canals in which it moves must be considered as being analogous to those of the aquiferous system of other classes of invertebrate animals, winch has been so fully illustrated by the re- searches of Delle Chiaje,* and which is pre- sumed to be subservient to the respiratory function. The vessels in question arise in Berue from a vascular circle which surrounds the intestine near the anus. They are eight in number, and one runs beneath each cilia-bear- ing arch, from one extremity of the body to * Mem. sur la Storia e notomia degli animali senza Vertebre, 4to. Napoli, 1823-25.