631 CILIA. The ciliary motion in the mouth and throat occurs all the way from the opening of the mouth to the termination of the oesophagus. Its extent and the direction of the impulsion are easily ascertained by means of powdered charcoal; they are pointed out by the arrows in the adjoining figures, A and B (fig. 311), Fig. 311. Salamander. which are taken from the Newt, the ap- pearances in the Frog and Toad being not ma- terially different, a is the lower jaw detached from the head, b the tongue, c the glottis, d the oesophagus cut off from the head (at g, g, fig. B), and laid open from above, e the sto- mach, and f,f, the lungs. The general course of the impulsion, or, if in this case we might so express it, the currents, is longitudinal; they begin at the symphysis of the lower jaw and extend to the lower end of the oesophagus, where they terminate abruptly at the entrance of the stomach, thus differing from the de- scription given by Purkinje and Valentin ; but it is worthy of notice that these observers de- scribe the motion in the Tortoise and Serpent as extending the whole length of the oesopha- gus. At particular parts the impulsion fol- lows the direction of the plaits of the lining membrane. Figure B represents the head and the roof of the mouth, from which the lower jaw has been separated. On this part of the mouth also the general course is longitudinal, from before backwards; at the nostrils h, h, the particles are drawn in at one edge and issue at the other, as indicated in the outline of figure B. As regards the use of the ciliary motion on the internal membranes of the Batrachia, we can scarcely doubt that one purpose is to convey onwards the secretions of these mem- branes in the direction indicated. It is not impossible also that it may have some more intimate connection with the respiratory pro- cess; but on this point we have not as yet suf- ficient grounds for forming a probable opinion. Sauria, Ophidia, and Chelvnia.—The authors mentioned describe the appearances in these reptiles as being similar to what they have found in Batrachia. The ciliary motion oc- curs in the oviduct and in the nose, mouth, pharynx, Eustachian tube, and inner surface of the lungs. In the Serpent and Tortoise they state that it extends along the gullet to its termination at the stomach, as we have seen to be the case in the Batrachia. The motion of the cilia is remarkably vivid in the mouth of the Serpent, and in the Tortoise it endures for several days after death, not ceasing till the parts are destroyed by putrefaction. B. Birds.— The same physiologists have discovered the phenomena in thirteen species of Birds, belonging to five different orders; and as they met with it in every species sub- mitted to examination, they infer that it exists in all. In Birds, as in otherVertebrated animals, the motion shows itself on the lining membrane of the oviduct and that of the respiratory organs. It was detected in the nasal cavities and Eustachian tube, in the windpipe and its divisions, even in the smallest branches capable of investigation, and on the internal surface of the large sacs or receptacles into which the air penetrates. No trace of it could be found in the mouth and pharynx. In regard to the direction of the impulsion, the authors state that in the oviduct they had found it to be from the internal towards the external extre- mity of the tube, and in the windpipe from its orifice towards its branches, or from without inwards, at least they so observed it once in the domestic Fowl. The phenomenon exists in the foetus of the bird, having been distinctly seen in the foetal pigeon near the full period. C. Mammalia.—An accidental observation led Purkinje and Valentin to discover the ciliary motion in Mammalia, and they fol- lowed out that discovery by extending their inquiries to other vertebrated animals. While examining the Fallopian tube of a rabbit that had been recently impregnated, in order to discover the ova, they chanced to observe small portions of the mucous membrane of the tube turning round, and moving briskly, and recognized the appearance as an instance of ciliary motion. The whole uterus and organs of generation generally were then dili- gently searched, and these motions were dis- covered throughout their entire extent, though of very different degrees of intensity in dif- ferent places. They were particularly brisk in the tubes, less so in the cornua of the uterus, still less in the conjoined parts of the organ, most lively of all on its swollen and dark red lips, and of considerable strength in the vagina. After finding the same appearances in the oviduct of Birds and Reptiles, they succeeded also in discovering it in the lining membrane of the air-passages in all the three classes. In Mammalia the ciliary motion of the re- spiratory organs occurs on the mucous mem- brane of the nose and its sinuses, and that of the Eustachian tube, also on the lining mem- brane of the lower part of the larynx, the trachea, and bronchial tubes, extending to their smallest divisions capable of examination. No trace of it can be found in the glottis, nor