343 AVES. immediately anterior to the great trochanter, except in those Birds in which the femur retains its medulla. The cervical air-cells are continued from the large clavicular cell, and form in the Argala a singular appendage or pouch, contained in a loose fold of integument, which the bird can inflate at pleasure. In the Pelecan and Gannet extensive air- cells are situated beneath almost the whole of the integument of the body, which is united to the subjacent muscles only here and there by the septa of the cells and the vessels and nerves which are supported by the septa in their pas- sage to the skin. The large pectoral muscles and those of the thigh present a singular ap- pearance, being, as it were, cleanly dissected on every side, having the air-cavities above and beneath them. The axillary vessels and nerves are also seen passing bare and unsupported by any surrounding substance through these cavi- ties. Numerous strips of panniculus carnosus pass from various parts of the surface of the muscles to be firmly attached to the skin; a beautiful fan-shaped muscle is spread over the inter-clavicular or furcular air-cell. The use of these muscles appears to be to produce a rapid collapse of the superficial air-cells, and an expulsion of the air, when the bird is about to descend, in order to increase its specific gravity, and enable it to dart with rapidity upon a living prey. The air-receptacles of the thoracic-abdominal cavity present varieties in their relative sizes and modes of attachment in different birds. In the Raptores they are principally attached pos- teriorly to the ribs, the diaphragmatic aponeu- rosis covering the lungs, and to the kidneys; while in the Grallatores they have anterior attachments to the intestines in many places. The singular extension of the respiratory into the osseous system was discovered almost simultaneously by Hunter and Camper, and ably investigated by them through the whole class of Birds. The air-cells and lungs can be inflated from the bones, and Mr. Hunter injected the medullary cavities of the bones from the trachea. It is stated that if the femur into which the air is admitted be broken, the bird shall not be able to raise itself in flight. It is certain that if the trachea be tied, and an opening be made into the humerus, the bird will respire by that opening for a short period, and may be killed by inhaling noxious gases through it.* If an air-bone of a living bird, similarly perforated, be held in water, bubbles will rise from it, and a motion of the contained * " I cut the wing through the os humeri in a Fowl, and tying up the trachea found that the air passed to and from the lungs by the canal in this bone. The same experiment was made with the os femoris of a young Hawk, and was attended with a similar result. But the passage of air through the divided parts, in both these experiments, espe- cially in the last, was attended with more difficulty than in the former one ; it was indeed so great, as to render it impossible for the animal to live longer than evidently to prove that it breathed through the cut bone."— Hunter's Animal (Economy, p. 94. air will be exhibited, synchronous with the motions of inspiration and expiration. The proportion in which the skeleton is permeated by air varies in different Birds. In the Penguin (Aptenodytes), which we have examined for this purpose, air is not admitted into any of thebones. Its chief progression being in water, the specific levity of the body gained by the substitution of air for marrow would be rather a detriment than an advantage. The condition of the osseous system, therefore, which all birds present at the early periods of exist- ence, is here retained through life. In the large Struthious Birds, which are re- markable for the rapidity of their course, the thigh-bones and bones of the pelvis, the ver- tebral column, ribs, sternum and scapular arch, the cranium and lower jaw, have all air admitted into their cavities or cancellous struc- ture. The humeri and other bones of the wings, the tibiae and distal bones of the legs, retain their marrow. With the exception of the Woodcock, all Birds of Flight have air admitted to the humerus. The Pigeon tribe, with the exception of the Crown Pigeon, have no air in the femur, which retains its marrow. In the Owls also the femur is filled with marrow; but in the Diurnal Birds of Prey, as in almost all other Birds of Flight, the femur is filled with air. In the Pelecan and Gannet the air enters all the bones with the exception of the phalanges of the toes. In the Hornbill even these are permeated by air. Mr. Hunter* has given the following cha- racters as distinguishing the bones which receive air. They may be known—" first, by their less specific gravity; secondly, by their retain- ing little or no oil, and, consequently, being more easily cleaned, and when cleaned, ap- pearing much whiter than common bones: thirdly, by having no marrow, or even any bloody pulpy substance in their cells ; fourthly, by not being in general so hard and firm as other bones; and, fifthly, by the passage that allows the air to enter the bones, which can easily be perceived." We have reserved for this section the de- scription of the foramina by which the air penetrates the different bones. These openings may be readily distinguished in the recent bone, since they are not filled up by blood- vessels or nerves, but have their external edges rounded off. In the dorsal vertebrae the air-orifices are small, numerous, and irregular; situated along the sides of the bodies, and the roots of the spinous processes, the air passes into them directly from the lungs. In the two or three lower cervical vertebrae the air-holes are in the same situation, but receive the air from tho lower cervical or clavicular air-cells : in the remainder of these vertebrae the air-holes are situated within the canal lodging the vertebral artery, and communicate with the lateral air- cells of the neck. * Animal (Economy, p. 91.