780 CRUSTACEA. Fig. 426. Branchial cavity of the Maja Squinado laid open. a, branchiae ; b, vault of the flancs ; c, carapace; d, efferent duct; e, valve. the carapace. This last part of the walls of the branchial cavity presents an epidermic layer of extreme thinness, but covering a thick and shaggy membrane, the texture of which is found to vary, as we shall see by-and-by. The cavity thus formed communicates ex- ternally by two passages, the one destined for the entrance, the other for the exit of the water necessary to respiration. The disposition of the efferent opening varies but little; that of the afferent orifice, on the contrary, presents great varieties in the different groups of which the class of Decapods is composed. The efferent orifice always occupies the ante- rior extremity of the branchial cavity, and is continuous with a canal (d, fig. 426 And f, Jig. 428) the parietes of which are formed su- periorly by the epimeral pieces of the last ce- phalic rings, and inferiorly by the pterygo- stomian portions of the carapace (b, fig. 427j. Fig. 427. Head of the Maja Squinado. a, afferent opening of the branchial cavity; h, carapace ; c, anterior extremities ; d, posterior maxillipedes. This canal runs forwards, passes to the out- side of the oral apparatus, and terminates in front of the mouth (g,fig- 428). In its interior there is a large valve, which is falling and rising continually, as if it moved upon a pivot, and w'^ich in this way occasions a rapid current Fig. 428. The same parts, the posterior maxillipedes and a por- tion of the carapace having been removed. a, afferent opening; d, portion of the posterior maxillipedes ; e, commencement of the efferent canal (f) g, the termination of the efferent canal; h, the valve. from behind forwards in the water with which the cavity is filled. This valvular apparatus is neither more nor less than the flabelliform appendage of the second pair of maxillipedes which acquire dimensions in relation with the importance of the new function they have here to perform (/;, fig. 428). In the long-tailed Decapoda, and in the greater number of Anomoura of the same family, the respiratory cavity is open along the whole extent of its inferior edge; the carapace is not applied accurately to the lower margin of the vault of the rlanc, and it is by the empty space thus left above the base of all the extremities that the water makes its way to the branchiae. In the Brachyura the afferent orifice of the branchial cavity is more circumscribed, but varies in a still greater degree. In nearly all the Crustacea it exists almost immediately in front of the base of the first pair of ambulatory extremities, and con- sists of a kind of eleft, of considerable breadth, which in this place occurs between the edge of the carapace and the thorax (a, fig. 427), and which is occupied by a prolongation of the ba- silar joint of the external maxillary limb (d), disposed in such a manner as to close it com- pletely or to open it at the desire of the ani- mal. In the genus Dorippus a slight variety in the disposition of this opening is ob- served ; here at first view it appears to be pierced directly in the pterygostomian portion of the carapace; but it is in reality formed by an empty space left between the edge of the dorsal shield and the base of the external maxillary limb; only here, this space, in- stead of presenting itself immediately in front of the base of the anterior extremities, is se- parated from this by a prolongation of the carapace. In the genus Ranina the carapace is joined to the thorax above the whole of these limbs, so as to leave no opening in this situation for the passage of the water, and it is at the origin of the abdomen that the afferent opening of the branchial cavity occurs. Lastly, in the Leucosia, this cavity is in like manner completely closed above the base of the extre- mities, and it is by a conduit parallel to the efferent canal, and opening outwardly likewise