716 CONTRACTILITY. This tabular view of the classification exhibits certain particulars, upon which we deem it necessary to offer a few explanatory remarks. As we said before, the series as a whole may be regarded as a common trunk, from which various branches spring, sometimes anastomo- sing, sometimes ending abruptly. It is thus that from the Clavigellawe observe a lateral line departing, formed of the genera Fistulana, Galeomma, and those of Lamarck's family of Petricola. These genera descend parallel to the common trunk of the classification, so as to approximate in as great a degree as possible the genus Vene.rupis to the genus Venus. The genus Pandora has numerous analogies on one side with the Corbula, but it has also many with the members of the genus Osteodesma, on which account it is made to depart laterally from the Corbula, and to ascend towards the Osteodesmata. The Lutraria are also variously related to several genera of the Osteodesmata, and this genus is joined to that of the Thracia by means of the genus Anatinella, which we place crosswise to connect the genera just men- tioned. In the Mactracea, we pass without any very great stride from the Lutraria to the Mactra, from the Mactra to the Erycina and to the Ainphidesma. Farther, in order not to interrupt this series of relation- ships, we place upon a lateral line departing from the Mactra the two genera Mesodesma and Crassatella. Every naturalist knows how great the resemblance is between the flat and broad Salens (Soletellina, De Blainv.) and the Psammobite ; but we also know that the genus Psummobia has so many analogies with the family of the Tellinida, that it is impossible to detach it from this family in order to include it within the family of the Solenacese. To avoid interrupting the relations of this genus to those of the Solen family, we have recourse to an ascending line composed of the genera Solen- ertus, Panoptea, Solen, Solemya, and Glyci- mens, by which means we approximate, as much as possible, these last genera to the fa- milies Pholadia and Osteodesmata, with which they have in fact unequivocal relationships in point of organization. We consider the family of the Lucinidce as a lateral and truncated branch of the Conchidce, divaricating from the genus Astarte. With regard to the Cyclada, we place the genus Glaucoma of Mr. Gray laterally, between the Cyrenas and the Venuses, so as to establish the connexion between the two ge- nera; whilst departing also from the genus Cyrena we place our genus Cyrenella obliquely in order to make it join that of Lucina, this genus of Cyrenella being to Cyrena and Lucina that precisely which the genus Glaucoma is to Cyrena and Venus. To us the family of the Chamacea is a lateral offset from that of the Cardiacea, and although the Etheria and the family of the Iiudistes are in reality among the number of those Conchife- rous mollusca which have the lobes of the mantle disjoined, stdl as they do not imme- diately arrange themselves in any particular part of this section, we have placed them to the side in continuation of the family of the Cha- macea, but underneath them. The family of the Ostracea we now believe to consist of the single genus Ostrea, and we propose under the name of Placunida a famdy containing the three genera Placuna, Placunonomia, and Ano- mia, which according to our views constitute a descending and lateral line really intermediate to the Conchifera and the Brachiopoda. Bibliography.—The following works and essays may be referred to as still interesting on the natural history of the Conchifera. Reau- mur, De la formation et de l'accroissement des coquilles, Acad, de Paris, An 1709 et An 1716; Ej. De la maniere dont plusieurs especes d'animaux de mer s'attachent au sable, aux pierres, &c. ibid, An 1711. Walch, Vom Wachsthum und den Farben dor Konchilienschaalen. Besch. der Berlin. Naturforsch. Gesell. B. i. S. 230. Mutter, Anmerk. ueber Walch, ibid, B. ii. S. 116. * * * * Cuvier, Nouvelles Rech. sur les coquilles bivalves, Societe Philomath. A. 7, p. 83. Lister, Anatomy of the Scallop, Philos. Trans. Year 1697. Ant. van der Heide, Anatome Mytuli, 12mo. Amst. 1684. Bojanus, Sendschreiben an G. Cuvier iiber d. Athmen und Kreislaut'swerkzeuge d. Zwei- shaaligen Muscheln, 4to. Jena, 1820. Mangili, Ricerche nuovi zootomiche sopra alcune specie di Conchiglie Bivalvi, 8vo. Milano, 1804. Brack, De ovis ostreorum, Misc. Ac. Nat. cur. Dec. 2, An 8. Koehlreuter, Obs. anat. physiol. Mytili cygnei (Lin.) concernentes, Nov. Act. Petrop. t. vi. (G.P. Des Hayes.) CONTRACTILITY. —Since it has been generally understood, that all the most striking and conspicuous movements which take place in living animals, depend on peculiar contrac- tions of certain of their solids, the circum- stances of these contractions, the causes by which they are excited, and the laws by which they are regulated, have been justly regarded as objects of the highest interest, and of fun- damental importance, in physiology. The term Irritability was employed by Haller and his followers, to denote all such contractions in living bodies, as they judged to be peculiar to the living state ; but more recent inquiries have shewn the necessity of distinguishing different species of these contractions; and the more comprehensive term Contractility is now pretty generally employed. To this the epithet Vital, in physiological discussions, may usually be understood as prefixed. It is to be remembered, however, that several of the animal textures are endowed with a pro perty of contraction, in certain circumstances, which is not peculiar to their living state, but subsists as long as their structure remains unal- tered after death ; and the distinction between the phenomena resulting from this cause, and those which are strictly vital, has not always been accurately observed. Thus many of the soft animal textures, muscles to a certain de- gree, tendons and ligaments in a greater degree, and arteries in a still greater degree, are elastic, and liable to contractions from that cause when stretched. The Contractilit't de Tissu of Bichat is in most cases to be considered simply as Elasticity, although in some cases (as when he assigns this property as the reason of the re- traction of the cut extremities of a living muscle