ANUS. 181 in the vicinity of the anus is very loose, and the seat of nervous and vascular plexuses ; in the latter the venous system predominates. A consideration of the functions of the rec- tum and of its surrounding muscles, its re- markable irritability and sensibility in health, as well as its sympathies in disease, would lead us to infer what dissection proves to exist, namely, that this organ is largely supplied with neives; numerous branches are furnished to it from the sacral plexus, which is formed by the union of the inferior spinal nerves, also from the hypogastric plexus, which is chiefly com- posed of filaments of the sympathetic. The sacral plexus of spinal nerves furnishes, in addition to many others, the hemorrhoidal, vesical, and pudic branches; the hemorrhoidal nerves are directed principally towards the in- ferior part of the rectum, some ascend to the colon, others descend even to the sphincter ani: they divide into numerous filaments, which are chiefly distributed to the muscular fibres of the rectum and the adjacent muscles; the vesical nerves in their course to the bladder give some filaments to the rectum, and the in- ferior or perinaeal division of the pudic nei ves also send several branches to the levator and sphincter ani muscles. The hypogastric plexus of nerves is composed of filaments from the sacral plexus, which interlace with some from the inferior mesenteric plexus, and with nume- rous branches from the sacral ganglions of the sympathetic nerves. This plexus supplies the rectum, as also the other pelvic viscera; the branches accompany the bloodvessels, and are distributed principally to the mucous and sub- mucous tissue. The cellular tissue, also, about the coccyx, and the adjacent muscular fibres receive some filaments from the coccygeal plexus of the sympathetic. This supply of nerves from these two very different sources, the one presiding over voluntary, the other over in- voluntary motion, corresponds with the well- known functions of this organ, and causes its muscles to be classed by the physiologist under the head of mixed muscles, that is, partaking of the common characters of the animal or voluntary, and the organic or involuntary sys- tems. Its supply of spinal nerves serves to explain not only the influence which the will can exert over its functions, but also the impaired or altered state of its powers in case of disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord ; thus irrita- tion of the latter may cause morbid irritability and contraction of the rectum, and, necessarily, constipation of the bowels; or, again, paralysis of the spinal cord from injury or compression may lead to perfect atony of the sphincters, and to the involuntary discharge of the contents of the rectum. The general distribution of the branches of the sacral and hypogastric plexuses to the several pelvic viscera, and to the muscles, &c. in the perineum, associates these different organs with each other, which is so necessary to their functions, and with the urinary and genera- tive organs, connecting more particularly the muscles of the anus with the muscular coat of the urinary bladder and with the parts about its cervix. This interlacement and subsequent general distribution of these nerves serve also to establish those several sympathies which are found to exist in acute and chronic diseases of the rectum and anus, between this intestine and the other pelvic viscera. In some the uterus and vagina partake of the irritation, in others the urinary bladder is almost incessantly irri- tated to expel its contents; or, on the other hand, when the sympathetic irritation engages its cervix and the parts in its vicinity, the most painful retention of urine is endured. Chronic disease of this intestine is also very generally attended with occasional attacks of pain and irritation in different portions of the alimentary canal, as also with pain in the sacrum and loins, and in various other direc- tions, which may in most cases be explained by referring them to nervous irritation extending in the course of some of the nervous communica- tions which are found to exist in such num- bers in the pelvis. The rectum, like the rest of the alimentary canal, is freely supplied with blood. Its arte- ries are named hw/norr/widal, and are derived from three sources, viz., the abdominal aorta, the internal iliac, and the internal pudic arte- ries. The superior haemorrhoidal is the con- tinuation of the inferior mesenteric, a branch of the aorta; the middle hemorrhoidal is derived either from the internal iliac or from some of its branches; and the inferior or external he- morrhoidal branches from the perinaeal division of the pudic. The latter are destined directly to the confines of the anus, and are lodged in the subcutaneous adeps. The two former be- long properly to the rectum, and are above the levatores ani muscles. These arteries divide into several small branches, which anastomose together, and form a continued chain of inos- culations along this intestine, somewhat similar to that which is continued along the whole of the alimentary tube. They form a complicated vascular net-work between and within the mus- cular fibres, and are largely distributed to the mucous and submucous tissues. Some branches of considerable size not unfrequently descend so low even as the sphincter, particularly at its posterior parts. These are liable to be divided in operations for the cure of fistulae, and some- times give rise to a haemorrhage, troublesome and difficult to restrain. In such operations the external haemorrhoidal arteries also are very commonly opened, and bleed smartly ; they can be secured, however, with much less difficulty than the divided extremities of the superior or middle haemorrhoidal vessels. The whole of the rectum, particularly its lower portion, is encompassed by numerous veins, which in some persons are very large and plexiform. In the perinocum, also, many venous plexuses are found in the subcutaneous adeps. The external haemorrhoidal arteries have their external venae comites, which run outwardly to end in the internal pudic veins (branches of the internal iliac). Some of their branches ramify around the anus, and in some cases form a plexus, in which haemorrhoidal