EXPLANATION OE THE DIAGRAMS. 358 fore, by the laws of the resolution and composition of forces, it must be in vain to draw the luxated bone in the line of its axis for the purpose of replacing it. The practice of surgeons proves the truth of these principles, in the constant frustra- tion of such kind of attempts. These two figures are de- signed to show two ways of conducting the reduction of these bones; the one by placing the luxated bone over the other at right angles, and pressing the end onwards until it gets clearly to the middle of the joint, in which position the other end may be made to revolve into its proper place ; the other me- thod that will succeed is, by drawing away the distal end of the luxated bone as far as it will go, and then pressing the other or proximal end into its position. Fig. 3 It is too readily conceived that the inclined plane accomplishes all the purposes that are intended in the employ- ment of it in cases of fractures. It must be remembered that it does not support the whole weight of the body placed upon it, but only an amount corresponding to the proportion which the base bears to the perpendicular of the triangle which it forms, and that when the angle is 45 degrees it only supjDorts one half of the weight. It thus happens that when used for a fractured tliigh, the weight of the leg is always acting in a way to drag the knee downwards, and with it the lower por- tion of the broken bone, by which, as the angle of the appa- ratus forms a fulcrum, the upper extremity of this part is tilted upwards, out of the proper axis of the thigh. This part is also directed outwards, owing to the difiierence in the ham- string muscles. Fig. 4. is intended to point out the difference of the effects of a blow on the head when transmitted in a line directed towards the base of the cranium, by which the force is received by the central part of the brain, influencing greatly the cerebral func- tions, and the effects of the blow which is directed in aline at right angles to the vertical lines, \vhere the force is received and transmitted from side to side on the upper part of the brain, and producing but little disturbance of its functions.