550 EPITHELIAL CANCER. Ulcers of the face, commonly called cancerous, whether they really are so or not, are frequently found puzzling in practice from the want of definite and clear practical rules; and it is desirable for the establishment of such rules to know what becomes of patients, who, having been treated success- fully at the time, do not remain under the observation of the surgeon, I therefore mention shortly a case interesting in its origin, and in the permanent success of an operation. A lady, thirty-two years of age, had several small brownish red moles on the face. They were cutaneous elevations, smooth on the surface. A year before I saw her, she picked or scratched one of these on the side of the cheek, a little in front of the ear : it gradually formed a sore, which had been better and worse, but never well. Various applications had been tried without any beneficial effect by a surgeon, who had spoken of it as a matter of no consequence. She had suffered much from irregular and painful menstruation, had grown thin and pale, having lost her former healthy appear- ance. She was in London with her husband on account of her health, under the care of a physician, to whom she men- tioned the sore on the face for the first time, on the evening before her intended departure for Lancashire. This led to my seeing her on the following day, when I found an ulcer as large as a shilling, with a slightly raised red edge, and an irregular sur- face made up of several small, yellowish excavations, yielding a thin clear discharge. The basis was a little swelled and in- durated, quite moveable on the subjacent parts. There was no glandular affection. It was obviously necessary that it should either be excised or destroyed by some efficient escha- rotic, and my recommendation of the former was sanctioned by another opinion of great weight. I took care to remove with the sore a border of sound skin. There was an indu- rated mass under the skin, on the contrary the adipous