TREATMENT—OPERATION. 583 and downwards. He suffered intolerable pain night and day, over which morphine in considerable doses had little effect, although it disordered him greatly. The hypodermic in- jection under the skin of the forearm of half a grain of mor- phine in three minims of water produced complete relief in less than five minutes, and this lasted for twelve hours, when it was repeated. This plan was continued with the effect of keeping off pain entirely and giving good rest at night. It was necessary to increase the injections, in the same quantity, to three and then to four times in twenty-four hours, and with the same effect during the eight or ten weeks that he passed in the hospital before his death. Opium may be employed locally in the same way as in cancer. The most important point in treatment is the question of operation; and the result of experience is that, whether in the case of medullary tumours or of organs affected with this disease, although, as in cancer, the operation is successful, either the disease returns in its original seat or neighbourhood, or secondary formations take place in various parts; or, again, that these circumstances may be combined, the malady being thus inevitably fatal. Why then, it may be asked, should operation be ever resorted to ? Perhaps the strongest reason is that it sometimes prolongs life, not to great extent, not so frequently, nor for so long a period as in the case of cancer. A gentleman, whose case I shall relate, lived nearly three years after operation; and a lady operated on in the early part of 1851 for well-marked medullary disease, is now alive in perfect health. Secondly, as in cancer, the operation prevents the painful and distressing circumstances of exten- sive ulceration, fungous protrusion, sloughing, offensive dis- charges incidental to the natural progress of the disease. Thirdly, the operation may be called for by the patient as a means of escape from the severe pain and constitutional dis-