568 EPITHELIAL CANCER. of the exciting cause, and it is an advantage at all events to get rid of the original mischief. I have had occasion, in a few instances, to remove chimney-sweeps' cancer from other parts of the body, for instance before and behind the ear : it has been a solid and firm, but not hard swelling, nearly equal in size to the last phalanx of the thumb, and without breach of surface. Cancer of the skin is sometimes seen on the hand, the skin being thickened and reddened, then ulcerated; the margin of the sore being raised and irregular, the surface uneven, and the discharge thin. There is more or less of pain, and the progress is usually slow. The gland above the internal condyle may be- come enlarged, but those in the axilla suffer more frequently. The only safety for the patient is in removal of the part before the glands have become enlarged. Although general experience is unfavorable to the use of escharotics in such cases, I mention the following as a remarkable example of their successful em- ployment under circumstances which appeared almost des- perate : I was consulted in the first week of September, 1857, by a gentleman of sixty, from the country, respecting a large and painful ulcer of the left hand. It occupied the ulnar side and extended into the palm, with dull red and uneven surface, bounded by thickened and raised integument. There was swelling with uneasiness of the entire limb, glandular enlarge- ment in the axilla, considerable fulness on the corresponding side of the chest, supposed to arise from enlargement of glands under the pectoral muscles, and some increase in number and size of the superficial veins. He considered it to have arisen from a fall, in which the hand came to the ground, in the spring of the same year. This origin was altogether doubtful, as no wound, bruise, or other damage was Occasioned. His own language, in speaking of the cause, was—" I always sup- posed it to come from a fall, and for a long time nothing was