ECCHYM0S1S. 255 Cold lotions may be used if there is heat; when there is firm swelling with pain, leeches and poultice will afford relief. It is of importance to prevent inflammation when a joint, or con- siderable muscles, are injured, and to check the disorder if it should have supervened. When general swelling with stiff- ness, and more or less uneasiness on exertion remains, as it does occasionally for some time after serious bruising, bandaging with or without adhesive plasters, and elastic supports, are often useful. Friction with stimulating lini- ments may sometimes be necessary. The blood which escapes from vessels injured in bruising, constituting what is technically called ecchymosis, may either be diffused and infiltrated in the cellular texture, or collected into one mass. In the former case, which is the more frequent, as the cells of the texture communicate freely, the fluid blood often passes along them, to a considerable distance from the seat of injury. In a few days its presence discolours the skin, turning it dark-red, livid, or even almost black. Subsequently it becomes yellowish or greenish, and this discoloration may extend, like the blood, beyond the bruised part. If the swel- ling of ecchymosis takes place rapidly, so as to render the part tense, the blood is forced into the tissue of the skin, which thus becomes immediately of the deepest livid and almost black colour, with great alarm to the patient and those not conversant with the appearance. In all these cases of ecchymosis the blood is gradually removed by absorption. Cold is applied in the first instance, to prevent increase of the effusion; whether its disappearance subsequently is hastened by friction with soap liniment is somewhat doubtful. In a rapidly in- creasing ecchymosis it might be necessary to make a free incision, in order either to stop the haemorrhage by exposure or to tie bleeding vessels if any such should be found. I once had occasion to do this where the scrotum had become