27 DIVISIONS OF DISEASES. has taken place in the organs, our examination after death must be very accurate, and should be performed with the aid of complete knowledge of the healthy, normal, or regular state of the part. Thus we find that in proportion as pathological investigations after death have been conducted with greater ac- curacy, the number of diseases supposed to be functional has been diminished. Fevers have been regarded as general dis- orders without local cause, or as proceeding from disturbed cerebral functions; but the more accurate pathological in- quirers of modern times have found out that important organs are more or less seriously diseased, so that the com- plaint may be removed from the list of simply functional affections. The division, then, of disease into functional and organic, according to the view that we now take, denotes a difference in degree, rather than in essential nature. In diseases called functional, the changes in the organs are of the slighter degree, which leaves little or no trace behind; while in the organic the alterations are more considerable, perma- nent, and dangerous. To assert that functions are disordered when their appropriate organs are in the normal state, would be the same as if a watchmaker, when our watch goes wrong, should tell us that all its parts and their connexions are perfect, but that the motion is in fault. We should be justly dissatisfied, and recommend him to examine more minutely. In the same way, when medical men are puzzled, they must inquire more deeply and cautiously, in order to find out what may have escaped observation on the first occasion. This is not a merely speculative point, but one of conside- rable practical importance; for they who believe in strictly functional diseases direct their treatment according to that view. The endeavour is to remedy the imperfection of the function, to excite the vital properties which seem to be deficient in energy, to rouse those that appear to be dormant;