556 EPITHELIAL CANCER. same side, the mucous membrane over a similar space pre- sented a smooth red surface free from papillae, in the centre of which there was a deep foul ulcer, with hard circumference. A man of twenty-six had a general enlargement of the right side of the tongue, extending beyond the mesial line, but not involving the apex. The enlargement, smooth on the dorsum but uneven towards the edge, was almost of scirrhous hard- ness. It was neither painful nor tender to the touch, but it interfered considerably with articulation and deglutition. The foregoing cases, although syphilitic, do not present the most common form of venereal disease affecting the tongue; but the history and the age of the patients, with the characters of the ulcers, which could not be referred to any other origin, were quite sufficient for the purpose of diagnosis. Usually syphilitic ulcers of the tongue are superficial, varying in' number and in size, but generally small, combined or not with tuberculated or fissured thickening of the mucous mem- brane ; independently of other concomitant symptoms, and the history of the case, they could hardly be confounded with cancer. On the other hand, venereal enlargement and in- duration may occur to a degree and extent not only alarming to the patient, but liable to be misunderstood by the medical adviser, if he should happen to be without experience on the subject. A gentleman, under thirty, whom I had seen for primary syphilis, though long previously, had been travelling on the Continent for a year, suffering during the whole time great inconvenience and pain from a disease of the tongue, which had begun in a slight form as he was leaving England. He had consulted physicians and surgeons in Trance and Italy, taking various medicines without benefit, the com- plaint having apparently been deemed cancerous. The tongue, somewhat indurated, was generally enlarged, so as to inter- fere with mastication, and render articulation very indistinct.