85 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. The apprehension that bleeding employed for the cnre of inflammation may bring on typhoid symptoms rests on this same dread of debility, a fear in this case completely ground- less. There is real fear of weakness in inflammations, fear that the affected part may be weakened, i. e. have its func- tion more or less seriously impaired by the continuance and the disorganizing effects of inflammation, fear that the con- stitution may be weakened by the prolonged duration of the constitutional disturbance excited by the local mischief. The active measures capable of preventing these occurrences will preserve the patient's strength. Typhoid symptoms are not to be produced by loss of blood; they denote a peculiar condition, attended, it is true, with great reduction of strength, brought about by affection of the brain, primary or secondary, especially when it has proceeded to a certain extent. The repetition of general bleeding, though rarely necessary, may be indicated by the continuance or the return of the patient room, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labouring under acute inflammation of the external tunics of the right eye. The conjunctiva was of bright-red colour, the vessels of the sclerotic full, and the cornea hazy. For the last three nights the agony of pain, extending from the diseased organ across the brow and over the temples, was such as to deprive her of any rest, night or day. I referred her to Mr. Lawrence, who admitted her into the hospital. Eighteen leeches were immediately applied to the right temples, and in the course of the evening twelve more. The good effect, after the second appli- cation, was immediate; the agonising pain, which was wearing her out, sub- sided ; she was enabled to rest her head upon the pillow, and for the first time, for forty-eight hours, closed her eyes in refreshing sleep. She was ordered two grains of calomel and a third of a grain of opium, every four hours, until an effect was produced on the mouth. The patient recovered without a bad symptom, and with the complete use of the organ. What would have been her condition had the inflammatory excitement been allowed to pursue its course unchecked ?—II. Coote.