328 SCROFULA. calomel with rhubarb, jalap, or scammony, the dose being moderate, and repeated if necessary. The Hydrarg. c. creta, with rhubarb or jalap, may be sufficient, or castor, oil, if the stomach will bear it. After the bowels have been cleared and relieved, it may be necessary, not to purge, which would be injurious, but to assist them in their office by occasional mild means, such as a small dose of gray powder with rhubarb, of castor oil, of the concentrated infusion of senna as combined with other matters, so as to remove its unpleasant taste, of Epsom salt with dilute sulphuric acid. The compound de- coction of aloes is often serviceable, given in the middle of the day, or a little before dinner. If the bowels should be disposed to act naturally, it will be best not to interfere with them. The languid circulation, pale skin, cold extremities, and deficient muscular power of the scrofulous, especially in those most unfavorably circumstanced, clearly indicate the necessity of tonics, bark and steel in their various forms being the most appropriate medicines of this class. The liquor cinchonse of Battley, and quinine are the most eligible forms of the former; steel wine, ammoniated tincture of iron, and the tincture of the sesquichloride of the latter; while the citrate of quinine and iron presents a combination of both reme- dies. The iodide of iron is another combination easily taken by children in the form of syrup: its action seems to me to be simply that of iron. Some scrofulous subjects, however, will not bear tonics in any shape or dose; these are princi- pally the excitable children, with whom stimidi and full animal diet disagree. If the bowels are unloaded, and the tongue clean, they may be safely tried. The principles of medical practice in scrofula are not very clearly established, as some think well of the mineral acids, nitric, muriatic, or sulphuric, with light tonics, such as casca- rilla, while others repose much confidence in liquor potassae