296 DELIRIUM TREMENS. state of drunkenness, and consequently that the complaint is much more frequent in males than in females. It occurs not unfrequently in great drinkers, especially of ardent spirits, without any exciting cause, as a spontaneous affection, so that the name of traumatic delirium, under which it is spoken of by Dupuytren, gives too limited a view of the subject. In the London hospitals it is seen principally in those who, working hard and earning good wages, are enabled to indulge their appetites without restraint, especially with animal food, gin, and porter, of which latter they frequently swallow excessive quantities daily. In the great London breweries I have understood they are allowed to drink as much as they please. When received into an hospital on account of accident, the supply of stimulus is at once cut off, and they are reduced to a slender diet, consisting partly, however, of milk and bread, both of the best quality. The brain soon feels the effect of the change inevitably produced under these circumstances in the condition and movement of the circulating fluid, the unfavorable influence being probably increased by inactivity in bed, and manifested unequivocally in the spirits, temper, and want of rest, or in the more or less violent derangement of the mental faculties and moving powers. Our experience of these effects leads us to adopt preventive measures in the first instance, when their occurrence might otherwise be anticipated. Thus, we often allow such patients from the beginning meat diet and porter, sometimes with a glass of gin and water at bed-time, thus maintaining a condition of general health more favorable to the performance of the necessary restorative processes than could be expected under the strict regimen which has been often enjoined. The same principle must guide our treatment throughout the progress of such cases, especially when the repair of extensive injuries requires a long confinement. The sisters and nurses of our