612 MALIGNANT (?) DISEASE OF TONSIL. gland, and in a lobular arrangement. Mr. Savory reported that a most careful microscopical examination detected nothing but gland elements. This patient came once more to the hospital in July of the present year, with a swelling appa- rently glandular, larger than my fist, under the right sterno- mastoideus, of firm but not scirrhous hardness, and covering closely all the important structures at the side of the neck up to the angle of the jaw. It was not painful, and had not been so during its increase, which had been rather rapid. My colleagues and myself regarded this swelling, which had attained its great bulk within a few months after the removal of a primary disease, as a malignant affection, de- ciding, at once and unanimously, that it was not a fit case for operation. If it could have been considered merely as an innocent affection, I should not have hesitated to attempt its removal, although the operation would have been formidable and dangerous to life at the time, besides being very doubtful in its result. Considered as a secondary fatal tumour con- sequent on a primary disease, to which no suspicion of malig- nancy could be attached, it is of no slight practical importance. The diseased structure of two mammary glands, excised in cases of which the details have been previously related, was pronounced to be perfectly innocent after careful examina- tion, including microscopical scrutiny by persons of com- petent experience and judgment. Yet in one of these (p. 532) hard scirrhous knots formed in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix three times, while on one occasion the latter and the subjacent structure were indurated, so as to require removal j while in the other (p. 534) an enormous mass of disease formed within a short time, and filled the abdomen and the neighbouring inguinal and femoral regions on the side opposite to that of the diseased breast. These three cases show us that the character of malignancy may exist when no