FACE. 547 When a morbid deposit has taken place under the skin, the prognosis of operation is unfavorable. A stout hearty farmer, seventy years of age, with remarkably healthy appearance for his time of life, consulted me on account of an ulcer on the cheek, the size of a shilling, about an inch below the lower eyelid, level with the surface, rather foul and irregular. The basis was indurated, the induration including the skin. There was a thin discharge; a hard gland, about as large as a hazel nut, was discovered just within the angle of the lower jaw. It was not painful, causing little inconvenience, and had been treated with caustic without advantage. It was described to have begun with a wart, and to have existed seven or eight years, and to have been worse for the last year, in the course of which caustic had been used, which did harm. As the character of the affection was doubtful, a consultation was held on the case, in which the slow progress of the disease, the absence of pain, the excellent state of health, and the pro- bable extension of the mischief, with great suffering, were held to be sufficient reasons for operation, although the ques- tion was nicely balanced. In removing the disease, I took care to cut at such a distance round it as to take away all the morbid parts. Three incisions were made through the skin, a horizontal one parallel with the edge of the eyelid, and one third of an inch below it, and two others in an oblique direc- tion, one on each side, meeting below at an acute angle. It was necessary to go deep, as there was more to be removed than had been expected, and thus a considerable excavation was left, extending from a little below the edge of the lower lid to the angle of the mouth, and from the ala nasi to the masseter. The part removed turned out to be a hard (scirrhous) lump, as large as a walnut, of firm texture, and light gray colour, with well defined surface. The surrounding cellular substance and fat compacted and firmer than usual, but not