80 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Sometimes the inflammatory coat is softer, slightly trans- parent, not unlike boiled bacon fat, or a greyish jelly, like that of isinglass, little or not at all cupped. Couenne, French; speck-haut, German. Sizy covering; sizy blood. Sometimes there is a large proportion of crassamentum without any colourless stratum. The inflammatory characters are seen in blood drawn from a vein, also in that taken from an artery ;* not when it comes from the capillaries, as in cupping or leeching. We come, in the next place, to inquire what is the com- parative efficacy of general and local bleeding in arresting inflammation, in order to determine the occasions best surted to each method; we must consider also what quantity of blood should be taken, when, and how often the evacuation should be repeated. * On this point, respecting which the authorities, so far as I know, are silent, the following statement, kindly sent to me by my friend Dr. Tweedxe, affords clear and satisfactory evidence : « While I was house-surgeon at the Edinburgh Hospital, I was directed to bleed a patient under the care of Dr. Hamilton, for hammteinesis. The general febrile symptoms were very severe. I attempted to take blood from the veins of the arm, but, from their small size, I could not obtain the quantxty ordered. I opened the jugular vein, but from his struggles the orifice closed I then opened the temporal artery, from which the blood came in a full stream. The blood soon coagulated, and to my surprise, I found a thick firm, buffy coat on the crassamentum. I showed the blood to my fnend, the late Dr. Gordon, who told me he had searched every where for such a speamen, and had written to the surgeons of the large hospitals in London, to know ,1 they had ever observed this occurrence-their answer was in the negative. This specimen was placed in his museum. «I have since had an opportunity of observing the same thing in a pat.ent of mine, at the Fever Hospital, who was bled from the temporal artery, «* inflammation in the brain daring fever. This last Bpecimen, 1 sent to Mr. Grainger, who has alluded to it in his work on ' General Anatomy.' A. T.