506 CANCER; ACTIVE FER10D. nearer to the surface, no longer easily moveable, but con- nected to the surrounding parts j sometimes there is slight general enlargement of the. breast, with some warmth. The character of scirrhus is now clearly marked by incompressible hardness, with total want of elasticity. At this time there may be occasional pain, described as shooting or darting j or it may still be absent. The adipous texture around the disease is hardened, and thus the skin is drawn in, at first in so slight a degree that it might escape the notice of a careless observer. It may make a conspicuous, and even deep fold, in time, and is then found to have become adherent to the tumour. Sometimes it is reddened, thickened, and hardened, and slightly knotted on the surface; it may adhere extensively and closely to the scirrhous mass; it may become as thick as the sixth of an inch, without discoloration, but with loss of elasticity; and this change may extend to greater or less dis- tance from the disease; the nipple sinks down, flattens, and becomes retracted. When the whole gland is involved, it is drawn to the bottom of a circular depression of the skin; in other cases the retraction is partial. In this more active state of disease there> generally increase of pain, which recurs more frequently, is more severe, and of lancinating character. Another occasional, but not frequent affection of the skin, is the formation of cancerous tubercles in the neighbourhood of the original disease, and thence extending over the front of the chest, but seldom passing beyond that region, in which they are scattered irregularly, not in general numerous, except in some chronic cases which have lasted long. They vary from a size just discoverable by the feel to the third of an inch in diameter, and they may exceed that magnitude. They raise the surface but slightly,' and occupy the cutis and the immediately subjacent tissue. Of a pale pink tint in the beginning, they gradually become bright red and