DIAGNOSIS—AGE. 523 noticed that she frequently drew the upper end of the busk out- wards, apparently to lessen the pressure. She could not have been more than twenty-three at this time, and probably was not so much, as it was just at the period of leaving school. After a few months she told me that some alteration had oc- curred. There was increase of the affected portion, with some general induration of the mammary gland, as far as could be as- certained through a thick stratum of adipous structure. The skin was a little drawn in below the nipple, which was slightly retracted, and an enlarged gland was felt in the axilla. Alarmed by these indications of malignant character, I pro- posed that a surgeon, of the highest rank and character, since dead, should see the case. He at once pronounced the case to be innocent and free from all danger. She married in June, 1829, and went to reside in the country, where she enjoyed excellent health, saw much company, and led a very active life. When I saw her again, early in July, 1830, the breast presented an uniform scirrhous mass, with thick- ened and adherent integument, flattened and fissured nipple, with deep-red and shining prominence on its external side,' and a superficial ulcer as large as a shilling, producing a thin' fetid discharge. I removed the whole mass, with a consider- able area of the surrounding skin, which was still thickened in the course of the incision, and three or four axillary glands. The healing of the very extensive surface thus exposed,' retarded by occasional attacks of inflammation, was not com- pleted till the following April, having been effected at last under the influence of a large issue on the inner side of the arm. The cicatrization was, however, complete and firm, and the state of health satisfactory. Between one and two years afterwards, disease was discovered on the sternal side of the left breast, when she said that she was aware that the pressure of the busk had affected that as well as the opposite side, but