ITS NATUEE AND SYMPTOMS. 47 The pain in the first instance, is slight, and it gradually increases. It is augmented on pressure, and increased by any attempts to use the part. At first the patient ex- periences something of a dull aching; but as the inflammation proceeds, that feeling assumes a peculiar character, and is attended with a throbbing or pulsatory sensation. The patient feels the increased pulse. This is not a mere sensation of the patient. There is actual increase of fulness and force in the pulse throughout the Hmb, of the pulsation in the neighbourhood of the diseased part. The pulse at the wrist on the iuflamed side is fuller, stronger, and harder, than that of the opposite wrist.. The throbbing extends along the radial and ulnar arteries to the elbow, and in some severe cases reaches as far as the brachial itself. In conjunction with this increased fulness of the arterial trunks which lead to the inflamed part there is a corresponding distension of the veins. On the back of the hand and along the arm they are as full as they are seen after placing a ligature above the elbow, before you perform venesection. In conjunction with these four remarkable alterations in the part, the function of the inflamed organ is suspended, or, hotter than the hlood-and that Hunter's explanation of inflammatory heat is consequently valueless. Simon has lately instituted Some experiments in con. Tff H rVhe ^ °f ^ EdmUDd M°ntg0mery' and °° the ^nce thus ff rded, he affirms that an inflamed part is no mere passive recipient of heaT hut » , self actively caJoriflc. He found, first, that the arterial hlood supp^ to an mflamed limh is less warm than the focus of inflammation second y, that the venous hlood returning from an inflamed limh tWh found less warm than the focus of inflammation, is warmer tSl ! ^ blood supplied to the hmh; and thirdly, that the venou^I an mflamed limh is warmer than the corresponding current on*& sideofthehody. Therefore, concludes Mr. Simon 17 T ^ involves a local production of heat. (<Sys e70f S ^ *™™ Holmes, Esq., vol. i, p. 43, ed. 1) ( " * *•