388 SYPHILIS. sore, he says, « a thickening of the part commences, which at first, and while of the true venereal kind, is very circum- scribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surrounding parts, but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard, and the edges a little prominent." Had he discarded preconceived notions and current doctrines, and applied to primary syphilis his great powers of original observation and reflection, he certainly would not have been satisfied with this meagre account of the subject, which is alto-ether imperfect, even in reference to one, and that by no means the most frequent form of the disease. The character of induration is seen in primary sores under different aspects; it may be in moderate degree, and might be called thickening with firmness rather than induration. There may be aeon- siderablelump under the skin, generally without redness, often not existing at first, but gradually developed. If you take the part between the finger and thumb, you might suppose that there is a piece of cartilage below the surface to which the skm closely adheres. The ulceration, which is superficial or a little excavated, is seldom large ; it is slow in progress and unat- tended with pain. The induration often remains after the sore has healed, and that for a long time; and I have seen it occur in conjunction with secondary symptoms twelve months after the cure of the primary disease. It has not yet been shown that this kind of primary symptom owes its origin to any peculiarity in the poison which has caused it. There is, how- ever no doubt that a certain structure is necessary to its pro- duction, namely, some amount of loose cellular tissue. Hence it is most frequent in the fold of prepuce behind the glans, and in the lining of the prepuce. It is hardly met with in the glans, where the quantity of this structure is extremely small, and it is but rarely seen in the common integument ot the prepuce. When the corona glandis and contiguous portion