421 IRITIS. quent occasions. These operations and the use of chloroform were not attended either with dangerous or even unpleasant symptoms. I douht whether this disease could have been removed without the aid of the ecraseur; the use of the knife would have been attended with dangerous bleeding, and must have been repeated at least three or four times, if not more. The structure of the parts removed, differed only in size from the ordinary vascular excrescences of this region. Iritis.—An inflammation of the eye, beginning in and con- fined to the iris under favorable circumstances of treatment and duration, otherwise extending to the important structures behind, occurs not unfrequently in conjunction with syphi- litic eruptions, particularly the scaly, papular, and tuber- cular. It may occur at a later period than that of the eruption, and is sometimes, but rarely, seen as a sole secon- dary symptom. It may affect both eyes simultaneously, or in succession. The characteristic appearances of the affection are caused by effusion of fibrine into the texture of the mem- brane, on its surface, and on the pupillary margin. The iris loses its brilliancy, and the delicate fibrous character of its surface, becoming at first sluggish, and then motionless, the pupil contracts, and soon adheres to the crystalline capsule. Its colour is altered; if blue or gray, it presents a dull, yellowish, or greenish discoloration, the general tint being darker than before • if brown, it turns to a dull red. Fibrine is often effused, in small, reddish, or brownish tubercles, on the pupillary margin or the surface of the iris. The sclerotic vessels are congested, and as they approach the front break up into an infinite number of minute ramifications, closely crowded together, and forming a red zone round the cornea This zone is at first pink, the distended vessels being seen through the conjunctiva, which is unaltered; as the affection proceeds, the mucous membrane partakes of the inflammatory