SYPHILIS. 350 diversity, whether we regard the primary or the secondary symptoms. The primary symptom may be a simple abrasion, an excoriation, an idcer with induration, a phagedamic or a sloughing sore. Syphdis may consist either of an ulcer alone or with a bubo, or of those primary symptoms followed by scaly, papular, tubercular, or pustular eruption, by ulcerations of the skin, by superficial or excavated ulcer of the tonsils, or by affections of the bones, the periosteum, or the joints. In this variety of effects, which may last only a few days or weeks, or extend to months or years, syphilis presents a strong contrast to the results of other animal poisons, such as smallpox, measles, scarlatina, which, without being absolutely uniform, present a general regularity of symptoms, progress, and duration. Heretofore all the appearances called syphilitic were referred to one source, they were considered as the various effects of one poison. In more modern times, and more par- ticularly by Mr. Hunter, a distinction was attempted to be drawn from the effects of mercury. When the disease got well without the administration of mercury, it was considered not to be syphilitic; and those diseases arising from sexual intercourse, which got well under the use of mercury, were considered to be syphilitic. Mr. Carmichael, of Dublin, who was surgeon to the Richmond Hospital in that city, where a large number of syphilitic patients are admitted, wrote an 1 Essay on the Venereal Disease/ containing the result of his observations, and giving useful practical rules for the treat- ment of such affections. In this work he has advocated the opinion of a plurality of poisons. He has attempted to show that each particular primary ulcer is attended with its peculiar set of secondary symptoms. He has, therefore, connected together the primary ulcers with the secondary symptoms, which he considers particularly to belong to them j and he has thus established, in his own opinion, the existence of four