druggists’ compendium. Ink 51 precipitate witli very dilute sulphurous acid; drain on a filter, and dry in vacuo-, preserve in well stoppered bottles. Indigotin. Digest indigo in fine powder in dilute sul- phuric acid, solution of potassa, and alcohol successively; the dried residuum is Indigotin. Indianite. This new cement is prepared by mixing 100 parts of finely chopped rubber with 15 parts of resin, and 10 parts of shellac, and dissolving them in a sufficient quan- tity of bisulphide of carbon. Indisine. See Aniline Yiolet. Infant’s Preservative, Atkinson’s {Cooley). Carbon- ate of magnesia 6 drachms, white sugar 20 drachms, oil of aniseed 20 drops, compound spirit of ammonia and rectified spirit of each 150 drops, tincture of opium 60 drops, syrup of saffron 1 ounce, caraway water sufficient to make up to a pint. Injection, Antiblennorhagic (Bollet). Take of extract of rhatany 20 parts, sulphate of zinc 1 part, water 2000 parts; make a solution to he used as an injection three or four times a day. Ink, Marking Aniline. This is formed by a mixture of the two following solutions. Solution No. 1: Chloride of copper in crystals 8'52 parts, chlorate of soda 10’65 parts, chloride of ammonium 535 parts, distilled water 60-00 parts, Solution No. 2 : Hydrochloride of aniline 20 parts, distilled water 40 parts, gnm arabic 6 parts, glycerine 10 parts. When required for use 1 part of Solution No. 1 is mixed with 4 parts of Solution No. 2. It is necessary to keep the solu- tions separate until required for use. The colour given is a green changing into an unalterable black. Ink, Black (German). A sufficiency of bruised elder- berries are placed in an earthen vessel, kept in a warm place for three days, and filtered; to 121 quarts of this juice add 1 ounce of sulphate of iron, and 1 ounce of pyroligneous acid. This ink gives a fine violet tint which dries an intense black. Ink, Blue-black Copying. Aleppo galls bruised 51 ounces, cloves bruised 2 drachms, sulphate of iron 11 ounce, sulphate of indigo 11 ounce, sulphuric acid 35 drops, rain water cold 40 ounces; macerate the galls and cloves in 20 ounces of the water for eight days, decant and add to the