93 Syr DRUGGISTS’ COMPENDIUM. Syrup of Ipecacuanha. Take of ipecacuanha in coarse powder li ounce (avoirdupois), dilute sulphuric acid 10 ounces, spirits of wine \ an ounce, white sugar 1 pound. Macerate the ipecacuanha in the acid for three days, and pack in a percolator; add more dilute acid till 10 fluid ounces have passed through; to this add the spirit, and dissolve the sugar with gentle heat in the liquid so obtained. Syrup of Lemons. Oil of lemons 25 drops, citric acid 10 drachms, simple syrup 1 gallon; rub the oil of lemon in a mortar with the citric acid, add the syrup and mix. Syrup of Liquorice. Take of liquorice root 4 ounces, boiling water 16 ounces; digest the liquorice in the water four-and-twenty hours; add 12 ounces of refined white sugar. Syrup, Mrs. Wheeler’s American Soothing. Take of white sugar 35 ounces, lime water 11 ounces, fluid extract of poppies 4 fluid ounces, oil of anise 1 drachm, podophyl- lum extract (fluid) h an ounce, rectified spirit 2 ounces. Syrup of Oranges. Take of oil of oranges 30 drops, tartaric acid 4 drachms, simple syrup 1 gallon ; mix as for Syrup of Lemons. Syrup of Phosphate of Iron (Grove's process). Take of sulphate of iron 224 grains, phosphate of soda 200 grains, solution of ammonia a sufficiency, diluted phosphoric acid 5A fluid ounces, syrup 9 fluid ounces; powder the salts and mix them, and pour upon them 2 fluid ounces of boiling dis- tilled water, stirring carefully; then add solution of ammonia with repeated stirring until the mixture smells slightly ammoniacal; wash the precipitate with distilled water, first by decantation, afterwards on a filter, until the filtrate ceases to be affected by chloride of barium; then press the washed precipitate strongly in a fold of cotton, and having evaporated the dilute phosphoric acid to 2 fluid ounces, dis- solve the precipitate in it; filter the solution, and add dis- tilled water until it measures exactly 3 fluid ounces. Each fluid drachm of this solution contains 4 grains of phosphate of iron, and when added to 3 drachms of syrup forms the standard Syrupus Ferri Fhosphatus (F.B.J. Syrup of Sarsaparilla. Take of simple syrup 1 gal- lon, extract of sarsaparilla 1 pint, extract of liquorice pow- dered 1 ounce, oil of sassafras, oil of wintergreen, and oil of