(CHAPMAN’S Patent Prepared,) m H Z <5 Z x o U- By far the most satisfactory Infant’s food yet introduced, It is absolutely free from chemical admixture, being made from- the finest wheat, and containing not. only the starch but. also the gluten or flesh-forming, and earthy phosphates or teeth and bone-forming portions of the grain. Its richness in the latter distinguishes it from all other farinaceous foods, and renders it of gfeat service, especially during the period of teething. Its superiority as ah Infant’s food to arrowroot, corn-flour, &c. (which, being mere starches, are unfit to serve as a substantive diet), is obvious. “I am satisfied tftat it. has nutritive qualities far surpassing the ordinary' farina- ceous food:”—Webdon Cooke, Esq., Surgeon to Cancer Hospital. “It is.incomparably superior to arrowroot, corn-flour, and other forms of starch, which contribute but little to the growth or renewal of bone or muscle.”— Dr. Attfield, Professor of Practical Chemistry to the Pharmaceutical Society. **3 O 2! > 2! H CO (CHAPMAN’S Patent Prepared.) jV] =$3 P3 ch PP S P W <5 o > * Z The lamentable defectiveness of the teeth, and the general tendency to weakness of the bony fratne, so often observed in children, has been clearly traced by the most eminent writers (including Baron Liebig) to the general use of white foods, which contain but little teeth or bone-forming material. This fault is completely remedied in the Entire Wheat Flour, which contains in proper proportions every- thing necessary to nourish perfectly all parts of the body. It may be prepared in a variety of ways, and besides being a most palatable and nutritious diet for children, will be found most, useful in the sickrroom, being most strengthening to the invalid, and moreover often taken with relish when all other foods are rejected. “ It is very easily digested by the most delicate ones, &nd will be found a food of great value, especially in the numerous strumous diseases of childhood.”—Bl*Xton Shillitoe, Esq., F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the East London Hospital for Children. ... 3 C a * < o M t-i M f tJB CG o 55 (CHAPMAN’S Patent Prepared.),. CHAPMAN'S Patent Entire Wheat Flour pan now be obtained of most respectable Chemists, &c., iti Town and Country, In 3d., 6d., and is. Packets, and 3s. Tins. If any difficulty is experienced in procuring it, please apply to the sole Proprietors, Orlando Jones & Co., Starch Makers to the Queen and Makers of the Gold Medal Rice Starch. 18’ LONDON. N. B. —This Starch, the strongest and purest made, may be used with hot or cold water : does not stick to the iron : and retains its stiffness m the dampest weatnci.