41 druggists’ compendium. Gly Glue, Elastic. Dissolve glue by tbe aid of a water bath, evaporate this till a thick fluid is obtained, add to this an equal weight of pure glycerine, continue the evaporation with stirring until the remaining water is driven off; run it out on a marble slab to cool. [This composition might be advantageously applied to the manu- facture of printers’ roller's, &c.] Glue, Liquid (Dumoulin’s). Take of soft water 1 quart, best pale glue 2 pounds; dissolve in a covered vessel by the aid of the heat of a water bath ; after cooling add with caution 7 ounces of nitric acid (sp: qr: P335); when cold bottle off. Glue, Marine, Extra fine. Caoutchouc 20 grains, chloroform 2 fluid ounces; dissolve and add 4 drachms of powdered mastic; must be kept cool and well corked. Glue, Portable, Mouth Glue. Take of fine pale glue 1 pound, dissolve over a water bath in a sufficiency of water, add brown sugar 4 pound, continue the heat till amalgamation is effected; pour on a slab of slate or marble, and when cold cut into squares. Glove Powder. Take of Castille soap any quantity; thoroughly dessicate this in a warm dry atmosphere, and finally reduce to fine powder in a mortar. Glycerine Cream. White wax 1 ounce, spermaceti 1 ounce, glycerine 1 ounce ; melt, and pour into a mortar, and add slowly, with constant stirring, rose water 3 ounces, orange flower water 1 ounce. Glycerine Jelly. Take of white soft soap 4 ounces, pure glycerine 6 ounces, almond oil 4 pounds, oil of thyme 2 drachms; melt the soap, and add in succession the other ingredients. Glycerine Paste. Dissolve 1 ounce of gum arabic in 2 drachms of glycerine and 1 ounce of boiling water. [For office use.] Glycerine Soap {M. Herrin). Take 100 parts of oleine of commerce, pour it either in a glass flask if the quantity be small, or for a larger quantity into an ordinary boiler, add 314 parts of glycerine (sp. gr. 1T2) heat to a tem- perature of 90° Fahr., and then add 56 parts of an aqueous solution of caustic potassa (sp. gr. 1'34) ; stir the mixture