Mil 64 THE CHEMISTS AND Milk op Roses (Miscible with glycerine). In 1 pint of water dissolve 4 an ounce of white curd soap, in which solution heat up 6 ounces of picked Jordan almonds. The glycerine, when used, should be added at this stage; then in a warm mortar add to the mixture thus obtained 2 ounces of almond oil and 4 an ounce of spermaceti, melted separately; add lastly 4 ounces of Eau de Cologne. Milk op Roses (English): Take of almonds blanched 14 ounce, oil of almonds and white Windsor soap of each 1 drachm, rose water 15 ounces; make an emulsion; to the strained emulsion add spirit of roses 30 drops, alcohol 24 fluid ounces. When the above ingredients have been well mixed, make up to a pint with rose water. Milk op Roses (French): Tincture of benzoin (simple) 4 fluid ounce, tincture of storax 2 drachms, spirit of roses 2 fluid drachms, alcohol 24 fluid ounces ; mix, and gradually add, with agitation, rose water 164 fluid ounces. Augustin recommends the addition of a drachm of carbon- ate of potash, when the milk of roses is to be used as a lotion in acne. Milk op Roses (German): Dilute solution of diacetate of lead 4 drachms, lavendar water 2 drachms, alcohol 24 fluid ounces, rose water 15 ounces; mix, with agitation. This preparation, though valuable in some forms of skin disease, is too powerful for general use. Milk op Wax. Dissolve pure yellow wax 24 ounces, in oil of turpentine 20 ounces. Millefleuks, Essence of. Lavender water, strongest, 1 ounce, esprit de jasmine 1 ounce, oil of bergamot 90 drops, cassia 30 drops, oil of sassefras 12 drops, otto of roses 4 drops, orange-flower water 8 ounces, rectified spirit 1 pint. Mineral Lemonade. Under this designation there is sold at the pharmacies and cafes of Paris, Berlin, and Vienna a cooling summer beverage which seems to possess considerable advantages over those made in this country with vegetable acids, such as the citric and tartaric. It is composd of 1 drachm of Hallar’s acid solution dissolved in 4 pint of water, with the addition of 1 drachm of fruit syrup. Mixture, Astringent (Thomson). Tincture of catechu 1 ounce, cinnamon water 8 ounces; dissolve; 1 to 2 table- spoonsful a dose.