For druggists’ compendium. 37 Take of shellac 12 ounces, gum elemi 2 ounces, gum copal 3 ounces, spirits of wine 1 gallon; dissolve. French Purple. This is one of the most beautiful colouring agents which chemistry has taught us to extract from the lichens. It is prepared in the following manner:— Extract from the lichens their lecanorip, ervthic, and evernic acids, by digestion with ammonia, press the mass; precipi- tate the solution by means of a mineral acid, collect and wash the precipitate, which redissolve in ammonia with the aid of heat; the solution obtained, on exposure to the air at the temperature of 36° F. takes a bright red colour; when the liquid has assumed the required tint, it must be poured into shallow vessels and very slowly evaporated at about 90° F., care being taken not to raise the temperature too high; the colour now changes to a deep violet. Saturate the solution with a strong acid, and collect the precipitate in a filter; this precipitate, after careful washing, is French Purple. Fucus Wine. Take of grapes 98 pounds, distilled water 161 gallons, white sugar 84 pounds, bitartrate of potash 164 ounces, dried fucus (Fucus vesiculosusj 23 pounds 9 ounces. Crush the grapes and pack them in a cask, with alternate layers of fucus. Dissolve the sugar and bitartrate of potash in the water, and pour the solution upon the fucus and grapes. Keep in a warm place and, if necessary, add a little yeast to promote fermentation. Fixataure. See Bandoline. Florida Water. Take of oil of lavendar, oil of bergamot, and oil of lemons, of each 2 drachms, tincture of turmeric and oilof neroli of each 1 drachm, oil of mellissa 30 drops, oil of roses 10 drops, alcohol 2 pints. Fluid Camphor. Camphor in powder 1 drachm, freshly precipitated carbonate of magnesia 2 drachms, distilled water 1 pint; solution is effected by means of a stream of carbonic acid gas under pressure. Fluid Magnesia. Prepared in a manner similar to the above; if properly prepared, fluid magnesia usually contains about 12 grains of carbonate to the ounce. Fly Poison. Black pepper 1 teaspoonful, brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls, cream 4 teaspoonfuls. Formic Acid (Liebig). Dry formate of lead 18 parts,