Iro 53 druggists’ compendium. ‘ Ink, Marking (Soubeiran). Nitrate of copper 3 parts, •carbonate of soda 4 parts, nitrate of silver 8 parts ; mix, and dissolve in 100 parts liquor of ammonia; to be applied with a quill pen, and developed by heat. Ink, Red. Infuse a sufficiency of Brazil wood chips in weak vinegar, boil for an hour, strain, and add a small quantity of gum arabic and sugar. The colour will be enriched by the addition of a little powdered alum. Insecticide Powder. Of the various insect-destroying powders before the public, the most efficacious have for their basis the tubular florets of the Pyrethrum roseum caucasicum reduced to a fine powder. Insect Poison (Cloez). Take of quassia chips 2§ ounces, stavesacre seed powdered 5 drachms; digest in 7 pints of water, evaporate at a temperature of 212° to 5 pints. This liquid applied with a syringe or otherwise is a perfect annihilator of plant and other insects. Iodbenzil. As this body is very ready to undergo double decomposition, it will be found very suitable for the prepara- tion of benzil compounds. It is formed by the action, at the ordinary temperature, of hydriodic acid upon chloride of benzil; the result being a solid crystalline mass of iodbenzil fusing at 24°. Iodic Acid. Decompose iodate of baryta by dilute .•sulphuric acid. Ipecacuanha, Syrup of. The following American formula makes a syrup which will keep without deteriora- tion for a lengthened period:—Take of fluid extract of ipecacuanha (TJ. S. P.) 17 drachms, granulated sugar 32 ounces, water 16 fluid ounces. Pour the fluid extract on the sugar in a shallow evaporating dish, and set aside in a warm place to dry; when dry add the water, and dissolve the sugar with the aid of a gentle heat. Iron, Sacciiarate of. According to Dr. Gerhard the best way to prepare saccharate of iron is to take a measured, quantity of perchloride of iron, and precipitate the iron in the form of hydrate of peroxide, to which after careful washing, a small quantity of caustic ammonia is to be added; it is now dissolved at once in simple syrup with aid of heat. i