Aug druggists’ compendium. 9 from an infusion of unhusked rice. An imitation arrack is made in this country by the following process:—Take pale old Jamaica rum, rectified spirit, and water, of each 1 quart, flowers of benzoin 1 drachm, pine apple essence (q.v.) 30 drops; digest with occasional agitation for a fortnight, then add of skim milk 1 wine-glassful, agitate well for fifteen minutes, and in a few days decant the clear portion. Artificial Camphor, See Camphor. Artificial Ivory, Photographic. Dissolve shreds of gutta percha in chloroform,pass a stream of chlorine through the solution until it has acquired a bright yellow tint; wash well with alcohol, add in fine powder sulphate of baryta, knead well, and finally subject to heavy pressure. The pro- portions of the various ingredients must be modified according to the density required. Asphaltum Liquid (Wilson). Take of asphaltum half a pound, melt; add of hot balsam of copaiba 1 pound, and when mixed thin it with hot oil of turpentine. Used as a black japan and as a glazing colour by artists. Ashberrium. This new metallic alloy consists of 80 parts of tin, 14 of antimony, 2 of copper, 2 of nickel, 1 of aluminium, and 1 of zinc. Atractylic Acid. This remarkable acid may be ob- tained from the root of the Atractylis gmnnifera, where it occurs in the form of atractylate of potass, which may be extracted from the root with boiling water; evaporate solu- tion ; dissolve the residue in alcohol of 85 per cent; purify with animal charcoal, and repeatedly recrystallise from alco- hol. The acid is obtained in the form of thin fluid by decomposing the salt with acetate of lead, and decomposing the atractylate of lead so formed by means of dilute sulphuric acid. Atropine. To the freshly-prepared extract of bella- donna add a strong solution of caustic potash, mix well in a mortar. Digest the resulting mass at a temperature of 80° with benzole; separate the latter and distil off the hydrocarbon in a retort on the water bath. The residue in the retort must be treated with water acidulated with sul- phuric acid; precipitate the acid solution by carbonate of soda, and the resulting atropine may then be obtained pure by being crystallised from an alcoholic solution. Augustin’s Liniment. See Hair Stimulants.