DANIEL JUDSON & SON, DRYSALTERS, SOUTHWARK STREET, LONDON, S.E, THIS TRADE MARK APPEARS ON ALL OUR GOODS. THIS TRADE MARK APPEARS ON ALL OUR GOODS. JUDSON’S PURE GLYCERINE, 2 oz. Bottle, 1 doz. in Box 4s. Retail at 6J. (No price marked on Bottle). With Judson’s newly-devised Show-Card having Six Bottles attached. Belying on a very large* ale, we have spared no expense to make this article as attractive as possible. An expenditure of Four Shillings will convince all buyers of its superiority over ever other Glycerine that has appeared, JUDSON’S DOUBLE GUM. “The Best Gum out.” One Dozen in a Box, with One Dozen Brushes; 4s. for a dozen Sixpenny ; 8s. for a dozen Shilling. A Show-Card, fitted with Bottles, accompanies each Box. Supply Bottles. —Bints, Si. per Dozen. Half-pints, 4s. per Dozen. Benny Gums, in Gross and half- gross Boxes, 8s per Gross. “ ‘ A gum that will stick ’ has been a long-sought-for requisite. Daniel Jcdson and Son’s Double Gum effects this desideratum, in addition to which it is got up in a most attractive style. The show-card upon which the bottles are exhibited, being indeed unique, has been protected by ‘ registration,’ and is a very ingenious arrange- ment, admirably answering the purpose for displaying the Gums, either in the window on the counter, or hung on a nail. The Shilling Bottle is a suitable ornament for any lady’s davenport, or for first-class office use, and will not easily topple over.”—Vide Mather's Monthly Circular. JUDSON’S DYES. “ Most people look with a sort of horror upon the idea of dyeing any article at home; they anticipate a week, perhaps a fortnight, of worry, dirt, discomfort, and disappointment; and it must be confessed that, under the old system of dyeing, these anticipations were generally realized. Modern science has obviated all these disagree- ables. By the means of ‘ Judson’s Simple Dyes ’ a lady can dye small articles in a washhand-basin almost instantaneously, and without soiling her fingers. Nothing is necessary for this purpose but a sixpenny bottle of the dye, a sufficient quantity of boiling water, and a stick or ivory knitting-pin, with which to stir the article to be dyed. Large things can be dyed with equal facility, but it is requisite that the pan in which the dye is mixed should be large enough to admit of the whole fabric being immersed at the same time, in order that every part may be of exactly the same tint. Mix the dye through the water in an earthenware pan, large enough to contain the goods and to allow of their being moved rapidly about in it; put plenty of water; the goods, if left long enough in it, will absorb all the dye, and leave the water almost colourless. Woollen things look particularly well after dyeing. Feathers also are most successful, and silk, whether in the piece or ribbons. NAMES OF COLOURS. Magenta. Crimson. Mauve. Brown. Green. Black. Blue. Buce. Violet. Canary. Bink. Slate. Scarlet. Orange. Burple. Lavender. May be had of all Druggists and Storekeepers throughout the world.