THE CHEMISTS AND Can 16 sheets of gutta percha, in such a way as to give a propor- tion of one-seventh of a grain of cantaridinate of potash to every four square inches of the tissue. Cantharidine Cream. Take of impressed oil of sweet almonds 16 ounces; lime water 8 ounces; tincture of can- tharides 2 ounces. Cantharidine Cerate. See Cerates. Cantharidine Oil. See Hair Stimulants. Capsicine (Taylor). Powdered capsicum is digested with anhydrous ether, and evaporated; the extract so procured is digested in alcohol (sp. gr. "809); the solution is filtered and afterwards treated with sub-acetate of lead ; the resulting precipitate is separated by filtration and the clear tincture freed from the lead by means of sul- phurated hydrogen, which precipitates the lead in the form of a sulphuret; this being removed by filtration, the solu- tion is now boiled, filtered, evaporated, and set aside in a cool place to crystallise. Capsules. By this term is generally understood in pharmacy the small egg-shaped envelopes of gelatine or other material used to disguise the taste of nauseous drugs. The following are the principal modes of manu- facture:—Gelatine Capsules: Make balls of wax of the desired form and size by pouring melted wax into a wooden mould consisting of two hemispheres; the wax balls are afterwards stuck on little pins placed in rows upon metal rods; the balls are now coated all at once by dipping the rods into tanks containing a strong solution of gelatine. They are now removed from the pins, and placed upon slightly-heated metal platep with the pin hole downwards, when the wax flows out, leaving the perfectly formed capsule. Saccharated Capsules are made in the same way as the above, only using the following solution in- stead of pure gelatine:—Gelatine 6 parts, solution of gum and simple syrup, of each 1 part, water 5 parts; melt over a steam bath, skim, and proceed as above. Gluten Capsules, these patent capsules are formed of the gluten of wheat flour, and are insoluble in water. Ricord uses in his prac- tice a copaiba capsule coated with extract of rhatana, of which he speaks highly. Caramel, Spirit Colouring. Heat cane sugar in a metallic vessel to 460° Fahr., till aqueous vapours rise, stir-