G3 Mil druggists’ compendium. the drug mill so that it will pass through a No. 20 sieve, and add to the meal a sufficient quantity of cold water to form with it a soft dough; then add about 2 gallons of hot water, and apply heat so as to raise the temperature of the mixture to 150°, or not to exceed 158°. Maintain this temperature, with occasional stirring, for several hours, or until the whole of the starch is converted (by means of the diastase of the m alt) into dextrine and glucose. The absence of starch can be ascertained by the application of tincture of iodine to a small quantity of the liquor, when, if the starch has been wholly converted, no blue coloration will be evident. Then express the liquor rapidly, and pass it through a strainer. This is the most difficult part of the process, as it speedily clogs the strainer. This can be averted to some extent by making a pulp by means of water from common unsized paper, or filtering-paper, and mixing this pulp with the expressed liquid previous to straining. The perfectly clear fluid is finally to be evaporated, by means of a water-bath, to the consistence of a thick syrup, having the sp. gr. T500, or approximately 1 pint, weighing 1§ pound av.” Keep in a cool place. Manna, Artificial. Powdered sugar, powdered traga- canth, and flour, of eaeh 1 pound, finest Aleppo scammony 6 drachms ; make into a suitable consistency with water. Mange Ointment. Take of sulphur 1§ ounce, oil of juniper 4 drachms, resin ointment 2 ounces. To be rubbed in one day, and washed off next. Marrow Pommade. Beef marrow 1 pound, annato 2 drachms, oil of bergamot 1 drachm, tincture of tolu 2 drachms; mix by the gentle heat of a water bath. Marseilles Yinegar. See Yinigre de Quotre Youlres. Meat Biscuits. Make a soft dough by mixing together fine wheat flour and fluid extract of beef; mould into shapes and bake in the usual way. Milk, Goat’s, Artificial {Thomson). Mutton suet, minced, 1 ounce; tie in a fine muslin cloth and boil in 1 quart of cow’s milk, adding 2 drachms of sugar candy. Milk, Preserved. Dissolve carbonate of soda ^ drachm in water 1 ounce, adding fresh milk 1 quart, sugar 1 pound; reduce it by heat to the thickness of syrup; spread on plates to dry by exposure to the sun.