Lin druggists’ compendium. 57 Lemonade, Aerated. Lemonade, and other aerated waters, may be manufactured without a machine in the following manner:—First fit each bottle carefully with a cork, and fill into each 12 drachms lemon syrup, 30 grains sesqui-carbonate of soda; nearly fill the bottle with water, and add 1 drachm of tartaric acid in crystals, instantly corking down, and inverting the bottle. Lemons, Artificial Oil of (Dussauce). Spirit of turpentine 1 gallon, rectified spirit 3 quarts, nitric acid 1 quart; agitate the mixture in an earthen vessel, and let it rest for a month; a quantity of hydrate of spirit of turpen- tine results, this, submitted to the action of hydrochloric acid, loses a part of its water of crystallization, and is transformed into a hydro chlorate; this heated to disengage a portion of the acid, and treated with potassium, is trans- formed into a thin colourless oil possessing all the proper- ties of oil of lemons. Lemon Cream. New cream 1 ounce, new milk 8 ounces, lemon juice 1 ounce, eaude cologne 1 ounce, alum in powder 1 ounce, sugar 1 drachm. An agreeable and useful appli- cation to a sunburnt skin. Lime, Saccharate. This will be found a useful form in which to administer lime to children. Dr. Schonn recommends the precipitate of saccharate of lime, which is obtained by precipitating a solution of milk of lime in syrup by the agency of alcohol; the neutral saccharate so obtained is readily soluble in water or syrup at ordinary temperatures. Lime Juice and Glycerine (Inseparable). Lime juice 10 ounces, rose water 5 ounces, rectified spirit (added gradually) 2 ounces; shake well together, after four and twenty hours strain through muslin, and add oil of lemon 30 drops, oil of lavender 30 drops, glycerine 21 ounces; shake well. The essential oils should be dissolved in a little spirit previous to admixture. Lime-Juice and Glycerine (Imitation). Lime water 10 ounces, almond oil 10 ounces, oil of bergamot 30 drops. Linctus, Cough. (Latham’s) Take of Dover’s powder 30 grains, compound tragacanth powder 2 drachms, syrup of tolu, confection of hips, and simple oxymel of each 1 ounce. Dose 1 teaspoonful.