Ext THE CHEMISTS AND 3G residue over a writer batli to the proper consistency. If properly worked the yield will be about 2 per cent. Extract (Fluid) of Ergot of Rye (Long). Digest freshly powdered ergot of rye in glycerine for 10 days, strain off the fluid: the residue must now be digested in spirit for 10 days and filtered; reduce by distilling off the spirit to the consistency of syrup and add to the previous solution. Dose 1 drachm. Extract of Meat (Liebig). The flesh, freed from fat and tendons, is hacked or minced in a mill; when cut suffi- ciently small it is placed in a digester with its own weight of water, and by steam heat it is very carefully and gradu- ally brought to a temperature of 158° Fahr. The applica- tion of the heat ought to be so graduated as to attain its maximum at the end of four hours. The fluid extract is now freed from any remaining fat by being placed in deep narrow vessels and carefully skimmed. The quality of the extract depends on the complete removal of fat. The fluid extract is now filtered and evaporated in open pans of iron (other metals are ineligible); steam heat must be used in this operation. When a proper consistency is obtained the extract is packed in air-tight earthenware jars. IF1 Ferrate of Potash. Expose to a full red heat a mix- ture of finely powdered oxide of iron with four times its weight of dry nitre. The resulting blackish green mass is ferrate of potash. Ferric Acid. Expose a mixture of pure sesquioxide of iron and nitre in the proportion of 1 part of the former to 4 of the latter (both in the form of dry powder), to a full red heat for an hour in a covered crucible, and treat the mass as soon as cold with cold water. Fly Powders. These somewhat dangerous articles are prepared from the black oxide of arsenic, and in many cases from the common white arsenic of commerce. A much more simple agent for the destruction of flies may be manufactured from the concentrated extract of quassia wood. See Fly Poison. French Polish. Dr. Ure, in his “Dictionary of Arts and Manufactures,” gives the following excellent formula:—