Oin druggists’ compendium. 69 and forwarded to the exporting merchant. The refuse is placed under screw presses and the remainder of the oil extracted. This is not refined, but sold as common cod oil, and is used largely on railways and for lubricating machinery. Great attention to cleanliness is also necesary, the filtering bags requiring to be washed thoroughly every day, and the troughs scrubbed out with great care. The rancid oil that is frequently met with is the produce of manufacturers who are careless about these matters. The best oil is made in the way above described; and all the pretences made about refining it, and making it pala- table, are either covers for adulteration or such means as deprive the oil of its most valuable therapeutical qualities. Oil of Eggs. Heat yolk of egg until it becomes thoroughly dry, press, and digest in boiling alcohol, filter while still hot, and distil off the spirit. [Used for sore nipples chaps, and excorations.] Oil of Elder, Green. Boil 8 ounces of elder leaves in 10 ounces of olive oil; when the leaves are exhausted the oil is expressed and again heated. [Popular in some districts as an emollient liniment.] Oil of Pellitory. Prepared from the root of the pellitory (Anacyclus pjrethrum). Oil, Phosphorated (Mcigendie). Take of phosphorus sliced 30 grains, almond oil 1 ounce, macerate in a dark place, with occasional shaking, for fourteen days, decant the clear portion, and add a few drops of oil of bergamot. Oil of Sulphur (Balsam of Sulphur). Sublimed sulphur 1 ounce, olive oil 4 ounces; boil together till the mixture assumes a syrupy consistency. Oil of Wax. Oil of wax, or as it is sometimes called Butter of Wax, is prepared from yellow bees-wax by rapid distillation in a well closed alembic, and rectification with quick-lime. Ointment of Aconitine (Dr. Garrod). Made by triturating aconitine with lard in the proportion of 1 grain of aconitine to 1 drachm of lard. Some authorities give the proportions as 1 grain to the ounce. [This is a useful preparation in careful hands, in cases of neuralgic pains.] Ointment, Alkaline (Soubeiran). Carbonate of