THE CHEMISTS AND 28 Del water 1 pint, orange peel 2 drachms; boil 10 minutes and strain. Dose a wineglassful. Delphinine (Parrish). Make an alcoholic extract of the seeds of stavesacre (Delphinum staphysagria); this treat with dilute sulphuric acid, precipitate with potassa; again dissolve in dilute sulphuric acid; the colouring matter may now be precipitated by nitric acid, and afterwards the alkaloid by potassa; it is now to be dissolved in alcohol and deposited by evaporation. Dose 1 to 1-12 of a grain. Depilatories. French Depilatory: Quicklimel ounce, carbonate of soda 2 ounces, lard 8 ounces; to be applied as an ointment when fresh made. Boudet’s Depilatory : Hydrosulphate of soda 61, ounces, quicklime 5 ounces, starch 5 ounces. Poudre Subtile : Sulphuret of arsenic A an ounce, quicklime 5 ounces, starch 7 ounces. When required for use, make into a thick paste with warm water, spread on a piece of paper, and apply as a plaster for 10 minutes, washing off with warm water; applying afterwards a dressing of cold cream. Redwood’s Depilatory : The safest and best is a strong solution of sulphuret of barium made into a paste with powdered starch, and applied at once. Detergent (Dr. Collier). Take of liquor of potassa 2 fluid drachms, rose water 5 A fluid ounces, spirit of rose- mary 1 fluid ounce; mix. [To free the head from scurf Ac.] Developing Solution, Photographic. Place 120 grains of gelatine in a thin beaker glass, add an ounce each of water and sulphuric acid, previously mixed and cooled; when all the gelatine is dissolved the solution is to be poured into about 5 times its bulk of water, and rendered slightly alkaline with ammonia; the resulting light brown solution is now made up with 500 grains of proto-sulphate of iron. Dexterine. Starch gum may be prepared by the following method :—Soak 1000 parts of potato starch in 300 parts of water, acidulated with 2 parts of nitric acid; the starch mixture is left to dry, and when dry is to be heated for a few hours in a stove at a temperature of 212° Fahr. Digitaline, Crystallized. Take 100 parts (by weight) of digitalis in coarse powder, mix this with a solution of 25