DRUGGISTS’ COMPENDIUM. Hum 47 a draught. Febrifuge : Take of extract of belladonna 1 drachm, spirits of nitric ether 1 ounce, solution of acetate of ammonia 4 ounces; mix for draught. Purgative : Take of oil of turpentine 4 ounces, linseed oil 16 ounces. Diu- resis : Kreasote 30 drops, acetic acid 2 ounces, water 12 ounces; mix. Tonic Astringent Draught : Take of tannic acid 30 grains, powdered gentian 3 drachms, water 4 ounces; mix for a draught. Horse Blisters. Take of powderedcantharides2 drachms, oil of turpentine 2 drachms, powdered euphorbium 1 drachm, oil of thyme 1 drachm, prepared lard 2 ounces; mix for blister. This very active preparation requires caution in its use. Cantharidine Blister : Take of tartar emetic 1 drachm, cantharidine ointment 2 ounces; mix. This excel- lent blister is equally well adapted for horses and cattle. Hoof Ointment : Take of Barbadoes tar, Burgundy pitch, and mutton suet, of each equal parts. Make an ointment. Horse Powders (Gamgee). Alterative: Take of sulphur 1 ounce, sesqui-sulphuret of antimony 4 drachms, nitrate of potash 2 drachms. To be given in the horse’s food. Diuretic : Take of colchicum seeds 2 ounces, cantharides 1 ounce; make into 3 powders for horse or ox. For Laryngopharngitis : Take of iodide of potassium 1 drachm, calomel 1 drachm, powdered belladonna 1 ounce, white sugar 2 ounces; divide into 4 equal parts; to be placed on the tongue. Huile Acoustique. Take of garlic and bay leaves of each i ounce, olive oil 4 pound; boil these together for 15 minutes and strain. A few drops on cotton wool are useful in earache. Huile Antique a la Rose. Olive oil 1 pound, fresh rose leaves 1 pound; infuse seven days with as many relays of fresh flowers; colour with alkanet to taste; considerable pressure must be used in straining. Huile Antique au Chevre Feuille. Olive oil 1 pound, honeysuckle flowers fresh 1 pound; proceed as for Huile Antique a la Rose. Humulin. Make a strong tincture of hops by percolation with rectified spirit; the same hops are then exhausted with water; distil off the spirit from the tincture; skim off the