90 Sol THE CHEMISTS AND Soluble Blue is made by taking 7 parts of oil of vitriol, placing it in a glass vessel, setting this in cold water, and adding gradually one part of fine indigo in powder, stirring the mixture at each addition with a glass rod. Cover the vessel for twenty-four hours, then dilute with an equal quantity of water. Solution of Chloral Hydrate. Take of chloral hydrate 1 ounce, water 1 ounce, simple syrup A ounce, essential oil of almonds 2 to 3 drops. Specific Solution, Pranks’. The following formula is given by Mr. A. J. Cooley under this title :•—“ Take of balsam of copaiba 2 parts, liquor of potassa (Ph. L.) 3 parts, water 7 parts; boil the mixture for two or three minutes, put it into a separator; and allow it to stand five or six days, then draw it off from the bottom, avoiding the upper stratum of oil, and to the clear liquid add of sweet spirit of nitre (perfectly free from acid) 1 part; should it turn foul or milky, a very little liquor of potassa will usually brighten it; if not, place it in a clean separator, and let it stand closely covered for a few days, and then draw it off from the bottom as before, when it will be perfectly transparent without filtering.” Spirit of Mousseline. Take of orange-flower water and gilly-flower water of each 1 pint, spirit of roses, spirit of jasmine and spirit of orange flower (enfleurage) of each 1 quart, essences of vanilla and musk of each 1 ounce, santal woods havings 2 drachms. Spirit of Rhubarb, Sweet. Take of rhubarb and liquorice root of each (bruised) 1 ounce, aniseed (bruised) A ounce, sugar A ounce, proof spirits 1 pint; macerate for fourteen days and filter. Spirits, Vulnerary (Vulnerary Water). Take of rosemary leaves 12 ounces, thyme and millefoil 4 ounces, juniper berries 12 drachms, proof spirit 1 gallon. Sponges, To Bleach. White sponge is prepared gene- rally by soaking the common sponge in very dilute hydro- chloric acid to remove the calcareous matter, then in cold water, changing it frequently, and squeezing the sponge out each time; it is then soaked in water holding a little sulphurous acid, or a very little chlorine in solution; lastly, the sponge is washed in clean water and scented with rose or other fragrant water, and dried. Another way is to