Ani druggists’ compendium. 5 Amyle, Acetate of. Take of fusel oil 1 part, ace- tate of potassa dry, 2 parts, concentrated sulphuric acid 1 part: distil with the usual precautions from a glass retort into a cool receiver. The distillate is purified by washing it in very dilute solution of potassa, and afterwards redistilling from fused chloride of calcium. The sulphurous odour, if any be present, may be removed by the addition of a little litharge in the retort previously to rectification. Amyle, Oxide oe. This ether dissolved in alcohol is largely sold underthe name of Brandy Essence, and used in the preparation of British Brandy (q.v.) It may be procured by distilling together fusel oil and concentrated sulphuric acid, and rectifying repeatedly till the boiling point reaches 349° Fahr., and the specific gravity falls to 779°. Amyle, Yalerinate of. By treating the crude pro- duct of the distillation of potato oil with a weak solution of pure potassa, a nearly pure volatile oil is obtained, which whendissolved in rectified spirits givesthe flavouring essence sold under the name of “ Apple Essence.” Angelica, Candied. Cut down stalks of angelica (.Angelica archangelica) and boil till tender, take it out, peel, and return to the boiler, where it must he allowed to simmf e till green; it must now be thoroughly dried, placed in a pa i with equal parts of sugar; let the whole stand for forty-eigl n hours, boil till clear, drain off the moisture, add again equal parts of sugar, sprinkled over; place loosely in an oven, and dry with a moderate heat. Aniline. Of the many methods employed for procuring this valuable organic base the following, suggested by Hoffmann, will he found the most useful for practical pur- poses. Oil of coal tar is agitated with hydrochloric acid; after decanting the clear liquid resulting, it is evaporated over an open fire until acrid fumes begin to arise; it is then filtered and decomposed with potash or milk of lime, which liberates a brown oil, consisting of (among other ingre- dients) a mixture of aniline and leucol. On submitting this mixture to distillation the aniline passes over at about 360° Fahr.; rectified repeatedly at this temperature, the aniline is further purified. It is now to be again treated with hydrochloric acid, and the base separated by an alkali. Finish by careful rectification.