48 THE CHEMISTS AND Hun aqueous portion, and add to the infusion, evaporate this to the consistency of an extract; now add the oleo-resinous residuum of the tincture, and well mix. Hungary Water. Eau deHongrie. This is sometimes prepared by simply dissolving the oils of rosemary and sage in rectified spirits. The following is stated by Cooley to be the original receipt for this favourite Eau : Take of rosemary in bloom 2 pounds, sugar, fresh 4 ounces, rectified spirits 3 quarts, water 1 quart; digest for 10 days and add, previous to passing through the still, 14 pound of common salt; distil over 6 pints, add of Jamaica ginger bruised 1 ounce; digest and filter; the ginger must not be added previous to filtration. I Hydrate op Chloral. See Chloral Hydrate. Hydrate op Chloral Mixture, Palatable. Take of hydrate of chloral 30 grains, chloroform water (made by dissolving 4 drachms of chloroform in a gallon of water) 2 drachms, syrup of orange 2 drachms, tincture of ginger 12 drops, water 11 ounces. This formula is recommended as intensifying the action, while it covers the taste of this valuable medicine. Hydrastin. Make an infusion of the root of Hydrastis canadensis, or golden seal (in coarse powder), by percolation with cold water, collect the precipitate thrown down by the addition of hydrochloric acid; this dry and dissolve in alcohol; filter and set aside for the crystals of hydrastin to form themselves. Dose 3 grains. Hydrochlorate op Apooodceia (Matthieson). When hydrochlorate of codeia is heated to a temperature of 340° Fahr. with an excess of a concentrated solution of chloride of zinc, for about fifteen minutes, it becomes decomposed, and on cooling a brownish mass of somewhat glutinous character is deposited. This forms hydrochlorate of apocodeia; from this the pure base may be obtained by dissolving in hot water, and precipitating by means of hydrochloric acid; redissolving in water, and precipitating with carbonate of sodium, and finally extracting the pure base with ether. Hypnotic Solution. Chloral hydrate 4 parts, orange syrup 15 parts, distilled water 15 parts; mix. Dose, a medium-sized spoonful at bedtime.