Pil 78 THE CHEMISTS AND Pills, Anderson’s Scott’s. The following is stated to he the original formula for these still celebrated pills :— Take of aloes (socotrinej 1 ounce, finest gum myrrh picked 2 drachms, saffron 1 drachm, all in fine powder; mix with a spoonful of water, and the same quantity of sweet oil, by the heat of a slow fire; form the mass into pills. Pills, Stahl’s Aperient. Aloes in fine powder 1 ounce, compound extract of colocynth 4 drachms, iron filings 2 drachms, mucilage a sufficiency. Pills, Antilithic. Carbonate of soda 1 drachm, Castile soap 90 grains, oil of juniper 12 drops, syrup of ginger a sufficiency to make into 30 pills. Pills, Bland’s Female Tonic. Take of sulphate of protoxide of iron 2 parts (reduced to powder, and dried at a temperature of about 104° Fahr.), carbonate of potassa (effloresced) 2 parts, honey 1 part; make into 50 pills. Dose 1 to 2 every three hours. Pills (Coating for). Prepare a solution of 1 part of resin in 10 parts of ether. The pills to be coated are rapidly rolled in the solution for about a minute; they are then to be thrown out on a pill tray and slightly dusted over with liquorice powder. Pills (Sugar Coating for). Take the white of an egg, and in an evaporating dish beat it with as much finely- powdered white sugar as will make a thick paste, place it in a water bath and evaporate to dryness with constant stirring; pulverise. When pills are to be coated they must first be rolled in a mortar in an etherial solution of balsam of tolu; tranfer the pills from the mortar to a tray made of a sheet of thick clean paper; shake continually till dry; then to a small quantity of the saccharated albumen add a few drops of water, beating it into a thick paste, Into this mass the pills are stirred, and when moistened on all sides, poured quickly into a wooden cylinder previously half-filled with the finest powdered sugar; they are now rolled in the cylinder till thoroughly coated, and afterwards dried by the aid of a gentle heat. Pills (To Varnish). Take of ether 100 parts, balsam of tolu 10 parts, colophonium 1 part, absolute alcohol 10 parts; digest the balsam in hot water and dry; dissolve in the spirit. To coat the pills place them in a flask, and adding sufficient varnish, quickly shake with rotatory motion, turn