86 THE CHEMISTS AND Hop drachms, essence of musk 30 drops, essence of ambergris 30 drops, alcohol 30 ounces. Ropophagon, (Shaving Soap). Hard soap in small shavings 2 ounces, best soft soap 6 ounces; melt by the aid of a water bath; add on cooling oil of cloves 1 drachm, tincture of ambergris 20 drops. Rose Honey. See Honey. Rose Oil. The following is an economical and good hair oil. Olive oil (coloured with alkanet) 1 pint, oil of rose- mary 40 drops, oil of thyme 40 drops, oil of nutmeg 40 drops. Rose Pomade. Benzoated lard 1 pound, suet strained 2 ounces, oil of geranium 6 drops, otto of roses 6 drops; mix. [May be coloured with alkanet or liquid carmine.] Rose Water. Dissolve 3 drachms of otto of roses in 1 pint of (warm) rectified spirit, and when dissolved add of warm water 10 gallons; agitate till cold; distil off 8 gallons. Rouge, Jewellers. A rouge eminently fitted for fine work may be made by decomposing a solution of sulphate of iron with oxalic acid also in solution, a precipitate of oxalate of iron falls, which must be well washed and dried; when gently heated the salt takes fire, leaving an impalpable powder of oxide of iron. See also Polishing Powder. Rouge, Toilet (French). Wash safflowers until the water is no longer coloured, dry and pulverise, digest in a dilute solution of carbonate of soda (crystals); place a layer of cotton wool at the bottom of a wide-mouthed glass vessel, on this pour the previously filtered solution, this precipitate by the addition of fresh lemon juice; wash out the cotton with distilled water, and dissolve out the colouring matter with a fresh solution of soda; to the new solution add a quantity of finely powdered French chalk, mixing well; precipitate with lemon juice, collect and dry the precipitate, triturate with a few drops of oil of cloves. Royal Pomatum Cosmetique. Beef suet 1 pound, bees wax 2 A pounds, gum benzoin (powdered) 1 drachm, melt, and add oil of lemon 1 drachm, oil of cassia -] drachm. This may be coloured black by adding 5 ounces of ivory black. Brown and auburn tints may be got by the addition of burnt umber and annato.