75 Phe druggists’ compendium. Pepsine and Iodide op Iron Pills. Take of pepsine 10 parts, iodide of iron in crystals 5 parts, simple syrup a sufficiency. Divide into 100 pills, coat with reduced iron, finish with sugar coating. Pepsine, Liquid {Scheffer). 6 pounds of finely-chopped mucus membrane of fresh well-cleaned hogs’ stomach are macerated in a mixture of 4 pounds of glycerine, 4 pints of water, 6 ounces of pure hydrochloric acid; after standing for thirty hours the mass is strained, the membrane mace- rated again with 3 pints of water for two or three hours and strained, repeating the process with smaller portions of water till the whole measures 10 pints; from this a precipi- tate of mucus will form on standing, which when filtered gives a clear straw-coloured liquid. One fluid ounce of the liquid pepsine equals in strength 100 grains of the French preparation. Pepsine Pills {Hogg). Take of pepsine 10 parts, nitrate of bismuth 5 parts, lactic acid 21 parts ; mix, and divide into 100 pills; finish with a sugar coating. Dose: four pills at each meal. Pepsine Pills {Boudault). Take of pepsine 10 parts, powdered gum tragacanth a sufficiency; make into 60 pills. Dose : 3 pills before each meal. Pepsine Syrup {Corvisart). Take of syrup of cherries 51 parts, pepsine 10 parts; heat the syrup to 72° Fah.; Mix in the pepsine, leave in contact for an hour, and filter. Pepsine Wine. Take of pepsine 10 parts, white wine 200 parts; macerate and filter. Peru, Oil of. Shake together some balsam of Peru and strong caustic potash, on adding water and digesting with heat an oily body separates itself, wash this with water, and afterwards dissolve in spirit; on diluting this solution a resin separates, this is cast aside, and alternate solution in water and alcohol continued till all the resin is separated from the oil, and the alcohol is finally driven off by heat, leaving the colourless and slightly odorous oil of Peru behind. Phenic Vinegar. Take of acetic acid 900 parts, cam- phor, in powder, 5 parts, phenic acid, in crystals, 100 parts. [This is a most valuable disinfectant.] Phenic Disinfectant. The following is being intro-