Sup druggists’ compendium. 91 soak it in dilute hydrochloric acid for ten hours, then wash well with water and immerse in a solution of hyposulphite of soda, with a small addition of diluted hydrochloric acid; wash and dry. Be careful to use the acids not too strong. Spruce Beer. Take of essence of spruce | a pint, pimento and ginger, bruised, of each 4 ounces, hops 4 ounces, water 3 gallons; boil for ten minutes, strain, and add 11 gallons of warm water, 1 pint of yeast, and 6 pints of molasses. Mix, and allow the mixture to stand and ferment for twenty hours before bottling off. Spruce, Essence op. Collect and boil the tender young tops of the black spruce (Abies nigra) in water, and con- centrate the decoction by evaporation. Steer’s Opodeldoc. (See Opodeldoc). Stripping Liquid. This name is given by jewellers &c. to a bath composed of 1 part, nitre dissolved in S parts sulphuric acid; used in the treatment of old silver plated goods. Styptic Colloid (Richardson). This valuable dressing for wounds is prepared by simply saturating a given quan- tity of ether with tannin and xyloidine or gun-cotton. The tannin, perfectly pure, is digested with absolute alcohol for several days and ether is added until the thick alcoholic mixture is made completely fluid; now add the xyloidine or gun-cotton to the solution as long as it continues readily to dissolve; add a few drops of tincture of benzoin. Succinic Acid. Mix together equal quantities of sand and powdered amber; distil with care, gradually raising the heat; cover the product with filtering paper, and apply pressure to remove all traces of oil, finally sublime. Sugar of Milk (Lactin). This variety of sugar, so largely used by homoeopathic pharmacists, is prepared by evaporating clarified whey until crystals show themselves, as the temperature is reduced; the crystals are purified by means of animal charcoal. Suppositories, Materials for. Take of best glue 4 ounces, glycerine 8 ounces, golden syrup 2 ounces, water 8 ounces; soak the glue in the water until quite soft, then dissolve over a water bath; mix the syrup and glycerine well together, add them to the glue solution, and boil till they lose about two ounces weight, then pour out on an