Gin THE CHEMISTS AND 40 Ginger Beer Powders. Take of best lump sugar in fine powder 5 ounces, tartaric acid 14 ounce, carbonate of soda 14 ounce, strong ginger in fine powder 2 drachms, essence of lemon 10 drops; the materials (thoroughly dry) are to be mixed in a warm mortar and preserved in a tightly-stoppered bottle. Glucose. Take of barley malt 10 pounds; stir well in 100 pounds of water, to this add 100 pounds of starch; keep the whole at the temperature of 150° Fahr. for several hours, with constant stirring; great care must be observed to keep the temperature uniform. After agitating in this way for six hours, filter, clarify, and evaporate to a syrup. As Glu- cose procured in this way cannot be divested of a malty flavour, the range of its application is limited. Maubre has devised a process the product from which is perfectly pure and free fromany bitterness. “ A mixture of dilute sulphuric acid and starch is boiled under the pressure of 6 atmospheres, in boilers capable of sustaining this strain; these boilers are lined with lead, and have in the centre a perforated lead tube to carry off the steam, together with safety-valves and thermometers ; 56 pounds of sulphuric acid are diluted with 560 pounds of water, and heated to 212° Fahr.; a second mixture of the same amount of acid and water is made in a separate wooden vessel, and brought to a temper- ature of 86° Fahr.; into the second mixture 2,240 pounds of starch meal are well stirred, and heated to 100° Fahr.; this is now carefully and by degrees added to the first mixture in the boiler, and after stirring for a few minutes at 212° Fahr. the stopcocks are closed, and the heat raised to 320° Fahr. and continued till all the starch is converted into sugar (from two to four hours); the contents of the boiler are now run into a tank of wood, and 156 pounds of carbonate of lime (previously mixed with 500 pounds of water) is gradually added; the whole is now filtered, and the filtrate evaporated to 20° B., and clarified by means of blood and bone black, and again filtered; the result is a perfectly pure Glucose.” Glucic Acid (Cooley). Saturate7 a solution of grape sugar with lime or baryta, and set aside ; after some weeks precipitate the solution with basic acetate of lead, filter, wash the precipitate in water, diffuse it in fresh water’, decompose by sulphurated hydrogen, and evaporate the filtered liquor.