66 Mor THE CHEMISTS AND solve with a mild heat, strain, and add orange-flower water 5 fluid ounce; mix; dose a teaspoonful every three hours. [The hypophosphites are recommended by Dr. Churchill in phthisis and bronchitic consumption.] Mokfit’s American Hair Tonic. Strong black tea 2 ounces, boiling water 1 gallon, glycerine 3 ounces, tincture of cantharides A ounce, American bay rum 1 quart; digest, and perfume to taste. Morphine. This, the most important of the opium bases, maybe obtained by the following (Gregory’s) process:— Make an aqueous infusion, precipitate by chloride of calcium to remove the meconic and sulphuric acids present. Filter, and evaporate until hydrochlorate of morphine crystallises out so as to form a nearly solid mass, which must be sub- jected to a strong pressure. The pressed matter is to be crystallised and pressed i-epeatedly; the colouring matter may, if necessary, be further eliminated by animal charcoal. The liydrochlorate is to be dissolved in water and precipi- tated by ammonia; pure morphine precipitates. Moth Powder. Take of lupulin (flour of hops) 1 drachm, Scotch snuff 2 drachms, camphor 1 ounce, black pepper 1 ounce, cedar saw dust 4 ounces; mix thoroughly. Mouth Washes. Violet Mouth Wash: Tincture of orris 8 ounces, essence of roses 8 ounces, alcohol 8 ounces, essential oil of almonds 5 drops; mix. Cologne Mouth Wash : Eau de Cologne 1 quart, tincture of myrrh 4 ounces; mix. Mucilage for Labels. Macerate 5 parts of good glue in 20 parts of water for twenty-four hours, adding 20 parts cf rock candy, and 3 parts of gum Arabic. Musk, Artificial. Mix together very gradually 1 drachm of; oil of amber and 4 ounce of nitrous acid, stir- ring briskly; the mixture will gradually assume the form of a yellow resin, having a strong resemblance in smell to genuine musk. Musk, Essence of. Hub 4 an ounce of pod musk down in a mortar with about twice that weight of sugar, macerate in 4 ounces of boiling water for four and twenty hours, adding 24 ounces of alcohol and 4 drachms of ammonia; digesting the whole in a closely-stoppered bottle for twenty- eight days, frequently shaking, and finally filter through thin blotting paper.