Ace THE CHEMISTS AND 9 slightly with sulphuric ether to remove all trace of resin, add magnesia, agitate several times with sulphuric ether to remove the alkaloid; evaporate the sulphuric ether and dis- solve the residue in a slight excess of sulphuric acid; precipitate gradually by dilute ammonia, rejecting the first portions which are coloured. This is a more active form of aconitine than that usually met with in commerce. Acetonin, Oxalate op. Aceton is added to sulpho-car- biminate of ammonium; the crude sulpho-carbiminate of acetonin thus obtained is washed with alcohol of 90 per cent, dissolved in water precipitated by means of perchloride of mercury; hydrosulphuric acid is passed through the filtrate; the latter is evaporated to dryness on a water bath; water is next added, again evaporate to dryness; the residue treated with sesquioxide of silver in excess, filtered; the filterate again evaporated to dryness and afterwards exhausted with absolute alcohol until nothing more is dissolved. The oxalate of aceton deposits from the solution, and is purified by recrystallisation. Aerated Waters (Muter). The proper mode of making aerated water is as follows:—The carbonic acid gas is gene- rated by the action of sulphuric acid upon chalk. It is then passed into a gasometer exactly like those employed in our gasworks, only, of course, much less in size. From this gasometer it is pumped into the condenser, along with the proper quantity of water. In the condenser works an appliance called the agitator, which assists in mixing the gas and water, thus hastening solution by exposing a larger sur- face of the latter to the action of the former. The pumping is continued till the gauge, with which the condenser is fitted, shows that the requisite pressure has been obtained, and then the aerated water is ready for bottling. It has, how- ever, as yet no flavour, and this has to be produced by put- ting a small quantity of lemon or ginger syrup into the bottles before running in the water from the condenser, or, in the case of soda water, by introducing a few grains (gene- rally 15 to 20) of carbonate of soda in the same manner. Alexandra Bouquet. Take of oil of bergamot 3* drachms, oil of geranium 30 drops, oil of cassia 15 drops, oil of roses 30 drops, alcohol 1 pint. Dissolve the oils in the alcohol slightly heated, and add tincture of ambergris forty drops. Alizarin (Roliquet). Exhaust powdered madder of its