12 THE CHEMISTS AND Bla Blacking, Paste (Liebig). Take of ivory black 1 part, treacle § part, sweet oil £ part, oil of vitriol i part, hydrochloric acid £ part. Each of these ingredients must be diluted with thrice its weight of water previously to admixture. The first three ingredients are to be intimately mixed together and the others added in rotation. Bleaching Liquid. The various preparations sold under this name are usually solutions of chloride of lime of various degrees of strength. Blisters, Extemporaneous (Dr. Darcy). Pour out on a dish 8 or 10 drops of highly concentrated liquor of ammonia, cover the liquid over with a small piece of linen of rather less diameter than the dish; apply this to the previously shaved skin. Trousseau recommends the application of unsized paper wetted with the etherial extract of cantharides. Bloom of Almonds. Boil 1 ounce of ground Brazil wood in 24 pints of water for half an hour, add the juice of 2 lemons ; strain, and add 6 drachms of isinglass, 2 drachms of powdered cochineal, 1 ounce of alum, and 1 ounce of borax; boil for five minutes and strain through muslin. Use only glass vessels. Bloom of Roses. Take of carmine 2 drachms, strong liquor of ammonia 1 ounce; put them into a stoppered bot- tle, set in a cool place, and occasionally shake up for three days; add rose water 1 pint, esprit de rose (enjleurage), 4 drachms, rectified spirit 1 ounce; again agitate and set the whole aside for a week. Lastly, decant the clear portion from the dregs. Bon-bons. These are of various kinds and mostly of French manufacture. Liqueur Bon-bons : Evaporate sim- ple syrup to a firm consistency, and add thereto the required liqueur, in the proportion of one part of spirit to two parts of syrup. Make a sufficient number of plaster of Paris moulds, of which casts are to be taken in layers of powdered starch placed in tin trays of a suitable form ; pom- the spirituous syrup into the starch moulds, where the upper part of the bon-bon will take a spherical form, owing to the repulsive action of the starch on the saccharine mass; sprin- kle some starch over the top and set aside to crystallise. The sugar crystallises in the form of a hollow crust, enclos- ing the spirit within. Crystallised Bon-bons : Bon- bons may be crystallised by putting them into a thick hot