THE CHEMISTS AND 88 Sav Savonette, Yiolet. Palm oil 4 pounds, starch 2 pounds, orris root in fine powder 1 pound, scent to taste, and proceed as in foregoing. Sedative Draught op Chloral Hydrate. Cfiloral liydrate 2 parts, orange syrup 50 parts, mucilage of gum arabic 50 parts, distilled water 120 parts; mix. Dose, a dessert spoonful every hour. Segars, Carbolicized. The following is the method proposed by M. Rolle for making carbolicized segars :— Powdered plaster 100 parts, carbolic acid 20 parts; dissolve the carbolic acid with a sufficient quantity of alcohol, and sprinkle with this solution the granulated plaster. Stir with a spatula in order to secure an equal distribution of the active substance, then introduce the granules into the hollow portion of a quill, of which the ends are closed with a little wadding, as is done in the case of camphor cigarettes. Seltzer Water (Artificial). Take of muriate of lime and muriate of magnesia of each 4 grains; dissolve these in a small quantity of water, and add to it a similar solution of 8 grains of bicarbonate of soda, 20 grains of muriate of soda, and 2 grains of sulphate of soda; mix, and add a solution of £ of a grain of sulphate of iron; put the mixed solution into a 20-ounce aerated water bottle, and fill in the usual way with aerated water. Sheep Dipping Baths (Bain de Tcssier). Take of pow- dered arsenious acid 2 pounds, water 60 gallons, sulphate of iron 200 pounds; boil until reduced to one third, and again make up the measure by the addition of water. Bath for Scab : Take of poitdered arsefiious acid 4 pounds, powdered sulphate of iron 40 pounds, powdered black oxide of iron 24 ounces, powdered gentian root 12 ounces : rub down in a mortar, and when required for use dissolve the- mixture in ten times its weight of water. The proportions above quoted are sufficient for 200 sheep. Sherbet. Citric acid 90 grains, essence of lemons 10 drops, sugar 2 ounces; when required for use dissolve in 1 pint of water. See also Kali, Acidulated. Sirop d’Opium (Synqms cum Extracto Opii, Paris Codex). Take of extract of opium 2 parts, distilled water 8 parts, simple- syrup 990 parts; dissolve the extract of opium in cold dis- tilled water, filter, and mix with the syrup.