100' Wor THE CHEMISTS AND i Rub gently, removing only the enamel; after which it is brushed smooth, with a moderately stiff brush, from right fto left and up and down, making a smooth, even, and very thin surface. When dry, flow with a solution of albumen made with the white of 1 egg and 16 ounces of water. When , dry, it may be coated with a second albumen solution. Take .•> white of 1 egg, water 4 ounces, chloride of ammonia 40 grains. Beat the whole to a thick froth. Allow to subside, then decant orjfilter through a fine sponge placed in a glass funnel. Pour a sufficient quantity on one corner of the block to cover it, when spread around with the edge of a strip of glass. Let the surplus solution drain into the bottle and dry the film by a gentle heat. Now take of ether 1 ounce, alcohol 1 ounce, gun-cotton 8 grains, nitrate of silver 30 grains; dissolved in as small a quantity of water as possible, and allowed to settle for a few days, protected from the light. Flow the wood block with this solution in the dark room, and dry by gentle heat. It is now ready for exposure under the negative. A porcelain printing-frame, or any other other suitable method, may be used to print it. After printing, dissolve off the film with ether and alcohol, assist by rubbing gently with soft a sponge. The picture can now be toned and fixed in the ordinary way, or fixed and toned at one operation, by the hypo and gold bath. After being allowed to dry it is ready for the engraver. Worm Confection (Mrs. Wheeler). Take of calomel 1 drachm, white sugar 10 drachms, finely powdered sugar 25 ounces, santonin 6 ounces. Mix, and make into 360 wafers. X Xanthic Acid. Mix xanthate of potassa (dry) with dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid ; a milky liquid will form, from which, by the addition of water, a heavy oily substance is deposited, this, quickly washed with water and dried over chloride of lime, is hydrated xanthic acid. Xyloidin. This variety of gun-cotton is prepared by immersing starch in nitric acid, and treating the jelly so formed with an excess of water.