druggists’ compendium. 65 Mix Mixture, Cough (Dr. Monro). Paregoric 4 drachms, sulphuric ether and tincture of tolu of each 2 drachms. Antimonial Cough Mixture : Antimonial wine 3 drachms, syrup of poppies 12 drachms, water 4 ounces. Dose, a tablespoonful. Mixtures, Pectoral.—1: Syrup of squills, syrup of ipecacuanha, camphorated tincture of opium, of each 1 ounce; mix; dose a teaspoonful for an adult, every three hours; it promotes expectoration and causes relaxation.— 2: Syrup of wild cherry bark 3 ounces, syrup of tolu 1 ounce, prussic acid, diluted, 16 drops; mix; dose for an adult, a dessert-spoonful every three hours. Tonic and sedative, useful in consumption.—3: Syrup of gum arabic 4 ounces, muriate of morphia 1 grain, oil of sassafras 1 drop; mix; dose a teaspoonful every three hours. [Similar to Dr. Jackson’s well-known “ Pectoral Syrup.”]—4 : Pow- dered extract of liquorice and powdered gum arabic of each 2 drachms, hot water 4 ounces; make a mixture and add spirit of nitrous ether 1 drachm, antimonial wine 2 drachms, tincture of opium 40 drops; mix; a tablespoonful for a dose. [An excellent remedy in the early stages of catarrh; it is the well-known Brown Mixture, or the Mistura (jhjcyrrhizcc composita of the U. S. Pharmacopoeia.]—5 : Decoction of senega 4 ounces, syrup of ipecacuanha 1 ounce, syrup of squills i ounce, tartrate of antimony 1 grain; mix; a teaspoonful for children two years of age and over.— —6: Gum ammoniac and extract of liquorice of each 2 drachms, vinegar of squills 1 ounce, fennel water 51 ounces ; mix; dose, a teaspoonful for an adult every two hoiu’S. [A stimulating expectorant in chronic bronchitis and catarrh.] —7 : Muriate of ammonia 1 ounce, powdered gum arabic 2 drachms, powdered extract of liquorice 3 drachms, water 61 ounces, spirit of nitrous ether 11 drachms, vinegar of squills 3 drachms; mix; a dessert-spoonful every two hours. [A stimulating expectorant and alterative, and may be given in the advanced stage of bronchial disease.]—8 : Copaiba, balsam of tolu, and powdered gum arabic of each 3 ounce, water 6 ounces, aromatic sulphuric acid 20 drops; make a mixture by well rubbing together; dose a table- spoonful ; given in chronic cataTVh and bronchitis.—9: Hypophosphite of lime 6 drachms, hypophosphite of soda and hypophosphite of potash of each 2 drachms; dissolve, strain, and add hot water 10 ounces, sugar 14 ounces; dis- F