Sav DRUGGISTS’ compendium. 87 s Sachet. See Powder for Sachet. Salt of Lemons. Equal parts of binoxalate of potash and cream of tartar. Salts, Smelling (Aromatic Salts). Carbonate of ammonia 1 pound, oil of lavender 2 ounces, oils of bergamot and lemon of each 1 ounce; mix well together. Salts, Volatile, Smelling Salts, Preston Salts. In the preparation of smelling salts, the carbonate and not the sesquicarbonate of ammonia should be employed, as in the following formula:—Carbonate of ammonia 8 ounces, oil of bergamot 1 ounce, oil of verbena 2 drachms, otto of roses 30 drops ; triturate the ingredients well together; sublime, and store in tightly-stoppered bottles. A Preston salt may he made extemporaneously by triturating together 2 drachms of hydrochlorate of ammonia, and 6 drachms of pure potassa, and afterwards adding oil of bergamot f drachm, oil of cloves 10 drops. Santonin. Take of wormseed 4 parts, hydrate of lime 11 part; mix, and exhaust with alcohol; distil over three- fourths, and evaporate residuum to one half; mix at 212° Pahr., with acetic acid in excess, and afterwards with water; from this santonin in an impure state gradually subsides; it must now be washed in dilute alcohol, and after- wards dissolved in 10 times its weight of alcohol, discharge the colour with animal charcoal, and filter, from the puri- fied solution the crystals of santonin are obtained, these ■dry and place in opaque stoppered bottles. Savonettes (Soap Balls). These are usually made of one or other of the toilette soaps with the addition of a little starch, sometimes sand is used in place of the starch. Camphor Savonette : Spermaceti 2 ounces, camphor pow- dered with the addition of a little spirits 1 ounce, white curd soap (melted with a little water) 24 ounces; amalgamate with a gentle heat and mould into balls. Sand Savonette : Pine old yellow soap 2 parts, silver sand 1 part, scent to taste; melt the soap and mix in the sand, afterwards adding the scent and making into balls.