Ice 49 druggists’ compendium, I Ices. These are simply formed of water or cream frozen by artificial means, and flavoured by various liqueurs, fruits, or fi-uit essences. In the absence of special appai-atus for their manufacture, the following utensils will be found sufficient for the production of these increasingly popular articles of refreshment. An ice-tub to hold 50 pounds of pounded ice, a freezing-pot of pewter, fitted with a lid of the same metal, a spatula of copper. When the ice-tub is prepared with fresh pounded ice mixed with a sufficiency of salt, the freez- ing-pot is to be placed therein nearly down to its rim in the freezing mixture; the liquor to be congealed is now to be poured in, and the whole covered over till the action of freezing commences, when a rotatory motion must be kept up by turning the freezing-pot briskly round in the ice-tub. The copper spatula is to be occasionally used in scraping down any ice forming on the sides of the freezing-pot, which would otherwise induce “ lumpiness ” and spoil the appearance of the ice, which also depends on the constant agitation of the freezing mass. Ices, Creams for, Plain. Take of fresh cream 1 pint, the yolks of 8 eggs and the peel of 1 lemon; beat the yolks and mix gradually with the cream, add the lemon peel pared extremely fine, put the whole in a well tinned saucepan, set over a slow fire and stir till the cream begins to thicken; as soon as this has taken place remove the whole from the fire, continuing to stir at intervals until cool; add then a little sifted sugar. Ice Cream, Orgeat. Take of bitter almonds 1 ounce, sweet almonds 1 ounce, fresh cream 1 pint, the yolks of 8 eggs, sifted sugar 4 ounces; blanch and pound the almonds with a little orange flower water; beat the yolks, add the sugar, and stir all together gently into the cream; put the whole on the fire, stirring briskly till it begins to thicken, take off and stir till cool, when it will be ready for the freezing pot. Ice Cream, Strawberry. Take of fresh-picked strawberries 1 pint, thick cream 1 pint, the juice of hafi E