THE CHEMISTS AND 108 CHLORALUM WOOL. *** CHLORALUM WOOL and WADDING are manufactured solely by the London Cotton Mills, Limited, SPA ROAD, BERMONDSEY. Sold also Wholesale by the Chloralum Company, all Drug Houses and Druggists’ Sundrymen, and Retail by all Chemists. In Pound and Half-pound Packages, Price 6s, per pound. THE NEW STYPTIC AND ANTISEPTIC SURGICAL DRESSING. CHLORALUM WOOL. THE LONDON COTTON MILLS, Limited, have made arrangements with THE CHLORALUM COMPANY for the sole manufacture in the United Kingdom of Cotton Wool and Wadding containing a definite per- centage of Chloride of Aluminium. Chloralum Wool and Wadding 'will he found very valuable for many medical and general sanitary purposes. It may he described as an absorbent and astringent antiseptic and disinfectant for use in the Treatment of Wounds, Foul Ulcers, Bed Sores, Fetid Cancers, Discharges of all kinds, and to neutralize Fever Poison in Beds or in the Sick Chamber. Chloralum—the hydrated chloride of aluminium—is an astringent antiseptic, as well as a powerful deodoriser and disinfectant. Of late years surgeons have recognised the great advantage of the antiseptic treatment of wounds, and various preparations have been suggested for the exclusion of atmospheric germs from injured surfaces. The treatment of Cotton Wool with Chloralum yields a light and soft preparation, which acts partly as an air filter, as cotton wool has been shown to act by Professor Tyndall, and partly in virtue of its direct antiseptic properties. In recent bleeding wounds, a small quantity of Chloralum Wool arreststhe haemorrhage; in suppurating wounds it checks suppuration ; in gangrenous sores it purifies and deodorizes. It is of very general application in surgery, and may be employed for the purification of atmospheric currents in hospitals and the sick room. l£gf* A sample of Chloralum Wool will be sent post free to any medical man or chemist on receipt of One Shilling in Stamps by the CHLORALUM COMPANY, No. I Great Winchester Street Buildings, London, E.C. ^ January, 1871.