89 druggists’ compendium. Soa Soap, Almond. Take of hard white soap 28 pounds, essential oil of almonds 41 ounces; reduce the soap to small shavings, and melt with the aid of a little hot water, adding gradually, and with constant stirring, the essence; mould into cakes of an oval form. Soap, Antimonial. This medicated soap, if well made, is of a dull white or greyish tint. It is prepared by dis- solving 1 part of golden sulphuret of antimony in 2 parts of a saturated solution of caustic potash, to this add of Castile soap in powder 4 parts, triturate till the whole assumes a proper consistence. Soap, Honey. Melt together pure palm oil soap and olive oil soap of each 1 part, curd soap 3 parts, add to the melted mass a sufficiency of oil of geranium; mix thoroughly and cast in moulds of an oval form. Soap op Iodine. This is a useful soap in scrofulous and some cutaneous cases. Make a solution of 1 part of iodide of potassium in 3 parts of water; to this add of pounded Castile soap 16 parts; melt in a porcelain vessel by the aid of a water bath. Soap, Mercurial (Antisyphilitic Soap). Beat into a homogeneous mass in a wedgewood mortar, Castile soap 1 pound, protochloride of mercury {> ounce dissolved in 4 ounces of alcohol. Soap, Sulphur. Cut into small shavings white soap 8 ounces; beat up in a mortar with sublimated sulphur 2 ounces, add 1 ounce of alcohol, to which may be added a few drops of any of the odoriferous essential oils; beat the whole into a smooth paste, and roll into balls. Soap, Transparent. Dissolve in a close vessel finest soft soap with an equal quantity of rectified spirit; after standing for forty-eight hours, pour off the clear portion into moulds of a suitable shape, and dry by exposure to the atmosphere. Soap, Windsor Brown. Take of finest yellow soap (old and hard) 14 pounds; melt with the aid of a little warm water, and add oil of carraway J ounce, cassia in fine powder 6 ounces; mould into cakes. White: Take of fine white curd soap 14 pounds, oil of carraway 6 drachms, oil of bergamot 11 ounce ; melt as before, add the oils and mould into cakes. .