THE CHEMISTS AND 46 Hon Honey Water Eau de Mel. Honey 1 part, clean dry sand 2 parts; place in a retort and distil as long as any liquid passes over into the receiver; this process must he carefully watched to prevent scorching. Horse Balls (Gamgee). Alterative : Take of mercurial pill mass 1 drachm, Barbadoes aloes 1 drachm, common mass* 6 drachms: mix for bolus. Anthelmintic: Take of potassio- tartrate of antimony 1 drachm, common mass a sufficiency to make a bolus; one at night, followed by a purge. Astringent : Take of aromatic confection 4 drachms, powdered rhubarb 2 drachms, powdered ginger 2 drachms, treacle a sufficiency to form a mass. Carminative: Take of pimento 1 ounce, common mass 4 ounces; make into 6 balls; one a dose. Diarrhoea : Take of alum 2 drachms, sulphate of copper 1 drachm, common mass 1 ounce. Chalybeate : Take of iron filings 4 drachms, carbonate ef potash 2 drachms, powdered gentian 2 drachms, treacle a sufficiency. Diuretic : Take of oxy-sulphuret of antimony 1 ounce, sulphur 4 ounces, nitre 4 ounces, honey a sufficiency to make into 4 balls. Febrifuge : Take of emetic tartar 30 grains, digitalis 30 grains, nitrate of potash 90 grains, powdered liquorice 2 drachms, treacle a sufficiency to make a bolus. Hcematuria: Take of acetate of lead 15 grains, acetate of zinc 30 grains, catechu 3 drachms, common mass a suffi- ciency. Cough : Take of ammoniacum 2 drachms, powdered squills 1 drachm, aloes 1 drachm, common mass a sufficiency. Purgative : Take of Barbadoes aloes 2 ounces, soft soap 4 ounces, common mass 24 ounces; make into 32 balls. Stimulant Diuretic : Take of camphor 2 drachms, nitre 4 drachms, common mass 4 drachms ; make into 1 ball. Tonic : Take of arsenic 5 grains, ginger 2 drachms, common mass 4 drachms ; one ball a dose in farcy and skin diseases. Vermifuge : Take of iron filings 2 drachms, common salt 4 drachms, powdered savin 1 drachm, common mass 4 drachms. Vermifuge (another form): Take of oil of male fern If ounce, powdered ginger ยง ounce, linseed a sufficiency to make a bolus; one a dose. Horse Mixtures, Draughts, &c. (Gamgee). Antiacid: Take of carbonate of soda 1 ounce, nitrate of potash 2 drachms, carbonate of ammonia 90 grains, water a sufficiency to make * The common mass in all the above formula is composed of equal parts of ground linseed and treacle.