Mac THE CHEMISTS AND 62 Macassarine Oil. Take of oil of ken 1 gallon, oil of noisette § gallon, alcohol 1 quart, oil of roses 2 drachms, oil of bergamot 3 ounces, oil of Portugal 3 ounces, tincture of musk 3 ounces; colour with alkanet root; digest and strain. The following is said to be in all essential particu- lars analogous to the celebrated “ Macassar Oil ”:—Take of castor oil reddened with alkanet 20 ounces, alcohol (66 o. p.) 5 ounces, oil of nutmeg 30 drops, oil of rosemary and oil of thyme of each 15 drops, oil of neroli 10 drops, essence of musk 5 drops. Should the ingredients not mix thoroughly, shake the bottle (tightly corked) in a vessel of warm water, gently agitate till quite cold, and decant. Madder Lake (Perosoz). Take of madder 1 ounce; wash in a solution of sulphate of soda; boil for 15 minutes in | a pint of water in which has been dissolved 1 ounce of alum, filter, and when the temperature has been reduced to 100° Pahr., mix with a solution of 1 drachm of carbonate of soda; raise the temperature to boiling point, when the lake will be precipitated. The madder ought to be treated several times with boiling alum water to thoroughly exhaust it of its colouring matter. This lake consists chiefly of purpurine. Magnesium. This metal may be obtained by heating 600 grains of chloride of magnesium, 100 grains of fused chloride of sodium, and 100 grains of pulverised fluoride of calcium to a red heat in a covered earthern crucible. The magnesium is thereby obtained in globules, which are to be brought to a white heat in a vessel of charcoal placed with- in a second vessel of the same material fitted with a cover, and brought under the influence of a stream of dry hydrogen. The magnesium which is thus volatilised is now to be condensed and remelted with a flux of chloride of magnesium, chloride of sodium, and fluoride of calcium; it is thus obtained in large globules, which are now to be purified by distillation in a stream of hydrogen. Malt Extract (Ebert). “ Take of barley malt kiln-dried 10 pounds, water a sufficiency; reduce it by means of