druggists’ compendium. 7 Ant separated by filtration and distilled in order to recover the alcohol. The residue left in the retort is Mr. Perkin’s Aniline Violet. Aniline Yellow (Crysaniline). This is obtained from the residue from which the rosaniline has been extracted by means of a current of steam, a quantity of the base passing into solution. The addition of nitric acid to the solution will precipitate crysaniline in the form of a nitrate. Aniline, Oxalate of. This is procured by treating an alcoholic solution of oxalic acid with aniline, when a deposit of oxalate of aniline in a crystalline mass will ensue. Aniline, Sulphate op. This is employed in the manufacture of the aniline dyes. Treat aniline with dilute sulphuric acid, evaporate the solution till the salt begins to separate; this dissolve in boiling alcohol. Sulphate of ani- line in fine silvery crystals is procured as the alcohol cools down to the temperature of the atmosphere. Aniseed Cordial. Take of aniseed (best Chinese) 2 ounces, fennel 1 ounce, and a few cloves; macerate the whole in 30 ounces of French brandy; filter, and add 10 ounces of simple syrup and the white of 2 eggs. Anodyne Fomentation. Poppy heads 2 ounces, elder flowers 4 ounce, water 3 pints; boil for fifteen minutes, and strain the liquor. Anodyne, Infantile (A. J. Cooley). Take of syrup of poppies 1 ounce, aniseed water 3 ounces, rectified spirit 4 ounce, calcined magnesia, 1 ounce, mix. Dose, a small teaspoonful when required. Anthokyan (A. J. Cooley). The expressed juice of the sweet violet defecated, gently heated in glass to 192° Fahr. skimmed, cooled, and filtered; a little rectified spirit is now added, and after standing for twenty-four hours the whole is re-distilled till all is thoroughly incorporated; then add 1 ounce of gum arabic dissolved, 1 pint of vinegar, stir occasionally for twenty-four hours, adding finally half a gallon of good vinegar. Antiarine. This frightfully-potent poison is extracted from the inspissated juice of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicarici) by means of rectified spirit, from which it may be crys-