THE CHEMISTS AND Ice 50 lemon, and sugar to taste ; mash and strain the juice of the fruit: add some sugar finely pounded and the cream; pass the whole through a sieve into the freezing pot. Baspberry,currant, and pine-apple ices maybe made in the same way. Ice (.Sugar, for Fancy Cakes. &c.) Beat and sift $ ounces of line loaf sugar; mix in a mortar with 4 spoon- fuls of rosewater, the whites of 2 eggs, beaten into a froth and strained; whisk these ingredients together, and with a brush cover the cakes while warm from the oven. Imperial (Cooley). The summer beverage of this name is made by the admixture of cream of tartar i ounce. 1 lemon sliced, lump sugar ‘2 ounces, boiling water l quart; infuse with occasional stirring until cold, then pour off the clear portion for use. Incense. Take of gum olibauum 7 parts, gum benzoin 2 parts, c as car ilia 1 part; triturate in a mortar. Incrttstion Composition. Various chemicals are had recourse to for the purpose of removing the deposits which form themselves in steam boilers, and are sold under this name; of these the most successful are sal ammoniac, and carbonate of soda; the latter, by the recommendation of Dr. Craee Calvert, is largely used by English engineers. Indigo. This dye-stuff, sometimes used in medicine, is procured by macerating the Ituligofent tine torn or other specis of the indigo plant in water till fermentation com- mences ; the colouring mat ter forms with the water a yellow solution: this must be drawn off and well whisked to bring all parts of it under the influence of the air. after continuing this for a couple of hours the indigo will be precipitated iu the form of a blue paste; it is now made into cakes and dried. Indigo Purple is obtained by Altering a solution of indigo in fuming sulphuric acid largely diluted with water. Indigo Bed is obtained by the action of boiling alcohol on indigo already exhausted by dilute acids and a strong alkaline solution. Indigo White. Carefully protect from atmospheric contact the alkaline solution obtained in the next process (Indigotin), precipitate with hydro-chloric acid; wash the