druggists’ compendium. Pow 81 potassa and phosphate of lime of each 9 grains; mix for powder. Powder, Baking. Tartaric acid 1 pound, bicarbonate of soda 12 ounces, starch 12 ounces; dry each thoroughly previous to admixture, which is effected by passing through a fine sieve repeatedly; pack the powder down tightly, to prevent the absorbation of moisture. Powder, Effervescing Ginger (Ginger Beer Powders.) Powdered ginger 2 drachms, bicarbonate of soda' 10 drachms, white sugar 4 ounces, essence of lemons 10 drops; make into 12 powders, which fold in blue papers, each of which is to be accompanied by a white paper con- taining 30 grains of tartaric acid. Powder, Gregory’s. An improved form of the Pulvis rhei covvpositus: Take of calcined magnesia 8 ounces, rhubarb 3 ounces, chamomile 2 ounces, ginger 1 ounce, all • in fine powder. The chamomile is sometimes omitted. Powder, Hand (Cosmetic Powder). Almond powder 1 pound, powdered cuttle fish bone and white soap, of each 4 ounces, orris powder 1 ounce; mix. Powder, Lemonade. Lump sugar in fine powder 8 ounces, bicarbonate of soda 2 ounces, essential oil of lemons 45 drops; divide into 36 powders, which fold in blue papers, each packet to be accompanied by a white paper containing 40 grains of tartaric acid. Powder, Nursery. Powdered starch 7 pounds, orris root powdered 4 ounces, oil of bergamot 2 drachms. Powder for Sachets. Orris root in fine powder 2 ounces, cassia Li ounce, cloves 1 ounce, sandal wood 1 ounce, oils of lavender and bergamot of each 1 drachm, musk and ambergris of each 6 grains; the last two ingredients had better be rubbed down with a little fine white sand. Powders, Spruce Beer. Proceed as for ginger beer powders, only substituting 3 to 6 drops of essence of spruce for the powdered ginger. Powder, Tooth. See Dentifrice. Powder for Warts (Corn Powder). Ivy leaves ground to a powder is sometimes sold under these names. Powders, Worm (Dr. Collier). Take of virgin scam- mony and jalap (in powder) of each 1 drachm, cream of G