DROG GISTS’ COMPENDIUM. 11 Bla Benzole. This valuable hydrocarbon was discovered by Faraday in 1825. It may be procured by slowly heating to redness in an earthenware retort a mixture of 1 part benzoic acid with 3 parts of fresh slaked lime; the oily portion of the distillate must now be separated from the aqueous, and rectified with great care at a temperature not greater than 190° Falir. The product is tolerably pure benzole ; abso- lute purity may be obtained by further rectification. On the large scale benzole is manufactured by a somewhat different process, from coal tar-. Benzoic Acid. Dissolve one part of gum benzoin in 3 parts of alcohol; place the solution in a retort, and add a solution of carbonate of soda in dilute alcohol till the free acid is neutralised: now add a bulk of water equal to double the weight of the benzoin, distil off the alcohol; the liquor remaining contains the acid. Binoside of Hydrogen. This is coming into use as a cosmetic for bleaching dark hair, and for removing freckles. It is prepared from oxide of barium, which is decomposed by weak hydrochloric acid, the resulting chloride of barium, which is held dissolved in the binoxide of hydrogen solution is precipitated by the careful addition of diluted sulphuric acid until a fresh precipitate ceases to form. The liquid is then filtered and ready for use. Bismuth, Sub-Nitrate of (Pearl White). Take of bismuth 1 ounce, nitric acid 11 fluid ounces, distilled water 3 pints; mix the acid with 1 ounce of the water and dissolve the bismuth therein, afterwards adding the remainder of the water; when it has stood for some hours the supernatent liquid is to be drained off with a syphon; dry the powder in a dark place, on a linen cloth; and finally wash it well with cold water. Black Caustic {Velpeau). Triturate in a porcelain mortar 30 grains of powdered liquorice root and add sul- phuric acid in small quantities till a suitable mass is formed. Black Draught (Abernetliy’s). Infusion of senna 15 ounces, tincture of senna 12 drachms, Epsom salts 4 ounces, carbonate of ammonia 1 drachm, sugar 3 ounces. Dissolve. Blacking, Liquid {A. J. Cooley). Take of ivory black in very fine powder 2 pounds, treacle 11 pounds, sperm oil i pint. Place the black in a large wooden vessel, add the oil, rub well together, next add the treacle, and mix.