4 Alu THE CHEMISTS AND Aluminium (Develle's process). Place 200 grains of cliloride of aluminium in a wide glass tube, between two plugs of asbestos; pass a current of hydrogen through a dessicating bottle containing sulphuric acid and tubes con- taining chloride of calcium, and finally through the tube containing the chloride of aluminium, applying a gentle heat; introduce to the other extremity of the tube a vessel containing sodium, which fuse; heat the chloride of alum- inium until its vapour has consumed the sodium. The double chloride of aluminium and sodium thus obtained contains suspended globules of the reduced metal. The mass may, as soon as cool, be treated with water, which dissolves the chloride, leaving the metal unacted upon. Amandine, Opaque. Dissolve in half a pint of almond oil, 1 drachm of essential oil of almonds; mix well with 1 ounce of each of almond paste, honey, white potash, soap, and glycerine, and the yolk of one egg. A fine warm tint may be given to the mass by the addition of a little carmine dissolved in ammonia. Amandine, Transparent. Take of fine white honey 4 ounces, fine white soap 2 ounces, mix these well in a mortar, adding 1 ounce of liquor of potassa, until the mixture becomes a perfect cream; rub in with caution and slowly 7 pounds of almond oil and 1 ounce of essential oil of bitter almonds, adding to taste a sufficiency of oils of bergamot and cloves; and lastly, half a drachm of balsam of Peru. Amberette, Esprit d’. Take of musk seed bruised 4 ounces, proof spirit 20 ounces, digest for fourteen days, and distil over two-thirds. Ambergris, Tincture op. Take of ambergris sliced 5 drachms, grain musk 1A drachms, rectified spirit 1 pint; digest in a tightly-stoppered bottle, at the temperature of 90° Eahr. for 30 days, with frequent shaking. Ambreine. This, the fragrant principle of Ambergris, may readily be obtained by digesting ambergris in hot alcohol, from which, on cooling, it is deposited in a crystal- line form. Ammonia, Aromatic Spirit op. Take of strong liquor of ammonia 10 ounces, otto of roses 10 drops, oil of cinnamon 30 drops, oil of cloves 1 drachm, oil of bergamot 2 drachms, oil of lavender 2 drachms, tincture of musk 4 drachms. Place in a closely-stoppered bottle.