82 THE CHEMISTS AND Pre tartar 2 drachms, Ethiops mineral 3 drachms; make into powders. Preserved Milk. To every If pint of new milk add 10 drachms of bicarbonate of soda or potash; bottle close and place in a water bath for four hours at a temperature of about 190° Fahr. When the bottles are removed from the bath they are to be dipped in melted pitch. Propylamine. This base may be obtained by acting upon iodide of propyl with ammonia. Propylene. This name is given to an hydro-carbon obtained from glycerine and also from propylic alcohol by the action of anhydrating agents. Purple of Cassius (Buisson). Dissolve 1 gramme of pure grain tin in a sufficiency of muriatic acid, taking care that the solution is neutral; next 2 grammes of tin in aqua- regia, composed of the parts of nitric acid and 1 part of muriatic acid, so that the solution can contain no protoxide; lastly 7 grammes of fine gold in a mixture of one part of nitric acid and 6 parts of muriatic acid, observing to make the solution neutral. This solution of gold being diluted with 3 quarts of water, the solution of perchloride of tin is to be added at once, and afterwards that of the protochloride, drop by drop, till the resulting precipitate acquires the desired tint; the precipitate must now be well and thoroughly washed. Pyrophosphate of Iron and Soda. A solution of 6 parts of pyrophosphate of soda in 100 parts of water is mixed with another solution containing 13 parts of liquid perchloride of iron of 1‘44 sp. gr., and 78 parts of water. The precipitate is washed and then dissolved in a warm solution of 4 parts of anhydrous pyrophosphate of soda in 36 parts of water. The liquor is evaporated till a pellicle forms, and allowed to crystallise. The crystals are now to be dryed at the ordinary temperature; or the concentrated solution may be precipitated by the addition of four times its volume of strong alcohol; a translucid white precipitate is obtained. Pyrotechnic Mixture (Japanese). Finely pulve- rised nitrate of potassa 70 parts, washed flowers of sulphur 30 parts, powdered lycopodium 12 parts, best and very light lamp-black 8 parts. From 1A to 2 grains of this powder are sufficient for use, packed in strips of suitable paper.