THE CHEMISTS AND Ele 32 Electuary of Cowhage. Take of cowhage 40 grains, syrup 5 ounce. Electuary of Male Pern (Radius). Take of extract of male fern 3 draclims, conserve of roses 1 ounce. Dose V ounce night and morning. Electuary for Worms. Take of worm-seed 5 grains, sulphate of iron 2 grains, honey and jalap of each 10 grains. Sufficient for one dose. Elixir of Aloes (Copland). Take of acetate of potass, oxgall, socotrine, aloes, and myrrh of each 1 drachm, hay saffron 30 grains, proof spirit 10 drachms; digest a week and strain. Dose a teaspoonful. Elixir, Cough (Cadet). Take of powdered ipecacuanha and balsam of tolu of each 4 drachms, flowers of benzoin, opium, and saffron of each 2 drachms, oil of aniseed 1 drachm, camphor 40 grains, rectified spirit 30 ounces; digest a week and filter. Dose 1 drachm. Elixir of G-arus (Soubeiran). Take of socotrine aloes, and saffron 1 ounce, rectified spirit 20 pounds, myrrh, can- ella alba, cloves, and nutmegs of each 4 ounce, orange flower water 16 ounces; macerate forty-eight hours, distil over 10 pounds, and add syrup 124 pounds, orange flower water 8 ounces. May be coloured with saffron. Elixir of Roses. Take of cinnamon 3 ounces, ginger 2 ounces, cloves 1 drachm, essence of peppermint 1 ounce, oil of orange peel 1 drachm, otto of roses 15 drops, rectified spirit 50 ounces ; digest for fourteen days and filter. An excellent and agreeable mouth and tooth wash. Embrocation, Roche’s. Take of olive oil 1 ounce, oil of cloves and amber of each 4 ounce. [In hooping cough. ] Emeraldine. See Aniline Green. Emetine (Paris Codex). Dissolve 1 ounce of alcoholic extract of ipecacuanha in 10 ounces of water; filter, and add 1 ounce of calcined magnesia; evaporate to dryness and wash in 5 ounces of very cold water; again dry, and dissolve in boiling alcohol; evaporate the filtered tincture to dry- ness, re-dissolve in water, acidulate slightly with dilute sulphuric acid, discharge the colour by means of animal charcoal, filter; precipitate now with liquor of ammonia, and finally dry the precipitate with a gentle heat. Emetic dose one-sixteenth of a grain.