Car THE CHEMISTS AND 18 river water, boiling hot, throw 2 pounds of the finest cochi- neal in powder; boil for two hours and add 3 ounces of refined saltpetre, and afterwards 4 ounces of salt of sorrel; in ten minutes more take the copper from the fire, and let it settle for four hours, then draw off the liquor with a syphon, into flat plates, and leave it there for three weeks. There is formed upon the surface a thick mould which is removed dexterously in one pellicle, on a strip of whalebone; decant the supernatent liquor with a syphon, and whatever water remains on the layer of carmine at the bottom must be sucked off with a pipette, and the carmine allowed to dry in the shade. Carmine of China. Boil the cochineal in river water, adding some Roman alum; then pass through a fine cloth to remove the cochineal, and set the liquor aside ; heat the liquor, and pour drop by drop a solution of bichloride of tin till the carmine be precipitated. The proportions are 2 gallons of water, 20 ounces cochineal, 60 grains of alum, and 4 ounces bichloride of tin. Cathartine. Evaporate the alcoholic extract of senna to dryness, treat it with water as long as anything is dis- solved, add to the aqueous solution a solution of acetate of lead to precipitate the impurities; filter through calico; the cathartine remains in solution, and may be procured by evaporating the liquor. Caustic. The following varieties of caustic occasionally take the place of the nitrate of silver and caustic potash:— Arsenical Caustic : Arsenious acid 6 drachms, dragons blood 2 drachms, animal charcoal 24 drachms, cinnabar 3 ounces. Cantharides Caustic : Tannin 1 ounce, pow- dered cantharides 2 ounces; strong acetic acid 8 ounces; mix into a paste with acetic acid. Cement, Amber (Quick Drying). Dissolve 1 part of amber in 14 parts of sulphide of carbon. Cement for Leather. A valuable cement for leather may be made by mixing 10 parts of sulphide of carbon with 1 of oil of turpentine, and adding enough gutta percha, cut small, to make a thick cream. Cement for Steel and other Metals. (This is some- times called Turkish Cement and Armenian Cement). Dissolve four or five pieces of gum mastic, each the size of