23 DRUGGISTS’ compendium. Cod Cholera, Homoeopathic Remedy eor. Take of camphor 1 ounce, rectified spirit 6 ounces; dissolve the camphor in the spirit. Dose: two drops on a lump of sugar, repeated every quarter of an hour. Cholera Mixture (Board of Health). Take of chalk mixture 1 ounce, aromatic confection 15 grains, tincture of opium 15 drops. [In premonitory diarrhoea.] Cholera Pills. Take of acetate of lead 1 drachm, opium 3 grains, conserve of roses a sufficiency to make a mass for 36 pills. Dose: 1 every hour. Cigarettes, Balsamic (eor Asthma, &c). Soak strong unsized paper in a solution of saltpetre; this dry, and treat, first with tincture of cascarilla, and afterwards when nearly dry with compound tincture of benzoin; cut into squares of a suitable size, and roll into the form of cigarettes. Circassian Cream. Olive oil 1 pint, white wax 2 ounces, spermaceti 2 ounces, alkanet 1 oz.; perfume to taste. Citrate of Magnesia (Effervescent). Take of citric acid (powdered) 4 pounds, calcined magnesia 11 pounds, bicarbonate of soda 3 pounds, tartaric acid 3 pounds, white sugar (powdered) 6 pounds, oil of lemons 11 ounces, rectified spirits, a sufficiency. Mix thoroughly the citric acid with the sugar; add the soda, magnesia, and tartaric acid; pass the whole through a sieve to facilitate their mixture; moisten with the spirit; pass through a coarser sieve, and place the whole on a wooden tray to dry in a warm place for four-and-twenty hours, or till the salt is quite dry; add the oil of lemons, and bottle instantly. Codeia, Codeine. This alkaloid, the discovery of Robiquet, may be procured by making a solution of hydro- chlorate of morphine in water, and precipitating the mor- phine therefrom by the addition of ammonia. The codeine remaining in solution may be obtained in crystals by careful poration. Codliver-Oil Cream. Make a mucilage of 1 ounce of picked gum tragacanth, with 16 ounces of cold water, stirring occasionally for 24 hours; to this add equal parts by measure of codliver oil, shake well together, and add 4 ounces of rectified spirits, drachm of oil of lemons, and 4 drachm of essential oil of almonds.