99 Woo druggists’ compendium. Ward’s Red Drops. A concentrated form of wine of antimony. Wart Ointment. Take of galbanum 1 ounce, pitch \ an ounce, lead plaister 2 drachms; melt and add acetate of copper and muriate of ammonia of each 1 ounce. This forms a very useful application for corns and warts. Water, Bitter Almond. This may be prepared by either rubbing down oil of bitter almonds in magnesia, and adding water in the proportion of 5 drops of the oil to 1 ounce of water, or a solution of oil in alcohol may be mixed with water to the required strength. Water, Jasmine, Esprit de Jasmine. Take of spirit of jasmine (enjieurcige) and rectified spirit of each 1 pint, essence of ambergris 1 drachm. Water, Rose. Take of otto of roses 3 drachms, recti- fied spirit (warm) 1 pint; when dissolved add of boiling water 10 gallons; mix in a 12 gallon carboy; agitate until cold. Waterproof Paper. Dissolve 8 ounces of alum and 31 of Castile soap, in 4 pints of water, and 2 ounces of gum arabic and 4 ounces of glue, separately, in 4 pints of water; mix the solutions, heat slightly, dip in the single sheets, which suspend till dry, Wikana (Chiibourt). Roasted chocolate nuts ground 2 ounces, powdered cinnamon 2 drachms, powdered vanilla 1 drachm, ambergris 3 grains, musk 11 grains, sugar 6 ounces; well mixed together. This prepai’ation is used as a stimula- ting diet for invalids; a teaspoonful boiled with a 1 pint of milk may be given at a meal. Wine, Quinine. Take of sulphate of quinine 20 grains, citric acid 20 grains, orange wine 20 ounces. Rub the quinine and the citric acid well down in a mortar; add during the trituration about 1 drachm of the wine, afterwards gradually adding the remainder. Wood Photographs on. As the cost of cutting the wood is but a small proportion of that of the finished wood engraving, it may be interesting to many to learn that by photography the cost of the artist’s work may be reduced to the minimum. The block on which the picture is, to be made is first damped with water, then whitened with enamel, rubbed from the surface of good enamelled visiting cards.