Phe 76 THE CHEMISTS AND duced to public notice under the name of “ Dubarth’s Dis- infectant.” Powdered brick 5 kilogrammes, carbolic acid 250 grains. Dissolve the acid in a sufficient quantity of alcohol and then mix. A thin layer of this powder spread upon a plate, frequently stirred and slightly damped, pro- duces at the ordinary temperature a much larger quantity of antimiasmatic vapours than would be given off by any solution of carbolic acid. It is superior to the solutions of permanganate of potash, its effects being more constant and more certain. Phenameine. See Aniline Yiolet. Phosphorated Hydrogen Gas (Schwartz). The pul- verulent metallic zinc which is deposited in the tubes of zinc melting furnaces, is mixed with amorphous phosphorus in powder in the proportion of 1 part of zinc to 2 of phosphorus; > introduced into a glass combustion tube, and heated gently, a current of cool air being passed through the mixture; from this process phosphide of zinc results, from which phosphorated hydrogen, when required for the purposes of the laboratory, can readily be prepared by the addition of dilute sulphuric acid. Phosphorus Paste (for Killing Vermin). Take of phosphorus 8 parts, liquefy it in' 180) parts of lukewarm water ; pour the whole into a mortar, add immediately 180 parts of rye meal; when cool mix therewith a 100 parts of melted butter, and 125 parts of sugar. [This paste will keep its potency for many years intact.] Physostigm, Extract of (Extract of Calabar Bean). Only beans with a white kernel should be used in the preparation of this extract, these, carefully selected, are to be pounded in a mortar, and over them poured spirits of about sp. gr. 0'83; digest for ten days, when a fine red coloured extract is obtained; filter and wash repeatedly with a little spirit. Phosphorus Pills (Radcliffe). Take of phosphorus 6 grains, suet 600 grains; melt the suet in a stoppered bottle capable of holding twice the quantity; put in the phosporus and, when liquid, agitate the mixture until it becomes solid; roll into pills weighing each three grains ; finish with gela- tine coating. Piccalilli (Indian Pickle). Take 1 hard white cabbage sliced, 2 cauliflowers pulled to pieces, a handful of