Lup 61 druggists’ compendium. 3 ounces, arnica root 1 ounce, spirit of camphor {> ounce, rose water a drachm. For chilblains, to be well rubbed in night and morning if the skin is not broken. [This lotion ought not to be applied to an abraded surface.] Lotion for Chilblains (Dewar’s). Take of sul- phurous acid 1 ounce, glycerine 1 ounce, distilled water 2 ounces; mix. Lotion for Chaps (Liebert). Take of nitrate of lead 10 grains, rose water 1 ounce. Lotion forFreckles (Kittoe). Muriate of ammonia 1 drachm, spring water 1 pint, lavendar water 2 drachms. Lotion of Glycerine (Moore). Glycerine 3 ounces, mucilage of quince seeds 10 drachms, powdered cochineal 5 grains, boiling water 1J ounce, rectified spirits 2| ounces, 011 of roses 8 drops, powdered gum acacia h drachm, water 8 ounces; triturate the cochineal in the hot water, adding the spirit; in the same manner mix the rose oil with the powdered gum; mix and filter the solutions, and add the mucilage and glycerine. Lotion for the Hair (Lococlc). Almond oil 2 drachms, liquor of ammonia 2 drachms, oil of mace 1 drachm, rose water 2J ounces. Lotion for Scabies (Vlemniclc). Take of quicklime 1 pound, slack with a sufficiency of water, sublimed sulphur 2 pounds, water 20 pounds, mix ,and boil until reduced to 12 pounds, and filter. Apply as a wash with a bit of flannel. Lotion for Scabies (Professor Hebra). Take of Seneka oil (petroleum oil) 1 ounce, alcohol 1 ounce. Balsam of Peru 1 drachm, oils of rosemary, lemon, and lavender, of each 22 drops; mix. Lotion for Whitlow. Tgke of liquor of acetate of lead 15 parts, glycerine 25 parts, distilled rose water 100 parts, distilled cherry laurel water 20 parts. Lupulina (Cooley). The yellow powder obtained from the dried strobiles of the hops yields an aqueous extract, which is treated with alcohol along with a little lime; the filtered tincture is evaporated to dryness, redis- solved in water, the solution again filtered and evaporated to dryness ; the residuum is lastly washed with ether, and allowed to dry.