73 druggists’ compendium. Pea Pastille Paper. Olibanum 12 drachms, storax 8 drachms, benzoin 6 drachms, balsam of Peru 4 drachms, bal- sam of tolu 3 drachms, rectified spirits of wine 10 ounces; macerate for twenty-eight days and add of a saturated solu- tion of potassium nitrate 1 ounce; soak sheets of thick unsized paper in the solution and dry in a current of cold air. Pastilles, Fumigating. Take of gum benzoin in powder 16 parts, balsam of tolu and powdered sandal wood of each 4 parts, charcoal 48 parts, powdered tragacanth and labdanum of each 1 part, powdered nitre and gum arabic of each 2 parts, cinnamon water 12 parts; reduce all to a fine powder, and beat into a mass with cold water, mould into small cones and dry without heat. Pastilles Fumantes, Aromatic Pastilles, Fumi- gating Pastilles (Paris Codex). Mix together in a solu- tion of gum tragacanth, gum benzoin 2 ounces, balsam of tolu and sandal wood powdered of each 4 drachms, nitre 2 drachms, labdanum 1 drachm, charcoal 6 ounces; form into small cones and dry in the air. Patchouli (Essence op). Take of patchouli 4 ounces, rectified spirits 1 pint, water 5 ounces; digest for fourteen days and filter, adding lavender water 1 ounce, tincture of musk 10 drops. Pate d’Almande au Mel. Rub together 1 pound of honey and the yolks of eight eggs, add gradually with con- stant stirring 1 pint of almond oil, and 8 ounces of bitter almonds in powder. Perfume with oil of bergamot and cloves of each 3 drachms. Pate de Jujubes (Jujube Paste). Jujube fruit (Zizyphus vulgaris) 1 pound, water 4 pounds; boil the fruit in the water for half an hour; strain, press, and decant the clear poidion, which clarify with white of egg; add of clear solution of 6 pounds, gum arabic in 8 pounds of water, white sugar 5 pounds; evaporate gently to the thickness of jelly, pouring in 6 ounces of orange flower water; place in a water bath for twelve hours, bring up the temperature to 212° Fahr., carefully removing the scum; pour into tin moulds and dry with a heat of about 104°. Pearl Powder. Oxide of bismuth precipitated 1 ounce, oxide of zinc (Hubbuck’s) 1 ouuce, prepared chalk 1 pound. A little perfume may be added.