druggists’ compendium. Pil 77 French beans, 1 stick of horse-radish sliced, 24 small white onions, 12 gherkins; cover with boiling brine; after 24 hours’ repose drain on a sieve, put into a jar, and add of curry powder 2 ounces, garlic, ginger, and mustard-seed of each 1 ounce, capsicum A ounce; fill up the vessel with hot pickling vinegar and let it stand for several weeks. Pick Me Up. Cardamoms 5 parts, carraways 2 parts, cochineal 2 parts, cinnamon 10 parts, raisins 80 parts, orange peel 56 parts, ginger 14 parts, gentian root 3 parts, wormwood 2 parts, quassia 1 part, alcohol (-838) 750 parts, water 750 parts; macerate for fourteen days and filter, adding afterwards simple syrup 200 parts. Piles, Powders for. No. 1, External: Galls in very fine powder 2 ounces, opium in powder 1 drachm. No. 2, Internal: Milk of sulphur 3 ounces, cream of tartar and black pepper of each 1 ounce, oil of cubebs 35 drops. Dose a teaspoonful. Picrotoxin. This, the active principle of Cocculus, indicus, may be procured by making an aloholic extract of the fruit, exhausting the residuum with water, mixing the filtered products, adding thereto hydrochloric acid; when crystals of picrotoxin will gradually form themselves. Pills, Keyser’s Syphilitic. lied oxide of mercury 1^ ounce, dilute acetic acid 1 pint; dissolve, and add manna 2 pounds; triturate thoroughly before the fire, and make into 14 grain pills. Pills, Starkey’s Diaphoretic. The following has been published as the original formula:—Extract of opium 4 ounces, mineral bezoar and nutmeg of each 2 ounces, saffron and Yirginian snake root of each 1 ounce, soap 4 pound, oil of sassafras 4 ounce, tincture of antimony 2 ounces. Pills of Yeratrine (Magendie). Veratrine 4 grain, powdered gum arabic and syrup sufficient to make 6 pills. [A decidedly dangerous preparation.] Pills, Kaye’s Worsdell’s. The composition of these pills as given by Cooley is “powdered aloes, gamboge, and ginger equal parts, together with a small quantity of dia- phoretic antimony beaten into a mass with either syrup or treacle, and divided into 2Ygrain pills.