Liq 59 druggists’ compendium. distilled water, and drying in the open air. [Intended as a dressing for obstinate ulcers.] Lip Salves. Pomade Rosat : White wax 2 ounces, almond oil 4 ounces, allcanet root sufficient to colour; melt, digest, and strain, adding otto of roses 12 drops. Glycerine Lip Salve : White wax 1 ounce, spermaceti 2 ounces, almond oil 8 ounces; melt in a water hath, and add of glycerine 3 ounces, balsam of Peru 4 drachms. Creme de Psyche : White wax 1 ounce, spermaceti 1 ounce, almond oil 5 ounces, balsam of Tolu 1 drachm; melt and add 10 grains of acetate of lead, pounded. Liqueur de le Grande Chartreuse, According to Dr. Chevalier, this highly celebrated liqueur is made by mixing together essence of melissa citratci 2 parts, essence of hyssop 2 parts, essence of angelica root 10 parts, essence of best mint 20 parts, essence of nutmeg 2 parts, essence of cloves 2 parts, and rectified spirits 1000 parts. The liqueur is artificially coloured with turmeric. Liqueur de Pressavin. Freshly precipitated oxide of mercury and cream of tartar of each 1 ounce; dissolve in 1 quart of hot water, filter. Dose, a small wineglassful in all cases where mercury is considered useful. Liquid for Cleaning Silver. Take of prepared chalk 8 ounces, turpentine 2 ounces, alcohol 1 ounce, spirits of camphor 4 drachms, liquor of ammonia 2 drachms. Apply with a sponge and allow to dry before polishing. Liquid Glue (Dumoulin’s). Dissolve 1 pound of the best glue in 1 pint of water, add gradually 31 ounces of nitric acid; after the mixture has ceased to effervesce set aside to cool. Liquor Bismuthi. Take of subcarbonate of bismuth 1 troy ounce, citric acid in powder 420 grains, nitric acid (sp: gr: P420) 11 troy ounce, pure caustic potash 450 grains, distilled water and alcohol, of each a sufficiency. Dissolve gradually the subcarbonate of bismuth in the nitric acid and when effervescence has ceased dilute the solution with K ounce of distilled water, add the citric acid and stir until dissolved. Dissolve the caustic potash in 8 fluid ounces of distilled water, which add very gradually to the acid solutiou; permit the mixture to stand five or six hours; transfer to a moistened paper, filter and wash the precipitate till the washings contain no trace of nitrate of potash;