THE CHEMISTS AND 2 G Cro potash, ley (containing 26 per cent of caustic potash) 3 pounds 12 ounces, rectified spirit 3 ounces, essential oil of almonds 2 drachms. Melt the lard in a porcelain vessel by means of steam heat, run in the ley very slowly, stirring the while. When about half the ley is run in the creme will become too thick for stirring!: it must now be transferred to a mortar and brisk-trituration kept up till it assumes a pearly appearance, the alcohol (with the essential oil in solu- tion) being added during this last stage of the process. Croton Liniment. See Hair Stimulants. Crystallized Cream. Almond oil 10 ounces, sperma- ceti If ounce, melt with a gentle heat, and add oil of neroli 15 drops, oil of lavender 10 drops, oil of rosemary 10 drops. Curry, Indian. Take of coriander seeds powdered 3 ounces, black pepper 5 ounces, fenugreek seeds 3 ounces, cummin seeds 3 ounces, turmeric root 6 ounces, cayenne pep- per 1 drachm. Cytisine. This is the name given by Husemann and Mambre to the poisonous alkaloid discovered by them in the seeds of the bladder senna (Cytisine laburnum). The process for its preparation is as follows: Macerate the pounded seeds for some time in cold water, acidify with sulphuric acid, decant the liquor, press the residue and nearly neutralise the solution with a weak alkali such as chalk, and again decant, precipitate the decanted liquor with acetate of lead, carefully removing any excess of lead from the solution by means of sulphurated hydrogen, neutralise with soda, precipitate with gallic acid, keeping the liquid neutral; the precipitate must now be collected and tri- turated with finely divided litharge and water to a paste; dry by the aid of heat, make an extract with alcohol, concentrating the extract to the consistence of a syrup; make strongly acid by addition of nitric acid, add 6 or 8 times the volume of absolute alcohol, bring up to boiling point and cool gradually; pour off the liquid from the resin- ous mass and set aside, when crystals of nitrate of cytisine will present themselves. The base is procured from this salt by heating it with a caustic potash solution, when it separates as an oil, which solidifies on cooling.