Ink THE CHEMISTS AND 52 solid residue 10 ounces of water, macerating for four days. Mix now the whole of the liquor, and finally add in the order named the sulphate of iron, the sulphuric acid, and the indigo. Ink, Blue {M. Harung). Mix 4 parts of perchloride of iron in 750 parts of water; add 4 parts of cyanide of potassium dissolved in water ; collect the precipitate, which wash with several additions of water; allow it to drain until it weighs about 200 parts; add finally 1 part of oxalic acid, and agitate to facilitate the solution of the cyanide. Ink, Blue. Take of Chinese blue 2 ounces, boiling water 1 quart, oxalic acid 1 ounce; dissolve the blue in the water, add the acid, and bottle. Ink, Copying {Watts). Take of logwood extract 4 parts by weight, 3 parts of sulphate of iron, 2 parts of alum, 2 parts of gum arabic, 4 parts of sugar, 60 parts of malt vinegar, and 40 parts of water; dissolve the logwood in the water, adding in succession the other ingredients. Ink, Gold. Gold leaf ground into an impalpable powder, and mixed when required in gum water. Ink, Green (Klaproth). Take of acetate of copper 2 ounces, bitartrate of potash 1 ounce, water 8 ounces ; boil down to 4 ounces and filter. Ink for Gardeners’ Zinc Labels. Take of acetate of copper 30 parts, muriate of ammonia 30 parts, lamp black 8 parts, gum arabic 8 parts, water 300 parts; dissolve the gum in the water, and pom’ it over the other ingredi- ents, well mixed and reduced to powder. A quill pen must be used with this preparation. Ink, Indelible Black. Dissolve 4 parts by weight of aniline in 16 by weight of alcohol to which a few drops of strong hydrochloi’ic acid has been added; dilute with 90 parts of water in which 6 parts of gum arabic has been dissolved; the result is an anticorrosive ink of great bril- liancy. Ink, Invisible. An ink to turn blue on the application of heat may be procured by dissolving chloride of cobalt in water. Rose colour and green may be procured by means of acetate of cobalt, and chloride of cobalt and nickel respectively.