Col THE CHEMISTS AND 24 Colchicum Honey. See Honey. Collodion, Morphia (for Neuralgia). To three parts of collodion add one part of hydrochloric of morphia. Apply with a camel hair pencil. [To he used with caution.] Collodion (Hcemostatic). Tahe of collodion (officinal) 100 parts, phenic acid 10 parts, tannic acid and benzoic acid of each 5 parts; mix by shaking. Collodion (Dr. Maynard’s). Take of sulphuric ether (sp. gr. 1'850) 2 parts, nitric acid (sp. gr. T450) 1 part; mix and allow the temperature to fall to about 100 deg. Fahr.; add raw cotton to point of saturation; let it soak about two hours; pour off the acid and wash the cotton till the application of litmus proves the absence of acidity; dry thoroughly. The cotton will now be found to be converted into a gum completely soluble in ether of about ‘750 sp. gr. Colours for Confectionery.—Blue : A hot aqueous solution of indigo is generally used for this colour. It must be used fresh as made. Red : Take of cochineal 2 ounces, bitartarate of potass 1 ounce, alum in powder 1 ounce; boil for ten minutes, add 4 ounces of sugar, and when settled decant the clear portion. Green : Boil picked spinach leaves in water, and strain off the clear portion for use. Yellow : An aqueous solution of gamboge. Colours for Show Carboys. Amber : Dragon’s blood in coarse powder 1 part, oil of vitriol 4 parts; when thoroughly dissolved, dilute with cold distilled water till the required tint is obtained. Lilac : Dissolve oxide of cobalt in hydrochloric acid, adding sesquicarbonate of ammonia in excess, and afterwards sufficient ammonia-sulphate of copper o bring the required colour. Orange: Dissolve bichromate of potash in water and add a little sulphuric acid. Yiolet : Mix together solutions of nitrate of cobalt and sesquicar- bonate of ammonia, adding a sufficiency of ammonia-sulphate of copper to strike the required colour. Blue : Take of liquor of perchloride of iron 10 drops, yellow prussiate of potash 10 grains, oxalic acid 2 drachms, water 1 gallon. Red : Liquor of perchloride of iron 10 drops, sulphocyanide of potash 10 grains, water 1 gallon. Crimson : Iodine and iodide of potash of each 30 grains, hydrochloric acid 1 drachm, water 1 gallon. Green : Sulphate of copper 1 drachm, bichromate of potash 30 grains, strong liquor of ammonia 2 ounces, water 1 gallon.