Oxa 71 druggists’ compendium. Ointment, Eye (Dupytren). Mix together red oxide of mercury 5 grains, sulphate of zinc 10 grains, with 1 ounce of lard. [For inflammation and ulcers of the lids.] Ointment, Eye (Thomson). Mix together pure oxide of zinc 1 drachm, lard 9 drachms, wine of opium 20 drops. [Tonic in cases of chornic opthalmia.] Ointment, Nervine (Baume Nerval) (Paris Codex). Mix together with a gentle heat oil of mace (expressed) and ox marrow of each 2 ounces, adding oil of rosemary 1 drachm, oil of cloves 30 drops, camphor 30 grains, balsam of tolu 1 drachm. The camphor and tolu balsam are to be first dissolved in 2 drachms alcohol. Ointment for Piles (Cooley). Morphia 8 grains, melted spermaceti ointment 1 ounce; triturate together until solution is complete, then add of galls in impalpable powder li drachm, essential oil of almonds (genuine crude) 12 to 15 drops, and stir till the mass concretes. Ointment of Zinc and Camphor (Dr. Hardy). Oxide of zinc 8 parts, camphor 4 parts, prepared lard 30 parts. Onguent de la Mere (Paris Codex). Mix together black pitch 1 part, butter, lard, litharge, suet, and yellow wax of each 4 parts, olive oil 8 parts. [A useful stimulating ointment.] Opodeldoc, Steers. This popular and highly useful liniment is, according to Cooley, prepared in the following manner :—“ White Castile soap cut very small 2 pounds, camphor 5 ounces, oil of rosemary 1 ounce, oil of origanum 2 ounces, rectified spirit 1 gallon; mix, and digest in a strong bottle (closely corked) by the heat of a water bath until the solution is complete; when the liquid has con- siderably cooled, add of liquor of ammonia 11 ounces, and immediately put into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close and tie over with bladder.” Orangeade. Add the expressed juice of 8 oranges and 3 lemons to 8 ounces of simple syrup, and 16 ounces of water; filter, and add 4 ounces of tincture of orange peel. Orfilia’s Hair Dye. See Hair Dyes. Oriental Hair Dye. See Hair Dyes. Oxalic Acid (Ure). Digest together over a water