Bro druggists’ compendium. 13 syrup placed in shallow vessels, covered with folds of linen and set aside to cool. Boot-top Liquids. White : Take of alum, cream of tartar, magnesia, and oxalic acid, of each 1 ounce; salt of sorrel and sugar of lead, of each I ounce; water a quart. Mix. Brown: Alum, annato, and oxalic acid,of each 1 ounce; isinglass and sugar of lead, of each ounce ; salt of sorrel ounce; water one quart. Boil for ten minutes. Bouquet. In perfumery this term is applied to various compound solutions of odoriferous ingredients, generally essential oils. The following are among the most popular. Bouquet de la Reine: Oil of bergamot 12 drachms, oil of lavender 4 drachms, aromatic vinegar 2 drachms, essence of musk 2 drachms, alcohol 12 ounces. Bouquet de Mille Fleurs : Lavender water 1 ounce, esprit de jasmine 1 ounce, oil of bergamot LV drachms, oil of cassia A drachm, oil of sassafras 12 drops, oil of cloves 12 drops, otto of roses 4 drops, orange flower water 8 ounces, rectified spirit 1 pint. Bouquet de Rondeletia : Oil of lavender 6 drachms, oil of cloves 27, drachms, oil of bergamot 2 drachms, essence of bergamot 2 drachms, essence of musk 30 drops, essence of ambergris 30 drops, alcohol 20 ounces. Boules d’Almande. Spermaceti 2 ounces, white wax 4 ounces, almond oil 8 ounces; melt in a water bath, and add, with constant stirring, essential oil of almonds 1 drachm, oil of mace 90 drops; stir constantly till it begins to set, and pour into moulds slightly warmed and greased. Brandy Essence. See Amyle, Oxide of. Brilliantine. Take of honey 1 ounce, glycerine 1 ounce, eau de Cologne A ounce, rectified spirits of wine 2 ounces. Another formula:—Castor oil 2 ounces, alcohol (pure) 6 ounces. Mix. British Brandy (Z7re). Dilute pure alcohol to the proof pitch, add to every hundred pounds weight 1 pound of argol dissolved in water, a little acetic ether, and French wine vinegar, some bruised almonds, and a sufficiency of Cognac essence (q.v.); then distil the spirit with a gentle heat. Bronzing Liquid (Ure). This is a saturated solution of nitro-muriate of platinum. With this almost any colour can be produced on copper, brass, or iron, by diluting the solution to the required strength.