20 THE CHEMISTS AND Cer balsam of copaiba 2 ounces; melt the wax and add tbe balsam. Cerate, Tobacco (Cooley). Bees-wax 3 ounces, yellow resin 1 ounce, olive oil 6 ounces; tobacco juice 4 ounces, mix and evaporate, and wben nearly cold add bergamot 2 drachms. Chalybeate Chocolate. See Chocolate. Chatell’s Hair Dye. See Hair Dyes. Chemical Food.—Take of sulphate of iron 10 drachms, phosphate of soda 12 drachms, phosphate of lime 12 drachms, phosphoric acid 20 drachms, carbonate of soda 40 grains, bicarbonate of soda 1 drachm, muriatic acid and liquor of ammonia of each a sufficiency, powdered cochineal 2 drachms, water a sufficiency, sugar 40 ounces, orange-flower water 1 ounce. Dissolve the sulphate of iron in 2 ounces of boiling water, and the phosphate of soda in 4 ounces of boiling water. Mix tbe solutions and wash the precipitated phosphate of iron till the washings are tasteless. Dissolve the phosphate of lime in 4 ounces of boiling water, with a a sufficiency of muriatic acid to make a clear solution; when cool, precipitate it with liquor of ammonia, and wash the precipitate. To the precipated phosphates thus pre- pared, add the carbonates of soda and potash, previously dissolved in water and muriatic acid, to dissolve any preci- pitate. Dilute with water to the measure of 22 ounces; add the sugar and cochineal; dissolve with heat and strain, adding, when cool, the orange-flower water. Chephalic Snuff (SclineebergerJ. Take of white hellebore in fine powder 1 ounce, orris root in fine powder 4 drachms, barberry bark in fine powder 4 drachms, starch 6 ounces, oil of cloves 10 drops; mix. Cherry Tooth Paste. Alum b ounce, orris root, chalk, bitartrate of potash and cuttle fish bone of each 14 ounce, cochineal 1 ounce, all in fine powder, oil of cloves 15 drops, essential oil of almonds 20 drops, glycerine a suffi- ciency ; mix, and allow it to stand for some hours previous to putting in pots. Chilblain Paste (Swediciur’s). Take of bitter almonds 8 ounces; honey 6 ounces: powdered camphor and flour of mustard of each b an ounce, burnt alum and olibanum of each 2 drachms, yolks of 3 eggs; beat into a paste. Apply night and morning.