Ext druggists’ compendium. 35 ounces. On the Continent this preparation has a high reputation as an anti-spasmodic. Essence of Santal. Take of oil of yellow sandal wood 1 part, rectified spirit 3 parts, oil of cassia a sufficiency. Dose 60 drops in gonorrhoea, &c. Essence of Soap. Dissolve 1 ounce of Castile soap in 5 ounces of rectified spirit, and perfume to taste. Essence of Vanilla. Vanilla 1 ounce, rectified spirit 10 ounces; digest for fourteen days and strain. Essence, Volatile (Redwood). Take of oil of bergamot 3 ounces, essence of lemon 2 ounces, oil of lavender 6 drachms, essence of jasmine 4 drachms, oil of sassafras 3 drachms, oil of neroli 2 drachms, otto of roses 90 drops, oil of orignanum and essence of ambergris of each 1 drachm, musk 20 grains; macerate for a week, and decant the clear portion, add the strongest liquor of ammonia in the proportion of 12 drachms to 20 ounces. Essence,Westphalian. Cambrian Essence. To 1 pint of acetic acid add 5 drachms of pure creosote. This essence, which is sometimes sold under the name of “Essence of Smoke,” is used to give a smoky flavour to cured meats, &c. Ether, Benzoic (Liebig). Take of alcohol (of the spe- cific gravity of ‘830) 16 ounces by weight, benzoic acid in crystals 8 ounces, concentrated hydrochloric acid 4 ounces by weight; these are distilled together, and as soon as the product turns milky when mixed with water, a fresh receiver is attached to the retort, and the distillate collected; to this water is to be added, and the supernatent ether decanted and boiled with water in which is a little oxide of lead; it is finally freed from water by means of chloride of calcium. Extract of Angelica (Dr.Moir). Takeof angelica root 2 pounds, rectified spirits 1 gallon; digest for fourteen days, and filter; pour 1 gallon of proof spirit over the marc, and repeat the digestion and filter; mix, and distil off the spirit, evaporate the extract. Dose 10 grains. Extract of Calabar Bean. Physostigm. Reduce the bean to a moderately fine powder, and macerate in alcohol (sp. gr. '838) for ten days; then transfer the powder to a percola- tor, and passthrough alcohol till the percolate becomes colour- less. Mix the tincture obtained by maceration with that ob- aincd by percolation; distil off the alcohol, and evaporate the