Alo druggists’ compendium. 3 colouring matter with water, at a temperature of about 65° Fahr.: when dry 1 part is to be boiled for twenty minutes in a solution of 8 parts of alum in 40 parts of water; filter while boiling, well wash the mass in a solution of alum, precipitate the liquors with sulphuric acid; finally, wash and dry the precipitate. Almond Balls (Boules d’Almande). Take of sperma- ceti 4 ounces, white wax, pure, 8 ounces; expressed almond oil 1 pint; melt them together in a glazed earthenware vessel, by the heat of a water bath, and when cool, add of essential oil of almonds and expressed oil of mace, of each 2 drachms. As the mixture cools pom- it into one-ounce gallipots slightly heated; when removed they are finely formed cakes. Almond Bloom. Take of Brazil wood in fine powder 1 ounce, cochineal 2 drachms, hot water 4 pints; macerate for several hours and filter, adding isinglass 1 drachm, gum arabic J ounce, alcohol 2 ounces. Scent to taste. Almond Cake. Blanch and beat 1 ounce of bitter almonds and 8 ounces of sweet almonds, adding a little rose water, and the white of an egg, and afterwards 4 ounces of white sugar, with the yolks of 4 and whites of 2 eggs; flavour with oil of lemon. Mix and bake. Almond Powder for Emulsions {Meniere). Make an emulsion of bitter almonds 50 parts and a sufficiency of water, with 300 parts of sugar : evaporate with a gentle heat until the mixture assumes a pasty consistence, spread it upon plates, dry thoroughly by artificial heat, reduce to powder, adding 5 parts pulverised tragancanth. To pre- pare an emulsion, take of the powder 32-5 parts, orange flower water 10 parts, common water 120 parts; triturate in a mortar. Almond Soap. See Soaps. Aloin. The following is said to be the method adopted for the extraction of this, the active principle of aloes, by its discoverers :—Evaporate in vacuo to the consistence of a syrup the solution obtained by exhausting a mixture of aloes and sand with cold water; set aside for some days. Purify the resulting mass by pressure between folds of blotting paper and repeated crystallisation from hot water. Dose, 1 to 2 grains.