29 Dra druggists’ compendium. parts of acetate of lead in 100 parts of water, set aside for 12 hours, and after this is exhausted with water the residue is treated with alcohol of 50 deg. until the solution is free from any taste. The solution thus obtained is treated with an aqueous solution of 4 parts of acetate of lead, and filtered. To this solution is next added a solution of 2 parts of phos- phate of soda, again filtered, and the alcohol removed by distillation on a water bath. The residue of the preceding process is evaporated to about 10 parts, filtered, the pre- cipitate washed with cold water, placed between folds of blotting paper to remove the water, and dissolved in twice its weight of alcohol of 60 per cent. On being allowed to stand, two different kinds of crystals present themselves: first crystals of an inactive substance, and after several days, fine yellow crystals of digitaline; when these are fully formed the mother liquor is poured off and the crystal taken up with alcohol of 80 per cent., and some animal charcoal added; the solution is filtered and left to evaporate and treated with pure chloroform, which takes up only the digitaline alone ; this may be further purified with alcohol and animal charcoal. Disinfecting Powder (Collins). Take of dessicated chloride of lime 2 parts, burnt alum 1 part. Disinfecting Fluid (Condy). Condy’s disinfecting fluids have for their basis the alkaline permanganates. Disinfecting Fluid (Ledoyen). Take of nitrate of lead 1 part, water 8 parts: solve Draught, Anodyne (Copland). Take of nitre 6 grains, tincture of opium 12 drops, compound spirit of ether 1 drachm, syrup of poppies 2 drachms, camphor mix- ture 9 drachms. Draught, Anti-neuralgic (Jeston). Take of narco- tine 2 grains, dilute sulphuric acid 20 drops, infusion of roses 12 drachms. Draught, Antispasmodic (Dr. Gregory). Take of spirit of ammonia (fetid) 1 drachm, camphor mixture 10 drachms, syrup of saffron 1 drachm. Draught (Donovan). Take of liquor of liydroiodate of arsenic and mercury (Donovans) 2 drachms, distilled water 34 ounces, syrup of ginger \ ounce, mix for 4 doses. Draught, Emetic (Copland). Take of ipecacuanha