15 Can druggists’ compendium. stirring, during wliicli add slowly rose water 16 ounces, otto of roses 30 drops, bergamot 30 drops, tincture of tolu 30 drops. Camphor Ice. Take of spermaceti 4 ounces, white wax 8 oimces, oil of sweet almonds 1 pint; melt together by a gentle heat, add of camphor in small pieces 4 ounces; when dissolved stir till partly cold, and add essential oil, bitter almonds, and expressed oil of mace, 2 ounces. Candy, Digestive. Take of rhubarb and carbonate of soda of each 1 drachm, ginger J drachm, cinnamon 20 grains, heavy magnesia 1 ounce, powdered sugar 2 ounces; all the above must be reduced to fine powder; mucilage of gum tragacanth a sufficiency to form a mass; to be divided into cakes of 20 grains each. Candy, Ginger. Take of ginger in powder 3 ounces, boiling water 25 ounces; macerate for three hours; strain; add lump and moist sugar of each 5 pounds; flavour with oil of lemon, and boil to a candy. Cantharidinate of Potash (Delpech). Dissolve with a gentle heat 2 grains of cantaridine in 150 grains of alco- hol; add 1'6 grains of caustic potash dissolved in a little distilled water; the liquid immediately assumes the form of magma, and the alcohol is to be separated by filtration and pressure. 98 parts of cantaridine gives 160 parts of cantharidinate. Cantharidine. To extract the active principle of Cantliaris vesiccdoria the crushed flies must be exhausted by chloroform, and the solutiou distilled to dryness at a very gentle heat; the green residue is treated with bisulphide of carbon, by means of which the resinous and other matters are dissolved out and the cantharidine remains; it must now be placed upon a filter and well washed with bisulphide of carbon, and afterwards crystalised from chloroform. Cantharidine Pommade. Take of beef marrow 20 ounces, extract of cantharides 90 grains; perfume to taste. The extract requisite for the above may be conveniently made by evaporating tincture of cantharides to dryness. Cantharidine Yesicant (Delpech). Take of gelatine 30 grains, water 150 grains by weight, alcohol 150 grains by weight, cantharidinate of potash (q.v.) 6 grains, glycerine a sufficiency. The liquid thus formed is to be spread on thin