45 druggists’ compendium. Hon wine, was compounded of Lisbon and Canary wine of each 14 gallon, cinnamon 2 ounces, white canella 4 ounce, cloves, mace, nutmeg, ginger, and cardamoms of each 1 dracbm; bruise the spices and digest them in the wine for three or four days; strain and add 40 ounces of sugar. Hippuric Acid. This remarkable substance, discovered by Liebig in the urine of herbivorous animals about thirty years ago, maybe obtained by concentrating the fresh urine of the horse or cow by evaporation to y of its bulk, and super-saturating it with hydrochloric acid; it will then after a while deposit hippuric acid in the form of a precipitate; this may be further purified by mixing with 10 parts of water and an excess of milk of lime, and pressing; the expressed liquid is mixed with a solution of alum till it no longer exhibits an alkaline reaction; cool down to 40°, add carbonate of soda as long as a precipitate forms ; the liquid is again strained, pressed, and precipitated by hydrochloric acid; the hippuric acid thus formed is washed with cold water, pressed, and dissolved in boiling water; the Solution is mixed with blood charcoal, filtered while hot, and left to crystallize. IIcematoxylin. This, the colouring principle of log- wood, may be procured by digesting logwood chips iu water at a temperature of about 130° Fahr. for several hours, filtering and evaporating to dryness; digest the product in rectified spirit for forty-eight hours, filter and evaporate as before; add a little water and set aside in a cool place till the crystals of hoematoxylin form ; these wash in rectified spirit, and dry. Honey of Colchicum {Beasley). Dried colchicum 1 paid, water (at 140°) 16 parts; infuse for twelve hours, strain, let it settle, and boil the clear liquor with white honey 12 parts to the consistence of syrup. Honey of Male Fern. Take of ethereal extract of male fern 30 grains, honey of roses 4 drachms; mix. Dose 2 drachms. [Anthelmintic.] Honey of Roses. Dried rose petals 4 ounces, water 21 pints ; infuse for 6 hours and strain ; decant the clear liquid, add of honey 5 pounds; evaporate to a proper consistence. Honey of Violets. Clarified honey 2 parts, expressed and depurated juice of violets 1 part.