21 Chi DRUGGISTS COMPENDIUM. Chilblain Cream (Dr. Pardon). Balsam of tolu i draclim, rectified spirit 11 ounces; dissolve; and hydro- chloric acid 1 drachm, compound tincture of benzoin 1 drachm. To be applied on a piece of linen. Chinese Carmine. See Carmine. Chinese Hair Dye. See Hair Dyes. Chio Turpentine (Imitation). Melt of black resin 3 pounds, and when removed from the fire, add with brisk stirring an equal quantity of Canada balsam, and of oils of juniper and fennel 25 drops each. Chloral Hydrate (IAebig). Place a portion of an- hydrous alcohol in a tubulated retort and pass through it a current of dry chlorine gas, gradually raising the tem- perature until the chlorine passes unchanged through the liquor on raising it to boiling point, this on cooling forms a mass of crystallized hydrated chloral; melt this by a gentle heat, and agitate with three times its volume of oil of vitriol; on increasing the heat an oily stratum of impure chloral rises to the top; it is purified by boiling, and afterwards distilled with an equal volume of oil of vitrol and rectified with quicklime; with the addition of a small quantity of water it changes into a semi-solid crystalline mass of hydrate of chloral; a larger quantity of water dissolves it. This solution evaporated in vacuo deposits the hydrate of chloral in large rhombic lamime. Chloral Hydrate Syrup. See Syrups. Chloralum. Under the name of Chloralum, Professor Gamgee has prominently brought into public notice the claims of the hydrated chloride of aluminium as an anti- septic and disinfectant. On account of its low price as prepared by the Professor’s process, and its non-poisonous character, it is likely to come largely into use. For dis- infecting purposes a weak solution, varying from sp. gr. 1006 to 1016 will be found most useful. Chloralum Wool. The advocates of the anti-septic treatment of wounds will find cotton wool treated with a solution of the hydrated chloride of aluminium, or chloralum, a useful agent, as while it arrests hremorrage, and checks suppuration, it acts also as a deodorizer in cases of a malignant or gangrenous character. Chlorodyne (Dr. Ogden's). Take of chloric ether 1