druggists’ compendium. Ner 67 1ST Naphthaline. Tlie last portion of the volatile oily product of the distillation of coal tar is collected separately, and allowed to repose, when crude naphthaline separates. By continuing the distillation till the residuum in the still begins to char a further portion of dark-coloured napthaline is obtained. Purify by repeated sublimation. Narcotine. Exhaust opium of its soluble matter with cold water, afterwards treat it with water acidulated with hydrochloric acid; filter; neutralise with ammonia ; wash the precipitate and dissolve in boiling rectified spirits, from which crystals of narcotine become deposited on cooling; these may be further purified by solution in ether. Nitro-Benzol. This is prepared from benzol (q: v :) by adding it drop by drop to hot fuming nitric acid; on the addition of water (when the reaction is over) a yellow oil separates itself. This is crude nitro-benzol, it may be purified by washing with a solution of carbonate of soda. It is readily soluble in ether or rectified spirits. Naples Yellow. Calcine 19 parts of metallic antimony with 8 parts of red lead and 4 parts of oxide of zinc, *in a reverberatory furnace. The mixed oxides are to be well rubbed together and fused; after this the fused mass is to be reduced to a very fine powder. Nicotianine. This substance, sometimes called Tobacco Camphor, may be obtained by distilling tobacco leaves with water, and allowing the turbid liquor which passes over to stand for some time, when the nicotianine, a concrete volatile oil, comes to the surface and may be skimmed off. Nitro-Glucose. This substance is obtained by acting upon finely-powdered grape sugar with nitro-sulphuric acid; a pasty mass is thus formed, which must be well stirred, when lumps separate from the liquid; these lumps are to be now well kneaded in water to remove all trace of acidity, when they acquire a silky lustre, and form nitro-glucose. Neroli,. Essence of. Take of oil of orange peel 1 drachm, oil of neroli 40 drops, tincture of ambergris 1 drachm, tincture of orris 5 ounces, rectified spirit 5 ounces.