DRUGGISTS COMPENDIUM. 19 Cer a pea, in a sufficiency of alcohol to make a solution. In another vessel dissolve in brandy as much isinglass (pre- viously softened in water) as will make a two-ounce phial of strong glue; adding two small bits of gum ammoniac, which must be rubbed until dissolved. Then mix the whole with heat. Keep in a bottle closely stopped, which must be set in boiling water when required for use. Cement, Acid Proof. Make a concentrated solution of silicate of soda, and form a paste with powdered glass. This simple mixture will sometimes be found invaluable in the operations of the laboratory where a luting is required to resist the action of acid fumes. Cement, Elastic. Bisulphide of carbon 4 ounces, fine India-rubber in shreds 1 ounce, isinglass 2 drachms, gutta percha k, ounce; dissolve. Cement for Mounting Prints (Photographic). Take of fine white wheat starch 4 drachms; beat into a paste with cold water 1 ounce of best Russian glue; dissolve in a pint of boiling water, while boiling pour on the starch; put the whole into a saucepan, and boil till as thick as treacle. When required for use a small quantity is to be melted in a little warm water. Cement, Dental. Take of gum mastic 8 parts, yellow wax 4 parts, carmine a sufficiency; place in a vessel with a sufficient heat to melt the gum and wax, stir, and add the carmine; when all the ingredients are mixed, pour into a basin of cold water and form into sticks. Cerate of Arnica (Honueopathic Ph.) Spermaceti 3 ounces, white wax 6 ounces, olive oil 14 ounces; add 1 drachm of medicated tincture to every 9 drachms of cerate, and stir briskly till cold. Cerate, Cantharidine (Parrish). Take of cantharides 12 parts, lard 10 parts, yellow wax and resin of each 7 parts; melt the latter, and stir in the former ingre- dients. Cerate, Cacao. Butter of cacao, white wax, and oil of almonds, equal parts; melt, mix, and strain. Cerate, Camphor. Olive oil 1 pound, white wax \ a pound, camphor 3 drachms. Cerate, Copaiba (Dr. Houltori). White wax 1 ounce>