42 THE CHEMISTS AND Gly well; the mixture must now be kept at rest for twenty- four hours; the soap forms readily and rapidly. Glyceratus. This name is given to an American substitute for simple syrup; it consists of glycerine 1 part, water 2 parts. Glycobeastol. Under this name there has been brought out recently at Yienna a cosmetic for the hair. It is com- posed of glycerine in which the rind of [capsicum has been digested, perfumed with patchouli. Glyconine (Secliel). Mix in a mortar 4 parts, by weight, of the yolk of egg, and 5 parts of glycerine; the result is an unalterable compound of the consistency of honey, which forms a useful application for burns, sore nipples, and cutaneous affections. Gold, Chloride op (Paris Codex). Gold 1 part, nitro- hydrochloric acid 3 parts; dissolve, evaporate until chlorine vapour begins to arise, and set aside to crystallize. Gold, Cyanide op. This may be procured by adding a solution of cyanide of potassium to a neutral solution of chloride of gold, both perfectly pure, as long as a precipi- tate forms, which wash and dry. Gotjt Specipic. Various combinations are sold under this name, usually mixtures of wine of colchicum and aro- matic tinctures, holding in solution iodide of potassium and sulphate of magnesia. Grecian Hair Dye. See Hair Dyes. Guaicin. Treat tincture of guiacum with hydrate of lime, and decompose the resulting guiacate of lime with dilute sulphuric acid; finally, purify by dissolving in alcohol, [Used in the preparation of photographic papers.] Guards’ Bouquet. Esprit de rose 2 pints, oil of neroli 8 ounces, extract of vanilla 1 ounce, extract of orris 8 ounces, extract of musk 4 oimces, oil of cloves 30 drops. Gum Substitute. Starch Gum, British Gum. Bijen’s process is to moisten a ton of dry starch with a sufficiency of water acidulated with 41 pounds of concentrated sul- phuric acid ; when this is uniformly mixed into a dough, it is cut into cubes of about 10 inches, dried in a stove, reduced to powder, and exposed in a hot air chamber to a current of air at a temperature of 160° Fahr.; it is now further ground,