druggists’ compendium. 17 Car ring- occasionally, powder, and digest the mass in alcohol for two or three hours. Carbolic Acid.—It is greatly owing to the labours of Dr. F. Crace Calvert that the value of this antiseptic, and the variety of its applications, are so well known, and its manufacture on the great scale economically carried out. The following is one of the many modes of production :— Crude coal-oil is distilled in a retort furnished with a ther- mometer, and the product passing over between the tem- peratures of 300° and 400° Fahr. collected and mixed with a hot saturated solution of caustic potassa; on this being allowed to stand a pasty mass is formed, this is separated from the liquid, and dissolved in a sufficiency of water; the resulting solution soon separates into two portions, the denser, containing carbolate of potass, is separated and treated with hydrochloric acid. Carbolic acid in solution rises to the surface; this is treated with chloride of calcium to remove the water, and afterwards further purified by dis- tillation. The distillate on being subjected to a cold tem- perature deposits crystals of carbolic acid. These when dried must be protected from atmospheric contact. Crookes gives a process for the preparation of a perfectly pure car- bolic acid from saliccylic acid. Carbolic Glycerine. Mix together carbolic acid 1 part and glycerine 4 parts. Carbolic Plaster. Carbolic glycerine 34 parts, pre- pared chalk 94 parts; mix by kneading. Carbon, Bisulphide of (Mulder’s process). Take an iron bottle with two openings, into one of which fit a copper tube with bends (right angles); into the second opening place a straight tube dipping into the bottle; nearly fill the bottle with pieces of charcoal, screw on the tubes and place the bottle in a furnace, protecting it from the direct action of the flames; connect the curved tube with a Woolfe’s bottle half filled with water, and placed over a refrigerating bath. When the bottle containing the charcoal is suffi- ciently hot, introduce through the straight tube several small pieces of sulphur, and close the mouth of the tube : the bisulphide passes through the bent tube and collects at the bottom of the receiving bottle. It must now be collected and purified by distillation with chloride of calcium. Carmine {Madame Cennette’s process). Into 6 pails of c