THE CHEMISTS AND Pol 80 alcoholic solution, and redissolve in boiling water; on cooling, a deposit of podopliyllin will be obtained. Polishing Powder (Lord Rosse’s). Precipitate per- oxide of iron with water of ammonia from a dilute solution of sulphate of iron, wash the precipitate and press dry in a screw press, afterwards exposing it to a dull red heat. The important points in this process are that the ammonia be in excess, that the heat be not too great, and that the sulphate of iron employed be pure. Pomade de Beaute. White wax 11 drachm, spermaceti 2 drachms, almond oil 1 ounce, olive oil 1 ounce, tincture of Peru 1 drachm ; melt and mix in a water bath. Pomade de Hebe. Narbonne honey 2 ounces, white wax 1 ounce, tincture of benzoin 3 drachms, melt the wax and mix with a gentle heat. Pomade de Ninon. Almond oil 4 ounces, lard (ben- zoated) 3 ounces, juice of house leek 3 ounces ; mix with a gentle heat. Pomade Divine. Beef marrow purified li pound, gum storax 4 ounces, gum benzoin 4 ounces, Ohio turpentine 4 ounces, orris powder, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg 1 ounce of each; place in a well tinned vessel over a water bath, keep at boiling point for three hours and strain. Pomatum, Castor Oil and Glycerine. White wax 1§ ounce, glycerine 2 ounces, castor oil 12 ounces, essence of lemons 5 drachms, essence of bergamot 2 drachms, oil of lavender 1 drachm, oil of cloves 10 drops, annatto 10 grains, rectified spirit and distilled water of each a sufficiency. Dissolve the wax with a small portion of the castor oil by the aid of a gentle heat, and rub in the remaining ingre- dients, allowing the pomatum to cool previous to adding the volatile oils. Potash, Citrate op. This salt may be procured by neutralising citric acid with carbonate of potash. Pot-Pourri. Cinnamon, cloves, and mace, of each (in fine powder) 4 drachms, powdered orris 4 ounces, essence of lemon, essence of verbena, essence of bergamot, and oil of lavender of each 40 drops; intimately mix. Powders, Antimonial {Tyson). No. 1: Oxide of anti- mony 2 grains, phosphate of lime 18 grains; mix for powder. No. 2 : Oxide of antimony 2 grains, sulphate of