THE CHEMISTS AND Ess 34 Essence of Cayenne. Tqkeof cayenne 2 ounces, proof spirit 1 pint; digest fourteen days, strain and filter. Essence of Celery. Take of seed of celery (Apiwn graveolens) braised 7 ounces, rectified spirit 20 ounces; digest and filter. Essence of Cognac. Brandy oil (Oxide of Amyle) 1 ounce, rectified spirit 9 ounces. Essence of Cheers (Cooley). Cubebsground82 ounces, rectified spirit 1 gallon; digest fourteen days, press and filter. Dose 1 dracbm. Essence of Ergot, Ethereal. Take of ground ergot 4 ounces, sulphuric ether 8 ounces; digest seven days, strain and filter; distil over slowly the ether from a glass retort into a cool receiver, reducing the temperature towards the close of the operation; recover the residuum, and dissolve when cold in 2 ounces of ether. Essence of Jargonelle Pear. Take of acetate of oxideof amyle (q: v:) 1 ounce, rectified spirit 9 ounces; amalga- mate. i Essentia Odorata. Take of oil of lavender 90 drops, oil of cloves 45 drops, oil of cassia 30 drops, oil of bergamot 30 drops, oil of neroli 20 drops, rectified spirit 2 drachms, essence royale 10 ounces. Essence of Pine Apple. Take of butric ether 1 ounce, rectified spirit 9 ounces. Essence of Ittitjbare (Sweet). Take of rhubarb in moderately fine powder 16 ounces, sugar in coarse powder 8 ounces, alcohol 1 pint. Moisten the rhubarb in 4 ounces of the alcohol, introduce it into a conical percolator, and press gently; pour upon it the remainder of the alcohol, pass through in addition sufficient spirit to displace 1 pint of tincture; set this aside in a warm place till reduced by spontaneous evaporation to 6 ounces ; continue the percola- tion with proof spirit till 2 pints more of tincture is obtained from the marc; evaporate this by gentle heat to 6 ounces, then add the sugar; when this is dissolved add also the reserved tincture; evaporate gently to the measure of a pint. Essence Royale. Take of ambergris 80 grains, musk 40 grains, civet 20 grains, oil of cinnamon 12 drops, oil of rhodium 8 drops, otto of roses 8 drops, rectified spirit S