Hai THE CHEMISTS AND 44 ounces, oil of rosemary 2 ounces, oil of cassia 2 drachms, oil of cloves 4 drachms. This will be found a good and economical formula for cheap oils and pomades. Hair Restorative. Take of rum 500 parts, rectified spirit 75 parts, distilled water 75 parts, tincture of cantha- rides 3 parts, carbonate of potash 3 parts, carbonate of am- monia 5 parts; dissolve the potash and ammonia in the distilled water, and add in succession the other ingredients. Hair Stimulants. Any of the following preparations may be given with effect. Croton Liniment : Almond oil 4 ounce, croton oil 12 drops, otto of roses 1 or 2 drops. Cantharidine Oil : Olive oil 1 pint, cantharides freshly powdered 2§ ounces; digest by the gentle heat of a water bath; strain through flannel. Aijgtjstins Phosphorated Liniment : Phosphorus 6 grains, camphor 12 grains, almond oil 1 ounce, strong liquor of ammonia 10 or 12 drops ; place the oil and phosphorus in a pipken, which im- merse in warm water; when the phosphorus is quite dissolved cork and agitate; set aside in a dark place to cool; decant, and add the other ingredients. Hair Wash (Erasmus Wilson). Take of Eau de Cologne 8 fluid ounces, tincture of cantharides 1 fluid ounce, oils of rosemary and lavender of each 4 fluid drachms; mix. Hallogenin. Under the name of Hallogenin the follow- ing composition is largely used in Germany for preventing the incrustation of steam boilers: 65 parts of hydrochlorate of ammonia, 17 parts of chloride of barium, and 18 parts of catechu. See Incrustation Composition. Harmala Red. Digest the seed of the Peganum liar- mala in alcohol, filter, and precipitate the colouring matter from the solution by the addition of a mineral acid. The tints procured by this dye-stuff vary from a pale rose to a deep scarlet. Hematine. Digest for several hours a sufficiency of ground logwood in water at a temperature of 130° Fahr.; filter and evaporate the liquor to dryness over a water bath; put the resulting extract in alcohol for four and twenty hours; filter and evaporate as before; make an aqueous solution of the extract so obtained. This solution will give, on gentle and gradual evaporation, fine crystals of pure hematine. Hippocras Wine. This, formerly esteemed medicated