84 THE CHEMISTS AND Qua Q Quass. This acidulous liquor, which is much used in Russia for dietetic purposes, is prepared from rye flour, on which hot water is poured, and the mixture placed in a warm place till it becomes sufficiently acid. Qtjassina. Precipitate a decoction of quassia with milk of lime, evaporate the filtrate; dissolve the residue in alcohol, purify with animal charcoal; again evaporate; dissolve in water. Prom this solution the bitter principle quassina may be obtained in crystals. Queen’s Own Bouquet. Take of oil of lavender 2 drachms, oil of cloves 2 drachms, oil of bergamot 2 drachms, 011 of cassia 30 drops, tincture of musk 1 drachm, rectified spirit 5 ounces. Quinine. In manufacturing this salt upon a large scale it is usual to digest the chinchona bark, reduced to the con- dition of a coarse powder, in a dilute solution of sulphuric acid for about two hours; the liquor is drawn off and the process repeated with a weaker solution of acid; the two liquors are mixed and strained, and to them are added lime or magnesia till the whole gives a slightly alkaline indica- tion to a slip of litmus paper. A dark-coloured precipitate is formed, which contains the alkaloids, with some colouring matter and lime. This precipitate is strained and treated with boiling alcohol, which dissolves the alkaloids and colouring matter; the solution filtered and the alcohol removed by distillation leaves a brown mass, which is treated with dilute sulphuric acid till the solution shows a slightly acid reaction. After being digested with animal charcoal to remove the colouring matter, the solution is filtered and evaporated, and as it cools the sulphate of quinine crystal- lises out. Quinine, Chlorate of (Ticliborne). 310 grains of chlorate of barium are dissolved in a small quantity of boiling water; 2 ounces of sulphate of quinine are mixed with about 12 ounces of water at a temperature of about 190° Fahr. in a porcelain dish; mix the solutions, when a double decompo-