druggists’ compendium. Pod 79 on to a coarse silk sieve, and continue the rotatory motion till dry. Pills op Copaiba. Balsam 2 ounces, magnesia recently prepared 1 drachm. Mix and set aside to concrete, and divide into 200 pills. Pills, Turnbull’s Delphine. Take of delphine 1 grain, extracts of henbane and liquorice of each 12 grains ; make into 12 pills. One a dose in gout, rheumatism, &c. Pills, Dinner (Lady Hesketh’s Pills). Socotrine aloes in powder 6 drachms, powdered mastic and petals of the red rose of each 2 drachms, syrup a sufficiency to make a proper mass; make into pills of 3 grains each. Pills op Cappeine. Caffeine | drachm, aloes 40 grains; conserve of hips sufficient to make into 24 pills. Pills op Santal Wood Oil (A. E. Ebert). Take of oil of santal wood and yellow wax of each .V a troy ounce; melt the wax in a capsule and weigh into it the oil of santal wood, mix and stir until cold, roll out the mass, and divide it into 80 pills in the same manner as an ordinary pill mass. Pistachio Nut Milk. This elegant preparation for improving the complexion is made by the admixture of the following ingredients into a homogeneous emulsion:—Take of Spanish pistachio nuts 4 ounces, violet water 31 pints, spirit of neroli 15 ounces, palm soap, Florence oil, and spermaceti of each 1 ounce. Plaster, Brown. See Onguent de la Mere. Plaster, Corn. Melt with gentle heat galbanum 2 ounces, add sal ammoniac and saffron \ ounce of each, pow- dered camphor 2 ounces; when nearly cold stir in 2 ounces liquor of ammonia. Plasters, Court (Descliamps). Stretch upon a flat board sheets of muslin, silk or linen, apply to these a thin coating of strained flour paste, and when dry two coats of a strong colourless solution of gelatine, warm, are applied in succession. Podophyllin. This is prepared by boiling the root of Podophyllum peltatvm with lime, and precipitating the lime from the filtered decoction with the double sulphate of iron and zinc; evaporate the filtrate to the consistency of syrup, which treat with alcohol, and filter again; evaporate the