33 Ess druggists’ compendium. Emetine. Digest powdered ipecacuanha in ether at a temperature of 60°; decant and distil; this process is to be repeated till the ether comes off the ipecacuanha pure; now treat the marc in the same way with alcohol, evaporate to dry- ness, and dissolve the residue in cold water; add magnesia to separate the gallic acid; filter, evaporate, again dissolve in alcohol, filter and evaporate. Emetic dose i grain. Emulsion op Coal Tar (Lebceuf). This is made by means of a tincture of Panama bark (Quillaya saponaria), which is prepared by digesting 1 part of finely crushed bark in 4 parts of alcohol (95°) on a sand bath, filtering at the end of forty-eight hours. 12 parts of the tincture is now di- gested with 10 parts of coal tar. An emulsion is obtained of a fine appearance and stable character. Emulsion of Wood Tar (Jeannet). Take of pow- dered crystals of carbonate of soda 1 part, wood tar 1 part, water 100 parts ; mix well the soda and tar in a wedgwood mortar, add them to the water in a large flask, agitate for ten minutes and filter. Ergotine. Exhaust powdered ergot with cold water in a percolator, heat the aqueous extract to 200° Fahr, and filter; evaporate to the consistence of syrup, and when cold treat with alcohol in excess; this will preci- pitate the gum; after standing the clear portion is to be decanted, and brought by the heat of a water bath to the thickness of an extract. Essence of Aconite. Take of the herb aconite, dried and reduced to a powder, 4 ounces, alcohol 8 ounces; mace- rate for four days, press and filter; a quantity of spirit sufficientto makethe final result equal 8 ounces is now poured on the pressed marc, and after standing for a week is strained off as before. Essence, Anodyne. Take of extract of henbane 5 drachms, rectified spirit 2 fluid ounces; digest for fourteen days, and filter. Dose 10 drops. Essence of Apples, Artificial. Take of valerianate of oxide of amyle (q.v.) 1 ounce, rectified spirit 9 ounces; agitate until the ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated. Essence of Arnica. Proceed with arnica flowers as for Essence of Aconite. D