6 THE CHEMISTS AND Ani Aniline (Bechcimp’s process). Equal weights of nitro- benzol (q.v.), acetic acid, and cast-iron turnings are mixed slowly and cautiously in cast-iron vessels, care being taken that the heat generated does not raise the temperature of the mixture too high. The products of this combination are acetate of aniline and acetate of iron. On the crude mass being distilled with lime and re-distilled, the pure ani- line is obtained by collecting the distillate passing over at a temperature of from 170° to 190° Aniline Blue (Bled de Paris, Bled de Lyons). Di- gest a mixture of 2 parts of hydrochlorate of rosaniline (q.v.), and 4 parts of aniline, at a temperature of 150°; purify the crude blue by treating it with boiling water acidulated with hydrochloric acid, and afterwards with pure water. Aniline Crimson. Dr. Hoffmann says that the aqueous solution on the addition of potassa gives an oily precipitate containing a considerable proportion of unchanged aniline; on boiling this precipitate with dilute potassa in a retort, the aniline distils over, a viscid oil remaining behind, which generally solidifies with a crystalline structure. Washing . with cold alcohol and two or three crystallisations from the same solvent will render this body perfectly white and pure, a very soluble substance of a magnificent crimson colour remaining in solution. Messrs. Yerguin Reynards of Lyons devised and patented the following process for obtaining aniline red :—Take of aniline 10 parts, tetrachloride of tin 7 parts, mix and heat to boiling point for fifteen minutes; cool, and treat with boiling water, which now forms a forms a magnificent crimson dye for silk or wool without further manipulation or addition. Aniline Yiolet (Yioline, Indisine). Ure, in his Dic- tionary of Arts and Manufactures gives the following pro- cess for the production of this beautiful dye:—“ A cold and dilute solution of the sulphate, or any other salt of commercial aniline, is mixed with a solution, also cold and dilute, of bichromate of potash. The mixture is well stirred and allowed to stand for ten or twelve hours. A black precipitate is produced, which is collected upon a filter, washed with cold water and dried. The black matter is digested with coal tar, when a brownish black tarry sub- stance is dissolved from the colouring matter obtained in the precipitate. The insoluble residue is then dried and digested with wood spirit or alcohol. The clear solution is