Syr 92 THE CHEMISTS AND oiled tray or any suitable mould, previously removing the scum. When required for use melt in a little water, gently adding the active drug intended to he applied. Syrup op Chloral Hydrate (American). Take of hydrate of chloral 1 drachm, chloroform water 2 drachms, syrup of orange 3 drachms, tincture of ginger 12 drops, water ^ ounce. The chloroform water is prepared by dis- solving A a fluid ounce of chloroform in 1 gallon of water. Syrup’op Chloral Hydrate (French): Chloral hydrate 2 parts, mucilage of gum arabic 15 parts, distilled water 15 parts, syrup 15 parts. A formula much used on account of its effectually disguising the taste of the chloral, is as follows: Syrup of orange flowers and simple syrup of each 10 ounces, chloral hydrate 3A ounces. Syrup op Citric Acid (American). Take of citric acid in fine powder 60 grains, water a sufficiency, simple syrup 16 fluid ounces, oil of lemon 30 drops; dissolve the citric acid in the water, add the syrup and oil of lemon, shaking until thoroughly mixed. Syrup of Codeia. Take of codeia 24 grains, distilled water 4 ounces, sugar 8 ounces; dissolve the codeia in the water with the aid of heat, adding the sugar last. Syrup op Ginger. Take of tincture of ginger 4 ounces, white sugar 7 pounds, water A a gallon. Heat the sugar in the water until dissolved, then raise to the boiling point, and gradually add the ginger, stirring briskly. Syrup op Horehound. Take of horehound (Marrubimi vulgare) 4 ounces, water 40 ounces; digest on a water bath, strain, and add of sugar a sufficiency to make a syrup. Syrup op Hypophosphate op Lime. Take of hypo- phosphate of lime 1 ounce, water 91 (fluid) ounces, white sugar 12 ounces, fluid extract of vanilla A an ounce; dissolve the salt in the water and filter, add the sugar; dissolve with the aid of heat and add the vanilla. Dose a teaspoonful. Syrup op Hypophosphate op Iron. Take of sulphate of iron 1 ounce, hypophosphoric acid 6 ounces, carbonate of soda 1A ounce, dilute phosphoric acid 1 ounce, distilled water a sufficiency, sugar 12 ounces. Dissolve the sulphate of iron and the carbonate of soda in separate quantities of distilled water; mix the solutions and collect the precipitate, which dissolve in the acids, and lastly add the sugar.