THE CHEMISTS AND 8 Ant tallised by means of careful evaporation. For tills poison no antidote has yet been discovered. Antimony, Diaphoretic. Take of sulpkuret of antimony 1 part, nitre 3 parts, pulverise, mix, and deflagarate by spoonfuls in a red hot crucible, then calcine for half an hour, and when cold, pulverise in a mortar. ANTi-NEuRALGic Powder. Take of sulphate of quinine 7 grains, sulphate of morphine 3 grains. In periodic neural- gia the above powder taken in snuff is very efficacious. Apiol (A. J. Cooley). “ The soft alcoholic extract of parsley seed is either digested or agitated for some time with ether; after sufficient repose in a cool place theetherial solution is decanted and the ether removed by distillation; the residuum is purified by solution in rectified spirit, and agitation first with a little litharge, and next with animal charcoal, after which the spirit is removed by distillation from the filtered solution.” Said to be a powerful febrifuge, and recommended by M. M. Joret and Homalle as a substi- tute for quinine. Apocodeia. See Hydrochlorate op Apocodeia. Apomorphia (Dr. Matthiessen). On submitting chlo- ride of morphia to the action of strong hydrochloric acid for about three hours at a temperature of about 150° Fakr., the chloride of the new base apomorphia is obtained. The base itself may be procured from the chloride by treatment with ether or chloroform, in both of which it is readily soluble; but as it is found to be very unstable, the salt has been used in preference. Its physiological action is totally different to morphia or the other salts of opium. It is purely emetic, and careful experiment proves it to be the most valuable emetic known; speedy and certain in its effects, it is the only substance known which produces with certainty emetic action when exhibited hypodermically Dose 1T0 of a grain of the chloride. Apple Essence. A solution of valerianate of ainyle (q-v.) in alcohol. Arnica Cerate. See Cerate op Arnica. Aromatic Vinegar. See Vinegar. Arrack. A spirit distilled from the fermented juice of the cocoa-nut, the palmyra, and other palm trees. A coarser kind of arrack much used in the East Indies is distilled