60 THE CHEMISTS AND Liq transfer the still moist magma and add very gradually water of ammonia until the precipitate is dissolved and a neutral solution is obtained. Dilute the solution with an equal quantity of distilled water. Treat 1 fluid ounce of the liquid with hydrosulphate ammonia in slight excess; wash the precipitate on a tarred filter, and dry on a water bath and weigh. Multiply the weight of the sulphide of bismuth by the fraction "908, to determine its equivalent in teroxide of bismuth. Apply the same ratio to the remainder of the liquid and dilute to such an extent that 1 fluid drachm will contain 1 grain of teroxide of bismuth; $ of which must be made up of distilled water, and the remaining measure of alcohol. Liquor Ferri Perchloridi (French formula). A solution of protochloride of iron is made with hydrochloric acid and iron wire, care being taken to prevent the access of air as much as possible. This solution is poured into a Woolf’s flask, and a current of pure chlorine gas is made to pass through it until the protochloride is converted into a perchloride. The solution is now evaporated in a porce- lain evaporating dish, at a temperature under 122° Fahr. When the required density is obtained, to get rid of the last trace of chlorine a current of air is passed through the solution. The preparation obtained by this process is perfectly neutral and transparent. Liquor of Opium. Take of powdered opium 14 ounce, lemon juice 11 pint; infuse and evaporate to 15 ounces, add 5 ounces of rectified spirit, filter after standing twenty- four hours. [Similar to the once celebrated Black Drops.] Litmus Paper. Faraday prepared his litmus paper by soaking sheets of unsized white paper in an infusion of 1 ounce of litmus in 1 pint of hot water. Lobelina. This is obtained from the seeds of Lobelia inflata by maceration in rectified spirit, acidulated with acetic acid, evaporating and treating the product successively with magnesia and ether, and finally again evaporating. Lotion, Cosmetic (Augustin’s). Rose water 8 ounces, salt of tartar 2 drachms, tincture of benzoin 3 drachms. Lotion, Cosmetic (Dr. Copland). Almond mixture 3 ounces, rose water 4 ounces, orange flower water 4 ounces, biborate of soda 1 drachm, tincture of benzoin 3 drachms. Lotion of Arnica (Homceopathic). Take of glycerine