Pea 74 THE CHEMISTS AND Pear Oil. The artificial flavouring essence sold under this name is simply a solution of acetate of amyle (q.v.) in alcohol. Pearl Powder. Pearl white and French chalk reduced to an impalpable powder and triturated together. Pearl White. See Bismuth, Stjbnitrate or. Pepsine and Copaiba Capsules (Bicord). Take of balsam of copaiba 250 parts, pepsine 60 parts, nitrate of bismuth 12 parts, calcined magnesia 18 parts. Divide into 600 capsules. Pepsine. Take the rennets of a newly-killed calf, sheep, or pig, wash under a stream of water, carefully scrape the internal membranes, and macerate in water for two hours at a temperature of about 60° Fahr., then strain through a coarse cloth. The pepsine in the solution is now precipitated by acetate of lead, and the liquid carefully poured off; a current of sulphurated hydrogen is now passed through the semi-liquid deposit; this precipitates the lead, leaving a solution of pure pepsine, which filter and evaporate to dry- ness at a uniform temperature of 130° Fahr. Pepsine, Elixir op (Compound). Elixir of Gams (q.v.) 150 parts, syrup of cherries 300 parts, pepsine 30 parts; triturate the pepsine with the elixir, macerate for half an hour in a covered vessel, and filter through paper pre- viously moistened. Dose: a tablespoonful. Pepsine, Elixir op (Corvisart). Take of elixir of Garus 150 parts, starchy pepsine 10 parts; prepare as above directed. Pepsine, Elixir op (Maitlie). Take of pepsine 6 parts, distilled water 24 parts, white wine 54 parts, sugar 30 parts, proof spirit 30 parts. Macerate until the sugar is entirely dissolved, and filter. This agreeable preparation is very popular' in French pharmacy. Dose : 1 tablespoonful. Pepsine, Extract op. Dr. Yon Wittickkas by a series of careful experiments proved the value of glycerine as an agent for the extraction and preservation of this delicate remedy. The mode of procedure is as follows: Wash carefully the mucous membrane of the pig’s stomach, and remove the water adhering by means of an absorbent cloth, mince fine, cover with glycerine ; after twenty-four horn's repose, express and filter.