QUADRATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. 639 Action. The iliacus flexes the hip-joint with tlie psoas when the Use to bend femur is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the limb is '"^ fixed. In consequence of its union with the psoas, the two are '"'^^ described as the flexor of the hip-joint by Theile. The QUADRATUS LUMBORUM (fig. 169, is a short thick muscle Quadratus between the crest of the hip-bone and the last rib. About two inches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral ligament, and from the iliac crest of the hip-bone behind, and an inch outside that band. The fibres ascend to be inserted by distinct flesh}' and Insertion, tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper, or all the lumbar vertebrte ; and into the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia lum- it .is con- borum. Crossing the sm*face are branches of the lumbar plexus, sheath, together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spin;e niuscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle antago- Use of both nising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterall}^ the lumbar part of the spine to of cue. the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus Fascia of the is a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis •l^^'^^'^t"''- of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum, p. 385) ; it passes in fi-ont of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. Tliis fascia forms the thickened band called ligamentum arcnatum externum, to which the diaphragm is connected. Fascia of the iliacus ami psoas. A fascia covers the two flexor iliac fascia muscles of the hip-joint, and extends in ditferent directions as far as their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane is thickest ; and a strong accession is received fi'om the tendon of small psoas, the small psoas. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the Attach- part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been jJXw • before explained (p. 464). Opposite the pelvis the membrane is inserted into the brim of internally that cavity for a short distance, and into the hip bone along the *° P^^^'** edge of the psoas. Opposite the spinal column it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebraj and the liga- and the mentum arcuatum internum, but is blended on tlie other with the ^"^^ fascia on the quadratus. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and reflected towards the brim of the pchas. Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands Trace the lying along the vertebra?, and to trace upwards some lymphatic 'y'"Ph<it'cs, vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides; a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The