COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. upper thyroid veins and their branches cross the upper part of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body anotlier small vein (middle thyroid) is directed back over the vessel. Near the clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes out under the stemo-mastoid : it is superficial to the artery, and separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles. Arteries. Otfsets of the upper thyroid artery desceiul over the of arteries top of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses under it below the level of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descendens noni hes in front of the sheath, crossing of nerves to. from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the cervical carotid, nerves. The pneumogastric lies within the sheath, behind and be- tween the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and branches rest on tlie spine behind the sheath. All the nen^es above men- tioned have a longitudinal direction ; but the inferior laryngeal or recun-ent crosses obliquely hiwards behind the sheath towards the lower end of the artery. Branches of carotid. As a rule, the common carotid artery does Brandies not furnish any collateral branch, though it is very conmion for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL jLXiULAR VEIN extends upwards to the base of the internal skull, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid j"S"lar vem.. is now seen. Placed behind or external to its artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the is close to lower part of the neck the vein inclines backwards, leaving a space arteiy between it and the artery, in which the vagus nerve is seen about except midway between the two. Sometimes the vein is superficial to the ''eiow. carotid, as on the left side. The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a pair of valves (Struthers). In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and Branches, middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the right Differences side may be above or below the point stated. Mention has been .',"tery'""' made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the commoTi carotid may not be divided into two (p. Gl). In- iu number, stead of one, there may be two trmiks issuing fi-om beneath the hyoid nuiscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the trunk Dissection, of the external carotid (fig. 17), and follow its branches until they disappear bencatli different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross tlic carotid ; and may define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 15, ^) COnsists of two fleshy bellies, Digastric united by an intervening tendon, whence its name. The posterior, "wo bellies, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beneath the mastoid process ; whilst the anterior belly is fixed on the side of the sym-