747 VESSELS AND NERVES OF TYMPANUM. that of the pharynx through the Eustacliiau tube, and is prolonged into the mastoid cells through the apertures leading into them. It assists to form part of the memhrana tympani, and of the Arraiige- secondary membrane in the fenestra rotunda ; it is reflected also cavity." over the chain of bones and the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tympani nerve. In the tympanum the membrane is thin, not very In Eusta- vascular, and secretes a watery fluid ; but in the lower part of the Eustachian tube it is thick and more vascular, is provided with numerous glands, and its epitheliuui is laminated. Its surface is covered with a columnar ciliated epithelium, but on Eiiithelium. the membrana tympani and the ossicula it is laminar and unciliated. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the tympanum are furnished from Ai-teries are the following branches of the external carotid, viz., internal maxil- carotids! lary, posterior auricular, ascending pharyngeal ; and some offsets come fi'om the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The veins join Veins, the middle meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery supplies a tympanic hrancJi (fig. -^^'j ' 238, d) (inferior, p. 88), which enters the cavity through the lary, Olaserian fissure, and distributes a branch to the membrane of the tympanum. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery (p. 80), posterior entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to '^^^''^^'^^i' the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set,sup)erior tijmpanic (fig. 238, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharvngeal, or fi-om the in- inferior ferior palatine artery, enter the fore part of the space by the Eustachian tube. Nerves. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied from Nei-vcs from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic sources, nerve : but the muscles derive their nerves fi'om other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 241). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will Dissection to require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in JjeJver*''' diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened entire; afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the skull; and the fine auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. Ill), outsiiie Supposing the nerve to be found, the student should place the cavltyr'^ scalpel on the outer side of the Eustacliian tube, and carry it back- wards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to and inside be followed in its canal ; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pursued:—one of these arch- ing forwards joins in the carotid plexus ; and two others directed