STRUCTrRE OF VAGINA. 58r the opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor {bulbi vestibuU, Kobelt, fig. 184, a). These are elongated bundles of plexifonn veins, enclosed in fibrous membrane ; they connec- are about an inch in length from above down, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where the}- are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vagin£e (a). At the upper end each is pointed, and communicates with the vessels of the clitoris : and at the lower rounded extremity it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies would answer to the divided bulb of the corpus tiicy corre- spongiosum urethras in the male, each lateral half being thrust aside the buih'of the male. Fig. 184.* in the female towards the crus clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina. The mucous membrane is contuiued tlirougli the lower aperture to Murons join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, of ti'e' "" at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. }.Iany muciparous vagina, glands and follicles open on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. Conical and filiform j^apilla) exist on the membrane ; and a laminar epithelium gives a covering to it. The muscular layer is outside the erectile structure and consists Muscular of longitudinal fibres. Some reach all along the vagina ; others, and ' these are the strongest, only as far upwards as the rccto-vesical fascia, to which they are attached on each side. AIjovc they end in the superficial layer of the uterus, and in the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and below in the subdenuic tissue. Bloodvessels and nerves. The arteries arc derived from tlic vaginal. Arteries, uterine, and vesical branches of the internal iliac. The veins form Veins are a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and ^^^^^ open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves^ Nerves, see page 5G8. * VenoiLS plexuses of the genital organs and opening of the vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginte muscle, b. Clitoris, c. ]Sr.vm2)h!B. a. Semi-bnlbs or bulbi vestibuli. b. Tenons plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris (pars intermedia, Kobelt). c. Dorsal vein of the chtoris.