301 SUPINATOR LONGUS MUSCLE. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis Dissection, through the os trapezium to its insertion into the metacarpal bones. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore- insertion of arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os trapezium between the r^di'^is'''^^^ attachments of the annular ligament to the bone, but outside the arch of that ligament ; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the "base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. During tlie dissection of the back of the forearm the Position, limb lies with the fore part undermost, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Dissection (fig. 87). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and Take away vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and from the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the and the fascia in the forearm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior interosseous vessels, which are in contact with it on the inner side in the lower third. A thickened band of the fascia •opposite the carj^us (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that strip the tendons may be traced to the end of tlie digits. flngers. The several muscles should be separated from one another up to Separate their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. muscles. The posterior annular lixjament, K, consists of the special aponeu- Annular Tosis of the limb, thickened by the addition of some transverse hHXtlie fibres, and is situate opposite the lower end of the bones of the wrist, forearm. This band is connected at the outer part to the radius, and at the inner to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the extensor tendons. The ligament will be subsequently examined more in detail. Superficial layer of muscles (fig. 87). The muscles are arranged Superficial in a superficial and a deep layer, as on the anterior part of the fore- geven'mus- arm. The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise cies, viz. mostly by a common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus, and have the undermentioned position one to another from without inwards;—the long supinator. A, the two radial extensors of the wrist, B and c (long and short), the common extensor of the fingers, D, the extensor of the little finger, E, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist, F. There is one other small nmscle near the elbow, the anconeus, g. The SUPINATOR radii LONGUS, A, reaches upwards into the arm, Supinator and limits on the outer side the hollow in front of the elbow. The