G77 FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. The intermuscular scj^ta pass down on the sides of the flexor Two intcr- brevis digitorum, and a piece of fascia reaches across the foot from "^^^"^ tlie one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it. The inner septum lies between the short flexor and the abductor inner pollicis ; and the internal plantar nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, pass tlu-ough it. The outer partition between the short flexor and the abductor and outer, minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and vessels for the outer side of the little toe. The superficial transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, Transverse and is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the toes* foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and little toes, and is connected with the sheath of the others as it passes over. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheaths of the flexor tendons (fig. 209, are similar to those Sheaths of of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the aoiis. tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the ai*ticulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubri- cated by a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 208). In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect first numerous, and have been an-anged in four layers. To prepare the n'lu^cies. first layer all the fascia must be taken away ; but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the sheaths in wliich they are contained should be opened. First layer of Muscles. In this layer are three muscles, viz., Muscles in the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi fayen'^^^ digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 208, the most internal muscle of Aixiuctor the superficial layer, takes origin from the inner part of the larger ' tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis ; fi-om the plantar ° fascia ; and from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and the inner side of the. foot as far as the scaphoid bone. In fi-ont the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the insei-tion; jnetatarsal phalanx of the gi-eat toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the connections, plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nen^es, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes with the accessorius muscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the mctatarso- Use,^"'^ phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will abduct slightly that toe fi'om the others. tor.