MUSCLES OF EYELIDS. 23 supercilii, levator palpobne superioris, and tensor tarsi * : the two latter are dissected in tlie orbit, and will be described with it. Tlie ORBICULARIS PALl'F.nUARUM (fig. 6, ") is the sphincter muscle Orbicularis closinj^ the opening botwepn the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, ^^,',1^^'^'*' which extends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumfer- ence of the orbit. From a difference in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer and inner, two parts. The external Jihres (orbital part), the best marked, are fixed only Orbital oi- at one point, viz., the inner angle of the orbit. This attachment (origin) is connected with the surface and borders of the small Internally, tendo palpebrarum; above that tendon with the nasal process of the upper maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; and below the tendon with the superior maxillary bone, and the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, gi\nng rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards tlie outer edge of the muscle where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. The internal fibres (palpebral i)art), paler and finer than the internal or A^j oiiter, occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner part^^'^^' ' *" angles of tlie orbit. Internally (origin) they are umted Avith the attached at tendo palpebrarum, and externally (insertion) with the external ^^^^ tarsal ligament and the malar bone, and some few may blend with ^ the orbital part. Close to the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form a Ciliary small pale bundle, which is sometimes called ciliar]/. bundle. The nuiscle is subcutaneous ; and its circumference is blended Connection above witli tlie occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the ' orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; and beneatii the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres arc joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The inner fibres cause the lids to approach each other. Use of inner shutting the eye ; and in forced contraction the outer connnissurc is drawn inwards. In closure of the eye the lids move unequally —the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. AMien the outer fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the outer fibres, skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper hp follows contraction of the outer part of the orbicularis, in consequence of fibres being prolonged to the levatoi- labii superioris. The CORRUGATOR RUi'KRCiLii is beneath the orbicularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the mner part ot the superciUary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed outwards to ioin the orbicular muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It blends with 1 ,, 1 J- j-i „ orbicularis. IS a short muscle, and is distmguished by the closeness ot its nbies. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the Use. * The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of tlie orbicularis.