591 STRUCTURE OF OVARY. Its weight varies from one to two Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flattened from above down. It is of a whitish colour, with cither a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and a third of an inch in thickness drachms. The ovarj- is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is connected with that membrane by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter the stroma. Its outer end (y) is rounded and is con- nected with one of the fimbria; at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The inner extremity is narrowed, and is attached to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord (i),—the ligament of the ovary, below the level of the Fallopian tube and round ligament. Structure. The ovary consists of a sti'oma of areolar tissue con- taining small sacs named G-raafian, and the whole is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The jicritoneum surrounds it except at the attached form and colour. dimensions and weight. Connec- tions. Glandular iu structure. Fig. 186.' The fibrous coat is adherent to the contained stroma. Along the attached margin of the ovary is a slit, by which the vessels and nerves enter. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum), or some cicatrices, may be seen in this covering. Stro7na (fig. 186). The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascular, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate fi-om the hilum towards the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains very many small cells, about Yl-yth of an inch in size ;—the nascent Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 186) are round and trans- parent cells, scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the cortical layer. During the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to thirty, or more, may be counted at the same time ; these vary in size from a pin's head to a pea. The largest are situate at the circumfer- ence of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through tlie fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat with a fluid inside. The coat of the vesicle named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine areolar tissue, and is united to the stroma of the OYOXj by bloodvessels, which ramify in the wall. Lining it is a layer of nucleated granular cells—the memhrana granulosa, which is thickened at one spot, and surrounds the ovum as the discus prol/gerus (Von Baer), fixing it to the wall. The fluid in the interior is transparent and albumi- • Ovary during the child-bearing period laid open. a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growtli. i. PUcated body remaining after the escape of the ovum (Farre). A filirous coat sur- rounds stroma. Stroma, fibrous and granular, with cells. Graafian vesicles. size and number. coat; contents.