DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 34 Find oino- hyoideus. Nerves above omo- hyoid ; vessels below. and a small ncrva. Define serratus. and nen-es jiieicing scalenus. Boundaries. Ts divided 1)/ omo- liyoidens. Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. between the sterno-mastoid and trai^ezius muscles, the posterior triangle of the neck will be displayed. In the execution of thin, task, the student may obtain some assistance by attending to the following remarks :— Crossing the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and dividing it into two, is the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 14, Close to or under the upper border of the muscle lie the small- nerve and vessels to it : the nerve being traceable to the desccndens noni, and the artery to the supra-scajnilar. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifications of the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nei'\'e ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno- mastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend in the space to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoideus are the subclavian artery and the- brachial plexus, which have a deep position. In this part also tho- following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular A^essels behind the clavicle ; the transverse cen^ical vessels which are higher in the neck, but take an outAvard direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. Underneath the trapezius, Avhcre it is attached to the clavicle, the serratus magnus muscle appears; and behind the large cervical nerves, toAvards the lower part of the space, is placed the middle scalenus muscle. Through the scalenus issue two muscular nerves ; one, fonned by two roots, for the sen-atus magiuis ; the othei: smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the sjmce. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle, ^; and behind by the trapezius, -. Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which arc placed in tho following order from above down, viz. splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulfc « ; and middle scalenus '; and at the loAver and outer angle, somcAvhat l)eneath the trapezius lies the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, A'iz, the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the loAver half or tAvo thirds, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle, ^, crosses the loAver part of the space, so as to subdivide it into two,—a loAver or clavicular, and an upper or occipital. The clavicular part is small in size and close to the clavicle and contams the subclavian arteiy. It is triangular in form, Avith* it^ base dn-ected forwards ; and is bounded in front by the sterno mastoid, ' ; above by the omo-hyoid muscle, '; and beloAv by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch and a half from before backwards, and about half that in fi-ont at it- base.