DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 196 Nucleus of vagus, and of glosso-plia- ryngeal. Nucleus of auditory. Gray matter in olivary body, behind it. and at the inner side. Tlie nucleus of the vagus begins on a level with the fourth ventricle (fig. 58, p), and is continuous below witli that of the accessory nerve. On the surface it forms a pyriform swelling along the inner side of the posterior pyramid, and limits laterally the calamus scriptoriuR. Above, this sinks under the auditory nucleus, and joins a nucleus for the glosso-jiharyngeal nerve in a line with it. Above the last two nerves is another collection of cells serving as a nucleus for the auditory nerve. This projects on the lateral part of the medulla (fig. 58, r). At the front of the medulla. Outside the pyramid is the gray layer of the olivary body (fig. 58, /) already described (p. 193). Behind this is anotlier separate, elongated and flattened yellowish streak, the accessory olivanj nucleus (fig. 43, Jc); while at the inner part of the olive, near the raphe, is a second collection (fig. 58, 1), which is broken up into pieces. Both of the last deposits Mr. Clarke considers to be but parts of the cut folds of the corpus dentatum. rONS VAROLII. Pons: The TONS, or ANNULAR PROTUBERANCE (pons Varolii, nodus ence- phali) (fig. 54) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between position, the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. It is form, nearly of a square shape, though it is rather widest from side to side, and measures two inches in the last direction. surfaces, The anterior surface is grooved along the middle line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. * and borders. The upper border is longest and most curved, and arches over the cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the medulla oblongata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. It is formed Structure. In the pons are alternating strata of transverse and fiuUnafand longitudinal fibres (fig. 5G):—The transverse set are continuous transverse with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, much gray matter being in- fibres. terspersed : and the longitudinal are prolonged fxom the medulla oblongata. Dissection Dissection. The transverse superficial fibres of the pons bein"- the'^fitecs. divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the right side (fig. 50), may be turned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of the pyramid ; and this first set of longitudinal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 67, f). The deep transverse fibres may be cut through outside the pyramidal (fig. 57); then the deep longitudinal fibres from the lateral column and the posterior pyramid (d) will appear. Amongst