74 DISSECTION OF THE XECK. Branches to recti, Brandies to other neiTes, Br.uiches to muscles, Branches joining s]>inal acces- soiy. Common earotiil artery. Muscular hranclm are fiirnislied to the anterior recti muscles ;. they arise from tlie loop between the first two nen'cs, and from the trunks of the other nei-ves close to the intervertebral foramina. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the first two nerves, and miite with the sympathetic and some cranial nerves near the base of the skull : these will be afterwards described. ExTKi{NAi, OK PosTEUiou SERIES. MuscuJar branches are given from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapula> ; and from the third and fourth nerves, to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. Connecting branches v:ith the sjunal accessory nerve exist in three places. First, in the steriio-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union, with the branches distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The coMJioN CAROTID ARTERY is the Icadijig vessel for the- supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. IG, The origin of the vessel differs on opposite sides of the body, beginning at the- lower part of the neck on the right, and in the thorax on the left side. The right vessel connncnces opposite the sterno-clavicular articu- lation in the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividhig into the external and internal carotid. The course of tlie artery is along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel oil the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the laiynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the stenio-- clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cen^ical fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artery has- the following connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is con- cealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fasci;e, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno- mastoid (sternal origin), stenio-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is less deep, being covered only by the stenio-mastoid with beneath it, the common investments of the part. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the traf;hea and larynx, the a-sophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid bod}', the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Vdns. The large internal jugular lies on the outer side ami close to the carotid at the upper end, but separated from it below by an inters-al of about half an inch : on the left side the veil is over the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or twc Origin. Course. Situation. Parts cover ingit. and on its sides. Position of veins :