LIGAMENTS OF UTERUS. 557 sexes, lie may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much Then clean fat, the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of of the'feiiuile the uterus, raise it up with a piece of string passed through the upper l^l^'is- part. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved ; and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the I'ectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the internal iliac artery is to be followed Dissect ves- on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side ^' of the uterus to the bladder. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, isolate and the rectum are to be cleaned and partly separated from one another at the anterior part of the pelvis ; but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The peritomum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the Reflections male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming toneum?^'" behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued to the pos- terior part of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and the gi-eater part of the anterior surface of the uterus, ^ and can be traced to the bladder without again touching the vagina: on each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), ■which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen. As the peritoneum is followed upwards it may be observed to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and the lateral part behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the following ligaments for the uterus and bladder. The hroad ligament of the uterus (fig. 173) passes from the side Broadliga- of the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ, uterus"^ By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior ^md a posterior portion: in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, which is and vaffina : in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the snij-dividwi f ' . Ill- into three rsmall intestine when it reaches the pelvis. parts. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, ■corresponding with the bodies contained between its two layers. Thus there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovary and its liga- ment, L; an anterior, near the upper part, which is appropriated to the round ligament, N ; and a middle piece, the highest of all, sur- rounds the Fallopian tube, M. Anterior and 2>osterior Ihjaments of the uterus. As the peritoneum Anterior is reflected fi-om the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to r/oroT**^" the bladder, it forms two anterior and two postei-ior folds or liga- uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uteriiie pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-uterine. The recto-uterine pouch corresponds Avitli the recto-vesical in the Rocto- male. On each side it is bounded by the obliterated hypogastric ^^^^^^^ artery : and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the .back of the vagina. The/a/se ligaments of the bladder are tlie same as in the male, Fiveliga- •and are five in number, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a superior: b^'^^erf "'^