DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. 256 is inserted into hunie- iriis. •Connee- 'tions. Use with ami loose and fixed. Dissection of the ••small infra- : sciipular : artery. Position of limb. Dissection •of the .fihoulder. •Cntaneous Kcrves. Dissection of deltoid muscle. the ridges of tlie bone by tendinous processes. Externally it is in- serted by a tendon into the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by ilesliy fibres into the neck for nearly an inch below that process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves and the sen-atus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which commimicates generally with the synovial membrane of the joint. The lower border projects much beyond the bone ; it is contiguous to the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and the long head of the triceps : along this border is the subscapular artery, which gives backwards its dorsal branch. Action. It rotates in the hanging limb ; and when the humerus is raised it depresses the bone. If the humerus is fixed the subscapularis supports the shoulder joint with the other scapular muscles. Dissection. The subscapular muscle is to be separated from the scapula, but a thin layer of fibres, in which the vessels lie, is to be left on the bone ; as it is raised its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder joint, and the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anasto- mosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres. The infrascapular artery ramifies on the ventral surface of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 248) : entering beneath the subscapularis muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra and posterior scapular branches. Position. The examination of tlie muscles on the opposite surface of the scapula may be next undertaken. For tliis purpose the scapula is to be turned over ; and a block, which is deep enough to make the shoulder prominent, is to be placed between that bone and the arm. Dissectioti. The skin is to be removed fi-om the prominence of the shoulder, by beginning at the anterior border of the deltoid muscle. After its removal some small cutaneous nen'-es are to be found in the fat:—the upper of these extend over the acromion ; and another comes to the surface about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid nuiscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, super-acromial, descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 57). A cutaneous hranch of the circumflex nerve (fig. 74, ") turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and fascia are now to be taken from the fleshy deltoid, its fibres being made tense at the same time. Beginning- at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards along the fibres, in order that its coarse muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. As the