DISSECTION OF THE AEM. 272 Mnsculo- I'utaneous nerve in the ana. Its nuisciilar brandies. Dissection. Define bracliialis, bencatii tiie joins witli the intcrcosto-humeral nerve. Aftenvards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as tlic middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 266). The musmlo-cntaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii), named from supplying muscles and integuments, ends on the surface of the fore- arm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of tlie pectoralis minor (fig. 70) and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis : it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The neixe furnishes branches to tlie muscles in front of the humerus, viz., to the coraco-brachialis as it passes through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle Avill be brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be v/ell defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the bracliialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated the musculo-spiral nerve with a small arteiy comes into sight. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 78, ^) covers the elbow-joint, and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, viz. fi-om all the inner, but fi-om only the upper part of the outer (about one inch and a half). The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the fi'ont of the coronoid process of the ulna (p. 289). This muscle is concealed by the biceps. On it lies the brachial artery, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-spiral nei-ves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two parts the attachment of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy pieces of the flexor pro- fundus digitonnn. The iniicr border reaches the intermuscular septum in all its length; but the outer is separated from the external intermuscular septum below by two muscles of the fore- arm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus. Action. The brachialis brings forwards the ulna towards tlie humerus, and bends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in chmbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the elbow-joint by raising the humerus. Bradiialis anticus. OriKin. Insertion. Connection of surfaces, of borders. Use, fore- arm free, and fixed.