432 DISSECTION OF THE PERIMUM. Accessorj' imdic urterj-, source. Pudic veins. Piidic nerve 5s with the artery «nd ends like it on penis. Muscular •oflsets. Perin;pal 'l)ranch. Merve of tlie bulb. .Superficial parts cut in lithotomy, cutting,' <lown to airetlira ju reaching the staff and in run- ning knife along staff. Accessoi-y pudic artenj. In some cases the j^udic arter^^'s not large enough to supply the branches above described to tlie penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will be then contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessor}^ artery is the internal iliac. The ^jwrfic reins, two in number, have the same connections as the arteiy; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The ruDic nerve has been examined in the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perintcum it is much diminished in size, in consequence of the emission of the large perinatal branch, and courses with the ai'tery between the laj'-ers of the triangular ligament ; near the pubes it pierces the ligament (fig. 131, and is continued to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery ; its termination is described at page 441. The deep muscles and the corpus spongiosum are supplied by the fol- lowing branch. Perincnal branch (p. 422). Arising in the ischio-rectal fossa it supplies superficial nerves, and ends near the base of the triangular ligament in deep muscular offsets : some of these (fig. 131, -) pass beneath the transversahs, and piercing the triangular ligament, supply the muscles within it. A long slender branch, iierve of tlie hulb, is distributed like the artery to the spongy structure investing the urethra : its filaments reach some way on the surface before disappearing in the corpus spongiosum urethrii?. Pca-ts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz. cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting that tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incisions the knife is entered in the middle hue of the perinajum, half an inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as mid- way between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and superficial fascia, and the inferior hajmorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa, will be cut in this first stage of the operation ; and the transverse perhuxjal muscle and artery, and, possibly, the superficial perinaaal vessels and ner^'-es, may be divided, if the first incision is begun farther forwards. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the Icnife is introduced into the anterior part of the wound, the lower part of the triangular ligament, the deep transverse urethral muscle, and the fore pait of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the staff, the membranous part of the m-ethra Avill be cut, with the nmscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder it incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards in the direction of a line from