DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 540 and the receiitacu- luiu, aud splanchnic nerves. Lumbar lymphatics end in one duct: lymphatics enter iilands. Be^nning of the tlio- racic duct. at first lumbar vertebra. Large azy- gos vein; entrance into thorax. Small azj'- gos vein. beginning of the duet (eliyli receptaculum), and of the vena azygos, may be well seen ; and the two may be followed upwards into the thoriix. On the left side the student may trace the splanehnic nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the diaphragm ; and may show the trunk of the symi)athetic nerve entering the abdomen beneatli the areh over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic (jlands. A chain of glands is placed along the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebral ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, until at the upper part of the lumbar vertebne three or four trunks unite in the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of the viscera and wall of the cabdomeii are received. Eecejjtacuhtm chijli (Pecquet). The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen by the union of three or four large lymphatic vessels. Its commencement is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax b}- passing through tlie diaphragm with the aorta. Beyinniwj of the asi/yos veins. The right vein (vena azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is united with a lumbar vein. It enters the thorax with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The left or small azygos veui begins on the left side of the spine, joining one of the lumbar veins, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 3G3. Section VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NEKYES. The spinal nerves of the loins are imited in a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous parts of the trunk. Dlss«!tion Dissection. The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be learnt bar plexus' ^n the left side, although the woodcut shows them on the right on left side, side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should cut through the external iliac vessels, and afterwards scrape away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve, ^tii^sympa- The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the psoas, and offsets of it join the spinal nen^es; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries.