DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGIOX. 92 then iu tl)e jaw. briincli to uiylo- hyoideus. Dental briinehes to gi'iiidiiig and cutting tectli. 15niiieli to lowev lip. on the internal pterygoid, and on the internal lateral ligament near the dental foramen. After the nerve enters the bone, it is con- tinned forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in tlie side of the jaw, and ends at tliat spot by dividing hito an incisor and a labial branch. Only one muscular offset (mylo-hyoid) is supplied by the ind supplies dental nen'e before it enters the bone. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid branch arises from the trunk of the nerve near the dental foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoideus, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. h. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nei-ve and artery may be laid open so as to expose these branches. c. The incisor branch contimies the tnnik of the nerve onwards to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath which it lies. (/, The labial branch (mental V) (Hg. 9, issues on the faco beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. It gives branches to the muscles below the aperture of the mouth, and communicates Avith tlie facial nerve ; but the greater jjart of the l)ranch is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lijD. The inferior dented artery^ after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nen'e. Thus it supplies ofl'- sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. The incisor branch is continued to the symj^hysis of the jaw. where it ends in tlie bone : it lies beneath the canine and incisor teeth, to which it fiu-nishes twigs. The labicd branch, issuing by the labial foramen, ramifies in thv structures covering the lower jaw, and communicates Avith the bi-anches of the facial artery. The GUSTATORY or LINGUAL NERVE (^) is the remaining trunk oi' the inferior maxillary, and is concealed at first, like the others, by the external pterygoid nuisclc. It is then inclined inwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid muscle, and under cover oi' the side of the jaw to the tongue. Tlie remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillarv region. In this course under the jaw the nerve does not distribute any branch to the parts around, but the following communicating brancli is received by it. The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is dis- tributed to the tongue. Escaping from the tympanum by the (Ha serian fissure, this small branch (^) is applied to the gustatory ncrv< at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibrils communi cate with the gustatoiy, l)ut tlie greater part of the chorda tympai is conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of the nerve, and its course across the tympanum t its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described i Section 14. Dental artery lias an incisor and labial brancli. Gustatory nerve courses to the tongue ; no brancli liere. Cliorda tyn»i)aui .joins giistatorj-, ends in tongue. U