DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEN. 488 coronaiy from the stomacli': 8]>leiiic from tlie spleen. stomach, pancreas, arid intes- tine. Vena portie its origin, length, and termi- njition. Accessor and tenninal branches. Vena portte wants valves; resembles an arterj-. Hepatic duct. Common hepatic <luct. Common bile duct; length and course. Termina- tion : joined by pancreatic. and pancreas, pour tlicir blood into the vena port.-v. The two mesenteric veins and their branches liave been referred to (p. 478); and the two following, with the trunk of the portal vein, remain to be noticed. The mperior coronary rein (fig. 144,/) lies alo)ig the upper border of the stomach. It begins in the cesophagus and the left part of the stomach, and joins the vena porta} at the pylorus. The splenic vein (fig. 144) is large in size, and is formed by the union of branches from the spleen. It takes much the same course as, but below the artery, and runs beneath the pancreas to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (6) to form the vena portio. Between its origin and termination it receives branches coitc- sponding with the following arteries:—vasa brevia (//), left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric vein (d) opens into it about its middle. The vena 2>ortai (fig. 144, «) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas, and two inches from the right end. The vessel is about four inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, behind the bile duct and the hepatic arterj^, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary vein (/), and by the cystic vein near the liver. The right branch enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch is distributed to the left part of the liver, and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe. This vein commences by roots in the viscera above mentioned, like any other vein, but it is deficient hi valves; and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an avtery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic vehis on some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Bile Ducts. Two hejHific (Juctn issue at the transverse fissure of the liver (fig. 15G), one from each lobe, and unite to foi-m the following:— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives at its termination the duct of the gall bladder, the union of the two giving origin to the common bile duct. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus) is about three inches long. It descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse portion of the duodenum; then passing between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it operis into this portion of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Whilst in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately.