CONNECTIONS OF BLADDER. 553 distended it becomes of a conical shape, with the Lirger part towards and projects the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal Avall. In distension during Siu life it is slightly curved over the anterior part of the pelvis, as it projects above the bone ; and if a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch anteriorly the abdominal wall somewhere (according to the distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes, and posteriorly the end of the sacrum or the coccyx. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early Position in life as in the adult. For in the child this viscus rises above the idtii ase."*^* brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is con- tained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects inferiorly. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (pp. 549 and 551). The connections of the bladder moderately full are the follow- ing :— The summit or apex is rounded, and from its anterior part three Apex has ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus; the central one '^^^'^'"^'^' • of these is the remains of the urachus ; and the two lateral are formed by the obliterated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is distended the apex is above, but othenvise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The base (fumlus') is large, and rests on the middle piece of the Base *^ rectum: in the state of emptiness of the bladder the base is scarcely prominent, but in distension of the viscus, it extends lower, and alters in becomes widened. Connected Avith the fundus are the vesiculte ''''^J''^.' seminales and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular TOutaet \\itl» space, from which the peritoneum is partly absent. Surfaces of the body. The front of the body is in contact with Surfaces; the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, and with the abdominal ' wall if it is distended, and is altogether free from peritoneum ; whilst the posterior surface is entirely covered by the serous mem- and pos- brane, and is touched often by the small intestine. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the Lateral obliterated hypogastric vessel ; and running down behind this is the vas deferens, which passes internal to the ureter. Near the under part the ureter enters the bladder. All the side of the bladder behind the liypogastiic vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The nech (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder that Netk. joins the urethra: in the state of contraction it is the lowest part of the viscus, but in distension it is above the level of the fmidus. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. The ureter (fig. 172, /*) crosses the common or the external iliac Ureter iu artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypo- i'*'^^^^' gastric vessel ; it enters the bladder near the lower part, and some- enters what on the side, at the distance of one inch and a half or two ^'' ^ inches from the prostate gland. The prostate gland (fig. 172, V) surrounds the neck of the Position of