264 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Trace cuta- neous nerves of outer side and innef side of the limb. Superficial fat. Tlie cuta- neous veins are median vein: divides into two branches. Position and connections of median cephalic, and of to this is a small vein (radial) ; and internal to it are tlie anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the foreai-m. At the elbow these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cephaUc) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves may be next traced out. Where they per- forate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat; and this layer must be scraped through to find them. On the outer side of the arm, about its middle, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral are to be sought. In the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm; and rather external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset fi-om it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third, seek the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it encloses the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and the connections of the super- ficial veins in fi-ont of the elbow are to be attentively noted by the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised in one of them. The median vein of the forearm (fig. 76, -) divides into two branches, internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an olfset from a deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins (■') to form the basiHc vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The connections of the two veins into which the median bifur- cates, are described below :— The median ceplialic vein (fig. 76) is directed obliquely, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the forearm. Beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous neiwe ; and over it some small offsets fi-om that nerve are directed. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is generally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet, it does not generally yield much blood, in consequence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The median basilic vein (fig. 76, l) is more horizontal in direction