727 CHOROIDAL COAT WITH ITS STRUCTURE. The outer sm-face (fig, 229) is flocculent. and is covered by the remnants of a thin membranous layer (menibrana fusca, supra-cho- roidea) between it and the sclerotic coat: on it may be seen small veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary arteries and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, and touches the thin dark pigmentary layer of the retina (fig. 225). The ciliary processes (fig. 227, h) are solid projections on the inner surface of the choroidal coat, and are arranged in a circle. About 85 in number, they lie side by side, and consist of larger and smaller eminences ; at their inner extremity they are united by transverse ridges. About Y^oth of an inch in length, they increase in depth internally, and projecting around the lens, bound circumferentially l)y their free Outer sur- face rough; inner smooth. Ciliary jjrO" cesses, position, two kinds ; small and large. Ci>nnecti(iu» with parts around. Fig. 227.* Fig. 228. t ends the space (fig. 225, i) (posterior chamber) behind the iris. In front they correspond with the back of the iris towards their inner end, but are separated from it by pigment ; and behind they are closely connected with the membrane (t) (suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous body, and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that membrane. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed structure of principally of bloodvessels. Ramified pigment cells make up most of the rest of the coat. The stroma or web of the choroid is fonned by the outrunners of its stroma, special pigment cells (fig. 228, *-') which unite together, and con- struct, with fine areolar tissue, a fibrous network. Its meshes ai-e finer towards the inner than the outer surface of the choroid. On * Inner view of the front of the choroid coat with its ciliary processes, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. h. Ciliary pro- cesses, c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, c. I'undles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil. t Pigment cells of the ej'cball (Kolliker).—a. Ramified pigment cells of the choroid coat. b. Front view of the hexagonal cells of the pigmentary membrane.