482 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. CONNECTIONS OF AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Parte around aorta and cava. Pisseotion of aorta, and vena cava. Aorta lies on middle of sjiine. Parts around. Vena cava; extent; connec- tions ; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it; vein and nerves. Before tlie viscera are removed fiom the body, the connections of tlie abdomhud aorta and vena cava mdcy be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injurijig the gastro-epiploic artery along the great curve ; and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial tnuik (croliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed as far as the posterior border of the liver, where it disappears. The connections of its upper part can be better observed after the dis- section of the vessels of the liver. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the dia- phragjn, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At the beginning the vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but it gradually inclines to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta lies behind all the viscera ; but it is crossed more immediatel)' by the pancreas and duodenum, which it touches without the intervention of peritoneum. Its connections are the following: at first it is covered by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas and the splenic vein ; still lower (beyond the superior mesenteric artery) b}' the left renal vein and the diiodenum ; and thence to its termination b}^ the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lunibar vertebr;e, with the pillars of the dia- phragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. Its relation to other deep parts is mentioned in p. 533. The vena cara inferior commences on the right side of the fifth Inmbar vertebra by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is inclined away from the artery, and ascending on the right of the crus of the diaphragm, is imbedded in the posterior part of the liver for an inch or more. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an apertme in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its connections with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the vena porta-. Oftsets of the solar plexus of nerves descend on it, as on the aorta.