ANATOMY OF POPLITEAL SPACE. Gol or two twigs in the middle line of the Hmb from the small sciatic cutaneous nerve and artery beneath the fascia ; and some olfsets of the internal cutaneous nei-ve towards the inner part. After the sub- cutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Fascia lata. Where this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fascia of strengthened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side ; over tile and it is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the Icnee, but usually at a spot lower down. Dissection (fig. 200). The fascia over the ham is now to be Remove removed without injuring the small sciatic nen^e and artery, and the short saphenous vein, which are close beneath it. A large ami take the quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without ham|°"^ ^^^^ injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large Seek the internal popliteal nerve in the middle line ; and nearer the outer th^siiace. side, on the external popliteal. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve from the external popliteal, which sometimes arises from the great sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being Clean the more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (supeiior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur ; and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the leg. On the upper part of the find obtu- arteiy, the branch of nerve fi-om the obturator to the knee joint is audyands' to be found : and on the sides of the arteiy are three or four lym- phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in their natural position on the inner side. The POPLITEAL SPACE, Or the ham (fig. 200), is the hollow behind The ham; the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the form situation of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and <^xt«"t- downwards along one sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condi- tion of the parts the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited, apparently, almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the Boundaries; limb ; and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the tliigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer outer side, is the biceps muscle (•"') as far as the joint: and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimembra- and inner, nosus C) and semitendinosus C^) muscles, with the gracilis and