DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 530 fibres form stnit.u One septal Fig. 181. fi-om half a line to a line in thickness. Along the middle of the that sends in penis a septal process is sent inwards from it; and numerous other processes: g^^^j. tlireads,—the trabecular of the spongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 180, 5) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 180, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition; and' the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are in- separably united by communicating bundles. The sejJtal process (fig. 181) is placed vertically along the body of the penis, and is tliicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two parts; but as it reaches fonvards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertnres, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum pecfiniforme is derived. Through the intervals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa communicate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular sti'ucture is a net- work of fine threads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference ; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained ca^dty, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabecula3 contain elastic fibres, and unstriated muscular fibres (Miiller). The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Bloodvessels. The bloodvessels of the penis are large in size, and sei-ve to nourish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. Source of The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the pudic: the arteries; chief branch (art. corp. caveniosi) enters at the crus, and runs- forwards throTigli the middle of the cavernous structure, distributing offsets; and the rest pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. termination In the interior they divide into branches, Avhich ramify in the vei'ii'rai.'d trabecula) (fig. 182, a), becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute branches, which open into the veins in the intertrabecular ■which is im- perfect ; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. In the cords some mus- cular fibres. Vessels. * PectinifoiTn septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a coiub, -whicli are formed by the circular fibres.