289 ANTERIOll INTEROSSEOUS VESSELS. the pronator qiiadratiis. At that spot tlie artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the carpus, where it ends by anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous muscles. JTuseniar a. One long branch (/), median, accompanies the median nerve, ^jg^j^^'^ •supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or extends teneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. h. About the middle of the forearm two nutrient vessels of the nutnent to Tadius and ulna arise fi-om tlie artery. ^""^""^ c. Where it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane ^'^^^ it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is •contiruied beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median (fig. Anterior «l,2),and accompanies the artery of the same name to the pronator nerve ends <[uadratus muscle, the under surface of which it enters. Some pronator, lateral brandies are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. Dissection. The attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus to Dissection, the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and examined. Tlie insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broad insertion of ... brachialis thick tendon, about an inch in length, Avhich is fixed into the coro- anticus. noid process of the ulna, except at the inner edge ; and into the ■contiguous rough part of the bone. Insertion of the biceps. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into insertion of the inner part of the tubercle of the radius, and slightly into the ^"^®i^^- bone behind it. A bursa intervenes between it and the fore part of the tubercle. At its attachment the anterior surface becomes ex- ternal ; and the opposite. The supinator brevis muscle partly sur- rounds the insertion. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection (fig. 83). The digits being separated and fixed finnly Dissection, with tacks, the skin is to be reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre seek the from the wrist to the fingers ; and tlie other is to be made fi'om side a2.i^4'sr''* to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin and muscle, of the hand ; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifications of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be traced. The student should remove the fat fi'om the palmaris muscle, and Define tiie from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand ; and he should take care not to destroy a transverse fibrous band (transverse ligament) which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning u