654 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Branches to the joint {ire five. Two .siii>e- rior, extenial; intenial. Two infe- rior ; •external, internal; and one •central aitery. ropliteal vein. Positiou to the artery. Branches. Popliteal nerves arc two, inner and onter. The internal nerve iu the space. c. Tlie superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles of the femur; tliey are directed ahnost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the front of the joint. The external one (Z) perforates the intermuscular septum, and divides in the substance of the vastus internus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda) : others descend to the joint; and one offset forms an arch across the fore part of the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery (Z), oftentimes very small, winds beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus in- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee joint, and communicates with the anastomotic artery. d. The inferior articular branches (fig. 20G) lie beneath the gastroc- nemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb; for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch (c) supplies the outer side of the knee joint, anastomosing with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery: it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from the lower internal branch. The internal artery (h) ascends at the anterior border of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and after taking its share in the free anas- tomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the articulation and the head of the tibia. e. The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and the synovial membrane of the interior. The PorLiTEAL vein (fig. 201, h) originates in the union of the vena; comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is super- ficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side, and close to the arteiy. It is joined by branches corresponding with those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein (fig. 201). The POPLITEAL NERVES (fig. 200) are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh; they are named internal and external from their relative position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneous and articular offsets, but only the inner one supphes branches to muscles. The INTERNAL roPLiTEAL NERVE is larger than the external, and occupies the middle of the ham : its connections are similar to' those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. Like the vessel it extends through