166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. cricoid and joined in the middle line in front by ligament; and thyroid car- ^ j^jj^^ ^yj^h the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. InTiterior The cHco-thyrokl ligament or membrane (fig. 44, ligament. on the side, by IS 44.* se and a lateral joint, use. closes the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and aryta?noid cartilages, and the rio-ht half is now ^dsible. It is yellow in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At the centre it is thick and strong, but thinner on each side as it is continued backwards. By the lower border it is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid as far back on each side as the joint with the arytenoid cartilage. Its upper border, free and rounded, is covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lower vocal cord. In front it is united to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind to the l)ase of the arj'tasnoid. The hgament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle, and some small apertures exist in it for the passage of fine arteries into the larynx. The strong fore part of the ligament serves the puri)ose of uniting the two large laryngeal cartilages ; and the lateral jiiece, closing the larynx, ends above in the vocal cord. A capsular ligament surrounds the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thy- roid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. This joint admits forward and back- ward movements of the thyroid carti- lage, by which the condition of the vocal cords is altered. If that cartilage is moved forwards the cords are stretched, and if back- wards the cords are relaxed. Articulation of the a-icoid and arytcenoid cartilages. The articular surfaces of the cartilages are retained by a loose capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its arti- aM synovial (>uiar surface ; and one part—posterior ligament, is strongest on the inner and posterior aspects. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. The arytfenoid cartilage glides freely forwards and backwards, inwards and outwards ; but if its horizontal movements are con- trolled by muscular action, it can be rotated around a vertical axis, the anterior spur being moved inwards and outwards. Obviously the state of the vocal cords will be changed by the movements of Between cricoid and arytaenoid is a capsule Use. * View of the vocal cords and crico-tLyi-oid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Post, crico-arytsen. muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Aryttenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Crico-thyroid membrane.