669 STRUCTURE OF PROSTATE, uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender lilanients without ganglia or communications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches "o ganglia, from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- except on form and ganglionic. vessels., The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form one chain in fi-ont of C'"^>'i of pel- the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac arter}': their efferent g^''^^'^^' ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lym- lymiihatics phatics of the penis, those of the genital org"ans in the female, and tiiciu'"" the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the parts at its base, viz., the vesiculai seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for exami- nation. Dissection. To study the form and structure of the viscera, it Take out tlie will be necessary to remove them from the pelvis. Fortius purpose the student should carry the scalpel ai-ound the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundaiy, so as to detach the crus of the penis fi-om Separate the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When ''°'^*'^'^» the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean the is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesicula; seminales are to be then cleaned; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the and penis, urethra it is to be taken away. . THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate gland (fig. 17G). This is a firm muscular body, with Pmstate glands in it secreting a special fluid, which surrounds the neck of f^l.„"an(i the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections with situation, parts around have been enumerated (p. 553). The prostate is conical in form like a chestnut, with the base or Form, larger end directed backwards. Its dimensions in different direc- dimensions, tions are the following :—Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards laterally, fi-om the apex to the base, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but ui this and weight, respect it varies greatly.