UPrER MAXILLARY NERVE. lOI rotundum. The course of the nen^e is ahnost straiglit to the face, passes to across the sphcno-maxinary fossa, and along the orbital plate of the superior maxilla and the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the tinougi. ■canal by the infraorbital foramen, it is concealed by the elevator Smi!'''"''' •of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip :— a. The orbital branch ("') arises in tlie spheno-maxillary fossa, bJ-inchiis and entering the orbit, di%ddes into malar ami temporal branches ovm- (p. 50). b. The spheno-palatine brandies O descend from the nerve in ^^'^^'"^ ""■'^f. the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are coimected• Avith Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section 14). c. A j)osterior dental branch (') leaves the nerve near the upper t^>e teeth jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supphes branches to natoiT'''' Fig. 2L* the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; it joins the anterior dental branch near the teeth. Before entering the canal it furnishes one or more offsets to the gums and the buc- cinator muscle. d. The anterior dental branch C") quits the nerve trunk m the to anterior floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special canal in fi-ont of the antrum : it is distributed by two branches. One (inner) gives nerves to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose ; the other (outer) ends by su])plying the bicuspid teeth. e. Before the trunk ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Bianoh of ■small ^jaZ^;e5m/ offset to the lower ej^elid ; this is directed upwards to the lid in a groove in tlie margiji of the orbit. f. Infraorbital or facial branches (')• These are larger than infraorbital * Diagram of the upper maxillary nerve and its branches. 2. Trunk of the nerve leaving the Gasserian ganglion. 3. Spheno-pahxtine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5. Posterior dental nerves. 6. Anterior dental. 7. Facial branches.