CHAPTER lY. Dcfiniti®n. Contents of cavity. Dissection to open tliorax. SteTnnni to he kept. Foim in sceneral. On a cross seetion. Parts on sides, in front, DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. —•— Section I. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. The cavity of the thorax is the space included by the spinaK column, the sternum and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals- of the bony framework. In it the organs of respiration, and the heart with its great A'essels are lodged : and through it the gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. When the soft parts covering in front the bony parietes of the thorax have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing a portion of the anterior bomi- davy. To make a sufficient opening in the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first two ribs, and again between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (pleura) from the inner surface of the chest, the student is to cut through the true ribs, except the first and seventh,* as far back as he can conveniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be removed l)y dividing the internal mammary vessels, the triangularis sterni, and the intercostal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The bag of the pleura, and the ca-s-ity with its contents will be now ready for examination. The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be l equired here- after for the dissection of the ligaments. Form. The included cavity is irregularly conical, with the apex above and the base down ; and it appeare, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly fiHed by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a horizontal section its shape would appear- somewhat cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spinal column, and is projected backAvards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs with their intercostal muscles ;, whilst in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. * The student must be mindful to leave those ribs uncut: the division of them will not be advantageous to him, and will injure the dissection of the neck and abdomen.