THORACIC DUCT AND LYMPHATICS. The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which external form an entire covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres J^l'lf^'tn'ii- begiu opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 132) ; and at intervals vary- ing from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are connected with tendinous points fJ^ to of an inch long) like the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above with the and inteinaB fibres of the pharynx; they are more oblique at the middle than at litres" either end of the (esophagus. The fibrous layer is situate between the nmscular and mucous piim.us coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. ^'''y^''- The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube: it is Mucous reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- nected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. Lining tlie interior is a thick layer of scaly epithelium ; and the surface is studded with Kpitiieiium . •!] and papillii.'^ mmute papula?. ^ '■ Some compouml glamh (oesophageal) are scattered along the tube ; some at the lower part of the gullet they are most numerous, and form a si'i"ds. ring (cardiac) close to the stomach. Lymi'HA'I'ICS of the Thouax. In the thorax are lymphatic vessels Lymphatics, of the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of glands, and "horlfx. end in one or other of the two lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic, ylaiuls. Along the course of the internal mammary Sternal artery lies a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, which receive lymphatics from the front of the chest, the thymus body, the peri- cardium, and the upper surfaces of the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as intercostal, between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of intercostal glands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the division and along Broncliial the side of the trachea, tlu-ougli which the lymphatics of the lung- pass ; and beneath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, and cardiac to which the lymphatics of the heart are directed. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of msopha- (Esophageal. geal glands, wliich are joined by the lymphatics of the resopliagus, and communicate with those of the lungs. The thoracic duct (fig. 106, ') is the main chaimel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of the lower half of the body, and of ^^"'^^ the left side of the upper half of the body, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an enlargement (chyli receptacuhuTi), and ends in the left subclavian vein of the neck, men and It is about eighteen inches in length, and is contained in the thorax, ^'g'^f^ except at its origin and termination. It has the undermentioned connections:— Entering the cavity on the right of the aorta and through the Connec- tioiis 111 Liio same opening, the duct ascends on the right side of that vessel, thorax: