ENDING OF VAGUS NERVE. 491 Tlic remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already-noticed (p. 481); but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the sjilanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the Ending crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- spia\'it'imi(: lunar ganglion. nerve. The ssmall nerve comes through the same opening in the diaphragm small, as the preceding, and joins the coeliac plexus. The smallest nerve, which is often absent, throws itself into the ana renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end in the stomach:— The left nerve divides mto branches, which extend along the Ending of small curvature, and over the front of the stomach; these send ^ ^''^""^ offsets to the hepatic plexus. llic right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and right, stomach near the upper border; it communicates with its fellow, and Avith the cceliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. The viscera are now to be removed from the abdomen. Prepare for in order that the body may be turned for the dissection of the Back body i!^-*'''^ and lower limbs. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, removing are to be taken away together by cutting through the a}soi)hagus ^ ^i^'^'-'*'- near the diai^hragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and incising the vena cava between the posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time tlie left testicle, and tlie right kidney with tlie suprarenal body, should be removed for examination whilst tlie body is turned; the former can be taken out by cutting through the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing the vessels about the middle. Directions. Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- tion of the Back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual dissector, time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dissection of the Back, p. 385. The rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the following Section. Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between Definition, the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme.