DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 304 •Connections of the muscle. Use. ■on tlie fin- gers, on elbow •and wrist. Extensor of little finger. Origin. Tennina- tion. Use. Extensor •ciirpi ulna- ris. ■Origin. Insertion. •Connec- tions. Use. Anconeus. origin, insertion Joins the tricei)8. tlie expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits ; and opposite tlie first two articulations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wist and little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross pieces, L, which are strongest between the I'ing finger tendon and its collateral tendons; they prevent the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. Action. The muscle straightens the three phalanges of the fingers from root to tip, and separates the four digits from each other. It can extend the nearest joint of each finger whilst the two farthest are kept bent by the flexors ; and it can straighten the last two articulations when the nearest is bent. The digits being straightened, it will assist the other muscles in extending the wrist and the elbow. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DiGiTi, E, is the most slender muscle on the back of the forearm, and appears to be but a part of the common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the extensor com- munis, but it passes tlirough a distinct sheath of the annular liga- ment. Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, and only one unites by a cross piece with the tendon of the common exten- sor : both finally join the common expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. Action. It extends the little finger and moves back the wrist and elbow. As the inner piece of the split tendon is not united with the common extensor it can straighten the digit during flexion of the other fingers. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARis MUSCLE, F, arises from the common tendon, and the aponeurosis of the forearm ; it is also fixed by fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its tendon becomes free from fleshy fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a sepa- rate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little finger, with the posterior interosseous vessels. Action. As the name expresses, the muscle puts back the wrist and inclines the hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow joint. The ANCONEUS, G, is a small triangular muscle near the elbow. It arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and on the ulnar side of the common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third of the posterior surface of the ulna. The upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supi- nator brevis muscle, and the recurrent interosseous vessels.