MUSCLES OF MOUTH. 25 adjacent muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the niiddle line, by one slip (naso-labial) to the back of the septum ■of the nose (fig, 5, ^) ; and by a thin stratum to the outer surface of the upper jaw, opposite the canine tooth, and external to the ^lepressor of the wing of the nose. In the lower lip it is fixed on fixed to uose ■each side into the inferior jawbone, opposite the canine tooth, external to the levator labii inferioris muscle. To see these attach- ments the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane carefully raised. The inner margin of tlie muscle is fi-ee, and bounds the aperture Connec- ■of the mouth ; whilst the outer edge blends with the diftierent muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary artery, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. Action. Both parts of the muscle contracting, the lips are pressed Use of both together and projected forwards, and the aperture of the mouth is i""'*^^' dimuiished transversely by the approximation of the corners towards ■each other. The inner fibres acting alone will turn inwards the red part of inner alone, the lip, and diminish the width of the buccal opening. The outer fibres press the lips against the dental arches, the free Outer alone edges being protruded and somewhat everted. At the same time the centre part of the nose is depressed and the chin raised by means of the fleshy slips connected with those parts. The LEVATOR LABII surERiORis (fig. 6, ^) extends vertically from Elevator of the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from ^'^ the upper maxillary and malar bones aboA'e the infra-orbital fora- men, and blends interiorly with the orbicularis oris. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the common Connce- ■elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. Action. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and Use the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. G,'-) is Opposite the elevator Depressor of ■of the upper lip, and has much yelloAv fat niixe{l with its fibres. The muscle has a wide origin fi-om a depression on the fi'ont of the lower jaw, reaching backwards fi'om near the symphysis to a little beyond the hole for the labial vessels and nerve ; ascending thence it is united Avith the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border is in the joins the muscle of the opposite side above, and its outer is over- J.',','!,,*^^ ^ lapped below by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same Use. •side is depressed and everted; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwai'ds, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS (levator menti) is a small muscle ^^^^'^^^'^ on the side of the fraanum of the lower lip, which is opposite the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the hp