DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN", 438 !<uperficial foiicia is divided into two layers. _ The subcu- taneous layer con- tains fat, except in the penis and scro- tum. Deeper layer is thin and mem- branous. Special cha- racters and disposition, and ends on fascia lata. Attach- ments deter- mine course of effused urine. Fascia in the female. Cutaneous nerves are derived from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of the inter- costal, which divide into posterior and Tlie subcutaneous fat, or the superficial fascia, is a single layer over the greater part of the abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains fat, and varies therefore in appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it is sometimes divisible into strata, whilst at others it is very thin, and somewhat membranous near the thigh. It is continuous with the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen ; and when traced to the limb, it is separated fi-om Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, it is prolonged to the perineum. The deeper layer (aponeurosis of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous tlian the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external obliciue by fibrous bands, especiallj' tOAvards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : here it becomes very thin, and reaches the perinii?um, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 424). Towards the limb, it ends a little below Poupart's ligament in the fascia lata across the front of the thigh ; as it passes over the ligament it is closely joined to that band by fibrous tissue. Urine effiised in the perinteum from rupture of the lu-ethra will be directed through the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to the abdomen (p. 425). From the arrangement of the deeper layer of the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress ovei- the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the fatty layer of the groin is separable into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nkrves. The nerves in tlie teguments are derived fi-om the trunks of the lower intercostal nerves: thus the cutaneous branches, along the side of the belly, are offsets fi-om five or six of those nen^es ; and the cutaneous branches, along the front, are tlie tenninal parts of the same trunks. Tavo other cutaneous offsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-liypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line vAih. the same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they reach the surface they divide, with the exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch :— The posterior brandies are small in size, and are directed back to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle. The anterior branches are continued nearly to the edge of the