SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF URETHRA. 427 fibres are directed outwards, curving around the convexity of tlie origin at uretlu-a, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following '"'^'^'^ insertion :—The most posterior fibres are lost on the front of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, which are the longest ■and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect insertion by before the erector ; and, according to Kobelt,* they send a ten- P*^^"*^**- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, surrounding it for two inches, and join its fellow by a tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the urethra for three Surrounds inches in front of the triangular ligament.f If the muscle be cut ^^^'^ i"et)ira. through on the right side, and turned oif the urethra, the junction Avith its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the Use, urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the ■end of the process, when the passatre has to be cleared. The action voluntary . . , , ^ • Ji • • p .r andinvolun- is mvoluntary m the emission or the semen. tary. The TRANSVERSALIS PERINiEI (fig. 130, ^) is a small thin muscle, Transversa- which lies across the pei-inajum opposite the base of the triangular P'^''"^'^'- ligament. Arising from the inner surface of the pubic arch near Origin. the ischial tuberosity, it is inserted into the central point orf the ^'^"l^ *' ' , ^ central perinseum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the point, sphincter ani and the ejaculator urins^. Behind this muscle the ^iupei-ficial fascia bends down to join the triangular ligament. Sometimes tliere is a second small fleshy slip, anterior to the Accessory transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws sails, itself into the ejaculator muscle. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw Use. backwards the central point of the perinfeum, and help to fix it, pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. The three muscles above described, when separated from each A triangular other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- twien the lator urina) forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer tiuee^ :side, and the transversalis perinasi muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the superficial periucXial vessels and nerves. Should the knife tiio knife enter the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions "n'utho-'^^ in the lateral operation of lithotomy, it will divide the transverse ^omy. muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinatal vessels and nerves. Dissection (fig. 131). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the crus penis, wliich are superficial to it, are to iigaiuen"t. * Die Mannlichen unci Weiblicheii WoUust-Organe, von G. L. Kobclt, 1844. t Some of the deeper fibres which immediately surround the bulb, have heen described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated from the superficial layer by thin areolar tissue, and join the corresponding part of the other muscle by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- pressor hemispJuerium hulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist.