POrLITEAL ARTEEY AND BRANCHES. 653 the limb to the intei-val between the condyles of the femur ; and is course ami then directed along the middle of the space over the knee joint. As far- as the inner condyle the artery is overlaid by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle ; but thence onwards it is situate between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia lata and the integuments. Beneath it is the femm- with the posterior ligament of the knee jouit. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at Position of first, lies the popliteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the ""'^^^^ arterial trrmk is almost covered ; but in the inten^al between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches conceal altogether the artery. Below the knee the short saphenous vein (fig. 201, ?■), and the muscular branches of the artery, are laid over the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to and of the them in position, is placed the mternal popliteal nerve, which with its branches lies over the aiiery, like the vein, between the heads of the'gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve runs on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the arteiy the inner head of Cut the the gastrocnemius should be cut tlirougli, and raised from the sub- lastioe*^^^ ocuc- jacent parts. On removing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves n^ius. will appear. The lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein, and the first has a companion neiwe. Beymul the ham. Wliilst the artertj is beneath the gastrocnemius Artery be- (fig. 206) it sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small ^ muscle—the plantaris c, and the ending is concealed by the soleus B. It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal ners'e change Position of their position to the arteiy, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie uel^e^^*^ on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery is divided as high as the back of the knee joint; and then the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the pop- liteus muscle. Branches (fig. 201) are furnished by the artery to the surround- Branches, ing muscles, and to tlie articulation ;—those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two supczior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. n The muscular hranches are upper and lower. The upper set, Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the perfora- ting and muscular branches of the profunda. The loAver set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris. h. A mperficial or cutaneous Iranch arises near the Imee joint, and cuta- and accompanies the external saphenous ner\^e over the muscles of the leg to end in the teguments (fig. 201).