DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 388 Tliird layer of niuBcles. Dissection. Seirati are two in number. Smaller at top of thorax. Attach- ments. Larger at bottom of thorax. Attach- ments. Fig. 117. Connec- tions. * Third Layer (fig. 117). In this stratum are the following muscles :—the serratus posticus superior and inferior, with the splenius. * Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upj^er serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The splenius and the inferior serratus have been previously ex- posed by the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus. * The SERRATi muscles are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebr£E. * The serratus xwsticus superior (fig. 117, ''^) arises from the liga- mentum nucha?, and fi"om the sjiinous processes of the last cersacal, and two or three upper dorsal vertebrje. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slips into the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is covered by the rhomboideus major. * The serratus posticus inferior (fig. 116,") occu- pies the lumbar region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia lumborum, and is con- nected to the spinous pro- cesses of the last two dorsal and first three lum- bar vertebrae The fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted into the last four ribs in front of their angles, each successive piece extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spina;; and with its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. * Part of tlie third layer of the Back-muscles, a. Serratus posticus superior B. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, d. Ilio-costalis. e. Longissimus dorsi F. Spinalis dorsi.