212 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. borders. composi- tion. Dissection. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix : position and form. Upper sur- face and borders. Posterior and anterior part. Under surface marked by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altogether to the- under surface of the corpus callosum ; and the lower border is. joined in part to the fornix (r), but in front of that body it is. inserted into the under or prolonged portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum. The septum consists of two layers, which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle ; and each layer is formed of white- substance, witli an external coating of gray matter. Dissection. The space of the fifth ventricle will come into view by cutting through the part of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and by detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum, and raising it. (See fig. 63.) The ventricle of the sejitum, or the fifth ventricle, is a triangular space in the fore part of the ventricular jjartition, where the depth is greatest. Like the septum containing it, its largest part is in front. Its surface has an ejjithelial covering like that in the lateral ventricles. In the adult it is closed ; but in the fetus it opens inferiorly into the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this- body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards; and the septimi lucidum should also be removed fi-om its upper surface. The fornix, or arch (fig. G3, c), is a thin white horizontal stratum beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into- the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it is continuous with the rest of the brain by processes or crura before and behind. To the upper surface of the body, along the middle line, the septum lucidum is attached. Each boi-der is fi-ee in the corres- ponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus ; and along it lies the choroid plexus. At its posterior part it joins the corpus callosum in the middle line, whilst on each side it sends; off a small riband-like band—taenia hippocampi (d), along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior part it is arched over the foramen of Moiiro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 218). If the fornix be cut across near its fi-ont, the foramen of Monro Avill be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (fig. 64). When the posterior part is raised, it will be foimd to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interpositum. And near its base (on the under aspect) between the two offsets of the tajnia) hippocampi, is a triangular surface, which is marked by transverse lines: the part which is so defined has been called the lyra (fig. 64). The fornix may be described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and afTer form-