NERVES OF THE ARM. 271 ilestiuation is to the palm of thu hand ; and it accomjianies the brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer side of the arlery, the nerve crosses over or under it about the middle of the arm, and is placed on the inner side a little above the elbow. It does not give any branch in the arm ; but there maybe a fasciculus has not any <.'onnecting it with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections •with muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ulnar nerve (■*), derived from the inner cord of the brachial Ulnarnerve plexus, ends at the inner side of the hand. In the arm the nerve Fig. 7S.* lies at first close to the inner side of the axillary, and the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; then leaving the blood-vessel, it is directed inwards through the inner intermus- cular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps, is without There is not any branch from the nerve till it reaches the elbow fo™as^tiie joint. elbow. The inUrnal cutaneous C') is a tegumentary nerve of the forearm, Tntemal , . , . . , 11-1 ii 1 1 • • r 1 • ciitaucous to whicli it is prolonged nke tlie others. Arising irom the inner nerve be- cord of the plexus, it is at first superficial to the humeral artery as J'^l^g^'.^^*^'"^ far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 266). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integu- ments of the arm. The small internal cutaneous nerve (^) (nerve of Wrisberg) arises Nerve of with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is iwrtiy xlirected inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and * Muscles, and deep vessels and nerves of the arm. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, b. Biceps-, c. Coraco-brachialis. D. and E. Latissimus and teres, f. Long bead of tbe triceps, o. Inner bead of triceps, h. Bracbialis anticus. iVmr.'?; 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Nerve of Wrisberg. 4. Ulnar. 5. Muscular to tlic triceps; and 6, internal cutaneous from tbe musculo-spiral.