SUBLINGUAL GLAND. ^ The HYro-GLOSSAL or ninth nerve (tig. 23, ^) in the submaxillary Nintii region lies on the hyo-glossus nuiscie, being concealed by the Iweouthe mylo-hyoideus : but at the iinier border of the hyo-glossus it enters tlie fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. Branches. On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes branches it'^ iiranches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the mylo-hyoid miSes and the digastric, viz., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio- hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, sonie offsets connnuni- cate with the gustatory nerve on the hyo-glossus. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long ""'1 the filaments Avhich supply the muscular structure, and connnunicate Avith the gustatory nerve. The glosso'iiliai-yngeal cranial ner\'-e (fig. 23, "•), issuing between Giosso-pba- the two carotid arteries, courses over the stylo-pharyngeus and nexvT} the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and ends under the 113-0- -glossus in branches for the tongue. See Dissection of the Tongue. The duct of the suhma.riUan/ gland (fig. 23, Wharton's duct, Wliarton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, ■and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side of the fraiiium lingufe in opens liy Ihe centre of an eminence : its opening in the mouth will be seen uAgi^!' if a bristle be passed along it. The duct has a thin wall, and consists externally of a fibrous layer with much elastic tissue and ■a few pale muscular fibres, and internally of a mucous lining with ilattened epitlielium. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends along the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland (fig. 23, ^) is somewhat of the shape of an Suldiugual ulmond, and the longest measurement, which is about one inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath the anterior tongue, part of the tongue, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, and close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual is an aggregation of small glandular masses, StruotureL ■each being provided with a separate duct (Henle). Tlie ducts pncts open (ductus Uiviniani) are from ten to eighteen in number. Some of '"""tli. tliem open beneath the tongue along a crescent-shaped fold of -the mucous membrane, and others join the Wliartonian duct ; one •or more form a larger tube, which either joins that duct or opens near it. ir 2