312 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Abduction. Btato of bone and capsule. Adduction. Bone and capsule. Circum- duction, Rotation In, state of bone; and out, state of bone. and capsule. Dissection of the elbow joint. Bones form- ing the elbow joint. The liga- ments are External lateral. Internal lateral. During abduction the head of the humerus, descends to the lower and larger part of the glenoid fossa, and projects beyond it against the capsule ; whilst the great tuberosity rubs against the arch of the acromion. In this condition a little more movement down of the head either by muscles depressing it, or by force elevating the farther end of the bone, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction the head of the bone rises into the socket, the limb meets the trunk, and the tense capsule is set at rest. After the reduction of a dislocation the limb is fixed to the side in this position of security against further displacement. In circumduction the humerus passes in succession through the four different states before mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, whose apex is at the shoulder and base at the digits. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory movement, viz. in and out; and in each the motion of the head and shaft of the bone has to be considered. In rotation in, the great tuberosity is turned forwards, and the head rolls from before back across the glenoid fossa so as to project behind. The shaft is moved forwards round a line lying on its inner side, which reaches from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. In rotation out, the osseous movements are reversed : thus the tuberositj'- turns back, the head rolls forward so as to project in front, and the shaft is carried back around the line before said. The upper thickened part of the capsule will be tightened in rotation, but the muscles are the chief agents in checking the movements. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles con- nected with the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments—anterior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow Joint (fig. 90). In this articulation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge-like arrangement; and the upper end of the radius assists to form part of the joint. Wliere the bones touch the sur- faces are covered with cartilage, and their articular ends are kept in place by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is attached by one end to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backw^ards to the external margin of the ulna. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape. It is pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of the