VEINS OF THE BRAIN. 183 between the halves of the large bram ; and as it is about to enter, it is united to its fellow by a short thick branch,—the anterior commumcattng (■*). Then passnig nito the fissure, it bends round eating the anterior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on the ' upper aspect in the natural position of the brain, and is continued backwards distributing offsets nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. It gives off numerous hranches^ and some of them supply the base its offsets of the cerebrum, thus :— Near the connnencement it furnishes small branches to the part to base of of the brain (anterior perforated spot) contiguous to the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius : and it distributes some branches to the imder part of the frontal lobe. h. The middle cerebral artery ("•) is the largest offset of the carotid. Middle and ramifies over the outer side of the hemisphere. Entering the artery^^ fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides into many large branches, which issue at the outer end of that groove and, spreading over the external surface of the hemisphere, inosculate with the other two ends iu cerebral arteries at the fi-ont, the back, and the upper part of the ^'lemLp^iere^ brain. Only a few fine offsets require special notice : A set of small branches arise at the inner end of the fissure of Offsets. Sylvius, and enter the cerebral substance tlu'ough the substantia perforata antica. c. The posterior communicating artery (®) is a small twig, which Posterior is directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third ca«n^^^^^" nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons. d. The choroid artery (anterior) (^) is small in size, and arises Choroid either from the trunk of the carotid, or fi-om the middle cerebral "'^^'^" artery : it passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemisphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis. The arteries at the under part of the brain are Circle of • • Willis * imited freely both on their own side and across the middle line in an arterial anastomosis,—the circle of Willis. On each side this vessels that circle is formed by the trunk of the internal carotid giving for- ^ ^^^^ wards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communi- cating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebrals. In the area of the circle he several parts corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. The complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the circle of Wilhs allows at all times a free circulation of blood through between the brain, even though a large vessel on one side of the neck should them, be obstructed. The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura mater, instead Veins of the Drain. of uniting into trunks as companions to the arteries. Two sets of veins belong to the cerebrum^ viz. superficial or ex- Two^s^ete^of temal, and deep or internal. '