DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 650 Saoro-.sciatic liijameiits. Attaoli- iiients of the lame one. Fonn; gives a i>ro- lougation. Small ligniiicnt attach- ments. Thej- give rise to two uotches: small, with contents: large, and parts ])ass- ing through it liip joint in stooping, instead of extending it and raising the trunk like the other external rotator muscles. The SACRO-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the innominate bone to the sacram and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or xiosterior ligament (fig. 100, ^) is attached internally to the posterior part of the hip bone, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity, sending up- Avards a prolongation along the pubic arch. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral ners'es ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin fi'om it. Branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries per- forate it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united with the large band, but at the opposite end it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is con- cealed ; and it rests on the coccygeus muscle. By their attachments these ligaments convert the large sacro- sciatic notch of the dried peh-is into tAVO apertures or foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the inno- minate bone, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its ner\-e and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nei"ve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis nmscle, with the gluteal vessels and the sui^erior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus below it. Section III. Directiens. Tosition. Take the skin from over the liani. Seek the THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. The ham or the popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less distm-bed state than if it Avas dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been leanit the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection (fig. 200). To remove the skin fi'om the popliteal region let an incision be made behind the knee for the distance of six inches above, and four inches below the joint. At each ex- tremity of the longitudinal cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves and vessels, viz., one