734 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and endiiiK. •Characters. Granular layer. Inner set of cells; ■outer set. Molecular •material. Fihrps of Jliiller. Extent. Connec- tions. Inner •€ndinr'. Structure of .yellow spot. <;o]oiu". Vessels. swellings (m) amongst the ends of the rods, and at a deeper level. By their inner ends they are united with a pear-shaped cell (fig. 232) in the outer part o£ the granular layer, and are said to reach as far as the molecular material (</) hetween the two sets of granules. In the fi-esh state both are soft, clear, and homogeneous, vnth a glistening appearance, but these characters are soon destroyed by water and other fluids : their structure is very uncertain. The granular layer (-) consists of innumerable rounded and ovalish bodies with imclei, Avhich are collected into two sets (c and e), with an intervening flue molecular material (d). In the inner set (e) there are several kinds of cells, whose nature is unknown : two sets, which are oval and nucleated, are said to have this arrangement:—One is connected with the fibres of Miiller; and the other has a fibre at each end, like a bipolar ganglion-cell, which is contmued outwards and inwards into the molecular material (d and/). In the outer set (c) two kinds of nucleated cells are to be recog- nized, which are connected with the fibres from the rods and cones in Jacob's layer. The cells of the rod-fibres, the most numerous, are elliptical, and marked b}- cross strife (Henle) (fig. 232). The cells of the cone-fibres are pyriform in shape, with the base turned to the cone, but are free from cross stripes. The hitervening molecular portion (d) has a striated appearance, from the passage of the fibres of Miiller through it. The fibres of Miiller (fig. 232) are extremely fine threads, which pierce the substance of the. retina, supi^orting and uniting the several layers, as with a framework of areolar tissue: they reach from Jacob's layer to the inner surface. As they pass through the granular layer they are connected Avith very fine threads amongst both set of gi-anules (c and e) ; and in the inner set (?) each possesses an oval nucleated cell. At the inner surface of the retina they are dilated and joined to each other, so as to construct a bounding stratum (i) {inemhrana Umitans interna) ; and at the outer part they are united into another boundaiy line at the bases of the cones (inemhrana Umitans externa). Structure of the yellow spot. The strata of the retina undergo modifications in the yellow spot, the chief of which are the follow- ing :—externally, the rods of Jacob's layer Q) are absent, and the cones become less bulged and longer towards the centre. Inter- nally, the nen^e cells {g) of the layer (•'') are six to eight deep, but the nerve fibres (Ji) gradually cease at the edge of the central fovea. The intermediate strata thin gradually towards the fovea centralis, where they are so blended as to render difficult their identification. The yellow colour is due to pigment diffused through the sub- stance, except through Jacob's membrane and the outer set of cells (c) of the granular layer. Water removes it easily. Capillary vessels occupy the yellow spot, whilst the larger branches pass aromxl on each side.