DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 844 position and fonu. Is gnanled l)y three sigmoid valves. Sinus of Valsalva. Use. Position of apertures. of arteries and auricles; and from before back. Stnieture of the heart. Directions. Fibrous bands fomi rings around auri- culo-ventri- cular and arterial openings. To the last the sigmoid Valves, and middle coat of the artery are fixed smaller than that of the pulmonar)' arteiy, and measures about three quarters of an inch in diameter. It is situate opposite the inner end of the third left intercostal space. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves, which aro larger and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. the corjius Arantii,is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pul- monary artery, though in u greater degree, and presents a little hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed behind two of tlie valves. Like the valves in the pulmonaiy artery these meet in the middle line to stop the blood passing back into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonaiy) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally foiTned from one tube, they are close together, but the pidmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of communication with each auricle is nearer the circumference of the heart, and is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The position of the openings to one another from before backwards has been before referred to;—viz., the right is partly before the left auriculo-ventricular; and the opening of the pulmonaiy artery is anterior to that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. Structure. The heart is composed of strata of muscular fibres, and of certain fibrous rings with a fibro-cartilage. Tlie structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue des- troyed by boiling, so as to allow of the fibres being separated. The description of the stmcture of the heart may be omitted by the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous stmcture forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with those oiienings. Tlie auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral I valves. They are distinct from the bands encircling the mouths of the arteries, except at the front of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and arterial circles blend. An arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and pulmonarj'), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment to some muscular fibres' It is a circular band, Avith three notches in the margin towards the artery ; these are filled by corresponding projections of the arter}-, and give attachment internally to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. Tlie artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in the manner :—Its middle coat presents three projections, following