EXTENSORS OF DIGITS. 303 the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the meta- insertion, carpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long extensor straightens first the wrist, and bends Use, next the elbow joint. ^''^'"^ ^''^ If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus like and fixed, the long supinator. The EXTENSOR CARri RADIALIS BREVIOR, C, is attached to the outer Extensor condyle of the humenis by a tendon common to it and the three '""^'^ iJiens. following muscles, viz. common extensor of the fingers, extensor Origin, of the little finger and ulnar extensor of tlie wrist : it takes origin also from the capsular ligament of the elbow joint. The tendon insertion, of the muscle is closely connected with the preceding, and after passing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, this Parts extensor rests on the radius and some of the muscles attached to '"^^"^"^"^ it, that is to say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres. Along the ulnar side is the common extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb come between it and tlie digital ex- tensoi-. Both radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at the insertion. Action. Tliis muscle resembles its fellow in extending the wrist, u.seon but differs from it in extending the elbow. ^^^^^ Acting with the long extensor of the wrist it will move the lower and radius, end of the radius in supination. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM, D, is single at its origin, but Common is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises firom the common muscie. tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and the muscles around. Origin, aud fi-om the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle ; below the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the last two phalanges of the fingers. On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following insertion arrangement. On the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an pimianges. expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles (fig. 82). At the fi-ont of that phalanx it divides into three parts (fig. 87, n) :—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. On the fore and little fingers munis digitonim. E, Extensor minimi rligiti. r. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 0. Anconeus, h. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. i. Extensor primi inter- nodii. J. Extensor secundi internodii polhcis. k. Posterior annular ligament. 1. Hands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. s. In.sertion of the common extensor into the last two phalanges. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseus. 1, Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. d. Meta- carpal branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and forefinger.