119 THYROID BODY. In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the in luklille trachea and O'sophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the stcrno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of the cervical fascia, and the infenor thyroid veins ; and hehind the gullet and windpipe is the longus colli muscle. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung On onch project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and the trachea and wsophagus, are placed the vessels and ner\'es pass- ing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both Tartly the sides lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nen'e, and the internal ^oth si'u's mannnary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met "with are f^,„^ pmtiy different on the two sides:—On the right side come the innominate '^ot- artery, with the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct ; but on the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac ner\'es. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first intercostal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior intercostal artery. The THYROID BODY is a soft reddish mass, which is situate opposite Thyroid the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lobes, one on each side, Avhich are united by a narrow piece across the fi'ont of the twMoijes windpipe. The connecting piece, about half an inch hi depth, is'ii.i^i^'I'oss named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between Connections the windpipe and the sheath of the conunon carotid artery, and is ""^^ covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies; but usually it reaches as high as the extent of middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most commonly Aecessory from the left lobe, a conical piece—injramid, ascends towards the pynuiua. hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the os hyoidcs by a slip of nmscle, the leva- tor (jlandulcv, thyroidece of Socmmerring. This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular in tex- Weight and ture, and weighs from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yel- No duct, lowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretory tube or duct. Structure. The thyroid body is not provided with a distinct cap- No distinct sule ; but it is surrounded by areolar and fine elastic tissues, which project into the substance and divide it into masses. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or elongated c^^j vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a small pin, and others only -gi^th of an inch. Tliese vesidcs are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellowish fluid with corpuscles. The wall of the vesicles consists of a thin proper witiia membrane with a nucleated epithelial lining. Fine vessels and and special' coat.