PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. Action. It will adduct the great toe to the others, and then Use on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR 15REVIS MINIMI DiGiTi (fig. 210, ^) is a Small narrow riexor muscle on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and resembles one JJ||'|i|"g ^j-g of the interossei. Arising behind from the metatarsal bone and airinter- the sheath of the peroneus longns, it blonds with the inferior liga- ment of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the toe ; it is imited also by fleshy fibres with the fore part of the metatarsal bone. Action. Firstly it bends the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and U-se. nextly it draws down and adducts the fore part of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 211). In order that the deep vessels and nei-ves Dissect the may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis are to be cut and'nerves^^ through at the posterior part, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the ad- ductor lie the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches ; and in the first interosseous space is the part of the dorsal artery of the foot that enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves with their branches require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei ; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 211, d) is the part of the external plantar Arch of the artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone of the artriy"^ little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : internally the arch is completed by a communicating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot (e) (p. 686). It is placed across the tarsal ends Extent and of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, but under ^mi mus-^'^ the flexor tendons, and the adductor pollicis to which it gives many des, branches. VeuiB comitcs lie on the sides of the artety, and the external veins and l^lantar nerve accompanies it. nerve. From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches Branches, are supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the j^osferior perforating, leave the under Posterior part: these pass to the dorsum of the foot through the three outer i'*^'"fo'"»ti'ig- inetatarsal spaces, and anastomose Avith the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial arteiy. The digital branches (c) are four in nmn1)cr, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes, and half the next. One to the outer [I'^e toL** side of the little toe is single ; but the others lie over the interossei and a half, in the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the transversalis pedis (fig. 210), and bifurcate in front to supply the contiguous sides of two toes. They give fine ofi'sets (fig. 210) to the interossei. Muscular to some lumbricales, and the transversalis pedis ; and at the point "n'! of division they send small communicating branches—anterior anterior perforating, to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsiun of the J,'!^!^g°™^'"3 foot. The ^rs^ digital runs on the outer side of the little toe, supplying First,