44G y Use of both muscles, of one. Creiiiastcr inusclc. Fi5 135.* Attach- iiieiits : external llesliy, intenial; tendinous; forms loops over the coixl. giving rise to cremas- teric fascia. Use. In left gioin replace the parts. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. li-ament and the pubcs where it arches over the cord, and has the- creniaster muscle contiguous to it. The parts covered by the mtemal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles will depress the ribs ; and will assist in. forcing back the viscera of the belly, wliich have been earned down by the descent of the diaphragm. _ One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and contractmg witli the external oblique of the other side (the fibres of the two havnig the same direction) it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CREMASTiCR MUSCLE (fig. 135, ") is a fasciculus of fibres,, which lies along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and is named from suspend- ing the testicle. The muscle has attachments, at the inner and outer sides, similar to- those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's liga- ment below, and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres- are connected. Internally it is small, and is inserted by tendon into the front of the- pubes, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres de- scend on the fi'ont and sides of the cord, forming loops, with the convexity down- wards, which reach to and over the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which in hernia is- named the fascia cremaste- rica. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides- and front of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the abdomen under the influence of the will; but it may be excited to contract involuntarily by cold, fear, &c. Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not to- make any further dissection of the abdominal wall ; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin should be replaced, * View of the lower part of the internal ohiique with the cremaster muscle- and the testicle, a. External oblique, reflected, b. Internal oblique, c. Rectus abcloraims. d. Cremaster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.