5 CUTANEOUS ARTERIES. Dissection. For the dissection of the vessels and nerves, let How to the face be now turned to the left side, and let an incision be oifi^fgiit^^"^ carried along the eyebrow and the zygomatic arch to a little behind side, the ear, so as to allow the skin on the right half of the head to be reflected. The flap of skin is to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the skin should be raised as on the other side, to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and nei-ve. Along the eyebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves Seek nerves which come from the orbit (fig. 2), viz., the supra-orbital vessels oJf^iig^'*'^^^ and nerve opposite the middle, and the supra-trochlear nerve and front; frontal vessels near the inner part of the orbit; they lie at first beneath the occipito-frontalis, and the muscular fibres must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial on the side temporal vessels and nerve are to be traced to the veitex ; and above the zygomatic arch the branches of the facial which join an offset of the superior maxillaiy nerve, are to be sought. Behind the ear the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and behind ear, below it branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the ear, are to be found ; one or more offsets of the last should be followed to their junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital vessels, at the bank also the large and small occipital nerves, should be denuded ; the ° ' former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. Cutaneous Arteries. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 2), are vessels of furnished by the internal and external carotid ti-unks, and anasto- "'^''^^i'- mose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supra-orbital and firontal, come from the former; whilst three, viz., the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular, belong to the latter. The supra-orbital artery (c) leaves the orbit through the notch in Supra-orbi- the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some of its branches are superficial to the occipito-fi-ontalis, and ascend to the top of the head ; whilst others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The frontal branch (b) is close to the inner angle of the orbit, Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The superficial temporal artery (d) is one of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After ascending above the S^'"'''^ zygomatic arch for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior :— The anterior branch runs forwards with a serpentine course to anterior and the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery : this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken fi'om the temporal artery.