INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 445 'external abdominal ring. Its inner attaclmient is tendinous, and is ■easily taken away. Parts covered by external oblique (fig. 134). Beneath the external, is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the intercostal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals the spermatic cord, and the branches of the lumbar plexus in the -abdominal wall. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. L34, -'^) is flcsliy below and aponeurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding ; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external Fig. 134.* oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Pou- part's ligament; along the -anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone ; and from the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle, c, (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their des- tination :—The upper are fleshy and ascend to be in- serted into the cartilages of the lower tliree ribs, where they join the internal inter- costal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass obliquely to the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis covers the fore part of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest, and blends with its fellow along the middle line. For the most part it incases the rectus ; but midway between the und)ilicus and the pubes it is undivided, and lies in fi'ont of that muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the thorax after the following manner :—The stratum superficial to tlie rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and the stratum beneath the muscle joins the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs, and the ensiform cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and separate, and are inserted into the front of the pubes, and into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of • Gimbernat's ligament. Connections. The internal is covered by the external oblique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's Parts covered by external oblique. Internal obli(iue iniuscle. Origin from pelvis. Insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurosis of the muscle divides to incase rectus: attachments to chest. and tlie pelvis. Parts in contact with oblicpie. * Internal oblique muscle of tlie abdominal wall. a. Internal oblique. B. Lati.ssimus dorei, cut. ' c. Part of the hinder tendon of the transversalia muscle. D. Poupart's ligament, e. External : f. Internal intercostals.