LUMBAR PLEXUS AXD BRAXCIIES. 541 Fig. 170.* On the right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of emergence of the different nen^c branches from it may- be noticed. Lumbar Spinal Nerves. The anterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves enter the lumbar plexus, with the exception of the last. Five in number, they increase in size from the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the intervertebral foramina. Before entering the plexus they supply branches to the psoas and quadratus luinborum muscles. The fifth nerve (fig. 175) receives a communi- cating branch from the fourth, and is to be fol- lowed into the pelvis to its junction with the sa- cral plexus. After the two are united, the name lumho-sacral is applied to the common trunk ; and from this, before it enters the sacral plexus, arises the superior gluteal nerve ('). The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 170) is formed by the interconmiunication of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas near the posterior surface, it consists of communi- cating loops between the several nerves, and in- creases in size from above downwards, like tlie individual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large lumbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the Fdur lumbar nerves enter plexus. ;vnd supply iiuiscles: fiftli to the sacral plexus. Plexus how formed: situ.ation; connections with nerves Six branches, viz. : * Dissection of the lumbar plexus and its branches. (Illustrations of Dis- .sections.) a. External iliac artery, cut across, h. Thoracic duct. c. Azygos vein. Nerves : The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the five lumbar nerves. d. Splanchnic nerves, e. Last dorsal. /. Ilio-hypogastric. g. Ilio-inguinal. h. Genito-crurak i. External cutaneous, h. Anterior crural. _ Accessory to obturator, n. Obturator, o. Gangliated cord of the sympathetic.