128 DISSECTION OF THE PIIARYXX. laj^es. The sides arc sloped from before back, and are formed hy folds of the mucous memltrane extending between the arytoenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Posteriorly it is limited by the corni- cnla laryngis, and by the arj't.fnoid nnisele covered by mucoua meud)rane. During respiration this aperture is unobstnictcd, but in the act of deglutition it is closed l)y the epiglottis. Begiiiiiinf; of The opening into the waophagus, o, is the narrowest part of the u'soiiliagus. pliarynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the fifth cervical vertebra. Internally the nnicous mend)rane in the tt'sophagus is. paler than that in the pharynx ; and externally the point at which the pharynx ends is marked by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. Soft palate The SOFT I'ALATK, Q (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable struc- .atiiiirkof ture between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either close mouth; ■, fi- ^ ~ ^ the opening of the mouth, or cut oif the passage to the nose, accord- ing as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft surfaces, palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is contiuTious with the roof of the mouth, whilst the borders; opposite sin'face is convex and turned to the phar}'nx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard palate ; and each from it lateral part joins the jiharj-nx. The lower border is free, and hangs uvula, presents in the centre a conical pendulous part—the uvula, Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative of the original separa- tion into two halves. Arches or Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near the uvula, pillars i-y^yQ folds on each side, containing nniscular fibres, which are ilirected downwards on the sides of the fauces. These are named arches or pillars oi the palate, and are distinguished from one another anterior, by their relative position. The anterior, i, reaches from the fore part to the side of the tongue near the middle ; and the 2>osfei-ior, posterior. J-i longer than the other, is contimied fi-om the lower border to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space in which the tonsil lies. Constituents The velum consists of an aponeurosis, with nuiscles, vessels, of velum. nerves, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissect Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- played, but others require care in their dissection. levator ami On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate ■ right half. ^^^^ elevator and tensor, are ver}- plain. These have been partly dissected on the right side ; but to follow them to their termination let the upper attachment of the i)harynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal ptery- goid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane, and a few muscular fibres covering its lower part. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evi- dent. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be ascertained.