STYLO-PHARYXGEUS MUSCLE. IO3 fibres aiise from the root of the styloid process 011 tlie mner Origin, surface, and descend between the superior and middle coiistrictors to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper insertion, border (hinder border, Merkel *) of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the stylo-glossus, and between the carotid is between arteries ; and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve turns over the lower part arJeries. of its fleshy belly. Action. It elevates and draws outwards the part of the pharynx Use. above the hyoid bone, making the tube ready for the reception of the morsel to be swallowed. From its attaclnnent to the thyroid cartilage it will raise the larynx ; and by its position it will control the movement forwards of the air tube. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, which extends fi-om Stylo-liyoid the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the os liyoides. ^I"""'*-'^* Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyrigeus of prcced-^ muscles, and over the internal carotid artery ; whilst the lower "'S- end is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached below. It is fi'equently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. Occasionally a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies parts within the head, internal viz., the brain, the eye and orbit, and the nose; and takes a circuit- arte^! ous course through and along the base of the skull before it termi- nates in the brain. The arterial trunk in the cranium, and its offset to the orbit. Some parts have been already examined; but the portion in the neck and the seuu.'^^ temporal bone remains to be dissected. The branches of the carotid to the brain are examined with the encephalon. Dissection. For the display of the cervical part of the artery Dissection (fig. 25) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching theneckV'^ the styloid process at the root, and throwing it with its muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them, but this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed inwards over the artery, seek the and cranial glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches near the skull, and the"*^"*^**' small phaiyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypo-glossal, and sym- pathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerv^e. External to the vessels a loop of the first and second cendcal nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the arteiy, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. Ascending to * Anatomie imd Phisiologie des Menschliclien Stimm untl SpracL Organi Leipzig, 1857. Yon Dr. Merkel.