DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 242 Situation of the apex and l>ase. Contents of the space. Position of lai'jje vessels and connec- tions witli vein and nerves. oflfeeta Situation of branches in front. l)eliiud. inside. but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus and the coraco-- bracliialis and biceps muscles (g and h). The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the forefinger may be introduced into the space for the purpose of ascertaining the upper- boundaries, and the depth. The base or widest part of the j^yraniid is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis reach- ing fi'om the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary vessels - and the brachial plexus, with their branches ; some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the tmnhs of vessels and nerves. The large axillaiy artery (a) and vein (&) cross the outer portion of the space in passing from the neck to the upper limb. The part of each vessel now seen lies- close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered only by the common superficial cover- ings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the subscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (g). On looking into the space from below, the axillary vein (6) lies on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median trunk (') to the outside, and the ulnar (^) and the small nerve of Wrisberg (*) to the inner side ; the internal cutaneous gene- rally superficial to, and the musculo-spiral (^) and circumflex ners^es beneath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this spot. Position of the branches of vessels and nerves. The several branches of the vessels and nerves have the imdermentioned position with respect to the boundaries :— Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic artery runs to the side of the chest; and taking the same direction though nearer the middle of the hollow, are the small external mam- mary artery and vein. Extending along the posterior fold, within its lower margin and in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the sub- scapular vessels and nerves {il and ') ; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nen'-e (e) ' bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks. On the inner boundary, at the upper part, are a few small branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle • but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free fi-om vessels with respect to any suro-i'cal operation. Lying on the surface of the sen-atus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforating the inner boundary of the space are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets