DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 374 to be removed except in the first three, the arches of these vertebras are to be sawn through close to tlie articular processes. Nextly the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen mag- num is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal ; and, on raising fi-om below the upper part of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, the ligamentous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito-axoid) will come into view. BeUveen Union of the occipital hone with the axis. The central ligavienf axisis'!"' (occiiDito-axoidean) (fig. 48, ') is a strong, thick layer beneath the wide layer, posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, and is rather triangular in foiTn with the base ui^permost. Above it is attached to the basilar process (on the cranial aspect) near the margin of the foramen magnum, extending as far on each side as^ the insertion of the check ligaments. From that spot it descends- over the odontoid process, and, becoming nan-ower, is inserted into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament of the atlas. Dissection Dissection (fig. 49). After the removal of the occipito-axoidean hgamenr'^^^ ligament, by cutting transversely through it above, and reflecting; it, the student should define a strong band, the transverse ligament Fiji. 49.* which crosses the root of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital bone and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the check ligaments which diverge, one on each side, from the odontoid process. Jr H.«k^"^ The lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 40, ^) are two strong i'lLameiits. l>u"(^les of fibres, attached by one end to the side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a depression on the inner- surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band ; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and tlu; lower are longer and oblique. * Internal ligatnents between tl.c occipital bone and the atlas and axis (Bonrgery). 1. The left check ligament. 2. The transverse ligament, sendin- offsets upwards and downwards. 3. Cnt end of the occipito-axoidean li<rament'"