49 ACTION OF OBLIQUE MUSCLES. It arises fi'om tlie superior maxillary bone betwixt the margin of Origin, the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards between the inferior rectus and tlie Course, bone, and between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the outer and upper recti. insertion The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the Connec- posterior receives the branch of the third nerve. The tendon of insertion is near that of the superior oblique nuiscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action. The oblique muscles rotate the eyeball around an Use f antero-posterior axis, and are supposed to be used in maintainhig the parallelism of tlie axes of the two eyes. The upper muscle, acting by itself, would rotate the ball in such a way as to cause the iinier end of the transverse axis to sink, and the pupil to be directed down and out, as in looking to the shoulder. The lower muscle would produce by itself rotation of the ball in and lower the opposite direction, viz. the inner end of the transverse axis would be raised, and the pupil would be inclined up and out, as in looking to the outer part of the orbit. During life the rotary movement is supposed to be chiefly with cti. employed in controlling the oblique action of the upper and lower recti. For instance, as the upper rectus alone would tm-n the pujiil upwards and too nuich inwards, the inner movement will be counteracted by the rotation out of the inferior oblique. And as the lower rectus will incline the jiupil down and too much in, the motion inwards will be checked by the rotation out of the superior oblicjue. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the palpe- Seek tensor bral ligament unitijig the eyelids to the margin of the orbit is to ** ^" be cut through, where this has not been done ; but the lids must be left attaclied at the inner connnissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendo jial- pebraruni, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale hbres of the tensor tarsi will be recognised. The TENSOR TARsr MUSCJ.E arises from the ridge on the os unguis. Tensor tarsi and slightly from the bone beliind the ridge. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small tlat band, behind the ligamentum palpebra- rum, which divides like that structiu-e into a shp for each eyelid. In the lid the slip lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and Insertion, blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Action. By its contraction the muscle draws inwards and back- Use wards the puncta of the lids, so as to favour the reception and passage of the tears. Dissection. A small ncna^, the temporo-malar or orbital branch Trnee offset of the superior maxillary trunk, lies along the outer angle of the °„,ixiliaiy'^ fioor of the orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal "erve. of the eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis nmscle). E