CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 12& •—tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle ; and the other,—levator palati, is farther in, and larger. The riiAUYNX is situate behhul tlie nose, moutli, and lar^-nx. Its i^i'-nynN'- extent is from the base of the skull to the cricoid cartilao-e of the Extent, larynx, where it ends in the wsophagus. In form it is somewhat form, conical, with the dilated part upwards; and in length it measures length, from five to six inches. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it com-^"''om- municates with the cavities above mentioned, but is (juite closed ^'^ ^ behind. On each side of it are placed the trunks of the carotid <-;<>"ih^i- arteries, with the internal jugular vein and the accompanying cranial and sympatlietic nerves. Behind it is the spinal cohnun, covered by muscles, viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. In front the pharynx is united to the larynx, the hyoid bone and the tongue, and to the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but behind it is unattaclied, and is formed chietly of thin, fleshy strata. In the posterior wall are contained elevator and constrictor muscles ; Coii.stiuc- and at the upper part the bag is further completed by an aponeurotic expansion which fixes it to the base of the skull. The Avhole is Ihied by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of the Aponeurosis pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube " i"'''-''"''- to the base of the skull, and to complete the posterior boundary. Superiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone, as Avell as to the cartilage between the two ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and extends between the muscular and mucous strata. On tliis membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. The C0KST1!ICT0RS are three tliin muscles, which are arranged like Constric- scales, the lower partly overlaying the middle, and the middle the upper. The wferior constrictor (fig. 28, -^), the most superficial and lowest, ^"wer arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage ; ironi the obhque fine arises from and upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage, and from the I'l'T"^ part of the latter which is behind the oblique line. The origin is a'ld ends in small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres are directed linc.'"^' ' backwards, radiating, and are inserted into a raphe along the middle line, where it meets the corresponding muscle of the opposite side. Tlie outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the slieath of ^•'^ll,*!^,'^" the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, witii'it. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of tin.' middle constrictor (b). The recurrent nerve and vessels Q) enter beneath the lower border. The viiddle constrictor (fig. 28, ^) has nearly the same shape as Mid(Uc cou- the preceding, that is to say, it is narrowed hi front and expanded behind. Its fibres arise fi-om the great cornu of the os hyoides, from the small cornu of the same bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with the other muscles.