15 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. sinuses, it receives small veins from the pituitary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process of the Transverse occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and unites the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second trans- ^ verse sinus is sometimes found nearer the foramen magnum. The superior petrosal sinus (Hg. 3, /) lies in a groove in the Supoiior upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends i'®*^'^^'^^' between the caA^ernous and lateral sinuses. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another from the internal ear, are received into it. The inferior petrosal simis (fig. 3, h) extends between the same inferior sinuses as the preceding, and lies in a groove along the line of i****'"^®*^ junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein from the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum in the base of the cranium. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium Arteries of and the dura mater come through the base of the skull ; they have ^"g'.'^'"^**^'' been named from their situation in the tlu-ee fossfe, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are veiy small branches of the ethmoidal Anterior arteries (p. 46), which enter the skull by apertures between the ° ' frontal and ethmoid bones : they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number : two, named Miildle large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk; "'^""'S^''^'' and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillaiy artery from inter- appears through the foramen epinosum of the sphenoid bone, lary; and ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the cranium, and ends in ramifications which spread over the side of the head, some of them reaching to the top and the occiput, whilst others perforate the bone, and end on the exterior of the head. Two veins accompany the artery. Branches. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, gives , , , 1 ^ . , branches to it furnishes branches to the dura mater and osseous structure, and dura mater to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small oflrset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone and bone. (Hyrtl). One or two branches pass into the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. b. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large oneSmal^ outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale ""'""'S'^'^ to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal ^Jfending artery comes through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). This piiaryngeai. is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The j^osterior meningeal branches are small, and are furnished by the occipital and vertebral arteries.