120 DISSECTION OF THE THARYXX. •Objor ts to be liotwl. tiUTS, viz., Posterior imris. llnstacliiaii tube ; ■cartilagi- nous ]iart lias a wide ■opening ; is n bent Jiicrc of (Mitilnue. ^lUf'OUS )m,'nibrane covers and lines it. Fauces. bone ; from tliat spot it diminislies botli ni)\var(ls and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction. Through the part of the passage above the mouth the air moves in respiration ; whilst through that below the mouth both air and food arc transmitted—the air j)assiug to the aperture of the wi]id-})ipe, and the food to the oesophagus. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures, G, of the nasal cavity, which arc separated b}- the septum nasi ; and below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube, F. Below the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—istlunus faucium, H, is to be recognised ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, K, M'hich is placed in a hollow between two prominences named pillars of the soft palate,—tlie one, i, ])roceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and the other, L, from the same part to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, conies the aperture of the larynx, N ; and close in fi-ont of it is the epiglottis, or the valve which assists to close that opening (hiring deglutition. Lowest of all is the opening, o, from the pharynx into the oesophagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven m number, and have the following position and boundaries :— The posterior openingii of the miml fossce, G, are oval in form, and measure about an inch from above down, but only half an inch across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the sphenoid and palate bones above, and by the palate below ; ])y the vomer inside, and the internal pteiygoid plate outside; and it is lined by mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube, F, is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear conununicatcs with the external air. If the mucous meml)rane be removed from the tube on the right side, the cartilaginous part appears to be nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margins of a groove between the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bone • but it increases in width as it is directed downwards to the pharynx and ends by a wide ajierture inside the internal pterygoid i)late on a level Avith the inferior meatus. Its opening in the iihar^ nx is oval in form ; and the inner side, which is larger than the outer projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. ' This part of the tube is constructed by a triangular piece of car- tilage, whose margins arc bent downwards so as to enclose a narrow- space ; but at the under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the wall is formed by fibrous membrane. Closely united to tlie ptery- goid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane • and through it the mucous fining of the cavity of the tynipaniun is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the arches