351 AORTIC ARCH AND BRANCHES. vein (g), to which the left upper intercostal vein {i) is directed over the left part of the arch ; and to the lower border near the termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. From this part arise the three gi-eat vessels of the head and upper hmbs. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, extending Third pa i t, from the lower ed^e of the fourth to that of the fifth dorsal ver- j"* without tebra.'- It lies against the fifth vertebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the fourth, and is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the root Parts cow- of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its the'Trclu arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than those parts, the CESophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands, may be recognised. The branches of the arch of the aorta ai'e five in number; two Five come fi'om the ascending, and tlu-ee from the transverse part. The of t'ue arch: first two are the coronary arteries of the heart (o), which have been already noticed (p. 336). The other three are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the large ti"unk of the innominate artery (h) ; close .to it is tlie left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left sub- clavian (d). The INNOMINATE ARTERY (J) (brachio-cephafic), the first and largest innominate of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two f/i*(?arotra * inches in length. Ascending to the right beneath the sternum, it and sub- divides opposite the sterno-clavncular articulation into the right common carotid and the subclavian artery. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (^7), and lies Length and behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the hyoid ^oi^^^*-*^"^"^* and thyroid muscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side (Ji). Usually no lateral branch arises fi'om the artery. Left Common Carotid Artery (c). The common carotid artery Leftcom- of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance aHses'from^ between the arch and the top of the sterniuTi. aorta"* In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left stemo- Q^j^jjeg^ipn clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece of the sternum in the and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and '^''o™^- lar}nix. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein ((7), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but it crosses aftei-wards to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is tlie left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. * It ia usually said that the second part of the aortic arch ends opposite the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and the third part, opposite the lower edge of the third vertebra. After examination, I liave adopted the statement of Mr. "Wood respecting the position of the aortic arch to the dorsal vertebrae. (Journal of Anatomy and Physiology for 1868.)