52 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Division into two triangles by steriio- mastoid. Hollows. ProHiinences in till! niidille lino of neck, liyoid 1m)1k', thyroiU, prominence of the clavicle ; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front the boundary is a line fi'om the chin to- the stennim ; and behind, another line from the occiput to the acromial end of the cla\acle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the diagonal line of the projecting sterno-mastoid muscle. And in consequence of the ijosition of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the stemo-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; .and behind the muscle, just above the claA-icle, is another slight hollow which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the middle line of the neck the following parts can be- recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the base of the jaw is the enunence of the os hyoidcs, with its-, cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this may be felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called i)omum Adami, which is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding witli the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the naiTOw prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another inters'al, which is opposite the crico-thyroid membrane. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the tliyroid gland may be felt by the side of the trachea. From the cricoid cartilage to the sternum, and between the sterno- mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose depth is much increased in emaciated persons, in which the tube of the trachea can bo- recognised. Direction. As the time for turning the body will not allow the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare in this stage only the parts behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from the one end to the other, and aftenvards along the clavicle as far as. the acromion. The triangular flap of skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia which will then be brought into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous, fat from the surface of the fibres. The I'LATYSMA MYOiDKs is a thin subcutaneous muscular layer whicli is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle is placecf across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its flesliy fil)rcs take origin by fibrous bands from the clavicle and the acromion, and below those bones fron'i the superficial fatty layer covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles inseiiea into ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the "skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the criroiiT cartiliiKe, anil supra- .stenial de- pression. Dissection of the pla- tysiua. Platysina nmscle rises at .shoulder 1 jaw