MAMMARY GLAND. 239 Resting on the great pectoral muscle, it is hemispherical in form, Form and but it is rather most prominent at the inner and lower aspects. Its I'^'^'t'o"; dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a breast not enlarged by ahaensious lactation, the width is commonly about four inches. Longitudinally it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from six and weight, to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises Position and the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or manulla. This J^ippi",^ prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly tm-ned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring,— tho areola: the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is influenced by the complexion of the body, and is altei'ed during the times of men- colour is •struation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is provided with numerous papillae and lubricating glands ; giauds. and on the surface are some small tubercles marking the position of the ducts of the glands. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in Breast of general form, though it is less prominent; and it possesses a small ^^''^ nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. In its texture the mamma resembles those compound Structure, glands which are formed by the vesicular endings of branched -ducts. It consists of small vesicles which are united to form •lobules and lobes. Connected witli each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing fat, surrounds the gland, investing and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes ; but in the ultimate structure of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septa fix tlie gland and nbrous to the skin, and support it; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of " ^' Sir A. Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or cells at the ends of the most miimte Jcxture nnd 11 r>ii 1 -ji -11 iov\n of the ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with mdk or mercuiy vesicles. :^re just visible to the naked eye, being al)0ut the size of a small .pinhole in paper. (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes. A collection of the vesicles around their ducts form the lobule or glandule, which varies in size from a pin's head i„i,ules, and to a small tare. By the union of the lobules the lobes are produced, {J^'j^^gl^'' of which there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named Liictiferons from their office galactophorous ; they converge to the areola, where ^ they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sacculi) of one- sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become straight; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one