322 luter osseous ligaments. metacarpal, Hiid carjial. Dissection »'f linger joints. Motacariuil hones and ]>halan>,'e.s : lateral ligaments. interior ligament, posterior. .Synovial sac. Joint of tliumb. Kind of motion. Extending Ucnding. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Intenmeous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detachmg one bone from another. There are also strong fibrous pieces be- tween all the carpal bones in the second row ; and slight ones are described as present on each side of the os semilunare in the first row. 1 1 J 4! Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head ot the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will he requisite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Union of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 9G). ^ In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal l)one is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, Fig. 96. and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligaiiient (a) is the same o*i both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by its upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the side of the pha- lanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament (I)) is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor tendon : to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon ; this takes the place of a dorsal ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side which serves as a capsule to the articulation. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are connected with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opposite directions, and circumduction, exist in these condyloid joints. Extension ami flexion. The phalanx moves backwards in extension, so as to give an angle with the metacarpal bone. The anterior liga- ment and the flexor tendons are stretched, and control the move- ment. In flexion the phalanx glides forwards under the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the stretch as the joint is bent.