608 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ami on side of the knee. Superflcial veins. Internal sajihenous vein in tliiHh liierces fascia lata to join the femoral. Veins join- ing it may fomi three tninks ;it the toj) of tlic thigh. Cutnneons ajteries. Cutaneous nerves. Ilio-irguinal is near scro-' tum. "Genito-cm- ml reaches the middle <ji thigli: nerve,—one small offset apiicaring near the npper part of the tliigh; one or more about half way down; and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower tliird. On the inner side of the knee tlu-ee other cutaneous nerves are to be looked for:—One, a branch of the great saphenous, is directed outwards over the middle of the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower part of the surface now dissected. And the third is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the antei-ior and inner as- pects of the thigh are collected into one; and tliis trunk is named saphenous from its manifest appearance on the surface. The internal saj^Jienous vein (fig. 191, a) is the cutaneous vessel of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the foot to the upper part of the thigh. In the part of its course now dis- sected, the vessel lies inferiorly somewhat behind the knee joint; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it jiierces the fascia lata hy a special opening named saphenous, and enters the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz., external pudic (b), superficial epigas- tric (c), and circumflex iliac (d), terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of the thigh are most frequently united into one branch, which enters the saphenous trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way. When this arrangement exists three large veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein receives a deep branch fi-om the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the integu- ments along with the nerves; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. G24) accompanies the saphenous nerxe and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus, and are distributed in gi-eater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguimL This ner\-e (p. 542) is small in size, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 190, "); it supplies the scrotum, and ends in the contiguous part of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. The Genito-crural. The crural branch of this nerve (p. 542) pierces the fascia lata neaj- Poupart's ligament (fig. 190, «), rather external to the Ime of the femoral artery. After or before the ner^^e has become superficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerwe ; and it extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis.