DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 452 is prolonged on tbt! conl; piece nwy be imper- vious. or saccn- lated, or open. In female may be partly open. Spermatic cord is oblique in the abdomi- nal wall, and vertical beyond. Connec- tions. Coverings. In female round liga- ment is in l)lace of cord. Dissection. Constitu- ents of the cord: in female. Va.s defe- rens. forwards slightly opposite the abdominal ring. Connected \yitli it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation to- the testis in the fetus) which extends a certain distance along the fi-ont of the cord. It is generally impei-vions, and can be followed only a very short Avay, but it may be sometimes traced as a fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated at intervals; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum accom- panying the testis in its passage in the fetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the fetal tube of peritoneum remains sometimes^ pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; that unobliterated passage is named the canal of NucJc. The SPERMATIC CORD (fig. 138, extends from the internal abdo- minal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through Avhich they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its apeiiure of entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit from the muscles; but escaped fi-om the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in this oblique passage named the inguinal canal, it is placed (externally) beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the fascia transversalis; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, Avith the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from strata in the wall of the abdomen. Thus, from within out come, the subperitoneal fat, the tube of the fascia transversalis, the cremaster muscle continu- ous Avith the internal oblique, the intercolumnar fascia fi-om the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The roinifJ Ihjameiii, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the gi-oin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, except it Avants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord Avill be displayed by cutting through longitudinally, and turning aside the diflierent sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural ner\'-e and epigastric- artery into the cremasteric covering.' Vessels caul nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and vein Avhich convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis; the nerA^es and lymphatics of the testicle: and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. In the female a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round ligament. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is