460 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. It passei? tliroiigh a triangular space: size. roustitu- ■ents of sjiace: muscles. Hernia in tiiis space of two kinds. Coverings of the more •common kind are peritoneum •and siilrja- ■ cent fat, fascia trans- versalis, conjoined tendon, spennatic fascia, superficial fa.scia, and rskin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impos.sible if it is large. Aimtomy of the internal hernia. At the lower part of the abdo- minal wall is a triangular space (fig. 138) which is bounded by the epigastric artery on one side, tlie outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and the inner half of Poupart's ligament below: it measures about two inches from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. The constituents of the abdominal wall in this spot are, the tegu- ments ; the strata of the muscles; and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., fascia transversalis, subperitoneal fat, and peritoneum. The muscles have the undermentioned arrangement:— The aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced by an apei-ture (external abdominal ring) towards the lower and inner angle of the space through which the inguinal hernia is transmitted. The internal oblique and transversalis, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line, it covers the inner two thirds (about an inch) of the space, and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the fascia transversalis appears. Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for itself, and elongate the different structures, because there is not any opening by which it can descend, as in the external hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal Avail, must vary according as the gut projects tlirough the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. The common kind of the in- ternal hernia (inferior) passes through the part of the triangular space which is covered by the conjoined tendon. The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the fascia transversalis; next it elongates the conjoined tendon, or as in a sudden rupture, separates the fibres, and escapes between them. Then the intestine advances into the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external abdominal ring ; and passes through that opening on the inner side of the cord, receiving at the same time the covering of the fascia spermatica. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of the internal hernia are the same as those of the external; and in kind they are the same, with this ex- ception, that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremasteric fascia. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia; and the straightness of the course of the internal, in comparison with the external hernia, should be remembered. Diagnosis. This rupture will be distinguished fi-om external hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubes. After this hernia has acquired a large size, an examination during