51 LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The sac ^, is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis and Situation of •nasal process of the superior maxillary hone. Externally it is dilated'part, crossed by the ligament of the eyelids, and is covered by an ex- pansion derived from that baud, which is fixed to the margin of tlie bony groove. If the aponeurotic covenng be removed, the nnicous membrane lining the interior will be seen. Into the outer •side of the sac the laclnymal canals open. The duct^ ^' (ductus ad nasum), is the nari'owed part of the tube, Cjiu.ai lead- and is about half an inch long. It is entirely encased by bone, and o J J i nose* corresponds with the passage of the same name in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the fi-ont of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a piece of the mucous membrane. A bent probe introduced through the nostril may be passed into the duct fi-om the meatus, but with destruction of the A^alve. As the duct is continuous with the mucous membrane of the nose it has the same structure, viz. a fibrous external layer with a mucous lining. The epithelium of the sac and duct is ciliated as in the nose, but in the lachrymal canals it is scaly. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with Anatomy of more advantage to the student till the dissection of the head and aftenvards. neck has been completed. The description of the eye will be found ^it the end of the book. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK, Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck let the rosition of head be supported at a moderate height on a block, and let the face be turned to the left side and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the region, the right arm may be drawn under tlie body, Avith the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck parts on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position will be obtained by placiiig the upper Ynnh over the chest. Surface-marldng. The side of the neck presents a somewhat Boundaries ■square outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the oftiluuec^k. * The e3-elids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Puncta lachrymalia. 2. Upper, and 3, lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruncula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal •sac. 6. Lachrymal duct.