321 CARPO-METACARPAL JOINTS. Opposition. In this movement the ball of the thumb is turned towards the tip of each finger by a half circumductory motion of the metacarpal bone ; and in picking up a pin the joints of the thumb, and the two last joints of the fingers will be bent. The metacarpal hones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands Joints of from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus:— other fingers The dorsal ligaments (fig. 95) are two to each, except to the bone tlirough of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the os trapezium and os trapezoides; those of the third metacarpal are attached to the os magiium and os trapezoides ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bauds from the os magnum and OS unciforme; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament fi-om the unciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 92) are weaker and less constant than and palmar the dorsal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the little finger. These ligaments may be oblique in direction ; and a band may be divided between two, as in the case of the ligament attached to the os trapezium and the second and third metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is Lateral a longitudinal lateral hand, which is attached above to the os ^^^^' magnum and unciforme, and below to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening behind the articulation be- I'ow seen, tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. 3Iovement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement Gliding exists in the articulations of the bases of the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers; but in the ring and little fingers the motion is greater, with slight abduction and adduction. Dissection. The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo- Dissection, metacarpal articulatioii may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger presents Articular a hollowed articular surface, which receives the prominence of the ^u'*'^'^^^- OS trapezoides, and articulates laterally with the os trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the unciform bone and the os magnum. And the httle finger bone is opposed to the os unciforme. Synovial membranes. Usually two synovial membranes are inter- ^J^g^^^'^J posed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz. a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and offsets of the common carpal or three, synovial sac (p. 319) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the os unciforme with the two inner metacarpals. Y