DUODENUM AXD PANCREAS. 483) CONNECTIONS OF TIIK DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. To sec satisfactorily tlie duodennm and the pancreas Remove the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in tlic "^'^'■'^t''"" following way :—a double ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through at the i>oints at which it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube is to he taken away by cutting through the vessels, and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen. After it has been -.■separated, it is to be set aside for future study whilst the body is turned. The student should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum to soe the from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove the loose peritoneum '^^"°'^^'i^""> and the fat; whilst cleaning them, he should lay bare the larger vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach tlie pancreas may be traced and pau- from the spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other i(fig. 143). By pulling forwards the duodenjim, the connnon bile duct may be found, posteriorly, between the intestine and tlie head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas should be removed, to •show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (fig. 143, d). The first part of the small intestine, or Extent of the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and crossing "inoileuuui; the spinal column, ends on the left side of tlie second lumbar •vertebra. It makes a curve around the head of the pancreas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical (Muuscand regions of tlie abdomen. From its winding course around tlie '*'tii"'*''on. pancreas it is divided into three parts—superior transverse, vertical, Division, ^ind inferior transverse. The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like the First i>art i.s stomach ; it measures about two inches in length, and is directed from the jiylorus to the neck of tlie gall Idadder, ascending sliglitl}'^ niovwible. between one point and the other. In front it is overlapped by the Jiver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended ; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena port;e. The rertiral part is fixed almost immoveably l)y the peritoncuni Second part and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches in leiigtli, and descends '''''''''' from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Super- ficial to this part is the right bend of the colon ; and beneath it and rests on ■are the kidney and its vessels. On its inner side is the head of kidney, the pancreas, with the connnon bile-duct. The ducts of the liver -and pancreas pour their contents into this portion of the duodeinim. The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, and is The tiLini <;ontinued across the spinal colunni to end in the jejunal portion of };;;|*pJt!'!ui,i the small intestine. As it crosses the spine, it ascends from tlie is move- third to the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and lies between the layers of the transverse meso-colon. It has the following con- nections with parts around : — I I 2