10 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. and jirocesses- Falx. Form and attac.h- iiients. Eoi'dcrs. Sinuses in it. Superior elastic tissues so disposed as to give rise to two strata, viz. an external or endosteal, and an internal or supporting. At certani spots those layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, which dips in the middle line between the hemispheres of the large brain. Its form and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated fi'om it. Narrow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens posteriorly, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater naiBed the tentorium cerebelli. The upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the occipital protuberance; and the lower or free border^ concave, is turned towards the central part of the brain (corpus callosum), with wliich it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses:—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The superior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, h) extends from the bhius'^"'^'"'^^ ethmoid bone to the occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, when pressure is made from before back with the finger along the middle line of the brain. When the sinus is opened it is seen tO' be narrow in front, and to Aviden behind, where it ends in a common point of union of certain sinuses (torcular Heropbili) at the centre of the occipital its interior, bone. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the ai^ex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched smarll tendinous- cords —chord33 Willisii—near the ope»ings of some of the cerebral veins. Occasionally small glandulae Pacchioni are present in the sinus. The sinus receives small veins from the substance and exterior of the skull, and larger ones fi-om the brain ; and the blood flows backwards in it. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the posterior part of the braiia, and lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate the dura mater; their course is directed from behind forwards, so that the current of the blood in them is evidently opposed to that in the sinus: this disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of thse brain, where the parts are undisturbed. Directions. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, the brain must be taken from the head. To facilitate its- removal, let the head incline backwards, whilst tl;e shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the di^nsion of the cranial nei-ves a sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nen-'es are to be cut longer on the one side than on the other. Removal of the Irain. As a first step cut across the anterior part Situation, and ending Veins open- ing into it. Current of Mood iu it. Dirertions for removal of brain. Mode of pro-