DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 168 Mucoiis inenibrane, epithelium, and glands. folds. Tliis layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous memhrcme of the trachea lines the tube, and resembles that of the lar^-nx in being furnished with a columnar ciliated epi- thelium. Connected with this membrane are mnnerous bi-anched mucous glands of variable size. The largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the inter^-al between the cartilages, where some arc placed beneath the fibrous membrane with the muscular fibres, and others outside that layer. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartila- ginous rings. Section XYIII. PEEVERTEBEAL MUSCLES AND VEETEBEAL VESSELS. Deep muscles of spine. Dissection.) Longiis coUi. Origin by two pieces. iDsertion. Parts in contact with it. Directions. On the part of the spinal column that was laid aside- after the separation of the pharynx from it, the student is to learn< the deep muscles on the fi'ont of the vertebroe. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be jirepared by remo^'^ng• the fascia and areolar tissue. The muscles are three in ntimber on each side (fig. 45), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line lies the longus colli—this is the longest ; the muscle external to it, wliich reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major ;. and the small muscle close to the skull, which is extei'nal to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE (fig. 45, ^) is situate on the bodies of the cer^-ical and upper dorsal vertebras, and is pointed above, but larger below. It consists of two parts—internal and external, the former being vertical, and the latter oblique in direction, as on the right side of the figure. The internal part arises by fleshy and tendinous processes from the bodies of the two upper dorsal and two lower cen'ical verte- bra ; and the external piece takes origin from the anterior trans- verse processes of four cervical vertebrre (sixth, fifth, fourth and third). Both parts of the muscle are blended above, and the whole is inserted by four slips into the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebrfe. Some of the lowest fibres of the muscle are attached separately by tendon to the anterior transverse process of one or two of the lower cei-vical vertebra;. In contact with the anterior surface of the muscle is the pharpix.. The inner border is at some distance inferiorly from the muscle of the opposite side, but superiorly only the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebra} separates the two. The outer border is.