160 hyo-glossal membrane and inferior liugualis. Fibrous structures of tongue; its septum : libro-carti- lage. Hyo-glossal membrane. Sub-mucous aponeurosis. Muscles in each half. Two kinds. Extrinsic; number. Dissection of palato-, stylo-, and liyo- kIossus. Of constric- tor muscle. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. communicating fibres, the edge of the septum will appear. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle towards^ the OS hyoides, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. Outside this triangular muscle in the middle line, is the longitu- dinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be better seen subsequently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum: its root is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a submucous layer of the same tissue. Septmn. This structure fonns a vertical partition between the two halves of the tongue (fig. 37, ^), and extends from the base to the apex. It is tliicker posterioriy than anterioriy, and is connected beliind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen subse- quently on a vertical section. In some instances a small fibro- cartilage, about a quarter of an inch deep and long, exists in the septum. The hyo-glossal memhrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, which attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeu- rosis to attach them to the os hyoides. The submucous fibrous or aponeurotic stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posteiior tliird of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the mus- cular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles. Each half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The fonner or external are distinguished by having only their tennination in the tongue ; and the latter or internal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing fi'om one part and ending at another. The extnnsic muscles (fig. 37) are the following: palato and stylo- glossus, liyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these are now to be looked to. Dissection. After the tongaie has been firmly fastened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the right half. Three of these muscles, viz. palato-, D, stylo-, B, and hyo-glossus, c, come together to the side of the tongue, at the junction of the middle and ])Osterior third ; and, to follow their radiating fibres fonvards, it will be necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane and fleshy fibres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. The part of the constrictor nuiscle, o, which is attached to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus.