DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 76 wliii'h arc .ioined by ii tendon. Position to 'itlier parts. Tlie iimscle hounds a .space <;oiitaiiiiiig yluiids. Use. «tylo- liyoideus. Origin. Insertion. .Surrounds <ligastrli; tendon. Use. 2vintli nerve in tlie ante- rior tri- angle. Branches: to liyoid muscles is joined l)liysis of the lower jaw. From these attachments tlie fibres are directed to tlie intervening tendon, wliich is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-liyoideus, and is united to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great cornu of tlie os hyoides by an aponeurotic expansion. The arcli formed by tlie digastric is sni)erficial, except at the outer end, where it is beneath the sterno-niastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to a fittle above the hyoid bone : along its lower border lie the oc- cipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; the former passing back- wards, the latter foi-wards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo- hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between the jaw and the base of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are con- tained the parotid gland, (^^), and the vessels and nerves in con- nection with it (p. 2'J) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland, ("), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses that l)one and opens tlie mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two bellies act- ing will elevate the hyoid bone. It is supposed that the posterior belly may assist in moving back the head when the jaw is fixed. The STYi.o-HYOin musclk is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from the outer surface of the stjdoid process, near the base, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In some bodies the stylo-hyoideus is absent. Action. This muscle elevates the os hyoides preparatory to swal- lowing, and checks, with the posterior belly of the digastric, the too forward movement of that bone by the other elevators. The HYroGLOssAL NERVK (ninth cranial) appears in the anteiior triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks round the occipital artery ; it is then directed forwards to the tongue below that muscle, and disappears in fi-ont beneath the mylo-hyoideus. In this course the nerve passes over the two carotids ; and near tlie cornu of the os hyoides it crosses also the lingual artery, so as to become higher than the vessel. From this part arise the descendens noni branch, and a small muscular ofi^set to the tliryro-hj-oideus. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and d(>- Kccnds on the front of (sometimes in) the sheath of the vessel to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the com-