DISSECTION OF THE Is'^ECK. 112 Branch t' laryux, ends'in iiiusoles ill iuturior, gives liniuclifs to heart. to tracheii, u'sophagus, anil pha- rynx. Left recur- rent nerve. Spinal accessory has two parts. .\ccess017 to vagus in foramen : below foramen : how eniLs. Spinal part in foramen : in the neck, crosses to trapezius: snpplies muscles. Ninth nerve cliest, ajid joins tlie deep nerves to tlie licart from tlie sympathetic ; and the left nerve terminates in tlie superlicial cardiac plexus of the thorax. d. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve (lig. 25) leaves the pneumo-ga.stric trunk on the right side opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the connnon carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and between the trachea and the oesophagus.. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, where it will be afterwards traced. The following branches arise- from it:— Some cardiac hranches leave the nerve as it turns roimd the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the s^Tnpathetic. JIuscular branches spr'mg from it whilst it lies between the trachea and the cxjsopliagus, and are distributed to both those tubes. Near the laryux some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor- muscle. On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, but lies between the trachea and a'sophagus- in the neck, as on the right side. The SPINAL ACCKSSORY NEKVK (fig. 26, courscs through the foramen jugulare with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any gaiiglion. The nerve is constructed of two parts, viz., ac- cessory to the vagus, and spinal, which have a different origin and distribution. (Origin of the cranial nerves.) The part accessory to the vagus, (") is the smaller of the two, and finally blends with the pneumo-gastric beyond the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and joins the ujjper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it is continued over the lower ganglion of the nerve, and blends with the trunk beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper laryngeal branches of the pneumo- gastric, and according to Bcndz, to many other branches of that nerve. The sj^^^^ff i Pfirt (fig. 26, '-) is nnich larger, is round and cord-like, and is connected with the smaller piece whilst it is passing through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the nerve (fig. 25, 2) takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the neck to end in the trapezius muscle : at first it is concealed by tlie jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel. The connections of the nerv'c beyond the sterno-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 57). The nerve furnishos muscular ofiisets to the sterno-mastoideus and the trapezius. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis), issuing fi-om the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply betwcei the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 25, "•). It next comes forwards between the vein and artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus to which it is united. The nci-vc now