DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 148 Section XY. Directions. Dissection. Toiifiue. Situation and form. Connections of apex, and ))ase. Uii)ier .suilace. Under surface. Borders. Kinds of papillic; conical and filifonii, situation on front of tongue; funtriform DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. The tongue and larynx are to remain connected with each other whilst the student learns the general form and structure of the tongue. Dissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have been detached on the right side may he shortened, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather flattened^ with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of the surface ; but at the hinder part, and at the posterior two thirds of the under surface, it gives attachment to the muscles- and the mucous membrane which fix it to the parts around. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth ; and the base, which looks towards the pharynx, is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is somewhat convex, and is received' into the hollow of the roof of the mouth ; along the anterior two- thirds it is divided into two equal parts by a median groove, which- ends behind in a hollow named foramen caecum. This surface is covered with i:)ai5illa} over the anterior two thirds ; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular in consequence of projecting mucous glands and follicles. The imder surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous mem- brane, and to the different lingual muscles coiniected with the hyoid. bone and the jaw ; and in front of those muscles is a fold of the mucous membrane named frppnum lingua?. The borders of the tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows ; but gradually become thinner near the tip. Papilla;. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papilla?; the conical and filifonn, the fmigiform, and the circum- vallate. The conical and filiform papilla? are the numerous small projec- tions, like the villi on the mucous membrane of the small intestine,, which cover the anterior two thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papilhe (conical) are wider at their attached than at their free ends, and these are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These papilla? are furnished with minuter papilla?, and are provided at the tip with hair-like processes of the epithelium. Towards their limit behind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement. The fungiform papilla? are less numerous but larger than the pre-