DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. •386 anterior and posterior ■I'ecurreiit, a. The anterior uhuir recurrent branch (d) arises generally in common witli the next, and ascending on the brachialis anticus muscle inosculates with the small anastomotic artery beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives offsets to the contiguous muscles. b. The 2^"sterlor ulnar recurrent branch (d), of larger size than the anterior, is hiclined beneath the flexor sublimis nmscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. There it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profinidca and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve. c. The interosseous branch is a short thick trunk, about an inch long, which is directed backwards towards the interosseus membrane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous: these branches will be aftei-wards followed. metacarpal, d. The metacarjial branch arises fi-om the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of wliicli it is the inner dorsal branch. €. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carious, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. interos •seous. and carpal. 'Tlie origin and course may vary. Ulnar ner\'e in the fore- arm. Its tranches are to elbow joint, to two mus- cles of fore- arm, 'Cutaneous Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The ori'jin of the artery may be trans- feiTCcl to any point of the main vessel in the arm or axilla. Once the origin was found between tAvo and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) When it begins higher than usual it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow (only one exception, Quain), but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm ; though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. The ULNAR NERVE (fig. 81, ■*) enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the fore- arm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the arteiy. It furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as below:— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments to the joint arise. b. Muscular branches. It furnishes offsets near the elbow to two muscles of the forearm ; one enters the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the other supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand. xVbout the middle of ulnaris. Arteries: a. Radial trunk, h. Cutaneous branch of it to the palm of the hand. g. Ulnar trunk, d. Its recurrent branch. /. Branch with the median nerve, c. Anterior interosseous, g. Brachial trunk. Ncrces: 1. Jledian. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Cutaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.