DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 372 Union of the costal cartilages. Cartilages with the .stenmiii. S^'no^^al sac. Second car- tilage has a double joint. Costo- xiphoid ligament. Costal fartilagc with rib. Cartilages with QUO another. Motion. False carti- lages. Union of pieces of stemiim. Afotiiin slight. Two sets of lij^anients unite the vertebra'. How to see the several ligaments. Ligaments of the Sternal Cahtilages. The cartilag-es of the- true ribs except the first are luiited to the stenuim by a fibroiisi capsule, which covers a synovial membrane ; and externally they are joined to the osseous part of the rib. The first is generally ossified to the sternum ; and some of the lower cartilages touch each other, and are connected together by fibrous bands with synovial membranes. In the chondro-stemal articulation (fig. 51, ■*), the cartilages are received into the dei^ressions on the side of the sternum, and are fixed in their position by a capsule of surrounding fibres. In front and behind the capsule are thickened bands, wliich have been de- scribed as anterior and posterior ligaments. Between the cartilage and the bone is a synovial membrane. In the joint of the second cartilage tliere is an interarticular ligament (fig. 51, as in the head of tlie rib, which joins the caiiilage between the pieces of the sternum. A synovial sac exists^ on each side of the interarticular ligament. A separate band of fibres joins tlie cartilage of the seventh r\\> to the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xixihoid ligament. Costal cartilage vnth the rib. The bony part of the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cartilage, and the periosteum of the rib is the investing membrane between the two. Costal Cartilages to one Another. The contiguous surfaces of the costal cartilages from the sixth to the ninth are flattened, and are connected by ligamentous fibres ; each articulation is provided with a synovial membrane. Movement. There is only a limited gliding motion in the chondro- stenaal and the interchondral articulations. The second rib-cartilage joint is the most moveable. Asternal Cartilages. The cartilages of the three first false ribs, are united only by end-bands of fibrous tissue, and are freer to move than those which are attached to the sternum. The lowest two, which are separate from one another, are the least fixed of all. Articulation of the Sternum (fig. 51). As the two pieces of the bone are united by cartilage without any synovial membrane,, the kind of articulation is sometimes named synchondrosis. The articulation is strengthened by anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. Movement. In articulations through the medium of cartilage, as here and in the pelvis, there is very little motion to be perceived, even when the osseous pieces are forcibly pulled by the hands. Articulation of the Vertebr;e. The vertebraj of the spinal column arc united together by two sets of ligaments—one for the bodies, and tire other for the arch and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will suffice except for those between the first two vertebrje and the head, and in the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the preparation' of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebra. The anterior liga-