CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. 353 receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyroid, and tlic superior intercostal of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, Sometimes but descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct sepLateiy opening in the risrht auricle. When such a condition exists, the '"to the right vein takes the course of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung ; but the left vein descends in fi-ont of the root of the left huig, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch connects the two above the heart.* This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very This usual early period of the growth of the fetus ; and two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. in fetus. Chawjc of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two ♦luring the growtli of the fetus, to produce the arrangement common in the i'ji^o'^one"* adult, concern the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. ' First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innominate vein. Next the left trunk below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and imdergoes transformations at each end:—At the upper end ^''^^ coyo- it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower paii; it formed""" remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 336), is a remnant of the trunk of the vein tliat lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a vestige of the occluded vessel in the form of a fold of Vestige in the serous membrane of the pericardium in front of the root of the left lung ; ^jj^j^j^^j' this Mr. Marshall names the vcstijial fold of the pericardium (p. 333).f The INFERIOR or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon inferior as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen. The pulmonary veins are two on each side. They issue from the Four pui- fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their '"'iJIs.'^'^ position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 332. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the aorta Right veins and the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots fi-om the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one Left veins, springs from each lobe of the lung. nerves of the thorax. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera Nerves of of the thorax. Through tlie cavity courses the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for its exa- To trace the ^ nerves, * An example of two large vessels, "double vena cava," opening into the right auricle in the adult, is contained in the Museum of University College. t See a paper by Mr. Marshall on the development of the veins of the neck (Philosoph. Transac. 1850.)