DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 140 Dissection of palatine and l)r;inc-lies; l)()(ly of -anglion : Tiili;;n iicrvc. being contained in osseous canals which require to be opened. As is tlic case with other (h'ssections, the student seeks first the l)ranches, and traces these to tlie ganghon and nuiin trunk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for the display of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student may previously acquire some skill by attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches of the palate, detach the soft parts in the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nerves and vessels escaping from the posterior paliitine foramina are arrived at. Cut off, Avith a l)one forcejjs, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; aiul cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the. soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away without injury to the naso-palatine nerve ami vessels (already found), the hinder part of the loose piece of nmcous mem- brane before detached from the septum nasi, and separate the mucous mend)rane from the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind tlie s])()ngy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In re- flecting forwards the membrane many branches of vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen; but these maybe left for the present, as directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has l)een renuived behind the spongy bones, palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking carefidly through it with a chisel. Afterwards the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be foUoAved df)wn to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To Itring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the overhanging part of the s])henoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, from Avhich the vidian and pharyngeal nerves pass backAvards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek tAvo large nerves from the upper part of the ganglion to join the upper maxillary, and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the A-idiau branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the student nnist lay open the canal Avhich contains it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small i)liaryngeal branches of nerve and artery which are sui)erficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo- palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch from the vidian to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to be folloAved into the skull through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), aftei- cutting aAvay the point of the petrous portion of the temporal'bone, and dividing the internal carotid artery; and it is to be pursued on