DISSECTION OF THE KECK. 120 Blootl- vessels. Superior, Inferior, and some- times lowest tlij'roid. Veins. Superior. Infcrioi', form ii ple.xus on tracliea. Trachea lies in neck and thorax. Fonn. Cen'ical part is amongst muscles and vessels. CEsopliagus occupies neck and thorax. Position in neck and connec- tions areolar tissue unite togetlicr the vesicles into small irregular masses or lobules of the size of the little finger nail. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—sui^erior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect ; while those from the subclavians (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the body. A very free communication is established between all the vessels; and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a capillary network around the vesicles. Occasionally there is a third thyroid branch (art. thyroid, ima) which arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascend- ing in front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The vei7is are large and numerous; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 75). The inferior tliyroid vein issues from the lower part of the thyroid body, and descends on the trachea,—the two forming a plexus on tliat tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; it enters finally the innominate A^ein of its own side. The TRACHEA, or air tube, is contiimed from the larynx to the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies tlie middle line of the body, and extends com- monly from the fifth cervical to the fourth dorsal vertebra, measur- ing about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm cartilaginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the following relative position to tlie surrounding parts. Covering it in front are the small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the cesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the tracliea is described in Section XVH. The CESornAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the fifth cei-vical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax ; and occupies the middle line of the body. In length it measures about nine niches. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax, where it projects to the left side of the air tube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the ccsophagus is the longus colli muscle. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the a-sophagus Avill be examined in the dissec- tion of the thorax.