244 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Divide tlie rest of the muscle to see its insertion. Tendon of insertion of l>ectoralis. Parts covered Ity tlie muscle. Pectoralis minor arises from chest: inserted into coracoid. Connections "With parts around. Use on scapula, on Ids. cut part of the muscle, and press the limb against the edge of the table, for the pui-pose of raising the cla^^cle and rendering tight the fascia attached to that bone ; on carefully removing the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged frona the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous costo-coracoid sheath will be seen close to the clavicle, covering the axillary vessels and nen'-es. At this stage the cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses in- wards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromial thoracic artery, which perforate the tube of mem- brane around the vessels, are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut about its centre, and the pieces may be thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat coming into view is to be removed ; and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be followed to the humerus. Insertion of the pectoralis. The tendon of the pectoralis consists of two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to tlie bone ;— the anterior receives the claA-icular and uj^per sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wnde, and sends ujiM^ards one ex- pansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and another to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered by the pectoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the ])ectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOR (fig. 70, ^) resembles the preceding muscle in shape, and is extended like it fi-om the thorax to the arm. Its origin is connected by slips with the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages; and between the ribs, with the aponeu- rosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in forming the middle of the anterior boundary : in that position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- ing nerves. The upper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with the short head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis. Action. Acting with the serratus magnus it moves the scapula fonvards and somewhat downwards. In laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, as it takes its fixed point at the scapula. '