DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 214 ends in in- ferior cornu. Optic thalamus aftei-. Hippocam- pus in posterio coruu: how formed. Hippocam- pus major in lower cornu; lias a large eud and notched torder. Dissection. Structure of hippo- campus. Great trans- verse Assure is beneath fornix. witli the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white sub- stance of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the taenia is a yellowish semi- transparent layer (lamina cornea) ; and beneath this pass some small veins from the corpus striatum, in their course to the veins of Galen. The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage of the dissection, and its examination may be omitted till the third ven- tricle has been learnt. The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's spur (fig. 63, i), as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is pointed at its posterior extremity, and is covered on the free surface by a medullary layer continuous with the corpus callosum. When it is cut across a gray stratum will be found beneath the white ; and the eminence itself will be seen to be produced by the exten- sion inwards of the calcarine sulcus at the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 207). The Jiippocamjms major (fig. G3, Z) is the ciu'ved projection in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Convex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its concavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the largest, and presents two or three indentations, which give it the appearance of the foot of a feline animal; it is named pes hippocamjDi. Along the inner or concave margin is the small band or taenia (d) that is prolonged fi'om the fornix ; it ends below by joining the small recurved part of the uncinate convolution. Dissection. To examine more fully the hippocami^us, the parts • of the corpus callosum and fornix, which remain in the middle line,, should be divided longitudinally, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the bippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure yvill be manifest. The liippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a medullaiy layer, with which the ta3nia or the band of the fornix blends. On its opposite surface is the hollow of the dentate sulcus • on the exterior of the brain, Avhich is filled with gray substance. Along the fi-ee margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects- in the form of a notched ridge, the lamina dentata: this is external to the cavity of the ventricle, beneath the ta;nia, and has been named the dentate convolution (p. 208). Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. By drawing the separated right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thala- mus, and replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position, and the bomidaries of the great cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix, and opens into the lateral ventricle, on each side, along the edge of the fornix, from the fora- men of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The part