254 DISSECTIOX OF THE UPPER LIMB. course, termina- tion, and branches. Intercostal arteries branch into two: offsets. At this stage the tliorax and back are dissected. the wall of the thorax. Placed at first between the layers of the- intercostal muscles, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax, about niichvay between the spine and the sternum. Diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is con- tinued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal intercostal muscle as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends, as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The aortic intercostal arteries lie with the nerves between the strata of intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib bounding the intercostal space. About the mid point of the space (from before back) the artery bifurcates :—one branch follows the- line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib ; both, anastomose anteriorly with the intercostal offsets of the internal mammary artery. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous- nerve of the thorax ; and other branches are furnished to the thoracic wall. Directions. The dissector of the upper limb waits now the ap- pointed time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the body is turned he is to take his share in the dissection of the Back, and to proceed with the j^arts marked for liim in. Chapter Y. After the Back is finished the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through, the soft parts connected with the scapula. ^ Section II. Position. Dissection of muscles. Muscles inserted into upper margin of the scapula. into lo-wer margin ; SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS.. Position. After the limb has been separated from the trimk it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection. The different muscles that have been traced to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and the Back,, are now to be cleaned, and to be followed to their insertion into' the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining the osseous attachment. Between the larger rhomboid muscle and the serratus magnus at the base of the scapula, run the posterior scapular artery and vein whose ramifications are to be traced. * To the borders and the angles of the scapula the following muscles- are connected :— From the upper margin of the scapula arises one muscle, the omo- hyoid (fig. 73, E). At its origin that muscle is about half an inch wide ; it is attached to the edge of the bone behind the notch, and sometimes to the ligament which converts the notch into a foramen. The lower margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head of the-