CUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FRONT. 68» Cutaneous- veins : internal saphenous. nerve ceases. In the interval between the great too and the next is the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve. The digital nerves shoiild be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments : and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. Fig. 212.* The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. In- ternally and externally it unites with the saphe- nous veins. The internal saphenous vein begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It as- cends along the inner side of the foot, and in | \ front of the inner ankle to the inside of the I ■/ leg (p. 666). Branches enter it from the inner side and sole of the foot. | ]\ The external saphenous vein begins on the out- side of the little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 666). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 212). The superficial Ij-^l^" nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly fi'om branches of the popliteal 1| f^i trunks, viz. from the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial neiwes of the external jDopliteal, and from the external sajihenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets ramify on the sides of the leg fi-om the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (-) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the integument divides into as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The inner branch (^) comnuuiicates with the internal saphenous iimcr and ners^e, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it joins also the anterior tibial nerve. The outer branch divides into three nen^es ; these lie over the ""^^^^^j^ three outer interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot '''"^ for the contiguous sides of the four toes corresponding with those external saphenous. Source of the cutane- ons nerves. Musciilo- cutaneiius supplies certain toes: * Cutaneous nerves of tlie front of the leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibial. 2. Musculo-cutaneous, with 3, its inner, and, 4, its outer inecc ; the usual distribution is not shown in the cut, 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Otfsets of external poi)liteal.