DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 100 Section VIII. SUrERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. Directions. Leai-n right «rbit. Dissection of riglit wbit. Superiiir iiiaxillaiy nerve. Dissection in spli.-niax. fossa. Tn floor of tlie orbit. TJ]>pcr niax- ilkry nerve Dh-ectiontt. The sturleiit may examine next tlic right orbit, and' the remaining trunk, superior maxillaiy of the fifth nerve. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vary his former examination of the left cavity (p. 39) by dissecting it fi'om the outer side. Dissection. For this purpose divide the margin of tlie orbit with a saw tlirough the supra-orbital notch, and the roof with a chisel back to the sphenoidal fissure. Cut also with a chisel (from the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum beliind, and' outside the line of the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The' side of the skull is next to be sawn vertically in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards: the outer wall of the orbit is to be sawn horizontally into the spheno-maxillary fissure. The piece of bone forming part of the cranium and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. If the part of the roof of the orbit, which is left, should interfere with the sight of the contents of the cavity, let it be taken away with a bone-forceps. The description of the orbit (p. 40) will serve in a general way for the right cavity. The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal. The beginning of the nei-ve in the cranium has been already demonstrated (p. 17). Dissection. In the spheno-maxillary fossa the nei-ve can be partly seen by the dissection already made for the orbit, and its exposure here will be completed by removing the fat, and cutting away some of the wing of the sphenoid bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nei-ve at its exit from the skull. In the fossa the student seeks the following ofi'sets,—the orbital branch entering tlie cavity of the orbit ; branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend in the fossa ; and a dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the con- tents of the cavity having been taken a^^ ay, the bony canal in which it lies nuist be opened to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards foi some distance in the bone. The infraoi-bital vessels are prepared with the ner\'e. The SUPEKIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 24) commcnccs in the Gas- serian ganglion (p. 18), and leaves the cranium by the foramci;