nerves. PARTS UNDER GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. G41 part of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detached from the under surface, though the branches of the ghiteal vessels entering the muscle must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between the clean parts pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nei-ves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined, may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, the bursa on each promi- nence of bone will be observed. Lastly the origin of the muscle is to be removed ; and the sacral dissect out nerves are to be dissected out of the gluteus, and to be followed to iierves. the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they will be afterwards seen. Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 198). At its origin the gluteus Parts maximus rests on the peMs, and conceals part of the hip bone, f^uteus atf sacrum, and coccyx, also the ischial tuberosity with the origin of its origin the hamstring muscles, L, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, k. At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great and inser- trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus, i. Between the ^'"'^' muscle and each prominence of bone, viz. the tuberosity and the trochanter, is a large, loose synovial membrane ; and between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle and by the conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts :— part of the^ First, a portion of the gluteus medius, A ; and below it the pyi'i- "luscie. formis, B, with the supei-ficial branch (a) of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels {h)^ and the large and small sciatic nerves which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity ; and internal to the scititic are the pudic vessels and neiwe ((Z, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle ('') with its vessels, which are directed inwards through the small sacro- sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, D, with a fleshy fasciculus—the gemellus (c and e) —above and below it. Next comes the thin quadratus femoris muscle, G, Avith the upper part of the adductor magnus, H : at the upper Iborder of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator ex- ternus, F ; and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery (c) with its veins. Dissection. Tracing back the offsets of the sacral nerves which Trace sacral perfoi-ate the gluteus, and removing a fibrous stratum which covers them, the looped arrangement of the first three nerves on the great sacro-sciatic ligament will appear. Finally the nerves may be followed inwards beneath the multifidus spin» to the posterior sacral foramina. T T