DISSECTION OF THE EAE. 742 the roof; the floor. At back, opening of mastoid cells; pyramid; uneven on the surface here and there : round it the student may observe the followuig facts. The roof is flattened, and consists of the thin osseous phate sepa- rating the tympanic cavity from the cranium. The floor is narrower than the roof, and is curved over the subjacent juguLar fossa; it has more or less of an areolar condition, and some small apeilures communicate with the fossa beneath. At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large, with other small apertures, leading into the mastoid cells (fig. 237). Below those apertures, but near the inner wall and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontory, is the small conical hollow projection (e) of the pyramid ; this is perforated by Fig. 237.* an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle ; a minute canal con- nects its cavity with the aqueduct of Fallopius : sometimes a small round spiculum of bone attaches the pyramid to the promontory. In aqueduct of a line with the pyramid, and arching upwards above the fenestra Fallopius. ovalis, is a bony ridge (/) marldng the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. In front The fi'ont of the tympanic ca-sdty corresponds with the carotid tensor tym- artery, only a thin piece of bone intervening. In it are the aper- Eustachiau ^^^'^^ '^^ ^^^^ canals which lie on the outer side of the passage for tube. the vessel: the upper (li) contains the tensor tympani muscle ; and the lower (i) is the Eustachian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, which is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and is named j^rocessus cochleariformis. Some parts that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tympanic mem- brane, require separate notice. Membrana The niemhrana tympani (fig, 238, a) is a thin translucent stratum * View of the inner wall of the tympanum enlarged (Bowman), a. Promon- toiy. h. Fenestra ovalis. c. Fenestra rotunda, d. Nerve grooves on the promontory, c. Pyramid. /. Prominence of aqueduct of Fallopius. g. Open- ings of mastoid cells, h. Canal of tensor tympani. i. Osseous part of Eusta- chian tube. Ic, Internal carotid artery. I. Facial nerve.