162 its posterior tibres. Constrictor at the tongue, liow ends. Intrinsic muscles. First show inferior. then supe- rior lin- gualis. then trans- versalis. Fibres. Use. Upper lin- gualis. Origin. Fibres. 38.^ Trace the nerves. Transver- salis is hori- zontal. Attach- ments. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected nito bundles as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior hbres end on the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is prolonged from them, bcneatli the hyo-glossus, to the upper con- strictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. , n The pkcmjnqeo-cjlossus (glosso-pharyngeus), or the part ot tne upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, passes amongst fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. . , i 14: The intrinsic muscles (fig. 38) are three in number in each halt of the tongue, ^^z., transversalis, with a superior and an inferior lingualis. . n ■ ^• ^• Dissection. To complete the preparation of the infenor lingualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the gcnio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, ^) may be shown, on tl^e left side, by taking the tliin mucous mem- brane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis (fig. 38, *^') may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper sur- face the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface, the inferior linguahs and the genio-hj-o-glossus. The nen'^es of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a recent specimen would be required to follow them satisfactorily. The transversalis muscle (fig. 38, ^) forms a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curs'^ed, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-hyo- glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of these muscles the tongue is made naiTower and rounder, and is increased in length. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, noto-glossus of Zaglas) is a veiy thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the sub- mucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the frrcnum cpiglottidis, and fi-om the fascia along the middle line; from this attachment they are directed obliquely outwards, the * Intrinsic innscles of the tongue, a. Genio-liyo-glossus. B. Septum linguae, c. Transversalis. d. Inferior lingualis (Zaglas).