253 INTERNAL MAMMARY VESSELS. courses through thorax to abdomen. Tibs ; and by diminishing the size of the tliorax, it becomes an ^expiratory muscle. The internal mammary artery is a branch of the snbcLavian Internal (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartihage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch fi-om the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixtli and seventh ribs ; there it gives ex- ternally a large muscular branch (musculo-phrenic), and passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath ■^of the rectus muscle in the wall of the -abdomen. In the chest the artery lies -on the pleura and the triangularis stevni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The follow- ing Jrauf/ies take ori- /£ IHffi^ MMK^^^^^^ Branches gin in the thorax:— a. A small brand i (^comes nervi plirenici) arises as soon as the Artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm along the phrenic nerve. h. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains mediastinal, of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni nniscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, intercostal, one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating branches^ one or two opposite each space, pierce jj^^l^Ti^gg"" the internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves: the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the musouio- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the wall of l]!-",""),*^ the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm : it supplies anterior brandies to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which Veins, opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves, seen now in the anterior part of their extent, intercostal are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and supply to phrenic nerve. * View from behind of the attachments of the triangularis sterni muscle, A.