DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 226 Posterior inedullaiT veliuii. Form and attach- ments. Cerebellum is solid in- ternally. Dissection vf centre, and corpus dentatuni. White centre of cerehellum. Gives off- sets, viz., supenor peduncle Above fourth ventricle. Its fibres ]iartly de- ■cussate. • Valve of Vieussens between the two. resemLles the other lobes in structure, and may be considered a rudimentar}' lobe ; for it is divided on the surface into lamina?, and contains a white medullary centre which furnishes offsets to the laniin.T. Passing; from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior vermifonn process (nodule) is the half of a thin white layer (i), the iwsterior medullary velum, which serves as a commissure to the flocculi. On each side this band is semihmar in form. Its anterior edge is free ; but its posterior border is attached in front of the transverse furrowed band {d). In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united. Interior of the Cerebellum. In the ccrebelhnn there is not any cavitj^ or ventricle enclosed as in tlie cerebrum. In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding with that of the cere- brum, which furnishes offsets to the laminm, and to other parts of the encephalon. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminas from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accom- plished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and canying it inwards as far as the upper vermi- form process, so as to detacli the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. Medullary Centre. In the centre of each cerebellar hemisphere is a large white mass, containing in its substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are furnished to the different lamina?. And from the anterior part proceeds a large stalk-like process, the crus cerebelli, which is subdivided into three pieces or peduncles, an upper for the cerebrum, a middle piece for the pons, and a lower one for the medulla oblongata. Tlie sujjeriorpeduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is directed forwards towards the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 65,'). It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle : be- tween the processes of opposite sides the valve of Vieussens is situate. Its fibres, continuous behind with the inferior vermiform process, receive an offset from the interior of the corpus dentatum; and passing beneath the band of the fillet and the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the same side, enter the optic thalamus and are applied to the fibres of the crus cerebri (p. 220). Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the internal fibres of the peduncle are directed across the middle line, through the bundle prolonged from the fasciculus teres.* In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Between tlie superior peduncles is a thin, translucent, white layer, —the valve of Vieussens (vellum medullare anterius), which enters ♦ This intercomiuunication ^vas known to Reil, and was named " ansa" by him, b\xt the decussation has been since noticed by Stilling, Uebcr den Bau des nirnknotens: 1846.