DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 106 nen'c, furnisliiiig the external laryngeal branch ; togetlier witb pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Part in teiuponil l>oue. Offset to the tyiupauuiu. Cranial part. Internal jugular vein joins in- feriorly subclavian. Js on out- side of cai-otivls. Size. Below OS liyoiik's, is joined l>y Immelies. Ascendin*:; jiharyngeal artery gives near skull The cervical part of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does- not furnish any branch. Part in the temporal hone. In the carotid canal the winding course of the vessel commences. The arteiy first ascends in front of the inner ear (cochlea and tympanum) ; next it is directed for- wards almost horizontally ; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium opposite the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid in the bone. Whilst in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the cavity of the tympanum. The cranial imrt of the artery is described with the base of the- skull (p. 19). The iNTEiiXAL JLGLLAR VEIN is coutinuous with the lateral sinus, of the skull, and extends from the foramen jugulare nearly to the first rib. At the lower part of the neck it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein (p. 71). As far as the tliyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid arteiy ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger- intei-vening space, in which the pneumogastric nen'e with its cardiac- branch is found. The size of the upper part of the vein remains much the same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased by the addi- tion of those branches of the head and neck, con-esponding with branches of the external carotid artery, which do not join the ex- ternal jugular vein.*^' Its lower dilatation and its valves have been before referred to (p. 75). The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz. the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pliaryngeal ; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle tliyroid vein. The ascending x^harymjeal artery (fig. 25, g) is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the commence- ment of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column be- tween the internal carotid and the pharynx, the artery becomes tortuous near the skull, and enters the pharynx above the upper constrictor to end in the soft palate. In the neck the artery gives * Sometimes the tem internal cephalic is applied to the vein between tlic skul] and the hyoid bone ; and tlic name internal jugular, to the part below that bone and the junction of its large branches.