DISSECTION OF THE BKAIX. 188 Origin of The SIXTH NERVE (^), abducent nen^e of the eyeball, springs from sixth nerve, pyramidal body close to the pons, and by a second band from the lower part of the pons. from fourth Deep origin. Tlie fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through the medulla •ventricle. oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and behind the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle (p. 229). Seventh nerve has :two parts. Origin of the facial. .Small acces- sory piece. Auditory nerve. Deep origin of facial ; of au(litoi-y. Eighth nerve has three parts. Origin of glosso-pha- ryngeal, vagus. spinal acces- sory has two parts, ■accessory The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) (') appears at the lower border of the pons near the restiform body. It consists of two distinct trunks, facial and auditory ; the former being the motor nerve of the face, and the latter the special nerve of tlie organ of hearing. T!he facial nerve (portio dura, seventh nerve, Sommerring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditoiy, internal to which it is placed. It issues from the lateral tract of the medulla at the upper part, and is connected by a slip with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessory band of fibres (inter- mediate portion of Wrisberg) from the same part of the medulla, and enters the internal meatus with the auditory trunk. The auditonj nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, Sommerring) has a surface attachment to the restiform body and the floor of the fourth venti'icle. The nerve is very soft, and receives one of its names from that fact. Deep origin. The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth nerve, which it joins (Clarke*). The fasciculus of the auditonj nerve which reaches the floor of the fourth ventricle, bends backwards over the restiform body to the auditory nucleus ; and some arciform fibres out of the median sulcus are joined with this part of the root. The other fasciculus pierces the restiform body, and takes origin from a network connected with the posterior pyramid (Clarke). The EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) (^) is placed along the side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct trunks, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessorj'^: the names of the first two indicate their destination ; and the last, besides being accessory to the pneumo-gastric, supplies some muscles. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Siimmerring) is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its apparent origin is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate the lateral tract of the medulla close to the facial nen'^e. The pneumo-gastric or vagus (tenth nerve, Sommening) is con- nected with the lateral tract of the medulla, below the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve, by a series of filaments, which are collected at first into bundles, but are finally gathered into one flat band. The spinal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, Sommerring) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine filaments in a line with the root of the vagus, as low as the first cervical nerve. * On the structure of the Medulla Oblongata, by J. Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S, in the Philcsophical Transactions for 1858, part i. j • • •>