DISSECTION OF THE NECK. IIG Inferii/r iiSIlL'tioll fw neck of tirst rib. Branches to bl0(Kl- voisels, and siiiiiiil nerves, and one ciirdiac. Directions. l)e learnt in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the- n])por cardiac and recnrrent laryngeal nerves. The iNFEKioit CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size but irregular iii» shape, and occupies the inter^'al between the first rib and the lateral mass of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the- superior intercostal arter}-. Oftentimes it extends in ft-ont of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia- One or two branches sun'ound the trunk of the subclavian artery,, and supply filaments to that blood-vessel. '■'Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming a 2>lexus—vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior canliac nerve, issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent larjmgeal nerve, and enters, the thorax to tenuinate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arclii of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the- left half. Section X. Directions. Disscctinii of anterior triangle of neck ; of sealeni and .subcla- vian artery of tlioracic duct. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, tlie- ditt'erences observable between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 68 to G5) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoideus, and the depressoi' nniscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scalcni muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be learnt. The dissection, and description of the muscles on the right side (p. 65 to G7), will serve for those on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is contiguous to the part of the svibclaviaui artery inside the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjectcd it looks like a vein, rather smaller than a crow-quill; and it will be found by separating the jugular vein fi-om the carotid artery, about half an inch above the clavicle, coursing fi-om beneath the artery to end in the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle may remain articulated, in order tliat the joint may be learnt.