GLOSSO-rnARYNGEAL NERVE. pharynx ; the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno-mastoid and consists of trapezius muscles ; and the pneunio-irastric nerve descends to the . J? 1 1 trunks : Viscera or the thorax and abdomen. The OLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NKRVE (fig. 20, ') is the smallest of the Glosso-phii- three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in front l^'^^vT: of the other two, and lies in a groove in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the iias two nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being f^t.'a^Jj'e,,''' the jugular, and the lower the petrous ganglion. iiweium. ^'^ Ganglia. The jugular gamjlion^ ^, (ganglion superius) is very Its upi.cr small, and is situate at the upper part of the osseous groove con- taining the nerve. It is placed on the outer surface of the glosso- pharyngeal trunk, and includes only some fibrils of the nerve. The petroml ganglion,(gang, iuferius) is nuich larger than the pre- and lower ceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovalish in form, it is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone ; and from it spi'ing the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen it comes forwards between In the ncck- the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 25, ^), and crossing inwards over the arter}', reaches the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. At this spot the nerve becomes almost trans- courses ti' verse in direction in its course to the pharynx: it crosses over the tUe^tongm- stylo-pharyngeus, and forms an arch across the side of the neck rynx. above the superior laryngeal nerve. Finally it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those Branches connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those *"J°"' distributed in the neck. * Connecting branches arise chiefly from the petrosal ganglion ; with others, aiul in this set is the tympanic nerve. i\ filament ascends from tho st/nq)athetic nerve in the neck to join syin])athctii- the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the' '° ' ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the tipper ganglion of this nerve. The tympanic branch (fig. 20,'-) (nerve of Jacobson) enters the facial nnd apertiu-e in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid ti,"til'.'" foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it ends in branches : its distribution is given with the tympanum of the ear. a Branches for Distribution. In the neck the branches are fur- Distribuica to nished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. b. Carotid branches surround the internal artery of that name, and communicate witli the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and the ' .sympathetic nerve. c. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst the nerve is in contact with it. <h Branches to the pharynx form tlic pharyngeal plexus by uniting nn.i piiaryn- ^ . ^ ^ geal plexus, with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus.