575 INTERIOR OF URETHRAL CANAL. About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, and Openings of rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings urcteis. of the ureters (fig. 179). These excretory tubes for the urine per- forate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of one third of an inch, so that tlie reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence formed by sub- jacent muscular fibres. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra Trigone of is a smooth triangidar surface, which is named trigone (trigonum vesicae). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out hy a line on each side from the iww urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, behind, between the • openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds with the trian- part oorre- gular space externally at the base of the bladder, between the pro- exteniaify state in front and the vesiculaj and vasa deferentia on the sides. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters To expose will come into view on the removal of the mucous membrane from m-eters! the lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureters. As soon as the ureter i^ierces Muscular the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are ureters^ thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; Avhilst the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer. Bloodvessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries^ and Arteries; the termination of the veins have been detailed (p. 563). The ^oins; vessels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nen-es of supplied fx-om the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 568), are derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the Lymplmtics. glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 179). The tube of the urethra extends from the Urethra: neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average ie^„gth; length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life (Thompson). It is supported by the prostate, the triangular no^special ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is ^°*5.,i^,^ divided, as before said (p. 555), into a prostatic, a membranous, and into parts, a spongy part.. Dissection. To open the urethra, let the incision through the upper ^^^^ part of the prostate be continued onwards to the extremity along ui'ethra.''' the line of union of the urethral canal with the body of the penis. The prostatic part (fig. 179) is nearer the upper than the lower prostatic surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and a V^^'^ ■