245 COSTO-CORACOID SHEATH. Dissection. Supposing tlie clavicle raised by the pressing backwards Dissection the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels SS""'^"* will be demonstrated by niakhig a transverse cut in the costo-cora- fascia, coid membrane near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. By raising the lower border of the sub- clavius this muscle will be seen to be incased by fascia, which is attached to the bono both before and behind it. The costo-coracoul membrane, or ligament (fig. 70), is a firm Costo-cora- membranous band, which receives this name fi-om its attachment on \^^^ aue the one side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the scapula. Between those points it is inserted into the clavicle, en- conceals closing the subclavius muscle ; and is joined by the piece of fascia that incases the small pectoral muscle. From its strength and position it gives protection to tlie vessels suiTOunded by their loose sheath. When traced downwards it is found to descend on the axillary and joins vessels and nerves, joining externally the fascia on the coraco- vessels.*'^ brachialis muscle, and blending with the sheath of the axillary vessels beneath the small pectoral muscle. Its extent is not so gi'eat on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves, E, is derived from Sheath of the deep fascia of the neck, being prolonged from that on the "^^^^^^^ • scaleni muscles ; and resembles, in its form and office, the fiumel- shaped tube of membrane surrounding the femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, strongest where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior part of the ^'^^ ' tube is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromial thoracic artery (a), and the anterior thoracic nerve (^). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined. Clean the the remains of it are to be taken away; and the subclavius muscle, and the axillary vessels and nerves with their branches, arc to be carefully cleaned. The SUBCLAVIUS muscle (fig. 70, ^) is roundish in form, and is Subclavius placed between the clavicle and the rib. It arises by a tendon from the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in fi'ont of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres ascend is attached obliquely, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of a?id fet rib. the clavicle, which reaches between the two tubercles (internal and , external) for the attachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, Cormec- and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula ; but Use. if the shoulder is fixed it elevates the first rib. The AXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 70) continues the subclavian trunk Axninir to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name is applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the lower extent; border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (u).