550 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section II. Contents of the pelvis. Outline of tlieir posi- tion. Take away fascia, and clean ves- sels. The several viscera are to 1)6 cleaned. Clean pros- tate and vosicula. The perito- neum covers partly the rectum ; and partly the bladder, leaving front and lower part uncovered. Pouch be- tween the rectum and bladder: CONNECTIOXS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. If the student dissects a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 55G. ContenU and iwsition (fig. 172). The viscera in the cavity of the male pelvis are, the lower end of the large intestine (rectum); the bladder with its excretory tube—the urethra; together with some generative organs. These have the following relative situation :— The rectum (/.) is behind all, and takes a curved course, with the convexity backwai-ds, along the front of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder (a) is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland (h); and the urethra {d) cun^es forwards from it above the intestine. Beneath the bladder between it and the rectum—are the Kttle seminal sacs (</) with the vasa deferentia/. Some of these organs are partly surrounded by the peritoneum. Dissection. All the recto-vesical fascia, except the anterior true ligament of the bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum. The obliterated (hypogastric) cord from the internal iliac artery should be followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis; and the branches of the same artery to the bladder should be cleaned. When the fat has been cleared fi-om the rectum without injuring its arteries, the pouch of the peritoneum, in w4ii«h tow has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter (/i) passing to the bladder across its side. The part of the bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned, and the vas deferens (/), which Hes on the lateral aspect of the viscus, is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away -with care the remains of the sheath of the vesicula seminalis, defining at the same time the vas deferens inside the latter. The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera in the pelvis so completely as in the upper part of the abdomen. After partly surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—vieso-rectiini, the membrane clothes the back of the bladder, projecting for some way between this viscus and the rectum, where it forms the recto-vesical pouch: on each side the serous membrane is arrested by the obliterated hypogastric arterj^, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. It covers the posterior surface, and each lateral region of the bladder as far forwards as the obliterated hypogastric ; but at that cord it is reflected to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the bladder is therefore uncovered hy peritoneum ; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes, so as to allow of its being punctured in fi-ont Avithout injury to the serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch is wide beliind, where it corresponds with the interval between the iliac ai-teries, and is narrow in front