CHAMBER OF AQUEOUS HUMOUR. branches (p. 4G) ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a hue behind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflammation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring around the cornea. The posterior ciliary veins (fig. 220) are conmionly four in number, Posterior and the branches entering these trunks form arches (/^) (vasa vorti- '^'^^''^y^^"'^'- cosa) on the surface of the choroid coat: they perforate the sclerotic layer at separate points, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. Anterior cilianj veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, anterior and accompany the ai-teries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- vehls? y thalmic : they conmiunicate with the venous space of the sinus cir- \/^ cularis iridis (p. 724). Tlie ciliary nerves (fig. 229, /) arc derived from the lenticular ciliary ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 95). Entering the back of the ^^^""'^^ eyeball Avith the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid, nearly as far as the ciliary muscle: at this spot the nei-\'es send otfsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the ciliary muscle, enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unknown. Offsets fi'om the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and end in iris the choroid. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 225). The space between spape ton- the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, taiuingaque- in-i Ti -1 TI P ous humour; contams a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the letus before the seventh month this intei-val is separated into two by the iris and the pupillaiy membrane, but in the adult it is only partly is jwrtly divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boun- two by the daries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a section has been made. The anterior chamber is tlie larger part of the space; it is limited Anterior in front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. The posterior chamber (i) is a narrow interv^al behind the iris at Posterior; the circumference, Avhich is bounded in front by the iris ; behind bound- by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous humour is quite ti'ansparent, and consists nearly of Af|ucous pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. The Retina (fig. 225, c). This layer (tunica nervea) is in part Retina con- continuous with the optic ners'-e, and is the most delicate of all the opt\Tuerve/ coats of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is fonned in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an Disseetion eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To Jetiiia.'^'''^ bring it into view on the eyeball in which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully Avith two pair of forceps, AN'hilst the eye is immersed in water or spirit. The retina is the most internal of the three concentric strata in Situation iu. the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and