NERVES OF LARYNX. ternally it is connected with the thyro-aryttcnoid nuiscle. And in - feriorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid ligament, k. The edge that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds. The ligament is composed of fine Nature, elastic tissue. ' The mucous membrane of the larynx is continued from that invest- Mm ous ing the pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through the trachea, "f^ai— When entering the larynx it is stretched between the epiglottis and the tip of the aryttenoid cartilage, forming the arytaano-epiglottid fold on each side of the larjmgeal orifice : at this spot it is very Arraujic- loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the mem- '"^'^t- brane lines closely the cavity, sinks into the ventricle, and is jDro- longed into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyro-arytcsnoid liga- ments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be \'isible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the vocal cords, the Eiiithelimn epithelium is of the laminar kind, and free fi-om ci lia. But a / columnar ciliated epithelium covers the surface below the level of the superior cords, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the has difTereut cords : on the epiglottis it is ciliated in the lower half. nature. Numerous branched glands are connected with the nnicous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx ; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, ospeciallj'' at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the arytieno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (aryttenoid); and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the vocal cords, but (•lose to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laiyngis, Avhich lubricates the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves ami vessels. The termination of the laryngeal Dissection jierves may be dissected on the untouched side of the larynx. For = this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down next Avith pins ; and after the thyroid has l)een drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal inferior, nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx, and mucous membrane of the j)harynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal is to be found as it pierces the superior thyro-hyoid membrane, andbnmches of it are to be followed to the ^'"■y"«'^'''■ mucous membrane of the larynx and phar}nix. Two connnimieations are to be looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is l)eneatli the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery- accompanies each neiwe, and its offsets arc to l)c of vessels. <lissecte(l at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the larynx are the su])erior and inferior JJ^^^^^^^^ laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric (|). Ill); the former is distributed to the nmcous membrane, and the latter chiefly to the muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the ^^^^^^"ent