DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 50 Orliital branch of sujierior jiiaxillary nerve: its malar and tempo- ral oft'sets. Two brandies, temporal and malar, are to be traced fonvards fi-oni it: and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be nought in the bone ; the outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The temporo-malar or orbital hranch of the superior maxillary jici-ve (fig. 26) arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides at the back of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head with companion vessels. The malar hranch (r. subcutaneus mahe) is directed forwards through a foramen in the malar bone : after emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and conmiunicates with the facial nerve (p. 38). The temporal hranch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit ; and being joined by a filament fi-om the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit a thin fleshy layer is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the splieno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the malar branch of the temporo-nialar nerve. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 13). The lachrymal glands, puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed, and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already- described (p. 40). Dissection. A bristle should be introduced into each lachi-ymal canal through the punctum of the eyelid. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation from the ligamentum palpebrarum over the sac should be defined. The puncta lachrymalia (^) are two small apertures, one for each lid, by which the lachrymal canals receive the tears. Each is situate in the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lachry- malis. The lachrymal canals (fig. 13, ^ and a-j i^^^^ f^.^^^ ^j^^ puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac ; their situation is marked by tlie bristles inserted in them. In their coui-se inwards the canals lie along the ligamentum palpebrannn, one C) above and the other (^) below it, and they are somewhat arched with the con- cavity towards each other. Internally they open near together <lifrcremvc in into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal In the upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the lower lid. The lachrymal sac and duct (fig. 13) extend from the inner part of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac and the lower constricted end the duct. ' Orbitalis muscle attach- meuts Apiiaratns for tlie tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelid.*-'. Canals for the tears : the two lids. Receptacle of the tears,