668 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. joins that of (ijiliosite side below in a ganglion : offsets of tlie ganglia to the sjiinal nerves: to tlie hypo- gastric jilexus and the viscera. Plexuses of tlie sympa- thetic : situation : how ormcd. Offsets to tlie viscera of the male, viz.— to the rectum; to the bladder; to the pro- state gland and the penis. Offsets in the female ; to the ovaiy; to the vagina; and to the uterus : converges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which is situate a single median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varjnng from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outM-ards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray and white, and are very short: the gray cord unites the ganglion with the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the ganglion to the visceral plexus (Beck). The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches, and from the ganglion in front of the coccyx, offsets descend over that bone. The PELVIC PLEXUSES (lateral inferior hj^ogastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral pro- longations of the hj^iogastric plexus (p. 481). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is united with oft'sets of the third and fourth sacral nerves. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus of[:sets are furnished along the branches of the internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital organs; these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset from the back of the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior haamorrhoidal artery. The vesical x)lexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and loAver ]iart of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the lower pai-t of the pelvic plexus, and is distributed to the substance of the prostate. At the front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the follo\ving additional plexuses for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— Ovarian pilexus. The chief nerves to the oxtvcy are derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery of that body ; but the uterine nerves supply some filaments to it. Vaginal jjlexus. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without direct admixture with the spinal nerves : they ascend along the side of the