360 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Clianges in air tulie iu the lung. Pieces of caililage. Fibroiis and elastic tissue. Muscular libres. Mucous membrane. Lobules, how formed. Lobes. Nature and foi m of the air cells; position on air tubes. Size. Structure. Vessels of the lung. Pulmonaiy artery and vein. the elements found in the larger bronchi; and those from wliich the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with continuous walls. Changes in the bronchi. The modifications of the component parts of the bronchi are the following :—The pieces of cartilage are broken up in the smaller bronchial tubes, and are scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Becoming thinner and smaller as the sub- division of the air tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of the bronchial tubes are continued to the air cells, but in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are dif- fused, and, much chminished in strength, blend with the fibrous or areolar tissue to form the wall. The muscular fibres are diffused over the inner surface of the smaller bronchi, where they have an annular arrangement; they extend beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, but ihey cease where the cells begin to be formed. The mucous membrane becomes thinner as it extends onwards in the bronchial pieces, and is finally continued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its epithelium is columnar and ciliated in the bron- chial tubes, but is changed to squamous or laminar in the air cells. Lobules and lobes. A lobule is a cluster of air cells around a terminal branch of the air tube. Varying in size and shape, each lobule is invested by areolar tissue, and possesses its own offset of the air tube, as well as distinct branches of vessels and nerves. The lobes are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. The air cells are the little recesses or dilatations connected with the smallest branches of the air tube. They are polyhedral in form, except on the surface of the lung, and are distinct one from another, save through the channel of the air passage. The cells are clustered in groups around the teniiinal branches of the air tube, with which they communicate by large orifices. These small spaces are about of an inch across, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than in the deeper parts of the lung. The cell wall is fonned by areolar and elastic tissue, and is lined by a transparent mucous membrane possessing laminar epithelium. Beneath the mucous lining is a network of capillaries of the pulmonaiy vessels. Vessels of the Lung. Two sets of vessels are furnished to the lung, one being concerned in its fimction, the other in the nutrition. The vessels conveying blood to the lung to be aerated, and carrying that fluid away after it has been subjected to the respiratory process, are named pulmonary. The vessels connected with the nutrition of the texture are called bronchial. The pulmonary artery divides^ like the bronchus, which it accom- panies to the lobule. At the lobule the arterial branch is minutely subdivided, and its ramifications enter the interlobular fissure to end in the cell wall in the following way:—Over the bottom of the cell they form a very fine capillary network, but at the circum- ference they give rise to a circular vessel; and the circles of several cells communicate with each other. The pulmonary veins begin in the vascular network before men-