442 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Insertion into pelvis jind linea alba. disposition above and below. alternating -with similar parts of the serratus magnus, and the lowest three with digitatioiis of the latissiinus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs the fibres arc directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner:—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the iliac crest, at the outer margin: and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obliquely to the aponeurosis on the front of the belly. Aponeurosis The aponeurosis occupies the anterior part of the abdomen, in of the*'bellv*: f^'O^^t of a line from the eighth rib to the fore part of the crista ilii; and it is rather narrower about Fig. 133.* the centre, than either above or below. Along the middle line this expansion ends in the linea alba —the common point of \uiion of the aiDoneuroses of opjiosite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued on the thorax to the pectoralis major and the ribs. Below, its iibres are stronger and more sepa- rate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis :—some of them are fixed to the fi-ont of the pubes; and the rest are collected into a firm band B (Poupart's hgament) between the i^ubic spine and the iliac crest. Connections. The muscle is sub- cutaneous. Its posterior border is umittached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but is overlaid commonly by the edge of the latissimns dorsi. except a small part below. Appearing through the aponeurosis, external to the linea alba, is a white line, the hnea scnnlunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 137); and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the linefc transvers;e. Numerous small apertures in the tendon' transmit cutaiicous vessels and nerves; and near the pubes is the Abdominal large opening of the external abdominal ring, which gives passa^rg to the cord ni the male, and the round ligament in the female. ^ Action. Both muscles taking their fixed point at the pehas' will bend the trunk forwards as in stooping ; but supposing the spine actm^ from fixed they will draw down the ribs. If they act fi-om the thm-ax and thorax. ^^'^^ ^'^^^ the pelvis. * Dissection of the fir..t lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, a. External Connec- tions. Lines on the aponeu rosis: apertures iu it: nn<^ Use of both muscles.