DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 632 Use on feuiiu- hx-c and lixetl. Adductor longiis ex- teuds from ])elvis to feimu'. Its connec- tious with muscles and vessels. Use on I'enuir, ou pelvis. Dissection of accessory obturator nerve : «ut adduc- tor longus. adductor brevis: trace obturator nerve; and nen'e to kuee joint. Accessory ol)turator nerve. Action. It aclducts the limb and bends the hip-joint. When the fenuir is fixed it can suiJi^ort the pelvis in standing ; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS lies below the pectineus (iig. 194, and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a naiTow tendon from the front of the pubes below the angle of union of the crest and the symphysis; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the jDectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is- covered near the femm- by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obtu- rator nen'e, and on the deep femoral arter}'. Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of insertion Avith the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Action. With the femm- moveable, it will flex the hip-jomt, and with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards the limb, so as to cross the thigh bones. In walking it helps the other adductors to project the limb. With the femur fixed, the muscle props and tilts forwards the pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator nerve and the profmida vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting thi-ough the pectineus near the pubes, and throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small accessory nerve of the obturator wliich turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origni, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nen^e beneath : its tendon is to be detached from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda arteiy. NoAv the adductor bre\is will be laid bare. A part of the obtu- rator ner^-e crosses over this muscle to the femoral ailery, and sends an offset to the plexus at the inner side of the thigh : a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath this adductor. The muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower branch of the nerve with an artery issues. In this last step of the dissection the student should trace on and in the fibres of the ad- ductor magnus a slender articular branch of the obturator nerve to the knee. The accessory obturator nerve^ (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk of the obturator, near the lumbar plexus (p. 543), and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip-joint with the _ * This small nei-ve is often absent; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies which were examined by its discoveL The name riv u to It by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, .-iz.. nerv. ad obturatorem ac^ cessorius inconstans. Commentarius de Nervis Lumbalibus. "''^""'^"^