DISSECTION OF THE ERAm. 216 is over third ventricle; on its lateral part is the cho- roid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Vessels of the velum. Arteries; veins; with veins of Galen. Dissection. Other choroid plexuses. Third ventricle is near Tjase of brain. Roof. Floor. Parts on the sides, in front, contact with the fornix, to wliich it supphes vessels. And the lower surface, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus : underneath it in the middle line are the two choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Along each side is another vascular roll of the membrane (choroid plexus). The choroid ^ilexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 64, /) is the red, somewhat rounded, and fiinged margin of the piece of pia mater in the interior of the lateral ventricle, which extends from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower end is larger than the upper. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous; and the villi, minutely subdivided, are covered by flattened nucleated epithelium, with fat granules and pigment in the cells.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus fi-om the cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 182) : they are three on each side, and supply the sur- rounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus re- ceive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two large veins Avith this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and by this they join the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositum has been raised and tlirown backwards, the third ventricle will be ^dsible (fig. 68). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be careful be- hmd of the pineal body (gr), which would otherwise be detached, as it is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the tliird ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two short and narrow fringed bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. The third ventricle is the inter^-al between the optic thalami (fig. 68). Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, below the level of the other ventricles with which it communicates ; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communica- tions are the following :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so that the depth of the ca^dty is about an inch in front and half an inch behind • it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie be- tween the crura cerebri and the median fissure (fig. 59), \iz. locus perforatus, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic ner\'es, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the caAdty are situate the optic thalami (&). In front of the space are the descend- mg pillars of the fornix, with the anterior commissure of the cere- • * Panicles of brain sand, like that in the pineal body, are sometimes present in the choroid plexus. ^ ico^^ui.