515 STRUCT CTRE OF GALL-BLADDER. Fig, 160.* The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a cokmmar epithelium. Where the gall-bladder ends in the cj'stic duct (fig. 160) its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges resembling those in the sacculated large in- testine. The cystic duct (&) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the ductus com- mtmis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac from "which it leads, but the muscular fibres are veiy few. The mucous lining is provided with glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 514). On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to form about twelve semi- lunar projections (fig. 160, c), wliich are ar- ranged obliquely around the tube, and increase ( in size towards the gall-bladder. This struc- ture is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried; as in tliis state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Bloodressels and nerves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the A'-ena portal near the liver. The and covered by a columnar epithelium: projections of the wall. Duct of gall- bladder : structure same as sac. and is pro- vided with glands. Mucous coat like a screw. nei'ves are derived the vessels. The from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on the spinal column. Artery and vein. nerve and lymphatics. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The kidney has a characteristic fomti:—flattened on the sides, it Use and is larger at the upper than the lower extremity, and is hollowed out form, at one part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing To distjn- between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin bel-omicft.' turned to the spinal column, with the ureter or the excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour, red colour, with an even surface. Its average length is about four size, inches ; its breadth two ; and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. * Gall bladder and its duct. a. Gall bladder, h. Bile duct sacculated. c. Ridges in the interior. d. Comnaon bile duct, e. Common liepatic