3oG DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. t>yiiil>athctie in tlionix ci'iisists of a gangliateil conl, anil a ooii- tr.il canliat- liK'xns. Dissection of the l)lexns. To llnd the l iglit ]>ai t. To pxposf the h-rt. llppi) cardial' ])1<'XUS. Its situa- tion ; two parts. Hi;ilit part, hiiw fonncd JJranclies to Sympathetic Neuve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- sists of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, whiclf communicates with the spinal nerves : and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and thp- lungs. Tlie gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. Tl»e CWKDIAO PLEXUS lics at the base of the heart around the great blood-vessels. A part of this network, the superficial cardiac plexus,,has been already described (p. 337). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Directions. The cardiac i)lexus has been injured by the pre^-ious- examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire. Dissection. The arch of the aorta is to be cut across near the- heart and close above the pulmonary artery, and is to be drawni over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above- the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lower part is to be thrownf down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lym- phatic glands, the right part of the ])lexus, in which the nerves of" the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above- the right branch of the pulmonaiy arteiy. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the tnmk of the jjulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the- left side of the body enter, the arch is to be cut through a second, time, to the right of and close to the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it; and the transverse part of the arch is to bo turned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic- glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the posterior coronary plexus of the heart, are to be cleaned. Deej) cardiac lylexus. lliis large centre is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pul- monary artery. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympa- thetic of both sides of the neck, except the highest nerve of the left side : and the cardiac branches of the vagus in the neck and chest with the exception of the lowest cervical branch of the left side From it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled in ai plexifonn mass in front of the trachea ; but those of the right side unite together on the right of the air tube, and those of the left have a like junction on their side. right part of the j)lexus is placed above the right branch of the pulmonar>' artery, and receives the nerves of the right side viz. the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck ; the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, in both the neck and chest • and the cardiac offsets of the recui-rent branch. ^ The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly tc