LUMBAR ARTERIES AND VEINS. 543 A branch to the femoral artery, whose place of origin varies much, to femoral is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. -MtL-vy. f. The obturator nerve (n) appertauis to the adductor muscles of Obturator the thigh. Derived fi-om the third and fourth nerves in the plexus, Jibdomen • it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner or pelvic border ; escaped from beneath the muscle the nerve crosses the pelvic cavity below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the iu the thigh through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. ' Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— The accessory obturator verve (/) arises from the trunk of the its accessory obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its ^'"'"'^ course is along the inner border of the psoas beneath the investing inj, joint. fascia, and over the hip bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. Gangliated cord of the SYMrATHEXic, The lumbar part of the Sympa- gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen is placed on the *n the ^^^''^ side of the spinal column (tig. 170) ; it lies along the inner border abdomen of the psoas muscle, nearer the front of the vertebrte than in the ■1',''"*' ^" , T- 1, 11 1 • T , • T 1 1 tJiorax; thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava. The cord possesses four or five oblong ganglia opposite the has four or bodies of the vertebne, which supply coimecting and visceral ^^'^ a^^s^^^ ' branches. Connectinq branches. From each ganglion two small branches are hranches to ' tilt* sT)innl directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, nerves, with the lumbar artery ; these imite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long ■ in the lumbar region in consequence of the gangliated cord being raised by the psoas muscle to the fore part of the vertebras. Branches of distribution. Most of the internal branches throw ^l^^]^^^ themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebr?e and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 170, e). The anterior primary branch of the Last dorsal last dorsal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumbonmi, and beneath the fascia cover- ing that muscle, as far as the aponeurosis of the transversalis ab- course in dominis (fascia lumborum) ; here it enters the wall of the abdomen, abdomen'^ and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 450). The lowest intercostal artery accompanies it. Near the spine it funiishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle ; branch to and it may communicate by means of tliis with the first lumbar nerve. The LUMBAR ARTERIES of the aorta (p. 533), are furnished to the Lumbar Back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble Ixil'^inmxm. the aortic intercostals in their course and distributioii. Commonly four in number on each side, they arise opposite the centre of the lumbar vertebrfc, and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk ; they then pass backwards beneath the course;