110 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. tlie tonsil, :aiul the tungiie. Vagus nerve in foramen iug^ilare, :and in the Jieck, ■nonrses to tlie thorax. ■One gan- .i;lioii in foramen, nnotlier J)elo\v. Fig. 26.* 33ranclies e. Tlie tomiUitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft jialate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—cnx-nlus tonsillaris. /. Lingual hramhes. The terminal branches of the nen-e supply the root and posterior part of the tongue, as Avell as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Skction 15). The PNEUMO-GASTRic NEKVK (fig. 26, =) (vagus nerve) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal acces- soiy. In the aperture of exit it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessoiy, and swells into a ganglion nearly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). Here the ners-e lies between the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost vertically (fig. 25, ^) between the internal jugular vein and the internal and conunoii carotid arteries ; and enters that cavit}-, on the right side, by crossing over the sub- clavian artery, but beneath the innominate vein. '•■ Ganglia. The ganglion of the root (gang, superius), (fig. 20,^), is of a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Small branches in the foramen jugulare come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunh (gang, inferius), C-*) is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length ; it conmmnicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sym- pathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are suiTounded by the ganglionic substance, but those derived from the spinal accessory nerve, (") pass over the ganglion without being inclosed in it. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve may be arranged into * Diagram of tlie eighth nerve. 1. Glosso-pliaryngeal trunk. 2. Vagus. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. (5. .Jacob- son's nerve. 7. Auricular branch. 8. Root ganglion of vagus. 9. Trunk ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrosal and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Chief part of spinal a<;cessory. 13. Pharyngeal branch of vagus, 14. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus.