DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 366 may be divided; is furnished with valves, receives most lyui- jihaties. Eight duct 3s in the aieck : receives lymjihatics ■t)f one- fourth of Lody. Structiire. Thoracic cord of sympathetic has twelve ganglia. Fig. 106. J as liigli as tlic arcli. Opposite the fifth dorsal A-ertebra it passes beneatli the aortic arch, and is applied to the left side of the a'sophagns, on which it is conducted to the neck under the left 6ul)cla\ ian artery. At the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 117), to open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the tul»e is oftentimes divided in two, whicli iniite again ; or its divisions may even form a plexus. Near its termination it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at intervals, like a vein; and these are in greatest number at the upper part. Branches. In the thorax the duct re- ceives the lymphatics of the left half of the cavity, viz., from the sternal and inter- costal glands; also the lymphatics of the left lung, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and oesophagus. The right lymphatic duct (fig. 27) re- ceives large l)ranches from the viscera of the thorax. It is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 71): its open- ing is guarded by valves. Branches. Into this trunk the Ijnnphatics of the right upper limb, and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few larg-e trunks, which ascend beneath the innomi- nate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Structure of the ducts. The wall of the tube resembles that of the blood-vessels in structure (p. 118). Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve. The thoracic part of the gang- liated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and is i)laced over the heads of the ribs, and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nen'^e, but this number varies much. The upper ganglion is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the * View of tlie thoracic duct, and the intercostal veins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of the duct in the left subclavian vein. 3. Large or right azygos vein. 4. Left lower azygos or intercostal vein. 5. Left upper azygos or intercostal. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut through.