279 APONEUROSIS OF FOEEARM. process of the xilna, it joins the radial nerve in an arch across the hand and back of the hand, and is distributed to both sides of the Httle finger, m'gers. and to the ulnar side of the ring finger : it communicates with the part of the radial nerve supplying the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve furnishes branches to the same digits on the palmar surface. The aponeurosis of the forearm is continuous with a similar in- Deep fascia vestment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed ll^l'^ of fibres which cross obliquely : it furnishes sheaths to the muscles, and is thicker behind than before. Near the elbow it is stronger than towards the hand; and at that In front, part it receives fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus, and gives origin to the muscles attached to the inner con- dyle of the humerus. On the back of the limb the aponeurosis is On the back connected to the margins of the ulna, so as to leave the upper part of the bone subcutaneous ; and it is joined by fibres from the ten- don of the triceps. Horizontal processes are sent downwards from the aponeurosis to intermus- separate the superficial and deep layers of muscles, both on the front ^^^^^ pieces, and back of the forearm ; and longitudinal white bands indicate the position of the intermuscular processes which isolate one muscle from another, and give origin to the muscular fibres. At the Avrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament; and Atthewrist; near that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and receives a sheath from it. Close to the pisifprm bone there is an aperture through which the ulnar vessels and nerve enter the fat of the hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, giving rise to the posterior annular ligament; but on the back of annular the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin. ligament. Dissection. The skin is to be replaced on the back of the forearm Take away and hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. ncrvyg, and Beginning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the veins, student divide the aponeurosis as far as the wiist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous oifsets of the median and ulnar nerves near the wrist. In cleaning the muscles it vnW be impossible to remove the aponeu- rosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without detaching muscular fibres. In fi-ont of the elboAV is the hollow, already partly dissected, Clean out „ 1 « xi - J A hollow of between the two masses of muscles arismg ±i-om the mner and outer cibow. sides of the humerus. The space should be carefully cleaned, so as to display the brachial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the musculo-spiral nerve, and the recurrent radial and ulnar arteries. In the lower half of the forearm a large artery, radial, is to be laid bare along the radial border ; and at the ulnar side, close to the annular ligament, the trunk of the ulnar artery will be recognised, as it becomes superficial. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned ; but the collateral muscles should be fixed with stitches to prevent their displacement.