81 MASSETER MUSCLE. The Umporal vein commences on the side of the head (p, 6) and Comspond- is contl,i;-uons to its companion artery. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; next it receives branches which are companions of the offsets of the artery ; and it ends by tiiiiting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will not be nscd again for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the Haps of sidn, when he has applied salt to preserve it. Section YI. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are inclnded the muscles superficial to and beneath Contents of the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the articulation of that leyio"- bone. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary bloodvessels, and the inferior maxillaiy trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Dissection, bones, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the facial nerve. To see it more fully the branches of the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery should be cut through, and turned back- wards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to define the ■origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be any tow or cotton wool in the mouth let it be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 6, is partly aponeurotic at the upper Masseter. :attachment. It arises from all the lower border of the zygomatic Origin, arch, extending forwards to the upper jaw ; and from the inner •surface of the arch by fine fleshy fibres. Most of the fibres are ijiclined down and somewhat back, and are inserted into the outer Insertion. «urface of the coronoid process, ramus, and angle of the lower jaw ; but a few are fixed into the contiguous part of the body of the bone as far as the second molar tooth. Some of the hinder and deci)er fibres are inclined downwards and forwards across the •others. The lower part of the masseter is subcutaneous, but the upper is MuspIc partly concealed by the parotid gland (socia parotidis), and is J,X|Ltus'i crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and the facial ner^^e. Tlie anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat resembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ramus of the jaw, and the lies on tiie masseteric l)ranches of nerve and artery entering it at the under J'^^^- :surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterygoid in the Use. mastication of the food. Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion, the following dissection may be made :—The temporal fascia is to be