TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF ELBOW. 273 BACK OF THE ARM. Position of the i)art. How to lay bare the triceps. and separate pieces. Position. Daring the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semitlexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 79). On the back of the arm there is one muscle, the triceps, with the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profimda vessels. The skin having been reflected already, the muscle will Fig. 79.* be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, cany an inci- sion along the middle of the limb to a little below the elbow ; and in reflecting it, the sub- aponeurotic loose tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads of the muscle, and trace the musculo- spiral nerve and vessels beneath it. Define the outer head which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve appears on the outer side. The TRICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 79,) is divided superiorly into three parts or heads of origin, iimer, outer, and middle : two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle piece, or head, A, is the longest, and has a tendi- nous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of the shoulder joint. The outer head, B, is narrow and ai'ises from the back of the of outer head, * Dissection of the dorsal scapular vessels and nerve, and of the triceps muscle of the arm. Muscles : A. Long head of the triceps, b. Outer head, with a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the humerus, c. Inner head of the triceps, n. Anconeus, longus. F. Extensor carpi radialis longus. o. Teres major. H I. Infra-spinatus, cut across, j. Supra-spinatus, cut tlirough. Supra-scapular, b. Dorsal scapular, c. Posterior circumflex, Supra-scapular. 2. Posterior circumflex. Triceps muscle has tlu-ee heads. Origin ot middle head. E. Supinator Teres minor. Arteries : a. Nerves • 1.