605 AXATOMY OF SUPERFICIAL TARTS. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into the Bony emu forraation of the joint may be traced with ease. In front of the j!®'^^'^ joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella may be p^teiia perceived ; this bone is firmly fixed whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great fi-eedom when the joint is extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side condyles of of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femin*, but fifnu". that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, tliey will be conducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a Tuberosities slight hollow between the bones. Behind the joint is a slight depression over the situation of the The ham ham or po^iliteal space ; and on its sides are firm boundaries, which i^'^'""^- are formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the fiexor muscles of the leg. Dissection. With the position of the limb the same as before Dissection, directed, the student begins the dissection Avith the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be i-eflected only from the hollow on Take up the front of the thigh close below Poupart's ligament. To raise tup of\he° the skin from this part, an incision about four inches in length, and tliigh. only skin deep, is to be made fi-om the pubes along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect ; ap'^ at the upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the hip bone. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superficial fascia, forms a Superficial sreneral hivestmcnt for the limb, and is constructed of a network ^'^^^la, of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. Uow As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring regions, consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or labium, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in different bodies, according to the quantity Thickness of fat in it; and at the upper part of the thigh it is divisible into ' two strata (superficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and ifito twd'^"*^ aiiguinal glands. The superficial of the two layers is apparent after ^.^^^^jj^^ the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To reflect the superficial stratum of the fascia, in- To raise tiie cisions similar to those in the skin are to be employed, though the stratum.'^' transverse one is not to reach so low on the thigh by a cotiple of inches ; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun at the lower part, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. This layer of the fat may be thrown upwards readily, by a few touches of the knife along the middle line of the limb ; but where vessels and glands are not found, viz.,