266 DISSECTION OF THE AEM. Two exter- nal cutane- ous ol'iiius- ciilo-spirul, upper, and lower. One of nius- culo-cuta- neous. Two inter- nal cutane- ous of bradi- ial plexus: large and small. Cutaneous of niusculo- spiral. Intereosto- humeral. Deep fascia of the arm. Disposition above and below; foms inter- niusculav septa. Directions to be ob- ser^'ed. External cutankous Nervks. llie external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nei-ve are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the limb about the middle. The u]i2^er small one turns- forwards with the ccplialic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The loioer and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments, is continued to the forearm. The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. Internal cutaneous Nerves. The larger internal cutaneous nei^ve perforates the fascia in two parts, or as one trunk that divides, almost directly into two :—Its external branch passes beneath the median basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the internal winds over the inner condyle of the humerus to the back of the forearm. A cutaneous offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla,, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. The small infernal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nei-ve gives offsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces, and joins- above the elbow the inner branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. The internal cutaneous Iranch of the musculo-spiral nerve, becoming subcutaneous in the upper third, winds to the back of the arm, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The intercosto-lmmeral branch of the second intercostal nerve (p. 238), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and ramifies in the inner side and posterior surface of the ami in the upper half. But the size and distribution of the nerve will depend upon the develop- ment of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the musculo- spiral. The aponeurosis of the ann is a white shining membrane which sun-ounds the limb, and sends inwards processes between the muscles. Over the biceps nuiscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessoiy fibres from the subjacent tendons:—thus in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectorali& major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is continued to the foreann, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of the humerus so as to give rise to the intermuscular septa of the ann. Directions. As the back of the arm will not be dissected now the skin may be replaced on it until the front has been examiiied