28 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. form ftn :u-eh ill the lips. Ikanch to septum. Lateral nasal branch. Angular branch* Facial vein away from artery; ioined by i)ranches. and inferior), wliich arise together or separately from the facial^ and are directed inwards between the orbicuLir muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corres- ponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets arc supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum of the nose,—artery of the septum. The lateral nasal branch (p) arises opposite the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alajque nasi to the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the internal nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The angular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch (external jiasal) of the oiihthalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose in a small vein named angular (p. G). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and separating from the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches. At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from the lower eyelid, {inferior jialpebral) and from the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch, anterior internal maxillary, that comes from the pterygoid region ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the arterj'^ in the face and neck. The transverse facial artery (fig. 17) is a branch of the temporal,, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin from the surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united witli that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued over the face in front; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular ner\'^e will be seen ascending to the lobe of the ear ; and one or two small glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The rAROTiD (fig. 16,^°) is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of tlie gland is irregular, and is determined somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure, the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub-maxillary gland, though separated -connections; from it by a process of the cervical fascia; a line from the angle Transverse facial artery, Lay liare the parotid. Parotid "land. Irregular in shape: