298 DISSECTIOX OF THE HAND. Flexor brevis is often absent. Use. dpponens] pollicis. The FLEXOR BRKVis MINIMI DiGiTi, F, appears often to be a part of tlie abductor. Placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle, it takes ori<jm horn the tip of the process of the uncifonn bone, and slightly fi'om the annular ligament; it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies on the adductor; and near its origin it is separated from the abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. The first phalanx is moved towards the palm by this muscle, and the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is bent. The ADDUCTOR vel orroNEXs minimi digiti, g, resembles the ppponens polhcis in being attached to the metacarpal bone. Its origin is fi-om the process of the uncifonn bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament: its insertion is fixed into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The adductor is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar arteiy and nen^e pass. Action. It raises the iimer metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the palm of the hand. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be requisite to detach the orighi of the flexor brevis pollicis. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when the dissector has observed its connection Avith the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacar^Dal bones. Eadial Aktehy in the Hand (fig. 84). The radial artery enters the palm at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle : and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, with its venaj comites, forming the deep arch. The deep j^cihnar arch (c) extends from the interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, Avhere it joins the profunda communicating branch (&). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed forwards ; and its position is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the flexor brcAas pollicis. The branches of the arch are the following:— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose Avith the other carpal arteries. Perforating. h. Three perforating arteries pierce the three inner dorsal interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. Use. Dissection of deep arcli and interossei muscles. Kadial artery in hand forms deep arcli wliicli lies near cari)al bones, and Ijeneatli all muscles. Branches: Recxirrent. Inter- osseous. c. Usually there arc three ixilmar interosseous arteries (/), which occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining