287 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. "the forearm arises a small palmar branch (^), which courses on the branch of ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous offset perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. cl. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches cutaneous above the end of the ulna, and passes oblicpicly backwards beneath {'"X^of' the flexor carpi idnaris : perforating the aponeurosis it is lost on i»aud. the back of the hand and fingers (p. 278). The MEDLVN NERVE (fig. 81, ') leaves the hollow of the elbow Median l)etween the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the "^^^'^ middle line of the Hmb to the hand. It is placed beneath the £ SJT^^'^ flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, I'lycrs of ihuscIgs where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons ■of that nuiscle. Lastly the nerve passes beneath the annular liga- ment to the palm of the hand. The nei-ve supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and fm-nishes a cutaneous offset to the liand. «. Muscidar offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow. Supplies the and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except |.'ies*except the flexor carpi ulnaris ; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep one and a layer through the interosseous branch (p. 289), except the inner half of the flexor profimdus digitorum. b. The cutaneous ixilmar branch (•*) arises in the lower foiuih of a eutaneous the forearm ; it pierces the fascia near tlie annular ligament, and pahifo/*^ •crosses over that ligament to reach the palm of the hand. hand. The RADIAL NERVE is the smaller of the two branches mto which Radial nerve the musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed along ^ ^ ^ the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus ' {fig. 80), and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the ^vl•ist, where it becomes cutaneous at the {posterior border of the supinator tendon. On the surface of the limb it ends on ■divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand, and digits (3|) (p. 278). No muscular offset is furnished by the nerve. Dissection (fig. 81). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will Dissoc tion be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm layer'^of the pFonator teres ; to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, "'uscies: ■and to remove its fleshy part. The areolar tissue is to be taken from the deep muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels und nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Above the ends of the forearm-bones the arch of the anterior show caqiai carpal arteries may be defined. Deep Layer of Muscles. Only three deep muscles are present Three mus- on the front of the forearm. One lies on the ulna, and is the deep ,ieop layer, flexor of the fingers ; a second covers the radius, viz. the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which lies beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. The flexor digitorum profundus Vel PERFORANS (fig. 81, ^) arises Deep flexor ^ ° of fingers.