DISSECTIOX OF THE FKONT OF THE FOEEAEM. 282 con- Loiig palmar muscle lies over annular ligament and joins tlie fascia of palm. Use. Flexor carpi uluiuis. Origin. Insertion into pisi- fonn bone. Adjacent parts. Use. Course and extent of the radial arten". Situation in the forearm. forwards the lower end of the radius in j)ronation. Still tinning to contract, it bends the elbow. The PALMARis LONGUS (fig. 80, is often absent: or it may present great irregularity in the i^roportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. Its ori{/in is connected, like that of the preceding muscle, to the connnon tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its. long thin tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, and to join by a tendinous slip the short muscles- of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Eendering tense the palmar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the other muscles of the superficial layer. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (fig. 80, ") has an aponeurotic origin from the inner condyle of the humenis ; from the inner side of the olecranon; and from the ridge of the ulna between the internal and posterior surfaces for thi-ee fourths of the length. Most of the fibres are continued vertically downwards, but others obliquely forwards to a tendon on the anterior part of the muscle in the lower half, some joinijig it as low as the wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, an offset being sent to the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia ; and its: tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmai'is and flexor digitorimi sublimis muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the foreaiTn. Action. The wrist is bent and the hand is drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 80, ^) is one of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk; and its destination is the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearms as far as the end of the radius; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone : and it enters finally the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cir- cuitous course the artery will be found in three different dissections, viz. the fi-ont of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this part of the limb the positiom of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line fi'om the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. At first it lies on the inner side of the radius but afterwards over that bone. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artcr}', though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk ; and it is partly deep and partly superficial, but