318 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Attach- ments fliid connec- tions. Synovial iiiemLrane. Use. Bones are joined into two rows. Dissection of carpal and meta- carpal .ioints. How first row is luiited. Separate ligaments of pisiform Ijone. Second row is like first. A gliding movement. Transverse <iarpal joint, ^interior, posterior, mai" surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that point of bone. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior liga- ments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into different joints, viz., the wrist, and the lower radio-ulnar. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and ascends between the radius and the ulna: it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The use of this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 315). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands; and the two rows are connected to each other b}- separate liga- ments. Dissection. The articulation of the carpal bones with each other will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefully the whole of the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments of the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth metacarpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the metacarpal with the carpal bones and with one another should be dissected. Bones of the first row (fig. 94). The os semilunare is united to the lateral bones, viz. scaphoid and cuneiform by a dorsal (fig. 94, d)^ and a palmar transverse band ; as well as, it is said, by an interos- seous ligament at the upper jjart of the contiguous surfaces.* The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the cuneifonn by a distinct capsule and a synovial membrane (fig. 92, ^). It has further two special firm ligaments ;—one of these is attached to the process of the os unciforme, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The hones of the secoTid row are connected together in the same way as those of the first, viz. by a dorsal and a palmar band of fibres fi-om one bone to another. Between the contiguous rough surfaces of the several ossicles arc interosseous ligaments, one in each interi'al. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the interosseous ligaments uniting one to another ; and this is less in the second than in the first row. One rovy 7i;ith another (transverse carpal joint, fig. 94). The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and and two lateral ligaments. The anterior li(jament (p) consists of strong irregular fibres and intervenes between the two rows (except the pisiform) on the pal- aspect. The posterior ligament, which is longer and looser, * Interosseous ligaments in this row, distinct from the other bands, can scarcely be said to exist. posterior,