222 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. tudinal fibres may be enumerated on the upper and under surfaces of the corpus callosum, along the middle line, together with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : these fibres are connected with the anterior perforated spot of the base of the brain. Structure Structure of the optic thalamus. The thalamus is about an inch thalamus <leep, and the following is a summary of its structure, as displayed ill the previous dissections. The upper and inner half is formed chiefly of gray matter, with which the undermentioned white bands arc connected:—Thus through it pass the fornix in front, and the posterior commissure bclxind; whilst the peduncles of the pineal body lie along the inner side, and the taenia semicircularis along the outer. The lower and outer part consists mainly of wliite fibres directed upwards, and these are derived fi-om the peduncle of the cerebrum inferiorly, and fi-om the peduncle of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina superiorly : to the hinder part of them two slips of fibres are added fi-om the corpora geniculata. and of cor- The corpora geniculata contain gray substance inside. Into these Uito* bodies fibres of the optic tract enter ; and from each issues a band to join the fibres of the crus cerebri. They seem to serve as accessory ganglia to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Section of Corpus striatum. By slicing through the corona radiata on the left atmnfroin" bring into view the extraventricular nucleus of the •outside. corpus striatum, the extent and form of that mass, and the situation of the anterior commissure in it, will be apparent. Section of Crus cerebri. By a vertical section through the left peduncle of •crus ceretn. ^j^g cerebrum, the disposition and the thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres ; and the situation and extent of the locus niger between them, may be perceived. Section V. ^Prepare ■cerebellum. TarU to he separated from one ■another. Form and THE CEREBELLUM. Dissection. The cerebellum (fig. 59, h) is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife through the optic thalamus so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain united together. All the pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median fissure on the under surface; and the different bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus at the circumference, which is continued from the crus, between the upper and under surfaces. The cerebellum, httle brain (fig. 66), is flattened fi-om above down, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches across. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossae