DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 480 aiul vein -aortic jilexus. Inferior mesenteric course, .and branches. Left colic l)rancli to tlie tlesccnd- iiiK colon. Sigmoid brancli to sigmoid flexure. Branch to rectum. Inferior juesenteric vein. Veins no valves. Lymjihatic glands. Plexiises of the sympa- thetic to tlie viscera. Dissection -of aortic plexus, and On the artery and its branches the inferior mesenteric plexus of ner\'es ramifies. Tlie mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards, away from the trunk of the artery, to its junction with the splenic, or with the superior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of ner\'-es^ which is to be left miinjured. The inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 142, h) supplies branches to the part of the large intestine beyond the transverse colon ; and communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to maintain the chain of anastomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta, from one to two inches above the bifurca- tion. At first the vessel descends on the aorta, and crosses the left common iliac artery, as it courses to the pelvis to end in branches for the rectum (superior ha^morrhoidal). The following branches are furnished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. a. The left colic artery (c) ascends in front of the left kidney, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch for the supply of the descending colon : by the ascending otfset it anasto- moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. h. Tlie sicjmoid artery (d) is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding colic, and below with the hajmoirhoidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries before they reach tlie intestine. c. The superior hceniorrhoidal artery (^?) enters between the layers of the meso-rectimi, and is distributed to the lower part of the great intestine: it will be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, d) begins in the part of the great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle to open into the splenic vein be- neath the pancreas. Occasionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through those glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nkrve. The following plexuses of the sympathetic on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and in- ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to. Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have made out, already, the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses, by taking the peritoneum from the aorta