Blood-ves- sels, with lart;c meshes ami pigment cells exter- jially : caidllaries iutenially. Structure of ciliary i>ro- cesses. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the exterior and interior of the fihrous web the vessels ramify, with the following difference in their arrangement. _ At the outer part (fig. 229) the larger branches of both arteries and veins are situate ; and the veins (h) form curves (vasa vorUcosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent tnuiks. In the mterspaces of the vessels are the ramified pigment cells (fig. 228, ), which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colourmg matter. At the inner part of the choroid the vessels form a net- work of capillaries without pigment cells, and with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is described sometimes as a separate layer (tunica Ruyschiaim). In the ciliaiy processes there is a similar texture of ramihed bloodvessels though with larger capillary meshes than in the Fi<r. 220.* choroid and the intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter towards the free ends. Ciliary CiLiARY MUSCLE (fig. 229). In the eye from which the sclerotic muscle. ^.Qrj^i i^rjg hccn removed, the white band of the ciliary muscle (e) (annulus alhidus), may be seen in its natural position outside the front of the choroid coat. It consists of unstriatcd fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about •J^th of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat (fig. 229, c) : there are two sets of fibres in it, radiating and circular :— Radiating The radiating or superficial, arise in front from the sclerotic coat (fig. 225, fl), and the fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the * View of the front of the choroidal coat and iris—external sxn-face (Zinn). —a. Sclerotic, cut, and reflected, b. Choroid coat. c. Iris. d. Circular, e. Radiating fibres of ciliary muscle. /. Ciliary nerves, antl g, ciliary arteries between the two outer coats, h. Veins of the choroid coat.