COATS OF SMALL INTESTIXE. 495 end by coluiuiiar epitlielium (fig. 147, h) ; but in the closed end by some secrete flattened and granular nucleated cells, which are named 2^eptic glands, j\^fce'*^ and are supposed to give origin to the gastric fluid. Towards the pylorus the tubes are clothed throughout by colunniar epitlielium some mucus, (fig. 147, «), and secrete mucus. A columnar ejnthellum covers the surface of the mncous mem- Epithelial brane, and enters the small tubules. covering. On the attached surface of the mucous mend)rane is a thin la3^er .Suimmcous of involuntary muscular fibres, separating it from the fibrous coat: JayeJ."''" it is said to send offsets amongst the tubules. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the stomach, after supplying the Arteries, muscular coat, ramify in the submucous tissue ; from this anasto- mosis fine offsets are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous membrane, where they form a network. The veins begin veius, in the mucous membrane, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood into the portal S3'stem. Lymphatics. Two layers of absorbents, superficial and deep, exist lympliaties, in the stomach : the latter begin in a plexus beneath the tubules, nnd form a network in the fibroiis layer. Both sets leave the stomach with the bloodvessels. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sym- and nerves, pathetic (p. 490), and can be followed to the fibrous coat: small ganglia have been obser\-ed on them. SMALL INTESTINE. The three parts into which the small intestine is divided, have Ciiaracters. the following characters :— The duodenum measures as much as the breadth of twelve fingers, Lengtli, viz. about ten inches, and is more fixed than the rest of the intes- tinal tube. It is Avider than either the jejumnn or the ileum, and ^j'^ig')^')'"^. its muscular coat is also thicker. Lito it the common bile and ^ , . , , Ducts pancreatic ducts pour tiieir contents. entering it. The jejunum and the ileunt together measure about twenty feet Length, in length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the termination of the one aiul the Division, commencement of the other, but two fifths of the length are as- sio-ned to the ieiunum, and three fifths to the ileum. Between the Differences ends, however, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper ' part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower part of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structure. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same Structure, number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, mucous, and submucous. Dissection. The different laj^crs are to be examined on pieces. Dissection about three inches long, taken from the duodenum, the upper part of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut oft", they are to be distended witli air ; and the serous covering is to be torn oft" for a short distance, to show the muscular