DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 4a4 lowest. Internal iiiamniary. Epigastric anastomoses witli inter- nal mam- mary ; connections in wall of abdomen. Branches; pubic joins obturator by an offset; cremas- teric ; muscular; cutaneous. Epigastric veins. Circumflex iliac is in wall of abdomen, and anasto- moses with ilio-lumbar: muscular offsets In fi-ont they anastomose with the internal mammary and epigastric :. behind they comnmnicate with the hnnbar arteries. The lowest artery accompanies the hist intercostal nei-ve below the last rib, and is distributed with the nerve. The internal mammary artery. The abdominal branch of this vessel (p. 253) enters the wall of the abdomen beneatli the carti- lage of the seventh rib. Descending in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric aiiery. The epigastric artery (fig. 138, a) arises fi'om the external iliac about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus and divides above the umbilicus into branches which enter that muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As the arteiy courses to the rectus it passes beneath the cord, and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it soon perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the semilunar border at the posterior aspect. The branches of the artery are numerous, but inconsiderable in size :— a. The ^?m&/c branch is a small transverse artery, which runs behind Poupail's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator artery (fig. 139,/): the size of this anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric bi'anch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery to the abdominal wall, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries (p. 453), and others enter the rectus. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integuments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery ; they join finally mto one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The circuvifiex iliac artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac, opposite the epigastric, and courses aroimd the iliac crest, as tlie name expresses. Having perforated the crural sheath, it passes beneath the transversalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the hip-bone. Here it pierces the transversalis, and is continued backwards between this and the internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac artery. Its offsets are muscular and anastomotic. Branches. Near the fi-ont of the iliac crest a small branch ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastric and inteiv costal arteries.