98 Suljmaxil- lai y gan- glion ; nature; joins giista- torj', facial, DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. jranglia connected with tlic tliree trunks of the fifth nerve, and communicates with sensory, motory, and sympathetic nerves. It is smaller in size than the lenticular ganglion, is sometimes rather red, and is placed above the deep process of the submaxil- lary gland. Offsets proceed upAvards to connect it with other nen'es; and from the lower part arise the branches to the adjacent structures. _ 'Connection with nerves—roots. Two or tliree branches, m ttie form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatory nerve. and sym- jiathetic nerves. Branches. Chorda tyiiipani; eoxirse. Fig. 23.* At the posterior part the ganglion is further joined by an offset from the chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies in con- tact with the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branches. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and from the anterior part other filaments are furnished to thr mucous membrane of the mouth and the Whartonian duct. Chorda tymiKvn. Joining the gustatory above by fibrils (p. 02). it is applied to the back of that nerve till near the tongue, and can be easilj- separated from it; but beyond that point it enters amongst the fibres of the gustatory nerve and is conveyed to thi' tongue. Near the submaxillary gland an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. * Deep view of the submaxillaiy region (inustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Genio-hyo-glossus. b. Genio-hyoideus. c. Hyo-glossus. d. Stylo- glossus. E. Mylo-hyoideus reflected. H. Stylo-liyoideus. j. Posterior belly of digastricus. Nerves : 1. Gustatory. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 3. Whar- ton's duct. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 6. Hypo-glossal. 7. Upper larj-n- geal. The lingual artery ramifies in this region, lying by the side of the hypoglo.ssal nerve : the ranine offset is marked with 9.