217 THIRD VENTRICLE. brum (c) in the interval between them. Behind me the posterior ami behind, connuissure (e) and the pineal body {g). Crossing the centre of the ventricle, from one optic thalamus to anotlier, is a band of gray matter—the soft connnissure (d). This space comnumicates with the other ventricles of the brain (ipcuings in tlie following way :—In front it joins eacli lateral ventricle ieutScs through the foramen of Monro ; and in the fetus it opens into the lifth ventricle. Behind is a passage beneath the posterior commis- sure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, tliere is a depression opposite the in- Fundibulum (iter ad hifundibulum). Tlie lining of the ventricle (epcndyma) is continued into the Lining of neighboTu-ing cavities through the different apertures of comnmnica- '^'^^'•^y- tion, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Gra^/ matter of the ventricle. A stratum of gray matter covers Gray matter most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower part of each ventricle, optic thalamus it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in tlie floor of tlie cavity it exists in abun- dance, entering into the corpora albicantia. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft comviissure(d). mlssure" The anterior commissure of the cerebrum (e) is a round bundle Anterior of white hbres about as large as a crow-quill, which passes through both corpora striata, and cormects the opposite hemispheres. To see it in one half of its extent, the following dissection should be made:— Dissection. On the side on which the corpus striatum has been To see it, cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the interior of that stiiatum"^ body, by scraping away the intraventricular gray matter with the Ijandle of the scalpel. The commissure may be seen then to per- forate below the white fibres of the corpus striatum; and it should be followed through the extraventricular mass of gray matter of the same body. The anterior commissure is free in the middle line for about the Position: eighth of an inch, where it lies before the pillars of the fornix. Laterally it perforates the corpus striatum, passing in succession and course through the intraventricular gra}"- mass, the white fibres, and the extraventricular gray mass. Lastly, the commissure pierces the to hemi- white layer bounding externally the corpus striatum, and spreads ^i''"^™- in the hemisphere over the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle communicating with the temporo-sphenoidal and central lobes. The posterior commissure of the cerebrum (e) is smaller than the Po.sterioi- anterior, and is placed above the passage into the fom-th ventricle. Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus; and pierces this body to end in the hemisphere. The connections of the thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the Thalamus cerebrum (h) will be best seen on the side on which the inferior op*''^"*'- cornu of the lateral ventricle has been opened. It has the form of a cube, and bounds the lateral and third ventricles. The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral ventricle, ^^pkt^ -and is marked in front by a prominence—anterior tubercle, near