692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. and great toe : it crosses the vessels. Use on {i toe; on tibia. Extensor longus arises from fibula ; inserted into four outer toes : arrange- ment of to the surface through a sheath in the lower piece of the annular liga- ment, and continues over the inner part of the tarsus to be inserted- into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that they are crossed by it beneath the ligament. reat Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal joints, and aftenvards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on the ground and the tibia slants back- wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM (iig. 213, ") is flcshy in the leg, and tendinous on the foot, like the tibial muscle. Its origin is fi'om the head and three fourths of the narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula ; from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and about an inch (above) of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon i enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius,. and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges :— On the metatarsal phalanx the tendons of the long and short the"tendons extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales- on the toes, to form an aponeurosis ; but a tendon fi-om the short extensor is not united to the expansion on the little toe. At the further end of this phalanx the aponeurosis is diAaded into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral unite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the ungual jahalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peronei on the one side, and the tibiaHs anticus and extensor proprius polHcis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis- digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends tlie joints of the four outer toes from root to tip, as in the fingers ; and still acting, bends the ankle joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by this and the other muscles, on the front of the leg. The j>€roneus tertius is situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, from which it is seldom separate. It arises from the lower fourth of the nan-ow part of the inner surface of the fibula, fi-om the lower end of the interosseous ligament, and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle. And it is inserted into the tarsal end (upper surface) of the metatarsal, bone of the little toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the Connections of tlie muscle. Use on toes, and ankle, on the tibia. Peronetis tertius. Origin. Insertion. annular liframent. Use on ankle. Action. The muscle assists the tibialis in bending the ankle, and