is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15. HYOID AND STYLOID MUSCLES. On the liyo-glossus are placed, from below upwards, the hypo- on side or glossal nerve, the Whartoiiiau duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the hnier border of the nuisclo the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same nuiscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery Avith its vein, the stylo- hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo- glossus is the nuicous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it hi fi-ont, and some fibres of the superior con- strictor muscle covering it behind n(\ar the jaw. Between the chin and the os hyoides, along the middle line, is .ami aluni; situate the genio-hyoid muscle; and larger and deeper than it ""'-^'^^^'^ a fan-shaped nmscle, the genio-liyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the imier border of the hyo-glossns. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatory nerve ; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus runs the hyjjoglossal nerve. The HVO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (fig. 22, ') is thin and somewhat square Hyo-glossus. in shape. The nmscle arises from the lateral i^art of the body of attadnu^^^^^^^^ the OS hyoides (basio-glossus), and fi'om all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus). The two pieces form a thin sheet, and enter the back part and side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stylo- glossus.'-' The parts in contact with the surfaces of the hyo-glossus have in contact been already enumerated ; and beneath the muscle also arc piJ^s.'"'^"'^ portions of the genio-hyo-glossus and middle constrictor. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Action. When the tongue is at rest the muscle can bring that U«c: organ to the floor of the mouth, drawing down the sides and tongue free; jrivinc a rounded form to the dorsum : but if the tongue is protruded from the naouth, the fibres will retract it into that cavity. If the tongue is fixed against the roof of the mouth by other tongue muscles, even though the lower jaw is depressed, this muscle with the genio-hyo-glossus will elevate the os hyoides, and allow swahowing to take place. The STYLO-GLOSSUS (fig. 22, ■) is a slender muscle, whose attach- Styio- ments are expressed by its name. Arisinfj from the styloid process °' ^ jicar the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, tlie muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and turning to the mider surface, extends to Xwljw- the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatoiy nerve. Action. V>oi\\ muscles will raise the back of the tongue against UseofiHitii * A tliird part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and is not dis- sected ; it ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root. For furtlier details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, reference