DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 682 the otIuT tcudoiis : ligaments to temlous. Use on tlie digits witli others, and with- out. Four liuu- brieales. Attacliiiieut to toes and long tie.xor. Use on the Ijlialanyes. Flexor ac- cessorius is joined with flexor longus. , Connec- tions. Use on the toes, on long flexor. Insertion of tendon of flexor jiol- licis. Connec- tions. tendon from the flexor brevis, E. About the centre of the meta- tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor, F, is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two- nearest phalanges of the toes are ligamentous bands (lig. brevia), one to each, as in the hand; and the one fixing the flexorperforans is anterior (p. 295). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines witb the short flexor in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards,, in consequence of its oblique position in the foot. The lumhricahs (fig. 200, ") are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two tendons, with the exception of the most internal, and this is con- nected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Each is inserted by a slip into the tibial side of the base of tlie metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes, and sends an expansion to the aponeurotic covering on the dorsum of the phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. These small muscles Avill assist the flexors in bending the metatarso-plialangeal joint of the four outer toes ; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they will aid that muscle in straightening the two phalangeal joints. The accessorius muscle (fig. 209, has two heads of origin :— One is mostly tendinous, and is attached to the under or the outer- surface of the OS calcis, and to the ligamentum longum plantfe ; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner or concave surface of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands,. Avhich join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendoa going to the second, third, and fourth digits (Turner). The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve ; and the flexor brevis digitorum con- ceals it. Action. By means of its ofi'sets to the tendons of certain digits the muscle helps to bend those toes. And from its position on the outer side and behind the long flexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward action of that muscle, and Avill assist the other flexors in bending the toes directly back. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis (fig. 209, ^) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum ; and directed to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. It is united to- the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to the second and third toes (Turner). Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus ; and in the foot it occupies a