CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. ♦ Section I. Directions. Position of the body. Olrjects on the surface. Promi- nences limiting the thigh above. Hollow of Scarpa's space. Groove over femoral aitery. Position of great tro- chanter. Head of the femiir. THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. All the parts described in Section I. are to be examined before tlie time for turning the body arrives. Position. During the dissection of the front of the thigh the body lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be supported in a half-bent position by a stool beneath the foot, and should be rotated outwards to make evident a hollow at the upper part of the thigh. Surface marhing. Before any of the integument is removed from the limb, the student is to observe the chief eminences and hollows on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in front, by the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching from the crest of the hip bone to the pubes. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip bone, which subsides beliind in the sacrum and coccyx. On the inner side is the projection of the pubes, from which a line of bone (pubic arch) may be traced backAvards along the inner and upper parts of the limb to the ischial tuberosity. On the antenor aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- ment, is a slight hollow, corresponding with the triangular space of Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral artery beneath. Tlie position of the arterial trunk may be ascertained by a line from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the hip bone, to the inner condyle of the femur. At the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below and behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, the well-marked projec- tion of the gi'eat trochanter of the femur will be recognised. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, or the fingers beliind the great trochanter.