BLADDER AND URETHKA IN FEMALE. 593 at the outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous lining of the utenis, but at the outer end it joins is continu- tlie peritoneum. A cohnnnar and ciUated epithelium covers the ritoiieum?'^' surface, as in the uterus, and is said by Henle to be detected on the outer surface of the fimbria\ The hloodcessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vessels, the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the fonn and size of the female Anatomy of bladder have been detailed in the description of the connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 5G0). For a notice of its struc- ture, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 573). Dissection. To prepai'c the bladder, distend it with air, and remove rrepaiatiou the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue fi'om the muscular fibres. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been opeu it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the upper part. Urethra. The length and the connections of the excretory tube Length of rnf\ Urethra. are given m page 560. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter Size; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder: near the external apertme is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant it can he structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the |iii^^?gii corresponding passage in the male. Structure. Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like ■coat, wliicli is enveloped by a plexus of bloodvessels, and by mus- ^laie"^ cular fibre. The muscular layer extends the whole length of the urethra. Its Muscular fibres are circular, corresponding with the prostatic enlargement in euiar°fibi-es. the other sex, and continuous behind with the middle layer of the "bladder. In the perinajal ligament this stratum is covered by the constrictor urethra? as in the male (p. 435). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds; and one of these, in the floor of the | j. canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (p. 570). fl„<,r; Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards follicles and the inner end are tubular nmcous glands, whose apertures are fe'^""^^'*' arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A laminar ■epithelium is spread over the surface, and beneath it are deeper epithelium. <,-onical cells as in the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues Submucous lies close beneath the nuicous membrane, as in tlie male. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- rrcparation tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and ^"^^^t^"- the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectum. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes; Rectum like and the student may use the description in the Section on the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 572). Q Q