GUSTATOEY NEETE] 97 The Ungual arierij (fig. 17,/), arises from the external carotid Lingual between the superior thyroid and facial branches. At first it is '"'^'^'^^ directed inwards above the os hyoides, and then upwards beneath tiie toui'ue tlie hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 23) ; it ends gfysyuy'''^'"'' at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branches. Near the hyo-glossus the artery is crossed by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle constrictor and genio- hyo-glossus muscles, and is below the level of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its branches are these :— a. A small hjoid branch is distributed on the upper border of its branches the OS hyoides, supplying the muscles ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the bone^^^ superior thyroid artery of the same side. b. A branch to the doi'siini of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- to back of glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue tonj^ue; and the tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the to the sub- artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards ^^\andl to the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums and the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (9) is the terminal part of the lingual to the sub- artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio- toimio.°^ hyo-glossus to the tip of the tongue Avhere it ends. Muscular offsets are furnislied to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery lies along the fra-num lingua), but is embedded Ranine is in the muscular fibres. The lingual vein commences on both the upper and under nutrujii surfaces of the tongue. It lies with its companion artery, and vein, ends in the internal jugular vein. The GUSTATORY or LIXGUAL NERVE (fig. 23, ^) haS been followed Lingual in tlie pteiygo-maxillaiy region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 92). In this dissection the neiwc is inclined forwards to the side of the along side of tongue, across the mucous membrane of the mouth and the t""""*^ origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, it is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are furnished to the surrounding parts, thus :— "'^'^'^li ,s Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, to tlie giiu- near the gland of that name. giion. Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite to ninth in a kind of plexus with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the to mucous mouth, the gums, and the subhngual gland. Lastly, the branches for the tongue ascend through the muscular to thc^^ substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papilhe. The submaxillanj ganglion (fig. 23, ^ resembles the other n