DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 180 Cerebellum. Cerebium, divisions. Dissection of vessels of large brain; of small brain. The cerebellum, or the small brain, is separated ^^to two by ^ median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to consist ''The'rebrum, or the large brain, is divided into l;e-;YX^her a longitudinal fissure in the middle hne ; and each ^^^If is fmttie^ , „t subdi^ded into two by a transverse sulcus,—the fissure of bylyus. ^' ''''''''^,tTce^Z of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres and m fl^nt of t" pons, are several small bodies that will be afterward. , "'S^TeS. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the remains of any araclmoid membrane be removed. Ha^nng displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the meduUa oblongata, and those of the carotid nr front near the median fissure of the large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries lying in the median fissure and joining by a short brancn, next, an artery that passes outwards transversely ni the fissure ot Sylvius, and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which enters into the brain substance on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cerebellum on the same side, the last artery ot the cerebrum may be traced back along the inner aspect of the Two arteries pass out to the small brain. One on the upper surface may be brought into view on raising the cerebellum; and care is to be taken of the slender fourth nerve which lies by its side. The other artery turns inwards to the median hollow of the cerebellum, and may be easily followed. Arteries of the Brain (Fig. 52). The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery, is a branch of the subclavian^ trunk (p. 70), and enters the skull through the foramen magnum; directed upwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with its fellow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the winds round vessel winds round the upper part of the cord, it lies between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is after- wards internal to the last. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes ofEsets to the spinal cord, the dura mater, and the cerebellum. a. The posterior spinal hrancU is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the posterior part of the medulla : it descends along the anterior and side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. 1). The anterior spinal branch (") is small like the preceding, and springs fi'om the artery opposite the front of the spinal cord. It joins the (lorresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect. to dura c. The posterior meningeal artery leaves the vertebral trunk oppo- mater. Arteries of the brain. Vertebral ends in Ijasilar, medulla. Branches to spinal cord, posterior;