lU DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Other gang- lia on llftli iiurve. Dissection of uiijier HanKlion. MiiUlIe and inferior ganglion. *?ni>cnor .uanglion is Jiear skull, lieneath ■larotid. Branches vith spinal nerves, ■with cranial outside skull, and in Jugular joranien; and with the ganglia proceed connecting branches witli the spinal and most of the cervical cranial nerves ; and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck in connection with tlie three trunks of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display tlie branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generality of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their brandies have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be required, to bring them into view :—The jugular vein having been cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the truidcs of the vagus and hyjio- glossal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop of the first and second sijinal nerves. Tlie ^several branches of the ganglion are to lie traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharjaix, down along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian arter}^ is to be cut through, inside the scalemis, and drawn aside, witli,out liowever destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. The clavicle is sup- posed not to be in position. The ganglion is placed on tlie neck of the first rib; its branches are large, and are easily followed out- wards to the vertebral artery and the spinal ner\'es, and downwards to the thorax. The surERiOR cervicat. ganglion is the largest of the three, and is of a reddish-grey colour. Of a fusiform shape, it is as long as the second and third cerAncal vertebrje, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. ^ -Connedim/ branches unite the sympathetic with botli tin- spinal and tlie cranial nerves. '^Wiih the spinal nerves. Tlie four higliest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the oftset to the fourth nerve may couie from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglioii. ""With the cranial nerves. Near the slaill'tlie trunks of the va^-us (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by braiidics of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the vagus receive small filaments, one to cadi,'from an ascendino- offset of the ganglion. ^ Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by