DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 390 of com- plexus. Define off-' sets from the erector spins. Show the erector spin86 and its divisions, viz. Sacro- lumbalis: offset to the neck. Vessels and nerves. Separate spinalis dorsi; longissi- inus dorsi: and its offset to the neck. Vessels and nerves. Spinalis dorsi, along the dorsal vertebra;; neck, the splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. And whilst the large erector spinas is being displayed in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations from it to the cervical vertebra and the head are to be defined by the dissector of the neck:—One, a thin narrow muscle, the cervacalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs fi-om the outer piece of the erector (ilio-costahs), and is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger offset of the inner piece of the erector (longissimus dorsi) ; blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus, it is divided afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (trachelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (trans- versalis colli). * The serratus inferior is to be detached with the vei-tebral aponeu- rosis from the spines in the dorsal region, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spince which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is the beginning of an intermuscular interval, which divides the erector spinas into an outer piece (sacro-lumbahs), and an inner (longis- simus dorsi). By sinking the knife into this interval the sacro- lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to iincover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs: a muscular slip (cervicalis ascendens) is prolonged fi-om this to the neck. * In preparing the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external pieces of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will appear. * Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be needful to detach, and raise towards the spinous processes the thin muscular fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between that muscle and the spines of the vertebrje in the dorsal region. Then the attach- ments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrfe by rounded tendons ; and for the pur- pose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus should be drawn away from the spinous processes, and its superficial aponeurosis should be cut tlurough below the ribs, along the line of separation between the muscle and the fleshy multifidus spinas on the iimer side. From this muscle, as fi-om the sacro-lumbalis, a fleshy piece (transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into the neck. * Between the longissimus and the multifidus sj^in^ are the in- ternal pieces of the dorsal and lumbar ners'^es, and of the intercostal and lumbar arteries and veins. * The SPINALIS DORSI is placed on the side of the spines of the dorsal vertebras, and is united with the longissimus dorsi. In- feriorly it arises by tendinous processes from the spines of the last two dorsal and first two lumbar vertebras, and by fleshy fibres from the contiguous tendon of the longissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend, forming arches, whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by tendinous processes to the spines of the dorsal