DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. 64 covered by tlie common integuments, by the platysma and deep fascia, and by tlie external jugular vein and the superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle). If the nniscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following- parts :—The clavicular origin is sujierficial to the anterior scalenus and omo-liyoid muscles ; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery M'ith its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cenncal plexus, and the middle scalenus and elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skidl, on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital arter}^, and part of the parotid V gland. The sj^inal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. Use. Action. Both muscles acting bend the head forwards; but one muscle turns the face to the o])posite side. In conjunction with the muscles attached to the mastoid process one sterno-mastoideus will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoiil The OMO-HVOID MUSCLE Crosses beneath the sterno-mastoideus, befe^iis'at ^"f^ consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small round inter- the scapula, mediate tendon (fig. 14,^). The origin of the muscle from the scapula, and the connections of the posterior part, are to br and ends at studied in the dissectioii of the Back. From the intervening liyoKlbone. ^gj^^^^j^ ^y^g anterior fleshy belly (fig. 15, is directed upAvards along the outer border of the sterno-hyt)id muscle, and is inserteti into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone, close to thi great coniu. Connee- The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escapinu from beneath the sterno-mastoid ; and rests on the sterno-thyroideus. This part of the nmscle crosses the connnon carotid artery and internal jugular vein on a level Avith the cricoid cartilage. Use. Action. The aiitcrior belly depresses the hyoid bone; and tlu posterior is said by Theile to make tense the deep fascia of th( neck with Avhich it is coimcctcd. hvoiT" "^'^^ STEHNO-iivoiD Mi'SCLK (fig. 15, ") is fi flat thin band nearci mus^'k-. the middle line than the preceding. It arines from the postcrioi surface of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. Frou. this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the loAver bordei of the body of the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. IlufbeneaU. ^'"^ ""rffvce is in contact with the fascia, and is cd:'ten marked ■ by a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface Avill be found to touch the sterno-thyroideus, and the superior thyroid vessels. Tin muscles of opposite sides are separated by an interval Avhich i^ largest beloAv. Use. Action. It draAvs the os hyoides downAvards after SAvalloAvin<r • anr in laborious respiration it Avill act as an elevator of the sternum Sterno-tiiy- The STKUNO-THYROID MUSCLE is Avider and shorter than the sterno hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other hyoid muscle it arise