209 CORrUS CALLOSUM. The same steps of the dissection are to be taken on the opposite Same on side ; and the tops of the hemispheres being removed to the level of the corpus callosum, the transverse fibres of that body are to be defined as they radiate to the convolutions. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (larger oval Centrum centre), which has been named centrum ovale, Vieussens ; and the fs^deep"'^^"'^ white mass in each hemisphere is seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum reaches from the one half of the cerebrum Corpus to the other, and forais the roof of a space (lateral ventricle) in ^^1^"*^^™- each hemisphere. Between the halves of the brain, where it occu- pies the longitudinal fissure, it is of small extent, being about four inches in length, and somewhat arched from before backwards. It situation is nan-ower in front than behind, and extends nearer to the anterior ^""^ than the posterior part of the cerebrum. In front the corpus callosum is bent to the base of the brain Anterior T)fi.rt DP HQS (fig. 59, n), as before described (p. 201) ; and behind it ends in a dowTi. thick roll, which is connected with the subjacent fornix. On the upper surface the fibres are directed from the hemispheres Upper to the middle line,—the middle being transverse, but those from the anterior and posterior parts oblique. Along the centre is a ridge transverse or raphe, and close to it are two or more slight longitudinal white dimil fibres!' lines (nerves of Lancisi). Still further out may be seen other longitudinal lines (covered band,) beneath the convolution of the corpus callosum, if all of them have not been taken away in the removal of that convolution. The longitudinal fibres in the middle line are continued downwards in fi'ont, and joining the covered band or fillet are continued to the anterior perforated spot. Dissection. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, Dissection, and to bring into view the parts in contact with its under surface, a cut is to be made through it on the right side about half an inch from the central ridge ; and this is to be extended forwards and backwards, as far as the limits of the underlying ventricle. Whilst cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may observe that a thin membraniform structure lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in is thickest consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected from the ^ cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected Under part, with its under surface along the middle is the septum lucidum or partition between the ventricles (fig. 63, i), and still posterior to that is the fornix. This body is the chief commissural part of the halves of the Use. brain, and reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in the Dissection, same way as the right; and to prepare for the examination of the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the space is to be removed. A part of the ventricle extends down in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe towards the base of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to be earned outwards and