DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 338 Fomi of right auricle. Its base; Fourcavi- The CAVITIES ov THE HEART may be examined in the order in heart^""' which the cuiTent of the blood passes through them, viz. right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to to open right removed from the body. To open the right auricle, an mcisioii auricle. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^.^j^^ ^^.^^ border, and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; from the centre of that incision the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of those cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be exa- mined. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE (fig. 100) is of an irregular form,'' though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex below and to the left. The base or wider part of the ca^^ty is turned towai-ds the right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and in- ferior cava?. Between those vessels the cavity projects a little, and presents a slight elevation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near its upper part is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or auricula (/t), which will admit the tip of the httle finger. Around and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati,, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. HXiQ posterior wall corresponds for the most part with the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart, fossa ovaiis. Qn it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis (fZ), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the fetus. Inferiorly it merges into the lower cava. A thin semi-transparent structure fonns the bottom of the fossa ; and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture at its upper part. Around the upper three-fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of Annulus of muscular fibre, called annulus sen isthmus Vieussenii, Avhich is most Vieussens. prominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides in- feriorly. Apertures of Altogether at the lower part of the posterior wall is the aperture sinus p£ ^i^g coronaiy sinus (e). Other small apertures are scattered over this surface :—some lead only into depressions ; but others are the and smallest mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (vena) cordis minima)), vems. jjj^j named foramina Thebesii (/). Situation of The cliief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavse, <=ava-, coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava (a), * The term cavity of the auricle has been sometimes applied to the appendix, and the term sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle. apex. Anterior wall pre- sents auricula. Posterior waU is marked Ijv