142 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. small ; and •external lialatiiie. I'liavyiigeal braiicli. ' )il)ital bi'am-lies. Wliilst in the eaiKil, the nerve fuinishes two or more filaments {inferior naml-\) to tlie membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the month it sui)i)lies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate. The small palatine nerve, 10 (posterior), lies in the smaller canal, and ends interiorly in the soft palate, and the levator palati and azygos uvuhe muscles ; it supplies the uvula and tonsil. The external palatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distril)nted to the velum palati and the tonsil. The jiliori/ngeal branch is very small, and is directed through the pterygo-palatine canal to the nuicous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. ■f^Branrlin to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the fleshy layer of Fig. 34.* the musculua orbitalis (p. 50). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, with the spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nerve (fig. 24, receiving sensory nerve filtres through them; and through the medium of the vidian, which is descril)ed below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, nml to facial The vidian nerve (^) passes backwards through the vidian canal, thcti?'''^'^' ^'^^^ sends some small filaments, through the l)one, to the membrane through tiie of the back of the roof of the nose {upper posterior nasal branches). * Nerves of the nose and palate. 1.'Olfactory nerve. 2. Olfactory bnlb giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Foiu-tli nei-ve. 5. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the oplithalmic trunk. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nerve. 9. Larger ])alatine nerve. 10. Smaller palatine nerve, tf Na-sal nerves. Uniting Inanclus, to fifth.