FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. 585 Further, it possesses a portion of corpus spongiosum, but tliis conras structure is limited to the ghans clitoridis (c). spongiosum. Structure. The outer fibrous casing and the septum are alike in a"d erectile tissue. Fig. 183.* both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that in the male organ (p. 580). The bloodvessels of the corpus cavemosum are like those of the penis; and the glans receives the ending of the dorsal artery (p. 441). The nymphce (fig. 184, *•) (labia minora) are two folds of mucous membrane, which descend from the end of the clitoris, one on each side of the orifice of the vagina; they are continuous above with the preputial covering of the glans, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner surface is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and vagina, and the outer, with the exter- nal labium. Bloodvessels are contained in each fold. Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. Within the nymplia;, between the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. In the middle line of the vestibular space is the round orifice of the urethra, wdiicli is placed in a median eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Orifice of the vagina (fig. 184), and the hymen. The aperture of the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in size. In the child, and in the virgin, it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, named the hymen. After the destruction of that membrane small irregularly-shaped projec- tions, carunculce myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina. * Eepresentation of the clitoris, a. Crus, and b, body of the corpus caveiTiosum. c. Glans clitoridis. The lower figure shows the structure on a vertical section ; the same letters refer to like parts. Labia mi- nora de- scend from jirepuce. Vestibule. Opening of tlie uretlira. Aperture of the vagina. HjTnen and carunculaa.