SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. 401 fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the Insertiou. neural arches of the vertebrse from the second cervical to the third sacral. This muscle fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is concealed ^^"g^^' by the erector spinas and the semispinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves in the back lie along its outer border. The small muscles described below may be said to be parts of the raultifidus. Action. By the use of the muscle of both sides, the spinal column Use of both, can be extended; and by the contraction of one, the spine will be rotated in the dorsal region and the neck, the face being turned one to the opposite side. * Rotatores dorsi (Theile). These are eleven small muscles be- Rotatores neath the multifidus spinas in the dorsal region, and are separated partfof"* from that muscle by fine areolar tissue. Each is attached inferiorly inuitifldus. to the tip and upper edge of a transverse process, and superiorly to the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. Action. These small rotators will assist the larger muscle (multi- Use. fidus) in turning the trunk to the opposite side. The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector spinas is Aponeurosis fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to mI^^'^*'^' the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is united with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrae and sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being connected at the last spot with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is con- tinued some way on the surface of the erector spinee, but further on the longissimus dorsi than the ilio-costalis. Below, the latissimus dorsi and the vertebral aponeurosis blend with its cutaneous surface (p. 389). * Dissection (fig. 120). To find the branches of the sacral nerves. Dissection it will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas uerves.*^' which covers the sacrum. The first three are split into two each: their external pieces will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to be recognised. The lowest two nerves are very small, and are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spina3. They are not bifurcated like the others, but unite together, and with the coccygeal nerve in loops. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, the fifth between tlie sacrum and coccyx; and the coccygeal is still lower. Sacral Nerves (fig. 120).—The posterior primary branches of Five sacral the sacral ners^es are five in number. Four issue fi-om the spinal ""^^^^» canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the are diffor- . , \ . T, ., -1 entlydistn- common division into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal ii^t^a. nerves ; but the last two are undivided. D D