261 LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE. piece : it is connected inferiorly to the inner border of the caracoid process along the hinder half ; and superiorly to the line on the under sm-face of the clavicle which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament support the scapula in a state Usoofiiga- of rest: they serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of Fig. 75.* that bone ; thus when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and when upwards, by the conoid piece. Acromio-clavicular articulation. The articular surfaces of the Joint with claAacle and acromion pi-ocess of the scapula are retained in contact by a capsule formed of strong fibres. Some of the fibres are tliicker Capsiiie. above and below, and are considered to constitute a superior and an inferior ligament. An inter articular fihro-cartilcuje generally exists at the upper part Fibro-carti- of the joint; but sometimes it forms a complete interarticular ^"^^e, septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there ai-e two synovial ana synovial membranes present in the joint; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. Movements. In this articulation there are limited fore and back Movements and up and down movements of the scapula. Besides, there is a gliding movement of the acromion on the in rotation clavicle in rotation of the scapula. For instance, when the aero- ° ^ mion is depressed, its articular surface moves from above down at tlie fore part of the joint, and from below up at the back. When * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the shoulder joint (altered from Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Anterior ligament of the scapula. 4. Posterior scapular ligament, o. Capsule of the shoulder joint. 6. Tendon of the long head of the biceps entering the joint. 7. Tendon of the subscapularis muscle. S. Coraco- humeral ligament.