STRUCTURE OF STOMACH. The circular fibres (fig. 145, />) form tlic middle stratum, and will cin uiar, be best seen by romovinj^ the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach fi-oni tlie left to the right end of the stomach ; but at the pylorus they are most nunierous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) around the opening. The oblique fibres (fig. 145, e) are continuous with the circular or and oblique deep layer of the tosophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a kind of sphincter (^d and e) Fig. 145.* (ITcnle); but those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disapi^earing on them. Fibrous coat. By removing the muscular layer over a small space, Tlie fibrous the fibrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum of areolar T3ut*^(irni'""' tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their dis- tribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, sui)posing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous cocUwiU come into view on cutting open the stomach, Mucous* but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a recent ^"^^' stomach. This coat is a thickish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death fed, in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the colour membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is gi-eater than in childhood or old age. When folds the stomacli is contracted the membrane is thrown into nmnerous wavy ridges or ruf/rc, which become longitudinal along the great curve, towards the pylorus. • Diagram representing the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the stomach. Part of each of the two external coats is removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres, b. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus, d. Oblique fibres on tlie left of the cardiac opening, c. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the right of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach.