501 LARGE INTESTINE. Dissection. To demonstrate the areohir tissue between the coats How to see of the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out is to be "asur^^*"^ inflated forcibly ; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the in- testine may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. The branches of arteries ramify in the Arteries of submucous layer, and end in a network of small twigs in the tine^r*^^' mucous membrane, which supplies the folds, the villi, and the glands. Opposite Peyer's patches the intestine is most vascular ; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, before supplying offsets to them. The veins have their usual resemblance to the veins; companion arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial set (lymphatics) in the absorbents, muscular coat; and of a deep plexiform set (lacteals) in both the mucous and submucous layers. The tAvo sets join, and all end in larger trunks in the mesentery. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upper mesenteric Nerves form plexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, form wUhgan- plexuses with interspersed ganglia. One such plexus is contained siia. in the muscular coat between the longitudinal and circular fibres (Auerbach) ; and another is placed in the submucous layer (Meiss- ner) : they join freely by branches through the intestinal coats, and reach from the p^dorus to the extremity of the alimentary tube. Structure of the common bile duct. The bile duct consists of an Two coats external or strong fibrous layer, and of an internal or mucous coat Jhict*^ ' ^ which is lined by columnar epithelium. On the surface of the epithelium inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous ^^'^ glands, glands, which are imbedded in the fibrous coat; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between ^^^^^tof the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division and its attach- ° ment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been described (p. 470). In length this part of the alimentary canal measures about five length: or six feet,—one fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement in the ca>cum, ^^^e. and gradually decreases as far as the rectum, where there is a dilata- tion near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished by the following characters :—It is of greater capacity, being in gut, larger; some parts as large again, and is more fixed in its position : it is