rXEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. Ill tiiose uniting- it with otlier nerves, and those distrihuted to parts around. Connecting branches (fig.2G) arise from tlie ganglion of the root t«> unite with and the gangUon of the trunk of the vagus. ' '■'From the g<inglion of the root. The auricular branch, {') is the nuiipular ■chief otfset, and crosses tlie jugidar fossa to enter an aperture near ^"'""^^'^ • the root of tlie styloid process ; it traverses the siihstance of the temporal bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear. * One or two short tilaments unite this ganglion witli the spinal with .spinal •accessory nerve ; and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck sympa-'^' •enters it. Occasionally there is an 'offset, to join the lower tiietic, •(petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From the f/anglion of the trunk. Connuunicating filaments connect with ninth, "it with the hypo-glossal nerve. Other branches pass between it thetlclspinal and the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it and the nerves, •loop of the first two cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution (fig. 25). The cervical branches arise Branches to from the iiuier side of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to •'^"1^1'^^ supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. «. The pharijnrjeal branch (fig. 2G, '^) is an offset from the upper pharj-nx part of the ganglion of the trunk, and terminates in the pharynx. The nerve is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery and join (fig. 25, °), and joins the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve pi',ar;^c'eal on that vessel. Finally it courses to the side of the middle con- strictor muscle, and commimicates with liranches of the glosso- jiharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the jiharyngeal 2)lexus. From the plexus branches are furnished to the and phar3rn- constrictors and palato-glossus and pharyngeus, and to the pharyn- I'^'^'^ub. .;geal mucous membrane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. h. The superior lari/ngeal nerve (fig. 2G, is much larger than To enter the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion ■of the trunk. From this point it inclines obliquely inwards be- neath the internal carotid artery (fig. 25 "), and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid car- tilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and IS distributed to the nuicous lining of the larynx. (See " L.MiYNX.") and supply In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the fol- ' '"'^ lowing offset to one laryngeal muscle and the pharynx :— The external lannuieal branch (fig. 25, ') arises beneath the abranch 1 11^1 -1 1 outside internal carotid artery, and runs below the superior laryngeal nerve larynx to the side of the larynx. Here it gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus, and it is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus to the crico-thyroid muscle and the inferior constrictor. Near its origin to oiimi-thy- this branch communicates with the superficial cardiac branch of the l.^aryilx. sympathetic nerve. c. Cardiac branches. Some small cardiac nei"ves spring^trom the j];'",'^'^^!^^ pneumo-gastric at the upj^cr part of the neck, and join cardiac upper' "branches of the sympathetic, xit the lower part of the neck, on -"i^i lower, each side, there is a single cardiac nerve :—^the right one enters the