363 INTERCOSTAL VEINS. layer; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to tlie upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the intercostal A^ein and nerve,—the with vein vehi being commonly above, and the^ nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than tlie artery. Below the true ribs the vessels are contained partly in the thoracic Anterior and partly in the abdominal wall. Behind they have the same 1",;^'^'^;'' course and connections as the higher intercostals ; but in the wall enters wall of the abdomen they lie between the two deep nuiscles ; they will of abdomen, be noticed hereafter. Brandies are furnished to the intercostal and abdominal muscles. Offsets, and to the ribs. About the centre (from front to back) of the inter- costal space a superficial twig arises, which accompanies the cuta- neous nerve. The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses Anasto- with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian arteiy ; and "io**es. the lowest (below the true ribs) enters the abdominal wall, and anastomoses with the arteries of that part. The posterior 'branch turns backwards between a vertebra and an posterior ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the Back. J'^'''*""^'! . o _ t) ) turns to As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a small spinal the back, branch to the vertebrfB and the spinal cord. (See Vessels op the Spinal Corp.) The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in, its course and intercostal branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal bi-anch, and then joins an azygos vein. The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk (p. 71) Superior descends over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the sympathetic, and supplies a branch to the first intercostal space : ^^J'^^'J^''^ continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it spaces, anastomoses with the upper aortic l)ranch. Its intercostal ofilsets divide into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The vein accompanying the artery opens into the innominate vein its vein of the same side. The left superior intercostal vein (fig. 105, i), on the riglit foi-med by branches from the two or three highest spaces, is joined side.'^ by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. The INTERCOSTAL or azygos veins are two in number on the left, Tiirec and one on the right side, and receive branches corresponding with y^- the offsets furnished by the thoracic aorta. The Hght or larger azygos (fig. lOG, ^) begins in the lumbar veins Largo on the right side of the spine, and its origin is described with the rigift°side oi vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic ^^1''"^. opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the. thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebra?. Opposite the fourth intercostal space the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior nnd joins cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very in- cava.'"' complete, so that blood may flow either way ; and the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it.