DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 652 Limit aliove iiud below. Superficial .ind deep boundai-ies. Greatest width and deptli. Contents. Popliteal artery; extent: ]\art is in the ham, and part beyond. The part in tlie space; Fig. 200.' sartorius between them and tlie femur; and bej^ond the jonit is the inner head of the gastrocnemius (')• The upper point of the ham is hmitcd by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrmgs ; and at the lower point the heads of the gastrocnemius touch each other. Stretched across the cavity are the fascia lata and the teguments. Forming the deep boundary, or the floor, are the follo^\^ng parts,— the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and part of the pop- hteus nmscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest opposite the femoral condyles, where the muscles are most drawn to the sides ; and is deepest above the articular end of the femur. Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein ; the popliteal trunks of the great sciatic nen^e, and some of their branches; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superfi- cially in the ham; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the arteiy in the bottom of the space. The roPLiTEAL artery (fig. 200, ^) is the continuation of the femoral, and reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. A portion of the artery lies in the ham, and is uncovered by muscle ; but the rest is beneath the gastrocnemius, and beyond the limits of the popliteal space as above defined. The description of the artery may be divided therefore into two parts, corresponding with tliis difference in the connections. In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquety from the inner side of * View of the popliteal space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Intemal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimerabranosus muscle. 5. Scmitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7, 8. Inner and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial vein on the gastroc- nemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal.