374 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. arc more closely united with the inter^^ertebral substance than witb the bone. . , Dissection. To see the intei-vertebral substance, the anterior and To sec tlic intf- 1 posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra substence. should 1)0 detached from the fibro-cartilage to obtani a horizontal view of this structure ; and two other vertebrae should be sawn Inter- vertebral substance has the widtli of the bones. constituent parts; the OTiter lamina', how ari-angetl; all not vertical; the fibres of the layers cross. vertically to see the difference in the consistence and arrangement of the laminae. The intervertebral substance (lig. Ill) is placed between the con- tiguous surfaces of the bodies of the vertebne, fi'om the axis to the sacrum. It forms a flattened disc between each pair of the ver- tebr£e, and its width is detennined by the size of the bones. It is connected in front and behind Avith the anterior and posterior common ligaments, and on the sides Avith the stellate ligament of the head of the rib. By means of the dissections before made, the intei'vertebral sub- stance may be observed to consist of two distmct parts; an external, fii-m and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic (fig. 112). The outer laminar part (fig. 113, «) fonns more than half of the disc, and is composed of pieces of fibro-cartilage with layers of fibrous tissue. All the strata are arranged one within another, like the scales of an onion, and are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebra?; but all have not a vertical direction, for whilst the outer pieces are straight, the inner are bent with the convexity outwards (fig. 112) (Humphry). The laminaa do not form com- plete rings, but those composed of fibrous tissue reach farther than those of fibro-cartilage: the fi'ee ends of both layers overlap. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres ; and the fibres of one layer arc du-ected across those of another like the parts of the letter * Two views of the posterior common Hgament, c, of the bodies of the vertebrse, to show the difference in shape. A, refers to its form in the neck and B, to its shape in the loins. *