PSOAS AND ILIACUS MUSCLES. 537 The spermatic vein (fig. 169, o) enters the ubdomen by the internal Spermatic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 527). At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic arter}- ; but these soon join hi to one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at right cuds diffe- angles, and a small valve exists sometmies over the aperture ; on jefuimi" the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal veui. As I'ia'it .sides: the vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches i>iaiicUes. from the wall of the abdomen, and from the fat about the kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as in the Vein in tiic male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but occasionally there is one at its union with the renal. The renal or emuh/ent vein (fig. 169, n) is of large size, and joins Renal vein; the vena cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial''^^ to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, and joins the cava higher up usually difference on than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin ° of the superior mesenteric artery : it receives s^arate branches from the left spemiatic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared Suprarenal with the body from which it comes. The right opens into the cava, rentiy mi and the left into the renal vein. each side. The hepatic veins enter the vena cava where it is in contact with Hepatic the liver. These veins are described in the dissection of the liver (p. 509). The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the Lumbar arteries of the same name : they will be dissected after. The diaphracjviatic veins (inferior), two with each aiieiy, spring Phrenic fi-om the under surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OB' THE ABDOMEN'. Tlie deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumborum. The PSOAS MAGNUS (fig. 169, reaches from the lumbar vertebrae Psoas to the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly in the situation', thigh. The muscle arises from the fi'ont of the transverse processes of Origin: the lumbar vertebrse ; from the bodies and intervertebral discs of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebra3 by five fleshy pieces— each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebra?, and with tendinous bands over the bloodvessels opposite the middle of the vertebra?. The fibres give rise to a roundisli bell}-, wliich gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends inferiorly in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath