135 SPONGY BONES AND MEATUSES. bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels; in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the openins^ of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it are Floor, the palate and superior maxillary bones—their palate processes. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner hoimdorij (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly Inner cartilaginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the pei-pendicnlar plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the partly frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates. The irregu- lar space in fi'ont in the prepared skull is filled in the recent state partly cnrti- by the triangular cartilaye of the septum, which forms part of the ^"o'^"^'*'- partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the anterior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal l)ones, this cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge !)etween the superior maxilhe, and projects even between the carti- lages of each nostril. The septum nasi is conunonly bent to one side. The outer hoxindanj has the greatest extent and the most irregular Outer surface. Six bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwards : the nasal and superior maxillary; the small os unguis with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone ; and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the formed of nasal, ungual, and ethmoidal reach only about half way from roof '"'^"^ to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth. Altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to construct part of this boiuidary. On this wall are three convoluted osseous pieces, named spongy is irregular or turbinate hones (fig. 31), which project into the cavity:—the two onsurtace; upper (') and {^), are processes of the ethmoid, but the lo^wer one (^), g^ongy^^ is a separate bone—the inferior spongy. The spongy bones are con- ijoues; fined to a certain portion of the outer wall, and their extent would be limited by a line continued nearly vertically upwards to the roof of the cavity from both the fi'ont and back of the hard palate. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the nose is a longitu- ])resents dinal hollow or meatus ; and into these hollows the nasal duct and ''o^^"^^'^- the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces arched over by the spongy bones; and Meatuses, as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so arc the spaces beneath them. The vjU^er one (fig 31, '') is the smallest and straightest of the Upper^ three meatuses, and occupies the posterior half of the space included ' by the vertical lines before mentioned. Into it the posterior eth- moidal sinuses open at the front ; and at its posterior part, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen which nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus (fig. 31, ') is longer than the preceding ; it is Mi,i,Uc curved upwards in front, and reaches all across the space referred