DISSECTION OF THE LEG. C88 tendon of tibialis pos- ticus into tarsQS and meta- tarsus. Insertion of tendon of peroneus longus. Connec- tions. the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and over the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation to be inserted into the i^rominence of the scaphoid bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot:—One is directed backwards to the margin of the gi-oove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards :—one to the internal cuneiform bone ; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. In other words, pieces are fixed into all the tarsal bones except one (astra- galus) ; and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed beneath the articulation of the astra- galus, it contains a sesamoid bone, or fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the rERONEUS longus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on the under surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 211), it is contained in a sheath which is crossed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar hgament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Position of the imb. Raise tlie skin. Seek tlic cutaneous nerves in the leg; on the foot botli vessels and nerves: Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner part of tlie- Icg are some filaments from the great saphenous ner^'e ; and at the outer side others, still smaller, from the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, is- the musculo-cutaneous nerve, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saphenous veins. On the outer side is the external saphenous nerve ; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenous