368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. siiuiii The small splanclmic nerve l)egins in the tentli and eleventls- si-iarnhnic p-antrlia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly to ca'liac no) o Pill i.lexus; througli tlie crus of tlie diaphragm, and enters the part o± tlie solar plexus by the side of tlie ca'hac artery, smallest The smallest splanchnic nerve springs from the last ganglion,, to'renal'"*' accompanies tlie other nerves through the diajihragm : in the- plJxus. abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent^ and its place may be taken by an offset of the preceding. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Soft parts bounding the thorax. Infracostal position, attach- ments : irregulari- ties. Use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib. Connec- tions. Outer layer cxtend.s back to head of the lib. Use. Trace ncr\'es. Intercostal nerves. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles,, Avith the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside them lies a thin fleshy layer behind,—the infracostals. At the base of the thorax is the diaphragm. The INFRACOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise- from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the like surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they ar& smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. These thin muscles approach the ribs to one another, diminishing the size of the thoracic ca-saty, and act thus as expiratory muscles. Intercostal Muscles. The anterior part of the muscles has been described (p. 251); and the posterior part may be now examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches backwards; to the angle of the ribs in the middle spaces, but, higher and lower, the muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the fibres: cease, a thin fascia is continued backwards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the infracostal muscles-- have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres, cross those of the inner intercostal layer. Whilst this muscle ex- tends backwards to the tubercle of the rib, it does not reach farther fonv'ards than the rib cartilages, as before said. Action. The use of the intercostal muscles in respiration is given in p. 252. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and arterj-- traced out- wards. The intercostal nerves are the anterior primary branches of the- dorsal nerves. Twelve in number, they occupy the intercostal spaces, without communicating in a plexus ; and tlie last is placed below