55G DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. fonn aiul attiichnicnt. Corpus spongiosum siuTountls urethra, and swells into the bulb. which is lobed; and the conical glans penis. a plexus of vessels, and make up the principal part. Below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) which surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. The tegu- nientary investment, which covers the Avhole, is noticed at p. 440. The body of the penis is grooved above and below along the middle line, and is covered anteriorly by the glans penis; along its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa to the bone, the body of the penis is con- nected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. The corpus sponrjiosum urethra; encloses the urethral canal in front of the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of the penis, where it swells into the conical glans penis. The bulb (fig. 172, d) is directed backwards, slightly, below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by fil)rous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The ejaculator urinaj muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a central depression, with a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes. The glans penis (fig. 179, Z) is somewhat conical in form, and covers the truncated end of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly jn'ominent border —the corona (jlandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In tlie apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates; and below that aperture is an excava- tion, which contains the piece of the teguments named frccnuvi preputii. Section III. Contents of the female pelvis, and their situation. Use descrip- tion of male pelvis. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the lower end of the intestinal tube, and the bladder and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like cur^'e. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in fi-ont of all are the bladder and the urethral canal. Thus there are three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz. the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum ; and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface. Directions. The description in Section I. (p. 545) must be used for instructions respecting the removal of the innominate bone, and the distension of tlie viscera ; also for the muscles of the pelvic outlet and the anatomy of the fascia?. After the student has learnt the muscles and the fascia, p. 54G, which are nearly alike in both