751 SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. and horw zoutal. extremity which is called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across Form and it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -J^th of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been They are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizontal. named The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of the superior petrous part of the temporal bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, Avhilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical tube (&) is directed backwards from its posterior junction with the preceding towards the posterior sm-face of the ' temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior ver- Fig. 243.* tical canal, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal (c) has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level Avith the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining inemhrane of the osseous lahyrinth. A thin fibrous perios- teal membrane lines the vesti- bule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scala vestibuli (fig. 242, g). The outer surface of the membrane is adherent to the bone; but lias an the inner is covered by a single layer of flattened epithelium. It ^^^^ ' ^' ^ is supplied by the vestibular vessels; and it secretes a thin serous and con- tiiins fli fluid, liquor Cotunnii^ or perilymph^ which surrounds the membran- fluui. ous labyrinth, and occupies for a short distance the aqueduct: this fluid also fills the scala3 of the cochlea. Cochlea. Tliis part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior Cochlea, to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to Dissection cut or file away the bone between the promontoiy of the tympanum °^' and the meatus auditorius internus, on the preparation before used Fibrous mem!)raue lines the labyrinth; * Representation of the semicircular canals enlarged (from a model in University College Museum), a, Upper vertical; h, posterior vertical; and c, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule. Part of