DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. G46 Veins. Nerves come from sac nil l)lexus. yniall sciatic is chiefly ;i cwtajieous nerve : ends in the leg; gives branches to gluteus: cutaHeous, ascending, descending; inferior pudendal branch. Great sci- atic UGTve; outline of. Course in the but- tock, no branch in this part. Pudic nen'e space through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and is there distributed (p. 422). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacram, which anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive contributing' twigs corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Sciatic and Pudic Nerves. The nei-ves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below the pyrifonnis, are branches of the sacral plexus to the lower limb (p. 56G) ; they are furnished mostly to parts beyond the gluteal region, but a few are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The small sciatic (fig. 198,is a cutaneous nerve of the back of the thigh, for it suppHes only one muscle of the buttock. It sjirings fi-om the lower part of the sacral plexus, generally by two pieces, and takes the course of the sciatic arteiy as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, Avhere it gives many cutaneous branches : much diminished in size at that spot, the nei"\^e is continued along the back of the thigh beneath the fascia, and ends below the knee in the integuments of the back of the leg. The branches which are distributed to, or near the buttock, are muscular and cutaneous :— The muscular branches (inferior gluteal) enter the under surface of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. The cutaneous hranclies are directed upwards and downwards at the border of the gluteus:— The ascending set (fig. 197) are distributed in the fat over the lower third of the muscle. The descending set (fig. 197,-) supply the integuments of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (•'), which is larger than the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior pudendal (p. 426) ; as it courses to the perinajum, it turns below the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner part of the thigh to end in the scrotum. The great sciatic (fig. 198,") is the largest nerve in the body. It is the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous branches distributed to the limb beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the sacral plexus. It is directed through the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyrifonnis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. Fre- quently the ncrA'-e is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyrifonnis muscle. ^ The 2^udic nerve (fig. 198, •^) winds over the small sacro-sciatic ligament by the side of its companion artery, and is distributed with this vessel to the perinajum and the genital organs (p. 422). N-* branch is supplied to the buttock.