RIGHT AURICLE OF HEART. 339 Fig. 100. is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is forwards. The inferior cava (6) enters the back part of the cavity near the septum, and is directed backwards to the fossa ovaUs (d). The auriculo-ventricular opening (e) is the hvrgest of all, and is situate at the lowest part of the cavity. Between this and the septum is placed the opening of the coronary sinus (e) which is about as large as a turkey-quill. All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eusta- chian valve, which is only a remnant of a much of auriculo- ventricular opening, of coronaiy sinus. Valves of chief ai)er-. tures. Inferior cava has Eustachian valve. largrer stracture in the fetus. This valve in its perfect state is semi- lunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. It is wider than the vein opening, and its surfaces are directed for- wards and backwards : its free margin is often reticular. The aper- ture of the coronary sinus is closed by a thin fold of the lining membrane—valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with valves, which prevent blood rmming back into the auricular cavity. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle towards the ventricle. But in the fetus there are two streams in the cavity; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth approaches. The placental or pure blood entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, tlu*ough the foramen ovale in the septum; whilst the current of sys- temic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows down- wards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right ventricle, the student should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, and cut out inferiorly near the apex of the heart without injuring * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava. i. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. _ e. Opening of the coronary sinus. /. Foramina Thebesii, the openings of veins. g. Aperture of the pulmonary artery, h. Auricular appendix. z 2 one to coro- nary sinus, and to auriculo- ventricular opening. Course of blood ill auricle in adult, and in the fetus. To open right ventricle.