DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 88> Varies in its position. Branches are three sets. Those be- neath jaw. inferior dental; lias a branch to jiij'lo-hyoid nmsele. Middle meningeal artery, ends in skidl, but giyes branch to tympanum. to meatus. to dura mater. Branch with gustatory. Branches of second part are to the temporal muscle ; that bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve. Next, the vessel winds over the external ptery- goid muscle, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And lastly, the artery enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the processes of origin of the external pterygoid. The course of thi^ artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the external pterygoid :: in such a state the artery gains the spheno-maxillary fossa by comings upwards through the origin of the muscle, as in the woodcut. The branches of this artciy are very nmnerous, and arc classed into three sets : thus one set arises beneath the jaw; another between the muscles ; and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two branches, the inferior dental and middle meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery whilst it is in contact with the ramus- of the jaw. The inferior dental branch descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental ner^-e ; it supplies the teeth,, and ends in the lower part of the face. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small- twig, omjlo-hijoid branch, to the muscle of that name ; this is con- ducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the largest branch, and arises oppo- site the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle,, and (oftentimes) betAveen the roots of the aui'iculo-temjDoral nerve ; crossing the internal lateral ligament, it enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid l)one. When in the skidl the arteiy ascends to the vertex of the head, and supplies the bone and the dura mater (p. 15). Before the meningeal artery enters the- skull, it furnishes the following small branches :— a. The tympanic branch (inferior) passes into the tympannnii through the Glaserian fissure, and is distributed to the membrana tympani and that cavit3\ b. A deep auricxdar branch, arises with the former or separately,, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the- bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the membrana tympani. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses, through the foramen ovale Avith the inferior maxillary nerve ; it ramifies hi the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the internal maxHlaiy trunk, and accompanying the gustatory nerve, ends in the cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the artery, viz. whilst it is. between the temporalis and pterygoideus externus are distributed to- the temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid mnscles. The deep temporcd arteries are two in number (anterior and pos- terior) ; and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anas-