708 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Anterior ligiunent is thin and inijierfect. Posterior ligament. Intemal or deltoid ; attach- utents. External has three paiis; anterior. middle. and pos- terior : connec- tions. Open the ankle joint. Sj-novial sac. Surfaces of the hones in the joint. tibialis posticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces; and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus, should be taken away. The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular surface ; and to the upper part of the astragalus near the articulation with the scaphoid bone. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The x^osterior ligament is thinner internally than externally ; and it is inserted into the tibia and the astragalus, close to the ai-ticular surfaces of the bones. Towards the outer part it consists of trans- verse fibres, which are fixed into the hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus. The intemal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 219) is attached by its upper or pointed part to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaplioid bone, by fibres wliich radiate to their msertion in this manner :—The iwsterior Q) are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus ; the middle C'^) pass vertically to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; and the anterior (^), which are thin and oblique, join the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and the inner side of the scaphoid bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digi- torum are in contact with this ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 220) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece (^) is a short flat band, Avhich is directed fi-om the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The onicldle portion (•^) is flattened and descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior (-) is the strongest, and is almost horizontal in direc- tion ; it is connected externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the posterior part of the astra- galus behind the upper articular surface, extending to the groove for the flexor pollicis tendon. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The middle part is but slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane of the ankle joint ; and both it and the posterior piece touch the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle joint, separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the osseous surfaces entering into the joint. The synovial membrane of the joint lines the capsule, and is simple in its arrangement. Articular surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular faces, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and the other with the malleolus. On the fibula the surface of the malleolus which is turned to the astragalus is tipped Avith cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular surface, wider before than