345 AURICULAE FIBRES OF HEART. which are received into the notches of the fibrous ring, being joined thereto by fibrous tissue ; and the junction between the two is strengthened externally by the outer arterial coat and the peri- cardium, and internally by the endocardium, Behmd the aortic aperture, between it and the auriculo-ventricular Fibio-carti- orifices, is apiece of Jibro-cartilage, with wliich the fibrous rings are united. The muscular fibres belong to the involuntary class, though marked with transverse striaj, and form concentric layers, which enclose the cardiac caAnties. In the aiu-icles the fibres are separate from those in the ventricles. In the icall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. 102, a), and are best marked at the lower part, though they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. la«e. Muscular substance of heart. Disposition in tlie auricles. Fis. 102.* Besides this set there are an- nular fibres around the append- ages of the auricles, and the endings of the different veins. Lastly a few oblique fibres (c and (I) pass upwards over the auricles both in front and behind. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been leanit, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and fi-om the ante- rior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart let the student note that the anterior surface is to be z'ccogniscd by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band above about half an inch wide ; and that at the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. Separate partly the ventricles in front along the septum by dividing the band near the base, and sinking the , knife for about an inch into the groove between them. Disjoin then the aorta and pulmonary firtery along the middle line, so as to leave one attached to each ventricle as in fig. 103. To show the laminar composition of the left ventricle divide its * Muscular fibres of the auricles. /. Inferior cava, and e, superior cava of the right auricle. ^. Right, and h, left pulmonary veins of the left auricle. a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, transverse fibres of the left auricle, entering the septum auricularum. c. Oblique fibres of the left, and cl, of the right auricle. Annular fibres surround the auriculas and the veins. where they are trans- verse, annular, and oblique. Detach tlie- auricles. Partly .sej)arate ventricles. To show layers of left ventricle.