IXFEllIOR :\IAXILLARY XEllVE. 8I> toiiiosc with the superhcial teiupural artery : tlie anterior eoiimm- nieates, through the inaLir Lone, Avith branches of the lachrymal artery. AViien the parent trunlv has the nnusual position beneath the pteiygoid, the anterior branch hes under that nnisch-, instead of over it. The masseteric artenj is directed outwards with the nerve of the to the .sanie name behind the tendon of the temporal nmsele ; and passing "'"^^'-'t^''': through the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter nmsele. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the nmsele from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in the totlicbm - imusual position of the artery it may perforate the tibres of the • pterygoid ; it descends beneath the coronoid process with its com- panion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle, the cheek, and the side of the face, joining the branches of the facial artery. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position ; wliether tn ptcrygoiit derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter both pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise fi'om the arteiy when it enters the Branches (.r spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, the superior dental, will be now ouivVm'*' described. The remainder will be examined with the superior ^'o^^' «eeii. maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, vidian, and pterygo-palatine (SlXTlON 14). The superior or posterior dental branch takes origin near the top Superidi- of the upper maxilla, and descends Avith a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. It sends twigs into the foramina in the bone, and supplies the upper molar and bicuspid teeth ; but some external offsets are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the linhig membrane of the antrum. The INTERNAL MAXiLLAiiY VEIN receive the offsets accompanying i"tL>ni;ii the branches of the artery in the first two parts of its course : these vciii hcKins veins form a plexus—pterygoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, r^^'-'^ii^ and in part between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This anastomosis comnimiicates with the alveolar plexus ; with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary) ; and with the cavernous sinus iji the interior of the skull, by veinules that pass througli the base of the cranium. Escaping from the plexus, the vein accompanies the artery to ""'^^^'''^l^ tlie parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein,— jugular, the union ( f the two giving rise to the external jugular. Some- times this common vessel enters the internal jugular vein (p. 29). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 21) is the largest of the . three trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves uervc. the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides beneath the external pterygoid muscle into two chief pieces, viz. an anterior, small, moto-sensory part; and a large, posterior, chiefly sensory portion.