INTERCOSTAL NERVES, 369 the twelfth rib. The upper six lie between the ribs, and are confined Upper six to the wall of the thorax : whilst the lower six are prolono^ed into i!f.noL the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. Upper six. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and sub- Coimec- jacent fascia and the external intercostal muscle, with an artery and Xscies"' vein ; but they enter soon between the intercostals and extend forwards to the middle line of the body. Near the head of the rib each is joined by filaments from the sympathetic. In its course witii sympa- each supplies hranches to the intercostal muscles and the ribs, and cutaneous offsets to the surface ; these are described in the dis- Offsets, sections of the upper limb and wall of the abdomen. There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the ^Exceptions , ., m first two. arrangement aboA'e specified. The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the liighest rib, fn^j.g"^^^*^ and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it mostly bra- supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which furnishes "^^"'^^ plexus, muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous offset from this branch, except in those cases in wliich the second nei-ve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 238). In front it ends like the others. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the muscle is Upper sur- tendinous, and the sides are fleshy. In contact with the upper diaphragm, surface are the lungs laterally, and the pericardium in the middle: the phrenic vessels and nerves pierce this surface, external to the ^^^^^j^^ pericardium. In the diaphragm are the following apertures :—one ^pg^.^^^rgg for the oesophagus and the pneumogastric ners'es, a second for the in it. vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azygos, and a fourth on each side for the splanclmic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diaphragm towards the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 327). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the "^^^ '^i??®"' examination of the Back is made. Aftei-wards he is to learn the Back is uow ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in the following Section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. Tlie ligaments of the vertebrje, ribs, and sternum, arc included in this Section. Articulation of the Ribs. The osseous part of each rib is united to the spinal column on the one side, and the rib cartilage on the the verte- B B