191 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA. with those of the spinal cord (fig. 54) ; cand sHght grooves indica- tive of these divisions are to be seen on the surface. Thus at the niiddle hne in front is the anterior pyramid (') corresponding with the anterior coknnn of the cord ; at the middle line behind is the small posterior pyramid (■*) continuous witli the posterior median column. On the side is the larger projecting restiform body (^), joining below the posterior column of the cord; and between this and the anterior pyramid is the lateral tract (^), with an oval pro- jecting body (corpus olivare) (') on the exterior, which blends below with the lateral column. The anterior pyramid (fig. 54, ^) is the most internal eminence Anterior and receives its name from its position and form. Situate on the f/most^ side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, fi-om interual. Avhich it is separated by a slight groove. Enlarging as it ascends, this body enters the pons, but, before disappearing beneath the transverse fibres, it is somewhat constricted and rounded. Lateral tract and olivari/ body. The lateral tract (funiculus Lateral lateralis) (-) fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body. Its surface Avidth is not the same throughout : opposite the lower part of the medulla oblongata it measures as much as the pj-ramid ; but near the pons it is concealed by the varies in olivary body, so that it is seen only in the narrow interval between ^^^^ • the outer side of the corpus olivare and the restiform body. The olivaiy body (corpus olivare) (*) is an oval projection, about olivary half an inch long. A shallow groove separates it from tlie pyramid, -and a deeper and wider one intervenes between it and tlie restiform reach pons, body. This eminence is shorter than the pyramid, and does not reacli to the pons. Its upper end is most prominent ; and arching some arclied round the lower end, and over the surface, are some white fibres fibres. (fibrn3 arciformes). Restiform body (^). The restifomn body (restis, a rope) forms Eestifonn the largest prominence on the half of the medulla oblongata, and i^^vgest' ^^^^ cannot be seen satisfactorily except on a distinct preparation. It pi«ce. is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects on the side, so as to give the width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. Beliind, the restiform bodies diverge above fi-om each other, and between them is the space of the fourth ventricle. The 2^osterior j^yrainid (funic, gracilis) (fig. 55, ') lies along the Posterior «ide of the posterior median fissure, and is much nari-ower than eu'so"', ' either of the other component pieces. By drawing forwards the j|"jfj[j[^°'" medulla it will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex fissure, of the fourth ventricle, and tlien to l>ecomc gradually indistinct along the inner part of the corpus restiforme. Structure. From the interposition of the medulla oblongata be- structure, tween the brain and the spinal cord, it is continuous with both. Below, the constituent pieces of tlie half join directly (as before said) those of the spinal cord ; but, above, they are continued chiefly to the cerebrum, only one piece (restiform) entering the cerebellum. Dissection (fig. 56). The student has now to show the continuity Dissection