CHAPTER YII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 1 Section I. PERINJEU:\[ OF THE MALE. Directions. The perinajum may be allotted with greatest advan- Before the tage to the dissector of the abdomen ; and its examination should pligg^^cathe- be made first, as the distinctness of many of the parts is destroyed ter. soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student may practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. Whilst the body lies on the Back it is to be piacc the <lrawn to the end of the dissecting table, till the buttocks project J^osition f?lightly over the edge ; and a moderately-sized block is to be placed beneath the pelvis, to raise the perinfBum to a convenient height. The legs are to be raised and kept out of the way by the following and fasten means :—After the knees have been bent, and the thighs bent thrie^t^ upon the trunk, the limbs are to be fastened with a cord in their raised position. For this purpose make one or two turns of the ■cord round one bent knee (say the right) ; carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. When the position has been -arranged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small piece of cotton wool or tow within the anus, but let him avoid distending the rectum. Superficial limits and marldng. The peiingeal space in the male is The surface, limited, on the surface of the body, by the scrotum in front, and by limits, the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. This region is of a dark colour, and is covered with hairs. In the middle line is the aperture of the anus, wliich is posterior to a The anus, line extended from the anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In fi'ont of the anus the surface is slightly convex •over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent line or ra/;/ie, the ruiihc, which divides this part of the space into two halves. Between the hoUow on anus and the tuberosity of the hip bone the surface is somewhat" ■depressed over the hollow of tlie subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous converging £ E