INTERNAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. 157 Action. Rotating- the aryt;T2noid cartila^^e by moving inwards the Use. projection on the outer part of the base, it replaces the cartilage after this has been everted by the crico-arytajnoideus posticus. It may also approach the one vocal cord to the other, and so narrow the glottis. The THYRO-ARYT.KNOIDEUS MUSCLE (fig. 41) extends irom the thyroid to the aryttTnoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the ilepth, and from the crico-thyroid liga- ment. Tlie fibres are di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations ; — The external,ascend somewhat, and are inserted into the upper part of the outer sur- face of the aiytivnoid carti- lage, and blend with the depressor of the epiglottis. The hiternal and lower fibres, are transverse, and fonii a thick bundle, which is in- serted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, and into the outer surface. By its outer surface the nuiscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the laiynx and the pouch. Action. It moves foi'wards the aryta^noid cartilage towards the Use on cord.. thyroid, and relaxes the vocal cord. By a thin band of fibres along the upper edge the rima glottidis can be narrowed, and the cord put into the vocalizing position. The DEPRESSOU OF THE EriGLOTTIS (fig. 41, ^) (thyro-arytaiUO- Dopressor of epiglottideus) is a thin muscular layer by the side of the upper''1''!'''"'^'''*' opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise posteriorly from the front of origin, the ar} ta3noid cartilage, some being continuous below with fibres of the aryta?noid and thyro-arytienoid muscles ; and anteriorly by a narrow slip from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line. From those attachments the fibres turn upwards Avith very different * View of the intemal muscles of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroideus detached. 2. Crico-arytfenoideus posticus. 3. Crico-arytienoideus lateralis. 4. Tliyro- arytienoideus, superficial part. 5. Depressor of tlie epiglottis. 6. ThjTO- hyoideus, cut. 8. Deep or transverse part of thyro-arytajnoideus.