INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 459 -within out, on a director placed beneath it. With the view of avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Other deslgnatiom. This kind of hernia has other names applied Terms ap- to it sometimes by surgeons, according as it has passed certain Inguinal ' points in the wall of the abdomen. If the intestine remains in the i"^""* inguinal canal, the tenu bubmocele is applied to the swelling ; but position if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to the tumour. Varieties of the external hernia. There are two varieties of the Two oblique inguinal heniia (congenital and infantile), which are distin- guished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Congenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the congenital infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it ^ the tube of peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle from the iww con- abdomen in the fetus, remaining unclosed, the intestine descends • into a sac already fonned for its reception. As it takes the course of the inguinal canal, it will possess the coverings coverings before enumerated for the external hernia ; and it passes and course, at the first to the bottom of the sci'otum, instead of being arrested at the top of the testis. ' With care it may be distinguished, whilst it is of moderate size. Diagnosis., by its position in fi'ont of the testicle. For the seat, cause, and division of the strictui'e, refer to what is Stricture, before stated for external hernia. Infantile hernia is much rarer than congenital, and cannot be infantile distinguished from the common external hernia during life. It was lirst recognised in the yoimg child, and received its name from that circumstance ; but, like the congenital, it may be met with in the adult. Its chief differential character is derived from the state of the peritoneum. The peritoneum has the following condition :—the tube of that membrane jjassing with the testicle in the fetus, is closed only at the internal abdominal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of the spermatic cord, and may occupy the inguinal canal. With this state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia witli its coverings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane. In this way there will be two sacs ; an anterior (the tunica vagi- nalis), containing serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. The infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by knowu the knife opening the tunica vaginalis. The operator then proceeds ' to lay bare the neck of the hinder or heniial sac, and to treat the stricture of it as before described (p. 458). The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course thi-ough the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be better understood after the examination of the part of the abdommal wall through which it passes.