DISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 138 Olfaftorial cells. Glands. Dissoption of iier\c.s and vessels. Olfactory iieiTC is distri- Inited to olfaetoiy reL'ioii. Ending. in the cavity, and it is colinnnar on the surface, but not ciliateff, Beneatli the surface layer are strata of grannies and ovalisli cells ("), amongst wliicli sink the pointed or attached ends of the pieces of epithelium. Around the pieces of the columnar epithelium stand numerous, bodies named olfactorial cells hy Schultze (fig. 32 B. ^). They con- sist of small spindle-shaped nucleated cells, with a rounded filament prolonged from each end towards the attached and free surfaces of the mucous membrane : that to the free surface, the larger, ends oit a level with the pieces of the columnar epithelium. But the con- nections of the deeper threads or processes are unknoAvn ; they hav^ been supposed to unite with the olfactoiy nerve. The glands in the olfactoiy region are simple lengthened tubes (fig. 32 A. like those in the stomach, but are slightly wavy, aiui end in the submucous tissue by closed extremities. A flattened epithelium, with coloured granular contents, lines the tubes.— (Henle.) Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution of the olfactory nerve. If the sei^tum nasi be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on tlie opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane too, near the front of the septum, is an oli'set of the nasal nerve. The naso-palatine nerve and arteiy (fig. 33, ^) are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind fomards, towards the anterior palatine fossa : the artery is readily seen, especially if it is injected, but the fine nerve, which is about as large as a coarse hair, is embedded in the membrane and will be found by scrajjing with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane that has been detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVE (fig. 33, ') forms a bulb on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends branches to the olfactory- region of the nose through the apertures in the roof. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three sets. An inner set, the largest, descend in the grooves on the septum nasi, and branching, extend over the upper third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the nose. And an external set is dis- tributed on the upper spongy bone, on the anterior s(piare surface of the OS ethnioides, and on the fore part of the middle spongy bone. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pituitary membrane in tufts of filaments which communicate fi-eely with the contiguous twigs, fonning a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unknown. It has been suggested bv 8chulze that they join the deep processes or ends of the" so-called olfactorial cells ; but this union has not been seen.