329 REFLECTIONS OF FLEURA. :approach near each other. To the parts before and behind that viscus the terms "anterior and posterior niediastina" are sometimes applied. The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) extends from rait of seji- the back of the sternum to the pericardium. Behind the second of"lie\ea"t* piece of the sternum tlie pleural bags touch each other, but above and below that spot they are separated by an interval; so that the space between them (interpleural) is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the Contents, •space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the h3'oid and thyroid muscles ; and in the lower part is some ■areolar tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. The part hehhul the heart (posterior mediastinum) intervenes Part behind between the back of the pericardium with the roots of the lungs, lai^ei' space, and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are the opposite pleural sacs, which are separated here by a larger intei-pleural in- terval than in fi-ont of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the lung on the right side, the extent of the space and its contents will appear :—in it are contained the different bodies on the front its contents, of the spine, viz. the aorta, the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, the CESophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned fi'om Clean peii- the side of the pericardium. c.udium and The root of the lung is to be dissected out l)y taking away the tiie root of pleura and the areolar tissue fi-om the front and back, without in- ^""^s- juring its several component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic Trace the artery and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with '^^^'^''^^ a few nerves (anterior pulmonary) ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches; and arching above it is the large azygos vein. aiid vein. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. The thymus hocly is a fetal organ, like the thyroid body, whose Thymus use is unknown. It occupies chiefly the upper part of the thorax ; fetus. and it may be best examined in a full-grown fetus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and is of a grayish Size colour ; it possesses two lobes of a conical form, which touch each other. Its upper end is pointed and extends on the trachea as high and extent as the thyroid body ; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and large at birth, vessels, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium. In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather Eemains in firm material in the interpleural space beneath the upper part of the ^ " sternum. In its perfect state it resembles much the thyroid body; and a Structure, whitish fluid, containing lymph-like corpuscles, escapes from it when it is cut.