113 SUB-OCCIPITAL NERVE. les lie descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric crosses muscle in the anterior triangular space ; from this spot it is "^^^ directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. * Connecting branches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united branehe by branches with the vagus nerve, the two being almost insepar- ably joined. '° *lvathcr lower down the nerve is connected by of¥sets with the sympa- sympatlietic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. sJiSi';'""^ The branches for distribution have been met with in the fore- and supply going dissections. Thus in the neck it supplies, in union with the '>i"«t;iL'«- spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone. In the sub- maxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio- hyoid) of the OS hyoides ; to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palate and pharyngeo-glossus ; and to all the intrinsic of the tongue. Dissection.—The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between Disser-tiou the transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is I'ateniUs'! now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms part of a loop on the atlas, is to be found. The KECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 25) is small and thin, and Rectus represents an intertransverse muscle. It arises fi-om the anterior „ ,'. 1 ii • c 1 -1 first inter- transverse process, and the tip or the united transverse processes transverse of the atlas ; and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the "^^^'^i'^- occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact 'P^vta with the posterior is the vertebral artery. To the inner side lies ' the anterior primary branch of the first ceiwical nerve. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior Qf'jfjtfj*"'" branch of the first cervical nerve divide the rectus lateralis muscle, nerve, and observe the oft'sct to it ; then cut off the end of the lateral mass of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The anterior primary branch of the first or sub-occijntal nerve is slender in size, and arises fi-om the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. From that origin it is directed forwards on the ^^^^ arch, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis: here it bends down in front of the lateral mass of the bone, and forms a loop by uniting with the second cervical nen'c. As the nerve passes forwards it supplies the rectus lateralis muscle, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, and Branches, sympathetic nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic ner^'c consists, Jj^',"'{^''|IJ'^^'° on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral neck column, and is continued into the thorax. On this part of the jj.^^jj^i'.^^'^ nerve are three ganglia :—One near the skull, another on the neck of the first rib, and a third somewhere between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganghon. From