DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. 4H4 Dissection. Take first iscliio-iL'ctal fossa. Til en ex- amine ante- rior lialf of ])erinieuni. Superficial fascia. Dissection of the ]nuscles. Spliinctcr vagina-. Origin. Insertion. r.sc. Erector clitoridis. Trnnsvtr- salis. To expose triangular ligament. Triangular ligament. To see niusdcs of urethra. Deep transver.se muscle. Dissecii'oii. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and female penn;vum. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Aftenvards the muscles, vessels, and nen^es of the posterior half of the perina\al space arc to be examined. (See description of the male perhuTuin, p. 418 to 423.) Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perinaval' space, as in the male; and the transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of vulva. The attachments of the super- ficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 423 to 426). Sui)erfidalfascia. Tlie description of this fascia in the male will serve for tlie like'part in the female, with these modifications ;—that in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less^ extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora (the representative of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed,, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other muscles are exposed at the same time, viz., the erector clitoridis on the pubic arch, and the transversalis perina^i passing across the perina;um to the central point. The SPHINCTER VAGINAE is an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and con-esponds with the ejaculator urinjc in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perimeum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles; and its libres are directed forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris, and front of the triangular ligament. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles the si)hincter diminishes that part of the vagina which it encircles; and it assists in fixing- the central point of the perinajum. The ERECTOR CLITORIDIS resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (p. 426). The TRANSVERSALIS is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The one description will suflice for those muscles in both sexes (p. 427). Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from the bone,, and the outer fibres of the sphincter vagina^ are to be removed. The triangular ligament transmits the urethra, but is not quite so strongly marked as in the male (p. 428) ; its extent is pai-tly inter- rupted behijid by the large aperture of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 429), the deep muscles, with the pudic vessels and nerve and their branches, will be arrived at. The DEEP TRANSVERSE MUSCLE (dcpressor urethra', Santorini) has the same origin externally as in the male (p. 420) ; and it meets fellow at the middle line, like the muscle answering to it in the