478 DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEX. renal A'eiii. This vessel is suiTounded by the mesenteric jilexus of nerves, and is accompanied l)y the vein of the same name, nnd Branches. Whilst the vessel is covered by the pancreas it givc^ i)ranches. ^ mi?i\\ branch to that body and the duodenum. Its other branchet*^ are intestinal : those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) are furnished to the jejunum and ileum ; and> those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named" colic arteries. Panereatico- a. The panci'eatico-duodenal branch (inferior) is of small size iluodeual. ^j,^^ ^^^^ _ after giving twigs to the pancreas, it runs to the right along the concavity of the duodenum, and anastomoses with the other duodenal branch (p. 486). Branches t() J. The intestinal branches for the jejunum and ileum (fig. 141,/)- tine: * are about twelve in number, and i>ass from the left side of the muiibpr ajid artcr}' between the layers of the mesentery. xVbout two inches- meiiUu from their origin the branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces, arches, unite with similar offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of the arches other bi'anches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is- repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the (listrii)iifioii last set of arches twigs are sent to the intestine on both asjjects of ou the «ut. ijjg tube, and anastomose roinid it. Arteries of The branchen to the hin/e intestine are three in number, ileo-colic,. large gi;t. j-jgiit colic, and middle colic arteries. Ileo colic c. The ileo-colic artery (o) arises fi-om the right side of the trimk, oiTc^cum'^ and divides at the cjucum into brandies Avhich encircle the head of the colon. A descending offset is distributed to the lower part of the ileum, and to the Cfecum and the vermiform ajapendix ; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and anastomoses with the right colic artery. Right colic d. Tlie right colic artery (d) is commonly an offset of the pre- pUerascend- Ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Near the ing colon. ascending colon it divides into ascending and descending pieces,. which anastomose Avith the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with tlie middle colic on the other. Middle colic c. The middle colic branch (c) springs fi-om the upper part of the pllses'to artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse meso- *™nsveisi(. colon divides into two diverging branches :—the right one anasto- moses wnth the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a left colic branch (fig. 142, r) of the branches inferior mesenteric artery. The intestinal twigs are united in arches form arches, i^^f^j.^ entering the gut, like those to the small intestine. fneSeric "^^^ superior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, b) commences in that part vein, of intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed. Its radicles unite into one trunk, which accompanies the arteiy beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portaj. and At the lower border of the pancreas it receives the rio-ht o-astro- branches. epiploic branch of the stomach, and the pancreatico-duodenal veins- (fig. 144, c).