53 POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the covers muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ^'''''"gle- .ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, ibecause in venesection in the external jugular veui the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. The use will be found with the description of the remainder of Use. ■the muscle (p. 59). Dissection. The platysma is now to be cut across near the Disscctiou. 'Clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the incision over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and he should dissect out the external jugular vein, and the superficial descending branches of the cer\acal plexus, which are close beneath the platj'sma. The external jugular vein (fig. 14, ") commences in the parotid External ..gland (p. 2'J), and is directed backwards beneath the platysma to •'"^'^'^^'^ ^'^''^ the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will crosses side be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of subdavi^ ■the clavicle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (^sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,— one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an ofiiset ■coimects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the height 4it which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deejj cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in other Cervical a-egions of the body, of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck cojitiiniously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between .the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane hicases the sterno- mastoideus, and presents a different disposition before and behind 4;hat muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, Tart iiehind .the fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and encloses tdd musclo the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebra). At the lower pai-t of the neck it is attached to the clavicle and is perforated by the external jugular vein, and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the clavicle, a sends a pro- deep process may be observed to surround the small omo-hyoid o^ii^yolo^ muscle, and to extend under the clavicle, where it is fixed to the ■back of that bone, and the inner end of the first rib. rOSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This snace Cfiir. 14), having the form and position before noted, rostcrior ^ ^ , . , , T , • ,1 -1 11 1 •„! triangular is about eight inches in length. It contams the cervical and bracluai ^^^.^^^ plexuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a the neck, ligature is usually placed, and some offsets of the vessel and the nerves. Dissection. By the removal of the cervical fascia and the fat Jj'«^^«;t^o;[^^^^