7l0 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection for the joints of the foot. Astragalus with OS calcis by posterior, exterual, and Dissection. The joints of the foot will be demonstrated by re- moving fi-om both the dorsum and the sole all the soft parts wluch have been examined. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue fi-om the intervals between them (fig. 221). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of tue astragalus and os calcis. These bones are kept together by two joints, and a strong interosseous ligament; and there are also thin bands at the outer side and behind. Tlie jwsterioi- ligament (fig. 221, o) consists of a few fibres be- tween the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor pollicis; and the external ligament (h) is connected to the Fig. 221.* interos- seons liga- meut. Articular surfaces, synovial membranes. Motion in standing. sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 221, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous sui'faces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 713) articular surfaces will be seen between the bones, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial membranes. Movement. Under the influence of the weight of the body, as in standing, the astragalus moves down and in (not straight forwards) with flattening of the arch of the foot, so that its head projects against the calcanco-scaphoid ligament. In this state the inter- osseous ligament is put on the stretch. * View of the doi-.sal ligaments of tlie tarsiis. a. Posterior, h, extenial and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- scaplioid. c. External calcaneo-scaphoid. /. Internal, and y, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. 7t. Dorsal scapho-cuboid band, i, h, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal scapho-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal tx-ans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.