DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. 430 Use. Constrictor of urethral passage. Tnnisverse part arises from pubic arch. and ends in middle line. Like a sphincter. Use on uretlira in mictu- rition. Circular fibres of urethra. from the prostate to bulb. Use. Cowpei-'s glands. Situation, size, and structure. Action. Like the superficial muscle it will fix the central point of the perinfEum. The CONSTRICTOR MUSCLE (fig. 131, ^ (constrictor isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of the urethra, and consists of trans- verse fibres above and below that tube. The muscle arises by aponeurotic fibres fi-om the pubic arch above the preceding, and from the posterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, but this attachment is not evident unless it has been dissected from'behind. The fibres pass inwards, and separate near the'urethra into two layers (fig. 132), of which one (o) passes over, the other (d) under that canal; in the middle Ime they unite (sometimes by tendon; with the like parts of the muscle of the opposite side._ It may be considered a single Fig. 132.* muscle extending across the perina3um fi-om one lateral at- tachment to the other, and en- closing the tube of the urethra,, like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. Action. The muscles of both- sides act as a single sphincter in diminishing the membranous part of the urethra, and eject- ing the contents of the tube. Like the ejaculator, they are relaxed whilst the urine i& passing, but the two contract forcibly in expelling the last of that fluid. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle suiTOund the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about ■j'^th of an inch thick; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate. This layer is a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate- is chief part, surrounding the beginning of the iirethra.f Action. Tliis involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the- urine and the semen. The glands of Covper \\\\\ be found by cutting through the trans- verse muscle. They are situate below the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle line, and close behind the- bulb. Each gland is about the size of a pea, and is made up of lobules; and the lobules are composed of small vesicles, which are lined by flattened epithelium. * Tiie symphysis pubis seen from behind -with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and -with the tube of the urethra surrounded by the con- strictor muscle (Santorini). a. Bladder cut open: the swelUng of the prostata surrounds it in front, h. Constrictor urethrse :—c. Part of the muscle above, and d, part underneath the urethra. t See a Paper on the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Urethra^ in vol. xxxix. 1856, of the Trans, of the Med. Chir. Society.