VENTRICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 347 Continuity of the fibres. With a piece of muscle rolled into a cone, Fibres eou- as before said, the fibres of the different layers would be necessarily t'"""^** continuous at the apex ; but in the heart they are united at apex and base. Thus the outermost layer is continuous at the apex and at apex and base with the innermost, the fibres being curved in at the tip and out at the base. In like manner the fibres of the second layer are united with those of the sixth, and the third stratum with the fifth. From the three outer layers, fibres are continued to the The com- right ventricle at the back of the heart, forming the " common fibres." Each of the three outer layers consists of two sets of fibres, Spimi which occupy the front and back of the ventricle. By the turning tUrJe outer inwards of the two bundles on opposite sides of the apex, the wall layers, is prevented from having a slanting side, like a piece of paper rolled into a cone. And by the turning outwards of two sets of fibres (anterior and posterior) at the base of the ventricle from each inner layer, the sides of the auriculo-ventricular opening are Coui-se in made level like those of the apex. Many of the fibres of the outer layers are attached to the fibrous ring around the aorta. The fibres of the fourth layer are continued into the septum in central ventriculorum. laj'er. Dissection. To display the layers and fibres of the right ventricle, To show great care will be needed because of the thinness of the wall; but of HgUt veu- the same number of layers exists in this, as on the other side of tricle, the heart. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect fi'om the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle; and reflect the several layers forwards and backwards fi-om that incision. As the three outer are raised let them be traced on the one hand into the part of the septum detached from the left ventricle ; and on the other into the left ventricle through the continuity of the common fibres behind. The RIGHT VENTRICLE possesses seven layers in its wall, like the Number of left, though they are much thinner. They are arranged as in the ^'"^y^""^- other ventricle into three external, three internal, and a fourth or intermediate. In like manner the wall decreases from the centre Tlilckness. towards the base and apex, but at the tip it is thicker than the apex of the left half of the heart (Pettigrew). Directions of the fibres. In this as in the other ventricle, the fibres Direction of of the three outer layers run down fi'om the base to the fore part lll'yiree of the septum and the apex of the heart: the outer being most outer, vertical. In the fourth stratum the fibres have a transverse direc- central, tion, as in the corresponding layer of the left ventricle. And in and tij''<'<'_^^^ the three inner layers they are directed upwards from the apex to '^^^ the base of the ventricle across the fibres of the three outer strata, the deepest being the most vertical. Continuity of the fibres. The fibres are not distinct from those of Derivation the left ventricle, but are derived in the three outer layers fi'om the outer'layers " common fibres " and the septum, and fi-om the auriculo-ventricular opening. They are then continued forwards to the front of the