198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. Situation of the cere- brum. Form; has two lieinisplieres joined by median parts. Under surface of cerebnun. partly split. Parts along the middle line. Cms cerebri is fixed in hemi- sphere. The cerebrum, or the great brain, is tlie largest of the sub- divisions of the encephalon, and weighs on an average 49 oz. in the male, and 44 oz. in the female. It fills the upper part of the cavity of the skull ; and its under surface would correspond with an oblique line on the head from the eyebrow to the articulation of the jaw ; and fi'om this point to the occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the cranium, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side b}^ side, and are partly separated by a median or longitudinal fissure. Across the middle line the halves are united by certain interior parts (commissures), as well as by several connecting structures at the under surface. Superiorly the surface of the hemisphere is without any large cleft; but inferiorly it is divided into two b}^ a transverse fissure—that of Sylvius. Under Surface or Base of the Cerebrum (fig. 59). At its under part the cerebrum is very irregular, in consequence of its fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not so complete as on the U2'>per, for the median fissure exists only at the fi-ont and back. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain along the middle line. Immediately in front of the pons (d) are two large white masses, the peduncles of the cerebrum (crura cerebri,/), one belonging to each hemisphere; and between them is a space perforated b}^ vessels, which is named locus perforatus posticus (g). Outside the peduncle is the optic tract (i) ; and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In fi-ont of the peduncles are placed two white bodies like peas, the corpora albicantia (e) ; and anterior to these a gi-ayish mass, called tuber cinereum (/i). From the tuber cinereum a conical reddish tube, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are the converging optic tracts with^ their commissure (i). Beneath the commissure lies a thin grayish layer (lamina cinerca, m) ; and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum (w) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the transverse fissure (Sylvian) across the hemisphere, is another spot, perforated by vessels, and distinguished by the name substantia perforata, or locus perforatus anticus (I). Peduncle of the cerebrum (crus cerebri,/). This is a large, white, stalk-like piece, which reaches from the upper border of the pons to the under part of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, near