INTERIOR OF CEREBELLUM. 227 into the roof of the fourth ventricle (fig. 68, Jc). It is thin and pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of the vermiform process. Near the corpora (fuadri- ft-eniina the fourtli nerve C) is attached to the surface of the valve; and close to the cerebellum the surface is marked by some gray transverse ridges. The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem), commonly named Jiiddie the crus cerebelli (fig. Go, is the largest of the three peduncular l'"^^^"»cle processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the cerebellum, and ai'e directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transvei'se fibres, and unite with the peduncle of the opposite side. This peduncle is supposed to serve as a connnissural or connectinc" ^ luissure of band between the halves of the cerebellum. cerebeiiiuu The infenor peduncle (fig. 65, ^) (processus ad medullam) passes inferior downwards to the medulla oblongata, and gives rise to the restiform Jnedulla? body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the lamina of the upper surface of the cerebellnm. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. The fibres in the peduncles connect one cerebellar hemisphere Destination with the cerebrum ; with its fellow; and Avith the medulla oblongata °^ •of the same side, in the manner mentioned above. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the wliite Corpus den- mass of the cerebellum, and resembles the like part in the corpus ■olivare of the medulla oblongata. This body measures nearly an Situation inch from before back, and is situate near the inner part of the '^""^ white centre. It consists of a small plicated capsule, which, when ■cut across, appears as a thin, wavy, grayish-yellow line ; the bag is structure, open at the anterior part, and encloses a nucleus of whitish sub- stance. Through its aperture issues a band of fibres fi'om the nucleus to join the superior peduncle. Dissection. One other section (fig. 68) must be made to show the Dissection, fourth ventricle, and the structure of the vermiform process. The -cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes; and then the structure of the central uniting part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth A^entricle, may be obseiwed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the vermiform process (fig. 68). The upper and lower Vermiform vermiform processes of the cerebellum are united in one central part, ilke' other which connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this parts, •connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white portion and investing lamiucB. Here the branch- ing appearance of a tree (arbor vit;x)) is best seen, in consequence of the laminc'B being more divided, and the white central pieces l)cing longer and more ramified. The FOURTH VENTKICLE (fossa rhomlioidalis) is a space ])etwcen ^^'^^^^^^^^ the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata ?ind pons (fig. 68). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high Fom^aud ■as the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, to a level with Q 2