687 FOURni LAYER OF MUSCLES. thrown forwards. Dividing tlien the metatarsal ligament between the bones, the knife is to be carried directly backwards for a short distance in the centre of each interosseous space, except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia covering the muscles should be taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them ehould be dissected out. Fourth layer of muscles (fig. 211). In the fourth and last layer Fourth of the foot are contained the interossei muscles, and the tendons of J|^,^yi°g tlie tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The INTEROSSEI MUSCLES (fig. 211) are situate in the intervals be- interossei. tween the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, plantar and dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in number, there are three plantar and four dorsal ; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The plantar interossei, o, belong to the three outer metatarsal bones Three pian- (fig. 211), and are slender fleshy slips. They arise from the under outertoes.*^ find inner surfaces of those bones ; and are inserted partly into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toes, iind partly by an expansion from each to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the <lorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal interossei, i, one in each space, arise by two heads fi-om pour dorsal the lateral surfaces of the bones between which they lie ; and are 1^°*^®®*^ ■inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the meta- tarsal phalanx of certain toes :—Thus, the inner two muscles belong Attach- to the second toe, one to each side ; the next appertains to the outer "lents. side of the third toe ; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external plantar artery and nerve, connec- and their digital branches, and lie beneath the transversalis pedis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the interossei of the hand (p. 299) they will contri- Use as bute to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints by the flexors, find will help the extensors to straighten the last two phalangeal tensors; joints. They can act also as abductors and adductors of the toes. Thus as adduot- the plantar set will l)nng .the three outer towards the second toe ; and the dorsal muscles will abduct from the middle line of the auctors. second toe—the two attached to that digit moving it to the right <ind left of the said line. Dissection. Following the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle Trace out fi-om its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the tendons. scaphoid bone, trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longns, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. Tlie tendon of the tibialis posticus is continued forwards over insertion of