295 MUSCLES OF THUMB. ipieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the fore finger is distuict fi-om the rest. From the Ugament the four tendons are cross the directed through the hand to the fiiigers, and give origin to the ^'^"^ •small lumbricales muscles. At the root of the fingers each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted mto the base of the last to their ^phalanx. iuseition. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are thin membranes, short folds one for each. By means of this each tendon is connected Avith the flexor teu- •capsule of the joint, and the fore part of the phalanx immediately iious. beliind the bone into wliich it is inserted. The lumhricales muscles (fig. 84, l) are four small fleshy slips, Luinhrical which arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular "^^'^l'^'*- ligament; 'and are directed to the rachal side of each finger, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 82, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by tlie tendons Connec- and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise fi-om single tendons, but each of the others is Different connected with two tendons. ongm. Action. By their insertion into the long extensor tendon they Use as will aid it in straightening the two last phalangeal joints ; and '^^ when the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are much bent they may and flexors, assist in maintaining the flexion of these articulations. Tendon of the flexor pollicis Jongus. Beneath the annular ligament Tendon of ihis tendon is external to the flexor profundus, and turns outwards of"fn'Jf,'^|°'^ between the heads of the flexor bre^as pollicis (fig. 84), to be in- serted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial its insertion, auembrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 84). The deep palmar arch of the radial artery, Dissection with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and the interossei muscles, yf thuml^ Avill come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and tlu'own with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preserve two fine nerves and vessels entering the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and the and little little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making *'"sei. a satisfactory separation of the difEerent small thumb muscles; but those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of thk Thumb (fig. 84). These are four in number. Four mns- ■and are named fi-om their action on the thumb. The most super- ^l^^ ficial is the abductor pollicis ; beneath it is the opponens pollicis, thumb, viz., which will be recognised by its attachment to the Avhole length of ;the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor. And the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS, A, is about an inch wide, and is thin, and Abductor, superficial to the rest. It arises fxova the upper part of the annular