65 DErRESSORS OF OS HYOIDES. from the posterior surface of the sternum, and the cartilage of the fii-st rib below the former; and it is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border tonches its fellow for about an inch, along the Parts over middle line of the neck, whilst the outer reaches over the carotid ^^'I'-^^eiieatii. artery. The superficial surface is concealed by the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body, A transverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to aid the preceding muscle in lowering Use. rapidly the hj'oid bone after deglutition ; but it can draw down and forwards the thyroid cartilage, and assist in rendering tight the vocal cords. Like the sterno-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRO-HYOIDEUS (fig. 15, is a continuation in direction of Thyro-hyoid the last muscle. Beginning on the side of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the inner half of the gi-eat cornu of the os hyoides, and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the muscle lies the omo-hyoideus ; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal ner\'e and vessels. It is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx. Action. Kaising the thyroid cartilage towards the os hyoides, it Use. reiiders lax the vocal cords, and assists in placing the cartilage under the tongue preparatoiy to swallowing. Directions. Tlie remaining jiarts included in this section arc the scaleni nuiscles and the subcla-\-ian blood-vessels, with the cervical nen^es and the carotid blood-vessels. The student may examine them in the order here given. Dissection (fig. 16). Supposing the stenio-mastoid cut, the fat Dissection and fascia are to be taken away from the lower part of the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the neck, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the of the sub- scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its artery branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course over and along it from the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of a part or the whole of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found, ^^l^^^^^^ . except the superior intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax in fi-ont of the neck of the first rib. On the branch (hiferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and the dissector should follow downwards fi-om it a small cardiac nerve to the thorax. r