r SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE. 255. triceps (fig. 79, a), and to some fibres of the teres major ; but these attachments will be ascertained in the ^Drogress of the dissection. The 6ase of the bone has many muscles inserted into it (fig. 74). into the Between the superior angle and the spine is the levator anguli ^''^"^ • scapula?, H. Opposite the spine the rhomboideus minor, J, is fixed. And between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major, K, is attached : the upper fibres of this muscle end often in an aponeurotic arch, and are connected indi- rectly to the bone by means of an expan- sion from it. Internal to those muscles, and inserted into all the base of the scapula, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 73, n). On the inner surface of the upper and lower angles of the scapula the fibres of the serra- tus magnus are col- lected. On the outer surface of the inferior angle lies the teres major (fig. 79, g) which will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the fore part of the upper surface of the coracoid process may be ascertained at this stage of the dissection (fig. 73, f). Dissection. By the separation of the seiratus fi-om the subscapularis Dissection a thin fascia comes into view, which belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins : after it has been observed, it may be removed. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its insertion of sub- into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the off- ^^capuians. sets of these to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig. 73, a) occupics the under surface Subscapu- of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. The muscle arises fi-om the concave surface on nils tiic the ventral aspect of the scapula, except at the angles, and this at- gc"apuia°^ tachment reaches forwards nearly to the neck ; it is united also to * View of the subscapularis and the surrounding muscles. The other muscles fixed into the base of the scapula are shown in fig. 74. A. Sub- scapularis. B. Teres major, c. Latissimus dorsi. d. Serratus magnus. e. Omo-hyoideus. f. Pectoralis minor, g. Biceps, h. Coraco-brachialis. a. Supra-scapular artery. 1. Supra-scapular nerve imssing through tlie notch. Fig. 73.* coid process..