OUTER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 205 Three occi- pital convo- lutions : preceding, is interposed between the iiitraparietal sulcus, / P, and the Sylvian fissure (outer end). Variable in shape it joins, b'el'ow the ascending parietal convolution f) ; it may communicate above' with the parietal lobule, and behind with the following. The angular convolution f), very complicated and not well defined, fourth, or IS placed at the extremity of the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, '"^"^^i^^- •and is composed of two or ' three pieces. Above it is the Fig. 61.* parietal lobule ; and below, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe which it joins. In front lies the supra-marginal convolu- tion ; and behind, the occipital lobe, with which it blends by the small annectant gyrus (h). c. The occipital convolutions {fig. 60) are small and very much divided, so that their outline is uncertain. They are three in number, lying one above another, and separated by sulci, something like the frontal gyri at the opposite end of the hemisphere. The upper (^"), forming part of the margin of the longitudinal fissure, receives an annectant gyrus from the parietal lobule. The middle ("), crossing \^—^^"^ middle, outwards the hemisphere, has two annectant gyri to other convolutions ; one (h) joining it above to the angular convolution, and another (c) passing to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution. The inferior ('-) occupies the tip of tlie hemisphere between the and lower, upper and under surfaces. At the inner end it is continuous with the upper gyrus; and at the outer end with the inferior temporo- splienoidal convolution (') by an annectant gyrus {cl). d. The temporo-sjihenoidal convolutions (fig. GO), tlu-ee in number. Three tem-] run from above down, and are separated from one another by two nowTuoii- sulci. volutions: The superior (') bounds posteriorly tlie horizontal limb of the upper. Sylvian fissure. At the upper end it is connected by a gyrus with t^ie angular convolution. The middle (^) is separated from the first by the parallel sulcus middle, (P). Above, it blends commonly with the angular convolution, and upiier. * View of the orbital lobule and the central lobe.—C. Island of Rail or median lobe. 0. Olfactory sulcus. 2. Internal; 3, posterior; and 6, external orbital convolution. 17. Marginal convolution of the hemisphei-e.