MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 275 to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal off- ; sets :—One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- : spiral nerve to tlie fi-ont of the elbow, anastomosing with the re- current radial branch : whilst others continue along the intermuscular ; septum to the elbow, and join the radial and posterior interosseous recurrent branches. Branches. Most of the muscular offsets of the vessel descend to Supplies the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicate with the foms a cir- inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery 'youud. lOlllt (p. 270) ; and with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm except the anterior ulnar. One slender offset accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutamous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, Cutaneous • and accompany the superficial nerves. ottbet-,. The musculo-spiral nerve (fig. 70) is the largest trunk of the ^^'^1''^"^°"^ posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 249) and is continued along winds the back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the bracli- to outer side ialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle °^ of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The nerve gives muscular branches, Brauclies. and the following cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer parts of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm (fig. 78, ^) is of smaL internal • 1 1 1 cutaneous ; size, and arises m the axillary space m common with the branch to branch, the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it Saecomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 266). b. The external cutaneous branches springing at the outer side of '^''l'^ iial cuta- the limb are two in number: they are distributed in the integuments neous. •of the arm and forearm (p. 266). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply JJraiiciies to all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head, arises in '^'-^ps, common with the inner cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar -nerve till it enters the muscular fibres at the lower third of tlie arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus, appearing as ^"jj^^.'Jj"" if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. d. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies J'^-'i'^Jlficies the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz. oi foroann. supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Subanconeus muscle. A thin fleshy stratum of the under part of ^|.'.|'[^"[^"," the triceps near the elbow has been so named. It is described as consisting of two fasciculi, inner and outer, which are attached above meats, the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the synovial sac of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the extensor of the knee joint. T 2