DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 726 Coinpo- Ill'IltS. Dissection to see the cliorowl portion. To show the ciliai-y pro- cesses liy an ante- rior and a pos- terior view. To make a vertical sec- tion. Form and extent: anterior tcnnination, openmg. and pigment cells: the muscles in the interior of the ball are con- nected with it. It is constmcted of three parts: a posterior (choroid) correspond- ing with the sclerotic ; an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea ; and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a level with tlie union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection, Supposing the cornea of an eye cut through circularly, as before directed (p. 723), it will be necessary to take away the sclerotic to lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel, or with a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the fi-ont of the choroid by breaking through a soft whitish stnicture uniting them. Then, the eye being put into water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piece-meal Avith a scissors ; in taking it off the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be pre- served. The white ring aromid the eye in fi-ont, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the piu'pose of obtaining an anterior view of the ciliarj' pro- cesses, Avhich are connected with the anterior termination of the cho- roid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic from the choroid ; and after two or three cuts have been made in it towards the optic nerve, the I'csulting flaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position. On removing with care the iris, taking it away fi-om the centre towards the circumference, the ciliary processes be- neath will be displayed. A posterior view of the processes may be prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with a scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed fi'om the posterior half ; on taldng away the portion of the vitreous mass adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and Aviping off the pigment from the back of the iris, the small' processes Avill be made manifest. By means of this last dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This section, which is made Avith difficulty, should be attempted m water Avith a sharp large knife, and on a surface of Avax or Avood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut Avith a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the hah-es should remain in Avater. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 225, b) is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When vicAved on the eye in AA'hich the ciliary muscle is entire, it appears to terminate there ; but it may be seen in the other dissec- tions to bend inwards behind that muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliaiy processes) behind the iris. This covering is rather tliicker and stronger behind than in front. It is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in front by the ciliary muscle. PosterioHy it is pierced by around aperture for the passage of the optic nerve; and anteriorly it is united Avith the iris.