DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 supplies special muscles except one. Superior laryngeal nerve joins recur- rent. and ends in mucous membrane. Arteries from supe- rior thyroid from inferior thyroid. Other source. Veins end differently. larynx, furnishes ])ackwards an oifset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; tliis joins filaments of the ujjper laryngeal. The nerve then passes beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are superficial, but that to the arytaenoid muscle passes beneath the crico-arytfenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the inferior is joined l>y a long oifset of the upper laryngeal nerve. The superior larynrjeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid ligament,, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it fur- nishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerv^e. The trunk then terminates, in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane:—Some of these ascend in the arytajno-epiglottid fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining- membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the aiytasnoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Vessels. The arteries of the larpix are fumi.shed from the supe- rior and inferior thyroid branches (p. 79 and 71). The laryngeal hrancJi of the superior thyroid artery enters the larynx with the superior larpigeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root of the tongue to the chorda vocalis. Like the nerves, it unites with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the nnicous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. Some other twigs from the superior thyroid artery perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and raniifj- in the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying tlie branch of the supe- rior thyroid artery, joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein ; and the vein with the artery from the inferior thyroid open& into the plexus of the inferior tliyroid veins (p. 79 and 71). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be- taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; l)ut the piece of membrane "that joinsv the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed.