18 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Gaaserian {ganglion on it; gives three branches. Small root. Difference in the use of the roots. Ophthalmic nerve enters orbit. supplies ilura mater in its course. Abduccns nerve is in cavernous sinus; .lonis syni- ]iatlietic. Seventh dura mater into tlie middle fossa of the biisi- of the skull, where it ends immediately in the Gasseriau p:aiif?lio)i. The fjangllon of the root of the Jifth nen-e ((fasserian ganglion), placed in a depression on the point of the i)etrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and is nearly as wide as the thumb- nail. The ujjper surface of the ganglion i.s closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, whose convexity looks forwards. Some filaments from the jilrxus of the sympa- thetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the thi'ce following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and liigliest, is destined for the orbit and forehead. Next in c)rder is th(i superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below tlie orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, ]iasses through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, tlie lower pait of the face, and the. tongue. The .smaller root, entering the same tube of the diu-a matci- as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion, without comnmni- cating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion whicli are unconnected with Uiv smaller or motor root, viz. the oijlithalmic and superior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, wliicli is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. But the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve has not this double function, for the motor root is mixed almost exclusively with the part which supplies the nuiscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, therefore, chiefly that small piece of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nerve. The ophthalmic nerve is the oidy one of the three trunks whicli needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sphenoidal Assure and the orbit to the forehead. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it divides into three l)ranches (ji. 40). In this situation it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig- 4, t) to that part of the dura mater ^hich forms the. tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 4, «) enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital nuiscles It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid hone and crosses the space of the cavernous simis, instead of lyino- in the outer wall with the other nei-ves. ^ In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery ; and it is joined by one or two large branches of the sympathetic nen^o surrounding that vessel Seventh Nerve according to AVillis (fig. 4,' "). This cranial