DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Uisaection fit" nen'e beyond parotid. on temple, in eyelids. in tlio face, on lower .iaw. Tlie nerve in the parotid. and muscu- lar branches. Branches outside the .skull. Posterior auricular l)ranch. Branch to diga.stric. communications take place between it and the fifth nen-e ; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the body of the lower jaw. _ Dissection. The facial nen^e is to be displayed on the nght side of the face if there is time sufficient before the body is turned, otherwise it is to be omitted for tJie present (see p. 1). Some of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose the ramifications of the ner^'e beyond the parotid gland, let the skin be raised from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches are then to be sought as they escape from beiaeath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have been already partly dissected .above the zygomatic arch ; and their junctions with the temporal branch of the superior maxillaay and with the supra-orbital nerve have been seen. Other still smaller branchee are to be traced to the ouier part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other nerves in the lids ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar nerve of tiiie fifth. With the duct -of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infra-orbital, nasal, and infi-a-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size. One joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower hp, and to the labial bi'anch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trmik of the nerve through the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding the small branches of communication of the great auricular nerve with offsets of the facial, and the deep branches from the facial to the auriculo-temporal nerve, are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the ear and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the n^rve enters the parotid. The Nerve outside the Skull (fig. 9, The nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the tbree following small branches :— The posterior auricular hranch (fig. 9, ^) turns upwards in front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an offset of the great auricular, and is said to be joined by a branch to the ear from the pneumo-gastric (cranial) nerve ; it ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). The hranch to the digastric muscle generally arises in common with the next. It is distributed by many offsets to the posterior belly of the muscle near the skull.