DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 628 ascending, transverse, and de- scending. and its terminal muscular branches consist of ascending, transverse, and descending :— The ascendincj branch is directed beneath the tensor vaginae femoris to the back of the hip bone, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. The transverse, the smallest in size, di\ades into two which per- forate the vastus externus, and anastomose with arteries on the back of the thigh. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces which ai-e distributed to the vasti muscles. One considerable branch enters the outer part of the vastus internus, and reaching the knee, anasto- moses on this joint with the external articular arteries ; a small offset courses over the muscle with a nerve to the joint. Nerve of the The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE (fig. 195, ^) of the lumbar plexus twgh"^*^'*^ (p. 542) supplies the muscles, and most of the teguments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep parts. A. The superficial part ends in three tegumentary branches :—the middle and internal cutaneous of the thigh, and the great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve (fig. 190, ") perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 609). The interiml cutaneous nerve (fig. 190,''^) sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of tlie uj^per third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into the two followmg branches, anterior and inner. Sometimes these branches arise from the anterior crural trunk at separate spots:— anterior and The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 609). The inner branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 609). Whilst underneath the fascia the nen^e lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with ofi:sets of the obturator and, nearer the Icnee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The internal saphenous nerve (fig. 195) is the largest of the three superficial branches. In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along their outer side, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening iiecomescn- in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nen^e passes the"kn^f ^^^^ beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous (fig. 190, ■'). It supplies two ofi;sets Avliilst it is contained in the thigh beneath the fascia :— A communicating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of the internal cutaneous and obturator, or with tlie internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent. is divided. From its superficial part arise— middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous, which has inner branch. Internal saphenous nerve has a com- municating