368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Its coiiuec- tions in tlie tlionix. Bront-hi lie in tlie roots ot the lungs are like the trachea in fonn. The right differs frojri the left hranch. Conrse and connections Remove the lungs. Take away heart and ]iericar- Uiiun. Surface of lung is smooth: is marked hy lobules and small cells. Colour varies with Accidental colour. Consi.stence, Crex'itation, In the tliorax the trachea is situate -with the great vessels in tlie space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innonunate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the air tube is the asophagus, which is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the vagus, and the innominate artery, for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the vagus with its recuiTent branch. The branchi, or the branches of the air tube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are sun-ounded by vessels, glands, and nerves. " Near the lung eacli is divided into as many iirimary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronclii resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in fi-ont, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonaiy vessels has been described at j). 332 ; but the cha- racters of each are now to be noticed. The right branch is about an inch in length, and is larger than the left ; it passes outwards, on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra, beneath the arch of the aorta and the ujiper caA'a, and above the right i")ulmonary artery : the vena azygos arches above it. The left branch, about two inches long, is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aoi-ta, and joins the root of the left lung a vertebra lower than on the opposite side. The tube lies on the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and on the aorta; it is at first below the level of the coiTcsponding pulmonar}^ arteiy. Dissection. The lungs are to be removed now from the body by cutting through the vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the dia- phragm ; in removing the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the parts contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical Characters of the Lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided by septa, into small iiTCgulariy-sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be per- ceived in it. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes giayish, and presents here and there dark gi-ay spots or lines of pigment, whose shade deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be bluish-black fi-om the accumulation of blood. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance appears porous and spongy ; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives\he air fi-om the containing cells through the pulmonary stnicture, and produces the