SECOND LA.YEII OF MUSCLES. 681 Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being give cu- •<livided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two aiufartleu- toes, whilst the first belongs alone to the inner side of the great li"" ottsets. toe ; all give offsets to the teguments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The external plantar nerve (^) is spent chiefly in the deep External muscles of the sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to oue^toe and both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It cor- aiialf; responds in its distribution with the uhiar nerve in the hand. It has the same coui'se as the external plantar artery, and divides Jl^^? snper- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial deep parts, and a deep portion :—the former gives origin to two digital nerves; fbut the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor Branches, of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The (liqital branches of the external plantar nerve ^) are Two digital - . . . V ' / branches • two. One (') is undivided; it is distributed to the outer side . " " 0116 Sill^'lG of the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi iligiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (*) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two one divided, toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communi- ■cates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar Qierve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have tlie same dis- distribution tribution as those fi-om the other plantar trunk, and end like them others, in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 209). To complete the preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor pollicis should be i^iye"of detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be turned in- "'uscies. wards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and tlie nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second layer of muscles (fig. 209). In this layer are the Second tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz. flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which cross one another. Connected with the fonner, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle ; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 209, ^), whilst J^'^J^^^^^^f entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the internal the toes lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined b}^ the tendon of '^^^^jj'^ics into the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory nuiscle, and divides into ' tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and beneath a these pierce