73 CERVICAL PLEXUS. sixth nen-es near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is con- tinued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus niagnus muscle on the axillary surface. Branches of the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small Nerves of twigs are seen wlien the anterior scalenus is divided; they arise lof/gus com. from the beginning of the trunks of the nerves. The suprascapular nerve is larger than cither of the others. It 'Suin-asca- arises near the subclavian branch fi-om the cord of the plexus ''^ "erve. formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is to tlie muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and it will be dissected Avith the arm. Occasionally an ofi:"set from the fifth cervical trunk joins the Ottset to the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. ^' The CERVICAL PLEXUS is formed by the first four cei-vical nerves. Cervical ItltiXUS .Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli :scapula3. It differs much from the brachial plexus, for it resembles a . iititwork a network more than a bimdle of large cords. The following is the .general arrangement of the nerves in the plexus :—Each nen^e, Arrange- except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, jierves. and these unite with similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the <lifferent branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deep. The superficial set has offsets been described witli the triangular space of the neck, as consisting daif"^^'^^ ■of ascending and descending (p. 57), The ascending branches may be now seen to. spring from the union of the second and third nerves ; and the descending, to take origin from the loop between the third and fourth nerA^es. The deep set of branches remains to '^Jjjj^']^^*'^];''. ibe examined : they are muscular and connuunicating, and may be arranged into an internal and an external series. Internal Series. The phrenic or nniscular nerve of the dia- Phrenic phragm (fig. IG) is derived from the fourtli, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined by a fasciculus fi-om the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus fi-om the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the sub- clavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve of the •subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first part of the subclavian artery. The branches communicating icith the clescendens noni are two in ^J^'^l number. One arises from the second, and the other from the third scendens cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards over the internal jugular vein, and communicate in front of the carotid sheath witli the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the hypoglossal nei-ve. Sometimes these nerves pass under the jugular vein.