SUPERFICIAL NERVES. as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck. To find them in the cervical region look near the middle line, in the neck, from the 3rd to tlie 6th vertebra, and trace an offset from the third nei-ve upwards to the head : the branch of the second nerve (large occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the head (p. 5). Opposite the upper part of. the thorax, they will be best found near the spines of the vertebra?, where they lie at first beneath the in thorax fat; but at the lower part, and in the loins, tliey issue in a line '""^^ with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the ^iicrai. dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nen'es are derived from Cucaneous the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves, which sub- aeiiml.'"^^ divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompanying the greater number of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves. In the neck the nerves are derived from the inner the neck, of the two pieces into wliich the posterior trmiks bifurcate : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the Source, head. They ai'e four in number, viz., one from each, except the first and the tlu-ee last. The branch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and ac- Second companies the occipital arteiy to the back of the head (p. 8). The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset ami third to the neck, and then ascends to the lower part of the head, where it is distributed near the middle line, uniting with the great occipital nerv^e. * Dorsal nerves. These are obtained from both the inner and outer in the dor- pieces—the upper six from the inner, and the lower six fi-om the ^'^^ region, outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The upi^er six perforate the trapezius near the spines of the Upper six vertebra? ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The loioer six pierce the latis- Lower six. simus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; they are oftentimes uncertain in nximber. * Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from the in the loins, outer pieces of the first three ; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spina3, and crossing the iliac crest of the innominate bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. * First Layer of Muscles (fig. 116). Two muscles, the trape-Two nms- clsH ill iirst zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. layer. Dissection. The superficial fatty layer is to be taken from tlie Dissection, trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper lind) is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch different portions of the muscles.