VAGUS NERVE AND BRANCHES. 355 and is directed obliquely backwards, by tlie side of the trachea, and between this tube and the oesophagus, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continued to the 'ind on back of the gullet, and unite below into one trunk, which reaches a^^oph'l.riis. the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of j the left i^^ft nerve common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and of lung"" beneath the root of the hnig, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or two branches and on pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the l^^sorlwgus- right ner\'e in a plexus; but its pieces are collected iinally into one trunk, which is continued on the fi-ont of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax are the Bi-anches following:— are,— a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recunent side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left, at the lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this iDranch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath, the arch of the aorta. b. Cardiac branches (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- Cardiac nished by the A'-agus in the neck, other offsets pass in front of the » trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from i;he trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are sup- plied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each lower cervi- ■vagus nerve (p. Ill) may be now seen. The branch of the right branch.'*^ lies by the side of the innominate arter}', and joins a cardiac nerve ■of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial •cardiac plexus. c. Pulmonary branches. There are two sets of nerves for the Pulmonnry Sung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of • the root. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and small in f'"/*^!- tsize, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerv^es are best seen on the left side. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most nume- ^^^^f . I " . posterior, rous. Forming a plexiform arrangement (posterior pulmonary form a plexus) behind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting i'^*^^"**- of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the lung on the divisions of the air tube. d. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest CEsoi.liagc^ar abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the form a'*"* branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the u3sophagus with I'lexus. a network (jdexus (juice). A A 2