645 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The use of this and the other external rotators is altered Use with by the position of the femur. If that bone hangs the pyrifonnis fngLnd'^"" rotates it out; but if the hip joint is bent the muscle abducts the i"^^^'^^^- limb from its fellow. Both limbs being fixed the muscles balance the pelvis, and help Both limhs to make the tnmk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing °" sround, on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis only one. turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 199). The pyriformis may be cut across and raised Dissect towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the chief v*es- sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to ^^^^^ their origin in the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small nerves to the obturator internus (^), the gemellus and mus- superior (^), and the hip joint, are to be sought in the fat at the brandies, lower part of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (®) will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but it Avill be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The vessels on the back of the The vessels pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal th™mac!'" ihac (p. 561). The sciatic artery (fig. 198, V) supplies the buttock below the Sciatic gluteal. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends Avith the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus : here course the arteiy gives off many branches with the superficial offsets of its and ending, companion nei-ve ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes Branches, the following named branches:— a. The coccygeal branch^ arising close to the pelvis, perforates Coccygeal the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and branch, ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. h. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) Branch to is very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in ucrvef'*"'' it along the thigh. c. 3fuscular brandies enter the gluteus maximus, the upper Muscniar gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to ^"^ ^ the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name Branch to beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the j-atus. hip joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 198, e). Varying in size this artery is An^astomotie directed outwards to the root of the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal and internal circumflex. The pudic artery (fig. 198, d) belongs to the perinteum and the Pudic genital organs ; it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which it ^"^^^^ lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over the ischial crosses the spine, is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perinasal