DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 754 differs on two surfaces; denticulate Btructure. Sulcus spiralis. Jlem- brauous part: width aud extent. Is glassy looking, with trans- verse lines. Spiral ligament. Scalcie of the coch- lear tube. Position, extent; joined above, separate below. They differ in extent aud size: opening in lower. Lining membrane, and con- tents. Subdivision of coclilea Jrcmbrane of Reissner. each other at the axis. The surface of the lamina which is turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages (st) is most pierced by apertures. The opposite surface is covered in the outer fiflh of its extent by a border or Unihus of fibrous structure (a), which ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the mai-gin of the bony plate, (denticulate lamina, Bowman). Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (Z*), lined by flat epithelium, which is called sulcus spiralis : its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The memhranous part of the septum (membrana basilaris, fig. 245, m h) reaches from the lower edge (c) of the lamina spiralis to the gi-oove in the outer wall of the cochlear tube. Its width varies:— near the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube, but at the apex, where the bony part is wanting, it constructs the septum altogether. This membrane is firm and stiff, and possesses fine i-adiating lines, which cause it to split in shreds. At its outer attachment there is a fibrous band (•*) (ligamentum spirale, Kolhker) fixing it to the bone. Scakc of ilie coclilea (fig. 244). The tube of the cochlea is di^^ded by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is the scala tympani (st) and the other scala vestibuli (sv) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by two canals being cut off from it by mem- branes. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli (sv) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above they communi- cate through the aperture named helico-trema (/). Below they end difi:erently, as the names express :—the scala vestibuli opens into the front of the vestibule (fig. 242, g) ; but the scala tympani is shut ont from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochleaj, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra ro- tunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tj-mpanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into the apex of the cochlea ; whilst the tympanic scala is largest near the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the coclilea, which begins close to a ridge near the lower end of the scala, and opens at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The scalar are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins tlie fibrous process in the aqueduct of the cochlea. The fluid of the vestibular space fills both scalro. Smaller tartitions of the cochlea (fig, 245). Two thin mem- branes are prolonged fi-om the septum to the outer wall, across the vestibular scala. One is called membrane of Keissner, and the other membrane of Corti. The memhrane of Reissner (^), which is easily torn, is prolonged obliquely from the upper surface of the septum cochlea;, where the