CONNECTIONS OF URETHRA. 555 concavity to the pubes. Thence to its termination the urethra is npphecl to the penis; and whilst this body remains pendent the canal forms a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy, its division. The prostatic part (h) is contained in the prostate gland, and Prostatic. I'eceives its name from that chcumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture it is incUned down- wards to the triangular perinteal ligament. Its comicctions are the same as those of the gland (p. 553). The membranous ixirt (c), about three quarters of an inch long, Membra- intei-venes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the ^^^^^^' perinasal triangular ligament. It slants downwards in the erect posture to the fore part of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under part measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (/i). Surrounding it are the muscular connec- fibres of the constrictor urethraj; and close below it are Cowper's glands with the rectum. The spongy xmrt {d) is so named from its being surrounded by a Spongy, cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered for two inches by the ejaculator urinaj muscle (fig. 130). The curve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the inner extremity. Fixed curs'e which lies below the pubes. It extends from the bladder to {^j^ ^'^^^^ra. inch and a half in front of the triangular ligament, and consists of the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards, is greatest at the where fore part of the triangular ligament in the erect posture: and from s*"^^*^*^*- this point it curves up and back to the bladder, and up anteriorly to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres: Voluntary thus, behind the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of iti,itary° the prostate; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor "^^^^j^^^jj^ urethra?, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle; and before the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urintc. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perinajal liga- Size, ment («), and lies between the layers; and is largest in the middle of the prostatic part. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be re- Dissection, moved, to see the component parts of that body; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen: the teguments should be replaced after the part has been learnt. The PENIS is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and hangs Constituents in front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous tion of the bodies (fig. 172, e) »amcd corpora cavernosa, which are filled with penis: