BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 563 tion with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by sujiiiiy the side of the apertm-es in the sacrum. These arteries supply the ^\lanch pyi-iformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with each other, as well as with the middle sacral. A small sj)inal branch enters each aperture in the sacrum. The gluteal artery (fig. 174, m) is a short thick trunk, which Gluteal appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of the • internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the •dorsum of the hip bone ; and it is transmitted fi'om the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein, and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis the artery gives small branches small to the contiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone. B. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac arter}"- Branehcs are the followingJrt"*""'"'' The vesical arteries, superior and inferior, are distributed to the vesical iipper and lower parts of the bladder. arteries; The upper, three or four in number, arise at intervals firom the upper, partly obliterated hypogastric trunk; the lowest of these is some- times called middle vesical branch. Offsets are furnished from middle, those branches to all the body and upper part of the bladder. The lower artery arises from the internal iliac in common with a 'ind lower, branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculfe seminales, and the prostate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The branch to the rectum (middle hfemorrhoidal) is commonly with an supplied by the inferior vesical. It is spent on the anterior and rectum, lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the hjemorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig. 174, k). The branch is directed forwards Obturator below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the upper part of courses the thyroid foramen: passing through that opening it ends in two ^^^J^?^ branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid fora- men, and lie beneath the muscle in that situation. In the pelvis Offsets in the artery has its companion nerve above, and vein below it; and ^'^ it gives origin to the following small branches. Iliac branch: this small offset enters the iliac fossa to supply the iliac branch, bone and the iliacus muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. The pubic branch (fig. 139,/) ascends on the posterior aspect of puWo the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the ' " opposite side, and with an offset fi-om the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator may take origin from the external iliac artery. The sciatic artery (fig. 174, ?i) is the next largest branch to the ^ciatie gluteal, and is continued over tlie pyaiformis muscle and the sacral plexus to the lower part of the sacro-sciatic notch, where it issues in the pelvis, between the pyi-iformis and the coccygeus. External to the pelvis it divides into branches beneath tlie gluteus maximus, and is distri- outside o 0 2 it