DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 476 arc the Buperior mesenteric vessels and nerves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. Peritoneal Ligamenis of the llcer. Along the upper part is a suspensory foWs ofthe pj.Q^.pgg ^£ ^jj^ peritoneum, and there is a wide piece along the posterior border. Suspensory The Huspemonj o\ falciform lUjmnent is placed between the upper hganii-ut: ^.^j^^^^ surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. It ift shape, triangular in shape, with its base forwards. The lower border is attach- concave, and is attached to the liver; whilst the upper border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall, on the right of the contains iJnea alba, and to the under part of the diaphragm. In its base or free part is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the mentV'^" round Ugament. how formed. This fold allows the umbilical vein to reach the liver without piercing the peritoneum ; and with a little care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace it on each side into the suspensory ligament. Coronary The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the peri- toneum, which connects the hinder part of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver, but at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly-shaped piece ; to these larger portions of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied, g^ves rise to The left lateral ligament is attached to the liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of ijeritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in front of the oosophagean opening in the diaphragm. light lateral The right lateral ligament lies deeply in the hypochondriac region, ligament. .^^ front of the vena cava inferior : it consists of two pieces of peritoneum not touchitrg each other. ligament MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NEUVE. Examine lirst ve.ssels tu intestine. Mesenteric vessels. Dissection of superior mesenteric, veins. Directions. The Acssels and nerves (mesenteric) which are dis- tributed to the greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric ar- teries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and the lower end of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection, (fig. 141). For the dissection of the superior mesen- teric vessels and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omen- tum are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, corresponding veins, and offsets of the sympathetic nerve on the arteries, will be met