OLFACTORY EEGIOX. 137 others <liiiiiui.slicd ijy it. 32.* B Characters in lower X>art of no.se on b(Mies and in sinuse.s. Apertures of glands; and epitlie- liuni. iix'e entirely closed by the membrane, viz. incisor, spheno-palatine, the holes in the cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels ; but the apertures that lead to the sinuses and the orbit are only somewhat diminished by the Hninp; they receive. The membrane is stretched over the opening t)f the ductus ad nasum, forming a flap or valve to close the aperture. The characters of the mend)rane in the lower or respiratory part of the nose differ greatly from those of the same layer in the olfactorial region near the roof. In the lower region of the nose, through which the air passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely united to the sub- jacent periosteum and perichoiidrium ; and on the margins of the two inferior spongy bones it is projected somewli;it by the large •sul)mucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface. In the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papilhv, and small hairs (vibrissa?). The surface is covered by the apertures of branched nnicous glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of lai-gest size, about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossa. In the lower part of the nose, and in the sinuses, the epithelium is of the cohnnnar •ciliated kind ; but it becomes laminated or scaly in the dilata- tion or vestibule inside the nostril <fig. 31, The olfactory refjion (fig. 32) is situate at the top of the nasal ■cavity, and is confined to the •surface of the roof formed by the cribriform plate of the eth- moid ; to a portion of the outer •wall constructed by the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and to a corresponding extent of the septum, viz. about one third. The mucous membrane in the olfactory region receives the •olfactory nerve, and is therefore the seat of the sense of smell. It differs much from that in the lower portion of the nose, for it is less strong and vascular ; and is of a yellowish colour, which is due to pigment in the epithelium and the glands. The epithelium (fig. 32 a) is thicker but softer here than lower Epithelium. * Magnified vertical section of tlie mucou.s membrane of the nose (altered from Henle). . A. 1. Cohimnar epithelium at tlie free surface. 2. Granular or muUlle layer of the same. 3. Deepest layer of elongated cells placed vertically. 4. Secreting tubular glands. ? + • i 15. a. Pieces of the columnar epithehum greatly enlarged. 0. Ultactoiiai cells amongst the epithelium particles. 01f;u;tory region. Extent. Mucous luenibrane.