498 composition of villus, artery and vein, lacteals. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Kranse). , . , , „ Each villus is an extension of the mucous coat, and is covered by cohmniar epithelium. One or sometimes two arterial twigs form a capillary network beneath the mucous covering (fig. 142, ), and end generally in a single emerging vein. A single lacteal, or two forming a loop with cross branches (fig. 149, occupies the centre, and communicates with a plexus below the villus. Around the Fig. 149 muscular ayer. Several kinds of glands. Simple tubes as in the stoniiieh, but not so close ; their size, and contents. Solitarj- follicles; size and situation. lacteals a thin laj-er of unstriated muscular fibre is arranged longi- tudinally (Briicke). Nerves have not been detected in the A-illus. Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine arc included the ciypts of Lieberkuhii, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands. The crypts of LieherldUin (fig. 152, a) are minute simple tubes^ similar to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; but closed at the opposite end, they project into tlie submucous layer, and are seldom branched. Their length is from y^th to -^Lth of an inch ; they are filled with a translucent fluid containing gi-anules, and are lined by a columnar epithelium. The so-called solitary (jlamh (fig. 151, ^) are ronndish white eminences, about the size of mustard seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the • A. Vessels of the villi in the mouse, injected by Gerlach (Kijlliker). a. ArtetA', and h, vein. b. Lacteals and plexus of vessels in two villi, injected by Teichman. a. Lacteal vessel, single in one villus, double in the other. 6. Plexus of vessels. c. Plexus of lacteals beloM- the villi. (Quaiu's Anatomy.)