DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 364 partioularly vagus. Phrcnin nerve of tlie cervical plexus, passes to diaphragm. Right non e above root of lung. Left ner\-e above root; is longer than right Some off- sets. Intenial mammary artery gives phrenic branch. Vagus nerve. Riglit vagus above the root. mination ; but the student should trace the vagus nerves through the thorax. The vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that jiosition is to be dissected out: a few filaments of the gangliated cord of the symiDathetic coming forwards over the spinal column to the plexus, must be looked for. In fi-ont of the root on the left side, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments. Beyond the root the vagus is to be pursued along the cesojjhagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE is a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 73). In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the pei'icardium, and at a little distance in front of the root of the lung, with a small comijanion artery. When near the diaphragm it is divided into branches: these perforate the muscle, and are distributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their connections above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first, and is also shorter and straighter than the left. In entering the chest it crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vem and superior cava till it reaches the root of the hmg. The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, but has the same position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the cavity. In the thorax it is directed in fi-ont of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nen^e is placed external to the left common carotid artery ; and crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nen'-e on the arch. Branches. Some small filaments are said to be fin-nished fi'om the nerve to the pleura and pericardium. Internal mammary artery. A small part of this artery, which lies beneath the first rib, and winds roimd the phrenic nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be learnt. It gives the following offset:— The superior x>hrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a very slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the dia- phragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomosing therein with other branches of the aorta, and with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary (p. 253). The TNEDMO GASTRIC NERVE (p. 188) passcs through the thorax to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the nerves of opposite sides have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the right and left nerves differ much. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet. ' The right vagus is posterior to the left in position. It enters the thorax between the subclavian artery and the innominate vein