METATAESO-rnALANGEAL JOINTS. 717 Two 'Synovial memhranes are present in these tarso-metatarsal Two syno- iirticulations. Si'^!"'' There is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, •which serves for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the bones : this is not always separate from the following. The second is placed in the johit between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is •an ofEset of the common synovial membrane belonging to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuneiform bones (p. 714): prolongations fi'om it are furnished to the lateral articular surfaces of the second, third, and fom-th (inner side) metatarsals. Articular surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not flat; for the Form of metatarsal bones are undulating, and the tarsal are uneven to fit ^'''^ ^oi^es, into the others. Movement. From the wedge-shaped form of the metatarsal bones Motion from a sUght movement fi'om above down is obtainable; and this jg'^^ov'*^i'^^^'^ greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there is an abductory and adductory motion ; and mth aMuc- a small degree of the same exists in the fourth toe. a(.iductk)n. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been taken away, separate the the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus may be seen i^o'ies- by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and from the os cuboides; the latter bone from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsals from one another. The dissector will find that, in using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the ligaments. Metatarsus with phalanges. These are condyloid joints, in Union of which the head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cavity J^'fa'pha!^^ of the phalanx. langus, by Each articulation has two lateral and an inferior lir/ament, as in two lateral the hand; and the joint is further strengthened above by an ex-. pansion derived fi'om the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A distinct synovial membrane exists in each joint. In the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones, synovial which are connected with the inferior and lateral ligaments. All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct; and their anatomy is more fully described with the dissection of that part. (See page 322.) Surfaces of hone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, which F'lrm of is longest fi-om above down, and reaches farthest on the plantar surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint as in the hand, there is angular Kind of motion in four difEerent directions, with circumduction. inotion. Flexion aiul extension. When the joint is bent the phalanx passes Bending under the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is extended li^i"^^^ the phalanx moves back beyond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to ficxion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the state of .stretching of the fore part of the lateral ligaments, and by the • extensor tendon; and to extension, by the tightness of the inferior,