LOBES OF CEREBRUM. 203 Fissure of Rolando (R, fig. 60). Bcgiiming sxhovc, about half Fissure of way along the hemisphere, in or near the longitudinal fissure of the ■cerebrum, it is prolonged outwards between the frontal and parietal lobes nearly to the posterior part of the Sylvian fissure,—about the middle of that limb. The external parieto-occipital fissure (opposite P 0, fig. GO,) begins Outer in the median longitudinal fissure half way between the preceding oiJclpHal <and the hinder end of the hemisphere. It is very vaiiable in extent, Assure, being sometimes an inch long, and at others only a slight inden- tation ; but it may be always recognised by its continuity with the perpendicular fissure on the inner face of tlie hemisphere (fig. G2). Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is divided into five Number of lobes, which have the following names and hmits :— ' The frontal lobe (Fr, fig. 60) forms the anterior half of tlie hemi- Frontal lobe sphere. It is limited below by the fissure of Sylvius, S, and behind by the fissure of Rolando,* R. Its under part, which rests on the and lobule, orbital plate, has been called the orbital lobule. The parietal lohe (Par, fig. 60) is placed behind the preceding. Parietal lobe and reaches down to the Sylvian fissure. It is about half as long as the frontal. In front it is bounded by the fissure of Rolando, R, and behind by the parieto-occipital (P 0). The upper and hinder mid lobule, part, close to the median fissure, is named the parietal lobule (5'). The occipital lohe (Oc, fig. 60) constitutes the pointed endAf the Occipital hemisphere, and measures about a fifth of the whole. In fi-ont it ^'^^^ is separated fi-om the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure (P 0), but below it blends with the following lobe. It rests on the tentorium. On the innfer surface is a triangular piece, the occi- and lobule, pital lobule (-^, fig. 62). The tem2)oro-sp]ienoidal lohe (T S, fig. 60) projects into the middle Temporo- fossa of the base of the skull. It is situate behind the fissure of lobeT"''^'^^ Sylvius, and below the parietal and occipital lobes. The outer surface is in contact with the cranium, and the opposite is supported mainly on the tentorium. The central lohe, or the island of Reil (C, fig. 61), lies in the Centrailobe. Sylvian fissure, and is concealed by the overlapping of the frontal and tempoi-o-sphenoidal lobes. On separating those lobes it will be seen to be bounded in front and behind by the limbs of the Sylvian fissure, and externally by a deep groove separating it from the frontal and parietal lobes. It is of a triangular form with the apex down. Convolutions of the Cerebrum. In different brains the con- convoiu- volutions vary slightly in form, and even in the two hemispheres [^yy^igpijere of the same cerebrum they are not exactly alike ; but there is always similarity enough for the recognition of the chief eminences. Each lobe possesses convolutions, but these run into each other by means of smaller gyri, either on the surface of the brain or at the bottom of the sulci; and the student may experience some difliculty at first in defining the limits of each. It is in the smaller gyri that the greatest variation will be found. * By some the anterior limb of the fissure 'S is made the hinder bound of the lobe ; but this is not so good an arrangement as that in the text.