DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 648 and borders. Use on the coccyx. Leviitor ani; situation. Origin partly from htme, and partly from membrane. Insertion along middle line of the perineum. Borders and surfaces. Two mus- cles form a fleshy dia- rhragm. Use on the urethra, in micturi- ition, ■ and passage •of semen; 'on coccyx. Dissection for the rec- to-vesical fascia. sacro-sciatic ligament. The upper or hinder border is contiguous to the pyriforiuis muscle, vessels and nerves intervening ; and the anterior or lower border is parallel with the levator ani nniscle. Action.—Uniting in its action with the hinder fibres of the leva- tor ani, the muscle will draw slightly forwards the coccyx. The LEVATOR AXi (fig. 171, ^) is a thin flat muscle, which is attached above to the side of the pelvis, and descends below into the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an oblique line above the obturator internus ; lower down from the fascia on that muscle, and from the back of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it is fixed to the lower and inner surface of the ischial spine. And be- tween those osseous attachments the muscle takes origin from the under part of the recto-vesical fascia, but not m a straight line. All the fibres are directed downwards to be imerted after the follow- ing manner :—The anterior, the longest, descend'by the side of the prostate and join, in front of the rectum, with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the jjcrinajum ; the middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx (p. 421). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the triangu- lar perineal ligament; * and there is an interval between the two muscles, which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The posterior border is parallel to the coccy- geus muscle. The upper surface is contiguous to the recto-vesical fascia ; and the under surface looks to the perinaium (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest: this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. Action. By the union of the muscles of opposite sides below the urethra this tube can be raised, and compressed during their con- traction. Whilst the urine is flowing the fibres arc passive, but towards the end of micturition they contract suddenly, and help the other muscles in clearing the passage. As the levatores descend by the side of the vesiculre seminales, and the prostate, they will compress and evacuate the contents of those viscera. The hindmost fibres, which are fixed to the coccyx, will assist the coccygeus in moving forwards that bone. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by detaching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani and the coccygeus at their origin and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends on the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards sheaths around the prostate and the gut. To demon- * The anterior pai-t of the muscle which descends by the side of the prostate and unites with its fellow below the membranous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, is named sometimes levator seu compressor prostatce.