475 rERITONEAL FOLDS OX INTESTINE. the wall of the abdomen by processes of the peritoneum (mcso- iittauhin^ colic), which are formed of two pieces, like the other folds, though uiXn>l' they are at some distance from each other. Each part of tlie colon lias a separate meso-colon attaching it, thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a descending, and a sigmoid meso-colon. The Cfocum is fixed by a meso-caicum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. The meso-cccciuit attaches the caput ca'cum coli to the right iliac ""^so- fossa. Usually the peritoneum does not siuTound the gut so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane furnishes a suspensory process to this part of the intestine. By the ascending and the defending meso-colon the ascending and ascendin<,', ihe descending part of the colon are kept in place. In these folds, meso colou'; as in that of the caecum, the peritoneum does not commonly surround the intestine, though it may meet behind the gut and form pro- <'esses of some length. The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold (pleuro-colic), jiicm-o-colic fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide part to the diaphragm opposite the eleventh or tenth rib, it passes trans- versely below the spleen, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fofd than either of the transverse others connected with the large intestine, and serves as a partition '"^^""'^'^^""^ between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It encloses the vessels of the colon between its layers. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, and sigmoid ^nd attaclics tlie sigmoid tlexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. • The meso-rectum contains the hamiorrlioidal vessels, and connects meso- the rectum to the front of the sacrum. rettum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of Appendices tlie great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiploictn, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped reritoneal hy the peritonemn after the same manner throughout. For whilst MnaVl'mte's- tlie jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one t''"^- process (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum Peritonemn ■ Oil diioilc- is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach. The second part is num. <iovered only in front. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane ; for it lies at first between the strata of the transverse meso-colon, and then beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mesenterg supports the rest Mesentery: of the small intestine, and is stronger tlian any other piece of the serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached to the form, spine from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right hip bone with the sacrum. The otlier end of the fold attadi- is wide, and is connected with tlie intestine. Between its two layers