680 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. tirst, second, tliird, fourth. External artery lia.s curved course; partly superficiiil, paiHy deep. Superficial part: connec- tions. veins and nerve. Branches. Plantar nen es also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half: muscular branches. Digital nerves are divided ex- cept first; muscular branches: ticial digital brandies accompany the digital nerves of the internal plantai', and arc thus disposed of:— The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and gi-eat toe ; the secoml lies over the first interosseous space ; the tldrd corresponds with the second space ; and the fourih is placed over the third space. At the root of the toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. The exteimal artery (a) takes an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch turned iuAvards. The vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obhquely inwards towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz. fi'om the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial ; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining part, suppljang the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of nmscles (p. 685). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor pollicis and the flexor brcvis digitoruin ; but for a short distance near its termination' it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os calcis, and the flexor accessorius : and it is accompanied by venaa comites, and the external plantar nen'^e. It supplies offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and others to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The PLANTAR NERVES (fig. 208) are denved from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial trunk behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, like the arteries, and have the same anatomy as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar artery; but the larger nerve lies with the smaller bloodvessel. The internal x>l(intar nerve Q) courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor pollicis, and giving but few muscular offsets, divides into four digital branches (-, *) for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fom-th ; it re- sembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. jMuscular offsets are given by it to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor pollicis ; and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch f) to the inner side of the gi-eat toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. ]\Iuscular branches are furnished by these nen^es before they, reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis pollicis ; the second gives a branch to the inner lumbrical muscle, and the third, to the next lumbricalis.