DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 696 Use on the toes. Cut through extensor lireyis, and annular ligament: follow UJ) the nerves. Nerves of the frout of the letr. Recurrent. Musculo- cutaneous supplies peronel. Anterior tibial is with the artery: ■branches to muscles. External muscles of the leg. Peroneus longus. Origin from the fibula; Action. Assisting tlie long extensor, it straightens the four inner toes, sei^arating them slightly from each other. Dissection. The branches of arter}^ and nerve which are beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by dividing that muscle near its front, and turning it ujDAvards. By cutting through the lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor pollicis, and throwing outwards the ex- ternal half of it,—the different sheaths of the ligament, the attach- ment to the OS calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be obsei-A^ed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal: and a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves to the front of the lec. Between the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is small, and takes the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued between the extensor longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. G89). Before the nei-ve becomes cutaneous it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. The anterior tihialnerve (fig. 213) (interosseous) is directed beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery about the middle third of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the foot to the first interosseous space (p. 690). In the leg it crosses the anterior tibial vessels once or more, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery. Branches. In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior tibial muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneus tertius. On the dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extensor; this is enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot. Muscles on the outer tart of the eeg (fig. 207). Two muscles occupy this situation, and are named peronei from their attachment to the fibula; they are distinguished by the terms longus and bre-sns. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The TERONEUS LONGUS (fig. 207, ^■), the more superficial of the two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer border. It arises from the head, and the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula for two thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards ; from the external border neariy to the malleolus ; and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Interiorly it ends in a tendon Avhich is continued through the external annular ligament, with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back of the external malleolus ; and it passes finally in a separate sheath, below the peroneus brcA-is along the side of the os calcis and through the