VITREOUS BODY AND MEMBRANE. 735 The pigmentary layer (fig. 225) covers the outer surface of the Pigmentary retina, and is connected thereto by fine processes.* It consists of a single stratum of six sided nucleated cells, with granular contents (fig. 228, ^) which are applied to each other by the edges. Each '^^o"' ^orm^; possesses a nucleus towards the outer surface, and mucli pigment towards the inner. From the inner surface of the cells i^roiect characters ^ of cells * very hne threads, which penetrate between the rods and cones of ' -Jacob's layer. The pigmentary layer is constituted thus as far as the ora serrata of the retina ; but in front of that line, viz., on the •ciliary portion of the retina, the cells are rounded and full of pig- ►nient, and are continuous with the pigment on the ciliary processes extent. and back of the iris. Vessels of the retina. The central artery of the retina, accom- Vessels of . . retina ^anied by its vein, enters the eyeball through the optic nerve <(p. 46). Inside the retina the vessel divides into four or five branches ; these pierce the sti'atum of fibres (fig. 232, /i), and end in a network of capillaries amongst tire ganglion cells (</), and in the molecular material outside them (/). In the yellow spot only at yellow capillaries exist. In the fetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of Branch in the vitreous mass to supply the lens capsule. fetus. Vitreous Body. A transparent mass fills the greater part of the vitreous ;space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 225, 7i), which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistency of jelly. Dissection. The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which To obtain a the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, the iris, and ^^^^^ °^ the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, and of its an eyeball should be fixed upright ; the sclerotic and choroid coats •are to be cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; and on removing carefully the cornea, ciliary muscle and processes with the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The. vitreous body (fig. 225, li) is globuhar in form, and fills four- Part of the fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly f/yit*; hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule (^7), to which it is closely united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same Composi- ■ composition as the aqueous humour with some salts and albumen. Enveloping the whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the fine transparent covering of the Hyaloid '\'-itreous body. It passes continuously over the surface ; and in the ' fetus it is connected with fibres which penetrate the mass. On the Connec- inner aspect are a few delicate nuclei. At the fore part it is joined by the membrane (t) supporting the in front, lens ; and it ends by uniting with the back of the lens capsule, and behind. * In the dissection of the retina this pigmentary layer is removed with the ..choroid through the rupture of those processes ; and it has therefore been ■ commonly described as part of the choroid coat.