DISSECTION OF THE BACK 392 Connec- tions of erector spinw in lumbar. dorsal, and cervical regions. Use of both erectors: in breath- of one on spine. Use of accessory muscles : on neck, and ribs; on neck. on head. Coniplexus. Origin. Insertion. splenius into the upper Iialf of the posterior part of the mastoid process: its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide.* * Connections of the erector spince. The erector spina? and its pro- longations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cers'ical parts of the Back. In the loins the muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath (p. 385), and has the multifidus spina? on its inner side: its attach- ment on the inner surface of the innominate bone corresponds iui part with the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer side. The superficial tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus, will be described with the last mentioned muscle (p. 401). Opposite the ribs the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi are con- cealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck its accessory small muscles lie underneath the splenius and the trapezius:—the cervicalis ascendens is attached in a line with, but below the splenius colli ; and the transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between the splenius and cervicalis and the complexus. Action. Taking their fixed point at the pelvis both erectors will' keep the spine straight in sitting and standing; and, in rising from stooping to the ground, they will bring the trimk into the erect posture. In laborious respiration, the spine being fixed, the muscles, are able to depress the ribs, and assist in the expulsion of the air from the thorax. One muscle will incline the spinal column laterally and to it» own side. The cer\acal prolongations of the erector act on the neck and head, as below :— The cervicalis ascendens. Taking their fixed point below, both muscles will extend the cer\'ical part of the spine; and acting from the transverse processes they will elevate the ribs. One muscle will give a lateral movement to the neck. The transversalis colli bends back the neck if the muscles of both sides contract together; or laterally towards its own side, if only one is used. The trachelo-mastoiclms will extend the head in concert with it& fellow ; or by itself will turn the face to its own side, and then help to approximate the head to the shoulder. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 118, ^) is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous pieces from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal vertebrte, from the spine of the last cendcal, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebra? as liigh as the third. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the os occipitis, which reaches * The anatomy of the prolongation from the longissimus might bo simplified by describing it as the transversalis muscle with a double insertion, like the splenius, into the head and neck. In accordance with the nomenclature of the splenius the part to the head might be named transversalis capitis and the part to the neck transversalis coUi, as at present.] '