DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 Use of fibro- cartilages in flexion and exten- sion, and in rota- tion : use of accessorj' bauds. Surfaces of bone. On feniui', patellar and tibial; characters; peculiarities of inner. Articular surfaces of tibia. Subdivi- sion of joint- surface of patella. Kinds of movement. other, springs from tlie back of the outer fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the femur as a single band (fig. 217, d) in fi-ont of the posterior crucial, or as two bands—one being before, and the otlier behind that ligament. Use. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between the articular surfaces of the bones at the circumference of the joint ; they moderate the injurious effect of pressure of the one bone on the other; and cause the force of shocks to be diminished in transmission. In flexion and extension they move forwards and backwards with the tibia. During flexion tliey recede somewhat fi-om the fore part of the joint, and surround the condyles of the femur ; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages the external moves the most in consequence of its ends being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the tibial movements, but the external is most displaced by the projecting outer condyle of the femur. The accessory bands in front and behind sers^e to retain in place the least fixed external fibro-cartilage ; thus the anterior ligament keeps forwards the fore part of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the same from displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the hones. The end of the femur is marked by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. The patellar is placed in the middle line above the others ; it is hollowed along the centre, with a slanting surface on each side, the outer being the larger of the two. The surfaces for contact with the tibia, two in number, occupy the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- pression by an oblique groove on each side. On the centre of each is a somewhat flattened part, Avhich is in contact with the tibia in standing; and at the posterior third is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia in rotation. The inner condyle of the femur is curved at its anterior third,, the concavity being directed out: this has been named the " oblique curvature." Close to the curved part is a semilunar facet, which touches the perpendicular surface of the patella in extreme flexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle of the bone, on the points of the tibial spine. The joint-surface of the patella is marked by the following im- pressions. Close to the inner edge is a narrow perpendicular facet and along the lower border is a similar transverse mark. Occupying- the rest of the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided by a vertical and a transverse line into two pairs of marks upper and lower. (Goodsir, Edinb. Med. Jour., 1855.) Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are twa in number, bending and straightening, like the elbow; but there is in addition, rotation of the tibia when the joint is bent. '