DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 118 BriiiR-li<>.s. Structure. Large lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head and neck% and from the left upper limh, open into the upper part of the duct',, and sometimes separately into the vein (^°). Structure. This tube is formed of tliree coats like the blood-vessels; viz. inner, middle, and outer. The inner is an elastic layer of longitudinal fibres covered by flattened epithelium ; the middle ia; Fig. 27.* ntrwa. Diffen'rife in oiijjiii <if right find left carotids. In the nci k differeiice ill vein aud nerve. Pnrt.s in the a]i('i-tnre of thuriix. muscular and clastic with transA'crse fibres ; and the outer i& constructed chiefly of fibrous tissues arranged longitudinally and obliquely. Examine next the brachial and cen'ical plexuses, using the des- cription of the right side (p. 72 to 74). Common cakotids. On opposite sides these vessels have ditfer- ences like those between the right and left subclavian arteries; for the left vessel arises fi'om the arch of the aorta, and is there- fore deep in the chest, and longer than the right. The description of the artery betAveen its origin and the top of the sternum M ill be included in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation the vessels, on both sides,, so nearly resemble one another that the same description may sei-vc for the two (p. 74). On the left side, however, the jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are mvich nearer to the carotid thau on the right side, and are placed over the artery in the lower third of the neck.-j- Parts in the urrEii aperture of the thorax. The relative position of the several parts entering or leaving the thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. * Diagram of the ending of the lymph duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3, left innominate vein. 4. Left and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7, right subclavian vein. 8^ Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic vessel joining the right lymphatic duct as. this is about to end in the subclavian vein. ' + Occasionally these differences will be reversed—the vein and nerve beinf over the artery on the right side, and avv-ay from it on the left.