INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. U3 At its exit from llio canal, the nerve receives a soft reddisli offset {^carotid branch) from the sympathetic on the outer side of tlie ■carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium throui^h the cartilaginous substance in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on tlie surface of the petrous part of tlie temporal bone, where it takes the name of large .mperficialpetrosal nerve (fig. 35, -). Lastly it is contimied through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform eidargement on the facial nerve. Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sympathetic Vidian «, fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the ^erve?'^"^ ■sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give his attention to the re- maining nerves in the nasal cavity. Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose behind Seek other the nasal bone (fig. 34), by gently detaching the lining membrane, lifter having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum nasi, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vessels of •spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of ^Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The nasal nerre (of the ophthalmic) (fig. 34, ") has been already Nasal nerve •seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fossa ))y an aperture lies beneath at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a branch to the gh-es ' membrane of the septum, and is continued in a groove behind the OS nasi to the lower margin of this bone where it escapes to the -surface of the nose in the face (fig. 9, ''). Branches. The branch to tlie septum (fig. 33) divides into filaments hrauch to that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly ^^l**^"'^ to the lower border. One or tiro fikunents are likewise furnished by the nerve to the and to niucous niembrane on the outer wall of tlie nasal fossa; these extend :as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The Branehes of branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not been examined, are the superior palatine, naso-palatine, pterygo- artery arc palatine, and Aadian. The superior or descending pxdatine is the largest branch, and y"''!^*^^','!*; ticcoinpanies the large palatine nerve through the canal, and along the roof of the mouth; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth with its fellow, and with a branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies offsets to the soft palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnislied to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous mem- brane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from it. The nasal or spheno-pcdatine artery enters the nose through the :spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches:—Some of these