DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. CIG crural sep- tiuu, orural sheath. cribrifonn fascia, fat and skin. Tlie cover- ings may be altered. Tiimoiir, how kiio\7n. Place of stricture. How to cut the external and the internal stricture. ing layers, which are elongated and pushed before it fi-om within outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen, whicli forms the hernial sac. Next one from the septum crurale across the crural ring. Afterwards comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side. Over this is spread a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together Avith the skin. The coverings may vary, or may be conjoined in different degrees according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances the prolongation fi-om the crural sheath is wanting. Further, in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is united usually with that from the cniral sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia liropria (Cooper). In general, in an operation for the rehef of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enume- rated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum cnarale. Diagnosis. This hernial tumour is generally smaller than inguinal, and does not extend into the scrotum in the male, or the labium in the female ; and if its neck can be traced below Poupart's liga- ment, it can be distinguished certainly from an inguinal hernia. Seat of stricture and division of it. The strangulation of a femoral hernia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. The external stricture may be found opposite the margin of the saphenous opening, or deeper in, opposite Poupart's ligament. It may be removed by cutting down on the neck of the tumour at the inner side, and dividing the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in this situation, without opening the sac. The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by the thick- ening of the peritoneum. For its relief the neck of the sac is to be laid bare, as if there was an external stricture ; and if the intestine cannot be passed into the abdomen after division of all constricting bands on the exterior of the neck, the sac of the peritoneum is to be opened ; and a director haAdng been introduced through the con- striction, a cut is to be made horizontally inwards for the extent of one or two Hues. The several vessels that may be womided in at- tempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 465. Scarpa's triangulapw space. Triangular siiace. Clean out Scarita's space. Follow vessels. This hollow is situate at the upper part of the thigh, and lies be- neath the depression observable near Poupart's hgament. It corre- sponds with the axilla in the upper limb. Dissection (fig. 193). The space will appear on removing the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side (sartorius) should be fixed in place with stitches. Afterwards, the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away; and the feme-