85 TEMrORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. Directions. Before proceeding further in the dissection, the student may learn the anatomy of the artictdation of the lower jaw. Temporo-jiaxillary articulation. In this articulation are com- Joint of billed the condyle of the jaw and the anterior part of the glenoid ^^^^''^^ J''^^- fossa of the temporal bone ; but the osseous surfaces are not in contact, for a piece of fibro-cartilage with two synovial sacs is interposed between them. The bones are retained in apposition mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw ; but the following ligaments serve to unite them. Capsule. This is a thin fibrous tube enclosing the bones, and is Capsule of wider above than below. By the upper end it is fixed around the '^^^^j""^*- articular surface of the temporal bone in front of the Glaserian fissure ; and it is inserted below around tlie condyle of the lower jaw. The space in the interior is divided into two, upper and lower, by a piece of fibro-cartilage, which is united to the capsule by its circumference. The external lateral is a short ligamentous band, being but a part External of the capsule, which is attached above to the tubercle at the root ""^^ of the zygoma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 10, 1) is a long, thin, mem- internal branous band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it ment^^'^^" is connected to a projection inside the glenoid fossa, which consists of the spinous process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. The hgament Hes between the jaw and the internal pterygoid ; and its origin is concealed by tlie external pterj-goid muscle. Between the ligament and the jaw the internal maxillary artery intei-venes. Dissection. After tlie external lateral ligament and the capsule Dissection, of the joint have been examined, an interarticular fibro-cartilage, witli a liollow above and below it, will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 20). The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 20,'') is adapted to the sur- Fibro-carti- faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thinner in the ^^^^' centre than at the margins, and an aperture is sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded ami attacli- on the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule and the external lateral ligament ; and in fi-ont the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular pad allows greater freedom of movement in the Use. joint without dislocation ; diminishes the injurious effect of pressure ; and deadens the sound of the jaw striking the skull. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation—one above, two syuo. and one below the fibro-cartilnge. The lower one is the smaller of the tAvo. . Another structure—the stglo-maxillanj ligament (fig. 20, ) is described as a uniting band to this articulation. It is a process ot j^^^^ -^