DUCT AND VESSELS OF TESTIS. 527 urethra. The leiig-tli of this part of the exci-etory duct is about two length and feet, and the width of its canal about -j-^^th of an inch. Opening sometimes into the vas deferens, at the angle of union Vas aberrans •with the epididymis, is a small narrow ca^cal appendage, the vcis present; ahen-ans of Ilaller (fig. 167, /). It is convoluted, and projects up- situation Avards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like and size, the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled : its capacity i^ gi'eatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. Structure. The excretoiw duct of the testis has a thick muscular Two coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- alict. nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular aiTanged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous memhrcme is marked by longitudinal folds in the and a straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. A columnar epithelium, though not ciliated, covers the inner surface ; but in the epididymis it is ciliaT;ed (Becker). Organ of Giraldes/~' In the spermatic cord of the fetus and child. Organ of close above the epididymis, is a small whitish granular-looking • body (" Corps Innomine," (xiraldes), about half an inch long—the remains of remains of the lower part of the Wolffian body of the embryo. ^^"/^'^'^ With slight magnifying power its component Avhite granules are ^Qj^gt;. resolved into small vesicles, and convoluted tubes of varying shape, tuents, filled with a clear thick fluid ; their wall consists of a thiii membrane, structure, lined by flattened epithelium, with plexuses of bloodvessels ramif}^- ing on the exterior. Bloodvessels arul nerves of the testicle. The branches of the sper- Spermatic matk artery supply offsets to the epididymis, and pierce the back of the testicle to enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea ; and ofi^sets are continued on the fine septa to the seminal tubules, on which the}^ are distributed in capillary plexuses. The sjiermatic vein begins by radicles in the plexuses around the Spermatic seminal tubes, and issues from the gland at the posterior part, being there joined by veins fi-om the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus ; it joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The arrangement of the lymphatics in the testicle is unknown ; Lympiiatica external to that body they ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the and nerves, arteries to the testis : their ending has not been seen. * Sur un Organe place dans le Cordon Spermatique, et dont I'existence n'a pas ete signalee par les Anatomistes. Par F. Girald^s. Proceedings of the Koyal Society for May, 1S58.