DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 68 Suhelavian artery ; extends to Hjiper limb, and is divided into thi-ee parts. Tirst part' intenial to scalemis is deep. In fi'ont, belifnd, below. Veins with the arterv. Piosition of nen-es before, and behind. Second part beneatli scalenus. In front. behind, below. Po-iiition of A'eins : of nerves to the arten-. Tlie SUBCLAVIAN ARTEiiY (fig. IG) is tliG first part of tlie large- vessel supplying the upper limb with blood, which is thus desig- nated fi-om its position beneath the clavicle. This vessel, O, is- derived from the branching of the innominate artery behind the sterao-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the- limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni muscles. For the purpose of describing its numerous; connections the vessel may be divided into three jDarts : the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath tlie scaleiuis ; and the third, fi-om the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia, the sterno- mastoid, stemo-hyoid, aiid sterno-thyroid muscles, and a sti'ong deep process of fascia fi-om the inner border of the scalenus nmscle. This part of the subclavian lies over the longus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by fat and nerves.. Below the artery is the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel. Veins. The innominate vein, and the ending of the subclavian ('), form an arch below that of the artery. The large internal jugular vein crosses the arterial tnmk close to the scalenus ; and under- neath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein. Much more supei-ficial, and separated from the artery by nmscles, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumogastric neive, near to the internal jugular vein ; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Behind the subclavian artery winds the recun-ent branch of the pneumogastric ; and still deeper is the cord of the sympathetic neive with its cardiac branches, one or more of its offsets entwining round the vessel. Second 2)art. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less deep than when placed internal to that muscle, and at this spot it rises highest above the clavicle. The second part, like the first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia ; then by the clavicular origin of the stcmo-mastoideus; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. Below the artery is the bag of the pleura, which ascends between the scaleni. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the su])clavian vein. Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nerve. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large ceivical nerves ; and the tnmk formed by the last cer\ncal and first dorsal is interposed between the artery and the middle scalenus.