443 EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. Should one muscle contract it will incline the trunk or the pelvis One muscle to the same side, according as the upper or the lower attacluuent may be moveable : and it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. Parts of the aponeurosu. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line ; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin ; and the rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba (fig. 137). This wliite band on the fi'ont of the ru the linea abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of oppo- apo",euroses site sides. It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, united: and sei-ves as a ligament between the chest and pelvis. Its bi^eadth is wider above than below ; and it is perforated here and there by small apertiu-es, which allow pellets of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which projects in its middle now beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a holloAv indicated its position. External abdominal rin(/ (fig. 133, ^'). This opening is situate External ^ near the pubes between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It ling, is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the Form and pubes, and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long situation, measurement of the apeilure is about an inch, and the transverse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars, and differ in form and strength, inner side The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of the symphysis ptibis, where it crosses the corresponding piece of the opposite side—that of the right muscle being superficial. The outer margin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but Onter forms a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this "^"^S^ • margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine or tuberosity. A thin membrane (intercolumnar) A fascia pro- covers the opening, and is derived fi-om some fibres on the surface mar|in.^^"'" of the aponeurosis. The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in The cord in the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the transmitted *part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a and hernia coA-ering from the intercolumnar fibres. Through this aperture the through it. inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fibres form a layer over the aponeurosis, and intercoium- , . , , . ,1 1 /-I \ X i 1 nar libres. bmd together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a firm membrane. Inferiorly, where they are strongest, a bundle is connected with the attartnnent outer third of Poupart's ligament, and is continued back to the ^""'^ ^' crista ilii. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and, becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper part of that opening ; and as they are prolonged on the t'^'^'jy r™-^ cord from the margin of the ring, they give rise to the membrane coiumnai^' named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is fascia, entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round hgament hi the female.