655 POrLITEAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. tlie back of the leg, and retains the name pophteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been already noticed. The branches arising fi-om it here are Brandies the followina::— '^^'^ a. Two small articular twigs (fig. 201, ") are furnished to the two knee joint with the vessels. One which accompanies the lower'"'"'^'^^'^'^' internal articular artery to the fore part of the articulation, is the largest; and another takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. h. Muscular branches arise from the nei-ve between the heads of muscular; the gastrocnemius. One supplies both heads of the gastrocnemius and the pLantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the cutaneous surface of the soleus. And a third pene- trates the popliteus at tlie under aspect, after turning round the • lower border. c. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, ^) (ram. communicans external tibialis) is the largest branch, and is a cutaneous offset to the leg uerve.'^""'* and foot. It lies on the surface of the gastrocnemius, but beneath tlie fascia, as far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes cuta- neous, and will be afterwards seen. The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (fig. 200,^ ) (peroneal) lies along External the outer boundary of the ham as far as the knee joint: at that P^ri'teai . nerve. level it leaves the space and follows the edge of the biceps muscle for two inches, till it is below the head of the fibula. There it enters the fibres of the peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into three,—musculo-cutaneous, anterior tibial, and recur- rent articular. Its branches whilst in the popliteal space are cuta- Branches: neous and articular, a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the articular, upper external artery to the outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower articular artery: both enter the joint. h. The peroneal communicating branch (fig. 205, (ram. commu- communi- nicans fibidaris) joins the external saphenous branch of the internal jji-anch popliteal about the middle of the leg. It soon becomes cutaneous, and offsets are given by it to the back of the leg. c. One or two cutaneous nerves are furnished by the external cutaneous popliteal to the integument on the outer side of the leg in the upper half. The articular branch ot the ohturator nerve (fig. 201,') perforates Articular the adductor magnus, and is conducted by the popliteal artery to obturator.''" the back of the knee joint. After supplying filaments to the vessels, the neiwe enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The lymphatic glands of the popliteal space are situate around Lymphatio the large arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides; f^^^ ^i^. whilst one is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel : they arteiy. are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the saphenous vein.