79 BRAXCHES OF CAROTID. liyoides, and passes beneath the omo-liyoid, sterno-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to whicli it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. Tliis artery is superticial in the lias offsets; anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor and the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The Jufoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs tiio liyoul inwards below the hyoid bone: it supplies tlie nuiscles attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the to stemo- sheath of the conmion carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to u'^i^^g^ the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to larj-nx, bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- tocnVo- tween the cricoid and the thyi-oid cartilage, and communicates with |^i','em{j".ane the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein connnences in the larynx and the Acfiompany- thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) arises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery ^^'^^^'y jiasses beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is after- wards lodged on the submaxillary gland, on which it makes a sigmoid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been examined (p. 27). supplies From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to the structures below the jaw, viz.:— a. The inferior 2)al(i'ti>ie branch ascends to the pharynx beneath to the tlie jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus i^"'^'^*'*' muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, after furnishing a branch to the tonsil. This branch frequently arises from the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes tonsil, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland suii-maxii- from the part of the artery in contact with it. aiy-Miu, d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and .ind myio- courses forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the muscle, digastric muscle, where it ends in offsets : some of tliese turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone,—one or two perforating the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The faded vein (p. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding with the off- sets of the artery. It often thi-ows itself into tlie temporo-maxillary trunk. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined for Occipital ^ artei-y