305 BEEP EXTENSOR MUSCLES. Fig. 88.' Action. Commonly it acts on the ulna, and assists the triceps in extending the elbow. Dissection (fig. 88). For the display of the deep muscles at the back of the forearm, and the pos- terior interosseous artery and nerve, tliree of the superficial muscles, vizu extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be detached fi-om their origin and turned aside: in this proceeding the small branches of the nerve and arteiy entering the muscles may be divided. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed fi-om the muscles, and the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles should be made carefully, because the highest two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep layer of muscles (fig. 88). In this layer there are five small muscles, viz. one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor muscles of the thumb and fore- finger. The highest muscle, sur- rounding partly the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis, D. Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following order :—the extensor of the meta- carpal bone, E, the extensor of the first, F, and that of the second phalanx, o. On the ulna the indi- cator muscle, H, is placed. The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI P0LLICI8, E, is the largest and high- est of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis. It Use. Dissection of deep layer of muscles. and interos- seous vessels and nerve. Five mus- cles in the deep layer, viz. Extensor metacarpi pollicia. * Dissection of the deep layer of muscles, and the vessels and nerve on the back of the forearm. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Supinator longus. B. and o. Radial extensors of the carpus, cut, d. Supinator brevis. E. Extensor osais metacarpi poUicis. f. Extensor primi intemodii. o. Ex- X