26 DISSECTIOX OF THE FACE. Use, Elevator of the angle joins depressor. Use. ansile. has been everted and the unicous iiieiubranc removed, the muscle vv^ill be seen to arise from a fossa near the symphysis of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position is internal to tlie depressor of the lij) and the attach- ment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opposite its insertion, and; assists in raising the lower lip. The LEVATOR ANGULi ORIS (lig. G, f) has well-marked fibres, and i» partly concealed by the levator labii supcrioris. Arising from the canine fossa beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres sj^read out towards the angle of the mouth where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the muscles, but the greater number are continued into the depressor anguli oris and the lower lij). Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts- as an antagonist to the depressor. Depressor of The DEi'RKSsoR AXGVLi OKis (fig. G,is triangular iu shape: it arises from the obli<|ue line on the outer siu-face of the lower jaw,, and ascending to the angle of the mouth, its fibres are prolonged into the elevator of the angle. The muscle conceals the labial branck of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At its origin the depressor is united with the platysma niyoides, and near its insei'tion with the risorius nmscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards and back- wards by it, as is exemjilified in a soiTowfnl countenance. The ZYGuJiATic MUSCLES (fig. G) are directed obli(piely from the arch of the same name towards the angle of the month and the- upper lip. One is longer and larger tlian the other; they are there- fore named major and minor. The zyfjoniaticus viajor,^ arises from the outer part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor,' is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upper lip. Action. The large muscle inclines upwards and backwards the corner of the mouth ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lii). The RISORIUS MUSCLE (Santoriui) (fig. G,^) is a thin and narrow bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Action. The use of this muscle is indicated by its name, as it retracts the corner of the mouth in laughing. The BUCCINATOR (fig. G,'^) is the flat and thin nmscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. The muscle arises from' the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillcc, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the inten^al between the jaws behind it is attached to a band of fascia—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From the origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix Use. Zygomatic muscles: large aiul .small. Use. Risorius muscle. Use. Buccinator muscle. Origin. Insertion at (corners of the mouth.