-174 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. .Small •oiiientum : .sitiiatitiii, ,ittaph- IllCIltS. Cireat •omentuni attacli- iiients. < ,'<>i)sist.s of two layers. .Sac of 1110, oinentuiii : Ijoun claries, 01)0118 into j^eneral cavity l)y fdiiuiien of Wiiislow. How vessels roach vis- a-era. Foramen nf AViiislow. >i)ilonic ■oiiieiitiiin. reritoneuin The xinall or (/astro-hej^atir omentum is stretclied between the under surface of the h'ver and the upper border of the stomach, and contains the vessels and nerves of the Hver. It is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, as before expLained, and presents a free I)order on the right side. Behind it is the space called foramen of Winslow. Its lower edge is fixed to the small curve of the stomach ; whilst its upper border is attached to the transverse fissure, as well as to the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver, blending behind with the left lateral ligament of that viscus. The gastro-coVic or great omentum is the largest fold of the peri- toneum, and consists of two pieces. It is attached above to the spleen and the lower border of the stomach, and descends in front of the large intestine, but lower on the left than the right side of the body. At the lower part of the abdomen the process is bent backwards, and returns to the spine, the pieces of which it is com- posed separating to enclose the transverse colon. The anterior part of the omental fold is separated fi-om the posterior by a space (cavity of the omentum). Between its layers arc contained some fat, vessels, and nen'^es ; ivud the power of detaching the one layer from the other diminishes with the increase of the distance fi-om the stomach, until below they are not to 1)e separated, and the membrane they form is thin and net-like. Cavity of the omentum. AVhcn an opening is made through the great omentum near the stomach, and this viscus is raised, a space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and downwards into the omentum : this is the omental cavity. In front the space is bounded by the small omentum, the stomach, and the anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it, are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, and the ascending laj'er of the transverse meso-colon. This sjiace communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavity, through a hole (foramen of Winslow), ])c]iind the small omentum. If the sac of the omentum were perfect, it could be infl,ated through the foramen of Winslow. Supposing it to be detached and i-emoved, there would not be any membrane in the way of the vessels reaching the different ^nscera ; and it ma.y be readily con- ceived how the peritoneum could be replaced over the viscera, and around the vessels Avitheut being perforated by them. The foramen of Winslow is the space behind the small omentum, through which the omental bag opens into the general cavity of the peritonemn. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind, ai'e the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelii), and below is the duodenum. The splenic omentum reaches from the great end of the stomach to the concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels ])assing between the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Fohh on the large intestine. The large intestine is connected to