171 LIGAMENTS OF CERVICAL YERTEBRJE. The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the neck (p. Vertebral ^9) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain, eervicar Entering usually the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebra;, arterj'- ascends vertically through the corresponding foramina in the other vertebrte. Beyond the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of that bone, and passing beneath the ligament joming the first vertebra with the os occipitis, enters the skull tlu-ough the foramen magnum. In its course through the foramina Position to the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, '° "^^rves. 'except those of the first and second,—the former of which crosses on the inner, and the latter on the outer side. The vessel is accom- panied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. ^ vein, and In the neck the artery furnislies small twigs to the surrounding with it. muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. Branches. The vertebral vein begins by small radicles in the occiput, and in Vertebral the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture of the ^^^^ atlas, where it receives sometimes a vein fi-om the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying g"^yi"vian the artery, the vein traverses the apertures between the transverse processes, and ends in the subclavian vein. In its course it is joined by branches from the internal and extei-nal Brandie.s. spinal veins ; its other branches are described at p. 70. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical pfg^us'^of ganglion of the sympathetic (p.IIG). It surrounds the artery, and nerves, communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. Sectiox XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE YERTEBR.E AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebra? to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical fi-om the first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat fi-om the cervical vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical vertebrse Common 1 • J1 i _p J.1 • ligaments ol are similar to those unitmg the vertebrju m other parts o± the spme, a vertebra; viz. an anterior and a posterior common ligament; bands between the laminee and spines ; capsular ligaments and synovial membranes for the articulating processes ; and an intervertebral ligament be- tween the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal these de- or lumbar portion of the spine where they arc more fully developed ; elsewhere, their preparation and description will be found at the end of the