STRUCTURE OF RECTUM. 583 The longitiuJincd, continuous with those in the hands on the colon, lias longi- are liere diffused to form a stratum around the gut. The circular describe arches around the intestine, and hecome thicker and stronger oSes!"'^^''^ towards the anus, wliere they are collected in the hand of the internal sphincter muscle. The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and re- Mucous sembles in this respect the hning of the oesophagus; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. tascular*^ When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into foi^^s . numerous accidental folds ; but some near the anus are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are other three permanent folds (Houston) which some are are half an inch or less in depth, and contain circular fibres of the i^'^"*''"'"'^^^^- gut. The most constant of these is about tlu-ee inches from the anus, on the fi-ont of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder ; another is placed on the right side of the intestine, towards the top; and the tbird is on the left side, midway between the other two. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the Structure, colon, but towards the anus the secretoiy apparatus gradually dis- appears. Bloodvessels. The arteries are supplied from three different sources, Arteries, viz., superior htemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hsemor- rhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior h;emoiThoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut, and arrangement only the upper lijemorrhoidal, which is the largest, requires further Liimorrlioi- notice. The final branches of this artery (p. 564), about six in number, pierce the muscular layer three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sjihincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins are deficient in valves, and communicate freely, like the ^1"^^^® arteries, in a plexus between the muscular and mucous coats, around valves, the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and through it reach the vena porta3 ; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle hajmor- rhoidal branch. Nerves and hjmiihatics. The nerves of the intestine are obtained Nerves, from the sympathetic ; and those of the sphincter come from the spinal cord. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on Lymphatics, the sacrum. Section YI. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE VISCERA. In the pelvis are contained the viscera, alike in both sexes, viz., ^jj^'^^^^^'^^ the bladder, urethra, and rectum ; and those special to the female, ^® or the organs of generation.