DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 Dissection of vocal ooiUs, ami r-rico- tliyroid membrane. Vocal cords Upiicr liiranient / IS a very t slifiht librous band. inferior vocal cord, lcnt,'th, lias these connectioiiB. Fk'. 42.* Dissection. The general shape and position of the vocal cords are- evident on the left half of the laryngeal tube, but to show more- fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the crico-arj'tiunoideus lateralis from its cartilages. Remove in like manner the thyro-aryta^noidcus, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle a fibrous membrane crico-thyroid (fig. 44,*^) comes, into view, and its upper free edge will be perceived to constitute the inferior or true vocal cord. Whilst taking away the thyro-arytajnoideus, the ventricle and the saccu- lus laryngis, which are formed chiefly by mucous membrane, will disappear. The vocal cords or the thjro-arytcenoid ligaments^ (fig. 42), are two bands on each side, which are extended from the angle of the thyroid to the arytajnoid cartilage,— one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle. The iqyper ligament (false vocal cord, fig. 42, ^) is semi- lunar in form, and is mucli. weaker than the other. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epi- glottis ; and behind to the outer surface of the arytivnoid cartilage. This ligament consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue, which is con- tinuous with that in the aryta-no-cpiglottidcan fold of mucous membrane. The inferio9' ligament (chorda vocalis, fig. 42, ^) is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down below the notch ; the ligament is directed backwards, and is in- serted into the anterior prominence at the base of the arytc-vnoid cartilage. It is about seven lines long in man, and two less in the woman. Internally this band is covered by thin mucous membrane,, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx, the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis. Ex- * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx, a. Ventricle of the- larynx. B. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord. i). Sacculus laryngis. E. Arytsenoid cartilage. F. Cricoid cartilage, o. Tliyroid cartilage, n. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid ligament, l. ThjTo-hyoid ligament.