MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE. 93 Section VII. SUB:\rAXILLARY REGION The snLmaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and the hyoid hone. In it are contained the muscles of the os liyoides ^"'"^'^ and tongue, the vessels and iiervcs of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same Position of as for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid nniscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland (fig. 16, lies below the jaw in the Situation anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery whids over the sm-face. It rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and sends a deep tiofj'"'""^^' process romid the posterior or free border of that muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind is the ^uaiy ""a,fd stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. Occupying a position somewhat below the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and the deep fascia. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 30); Structiu-e. and its duct—duct of Wharton—issuing from the deep process, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the submaxillary gland from beneath the bone. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLK (fig. 33, ') is triangular in sliape, with Mylo- the base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid boie, and unites ''y^'^i^"-"' along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises arises from from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of tlie lower jaw J""^^ > as far back as the last molar tooth ; and is inserted into the middle inserted of the body of the os liyoides, as well as into a central tendinous i"f,ie''"^""^ band between that bone and the jaw. On the cutaneous surface lie the digastric muscle, and the sub- Tarts maxillar}'- gland, the facial artery with the submental oflFset, and its own branch of nerve and artery. Its fibres are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the next muscle to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the subntaxillary gland winds. Tlie parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be iKn-ceived after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The lower jaw being fixed the nmscle approaches tlie os ,Yy^Vjgg" "'^ liyoides to the jaw, enlarging the ])]iarynx preparatory to swallowing. With the hyoid bone immoveable, the mylo-hyoideus can help in on jaw. depressing the jaw, and opening the mouth.