DISSECTION OF THE XECK. 72 Cervical nerves. Position and number. First two differ from rest. Brachial plexus, fonued liy five nerves. Disposition of nerves in tlie plexus. Branches in the neck are Ner\'e of subcla^ius, Nerve of rhomboi- Ueus, Ner^'e of serratus. The ANTERIOR I'RIMAUY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES Spnilg fi-om Ihe common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These nerves are eight in number, and are e(iually divided between^ the cerAHcal and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined hi the former, and the remaining nerv'es in the latter i3lexus. The nerves receive offsets of communication from the sj^mpathetic at their beginning, and intermix by means of luunerous branches near the spine. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nen'^es ; aiid their pecidiarities will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Plexus. The four lower cervical nen^cs and part of the lirst intercostal are blended in this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, wliere it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexiform disposition : they lie at first between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebriie, and have the following arrangement :— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebr;T3 ; the seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the middle scalenus ; and the last cenacal and the piece of the first intercostal are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus ; so that they make at first three cords. Near the attachment of the middle scalenus to the ril», the seventh nerve throws itself into the trunk of the united fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus :—the one (upper) formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cenacal nei^-es ; and tlie other (lower) by the eighth cervical and the first intercostal nerve. These two trunks accompany the sub- clavian arteiy, lying to its acromial side, and arc continued to the axilla where they are more intimately blended. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; whilst the other set consist of the terminal branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be referred to. Branches above the Clavicle. The branch of the suhclavius muscle is a slender twig, which arises fi-om the trvmk formed by the fifth and sixth neiTes, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The branch of the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, and perforates the fibres oi' that muscle ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulaj to its destination. Branches are given usually from tliis nerve to the levator anguli scapuh-c. Tlie nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and