737 LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. large intestine, by the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Lens and its capsule. The lens is situate behind the pupil of i-ens of the the eye (fig. 225, ry), and brings to a focus on the retina the light ^y®^""- passing through that aperture. The capsule is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which is Capsule of permeable to fluid, and closely surrounds the lens: it is seated in a ^^^^ hollow on the fi-ont of the vitreous body. The anterior part projects a„*d connec- towards the pupil ; whilst the posterior is received on the vitreous tions. mass, to which it is inseparably united. The circumference of the case corresponds with the canal of Petit (o). Its anterior surface (fig. 225) is free, and touches the iris (/), its anterior but is separated from it by a slight space at the outer part (poste- ' ■rior chamber, i) ; it gives attachment towards the circumference to the suspensory ligament {€). The fore part of the capsule is four or five times thicker than the very thick ; posterior, as far outwards as the attachment of the suspensory liga- ment, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm imd quite transparent, and remains clear for some time when im- is fii-m and mersed in spirit, acids, and boiling water, like the elastic layers of t^''^^®P'"'<"^t- the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule is thin and mem- Posterior In-anous, and decreases in thickness towards the centre : it is joined li^ro^^g"^ hy the hyaloid membrane («) of the vitreous body. In the adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not provided Vessels to it. with bloodvessels ; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery •of the retina supplies it (p. 735). Dissection. The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin Open eap- 'membranous capsule in wliich it is inclosed. suieofieus. The lens is a solid and transparent doubly convex body ; but the •curves are unequal on the two surfaces (fig. 225, g), the posterior equaUy; l)eing greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded ; dimensions; •and the measurement from side to side is one third of an inch, but fi-om before back about one fourth of an inch. The density density, increases fi-om the circumference to the centre; for whilst the superficial part may be rubbed off with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines or stella? diverging from the centre, on the ?ind reaching towards the margin ; they are the edges of planes or septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifiu-cate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the anterior surface of the lens, and connecting it with A layer of the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated polygonal cells, to the clip- Avhich can be recognised only in a fi-esh eye : these become elon- siiie, gated towards the circumference of the lens, and seem to pass into the superficial lens-fibres. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling, J^ens^J^s it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers (fig. 234) arranged one within another, hke those in an onion. Under the 3 b