422 DISSECTION OF THE PERINvEUM. on urethra. Arteries of tlie space. Pudic artery. Course. Posterior jiart iu fossa. Depth and connections. Offsets. Inferior liajiuorrhoi- dal. Muscular offsets. Branches of the sciatic. Veins. Nerves. Pudic nerve, Course and con- nections. Inferior hfcmorrhoi- dal. Termina- tion. Perinreal brancli: With tlie description of the muscle in the pelvis its action on the urethra will be referred to. Arteries (fig. 129). The pudic artery, with its inferior hasmor- rhoidal branch, and other small offsets of it and the sciatic, are now Adsible. The pudic artery (a) is derived fi'om the internal iliac in the pehas, and ascending to the genital organs, distributes offsets to the perinaium; one portion will be laid bare in the hinder, and the other in the anterior half of the perina?um. As now seen, the vessel enters the posterior part of the ischio- rectal fossa, and courses fomards along the outer wall at the depth of one inch and a half behind, but of only half an inch at the fore part. It is contained in an aponeurotic sheath wliich attaches it to the obturator fascia. The usual companion veins lie by its side ; and two nerves accompany it, viz. the trunk of the pudic, and the perinajal branch of the same nerve which is nearer the surface. Its offsets in the posterior half of its course are the following:— The inferior hoemorrlioidal branch (b) arises internal to the ischial tuberosity ; it sends offsets inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa to the teguments, and the sphincter and levator ani muscles. On the rectum it anastomoses with the upper hasmorrhoidal branch, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run fonvards to the anterior part of the perina^um, and to communicate with the supei'ficial perinatal branch. Small muscular brandies cross the fi'ont of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. The branches of the sciatic artery (c) appear on the inner aspect of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the fat. Veins accompany the different arteries, and have a like course and ramification: the pudic end in the internal iliac. Nerves (fig. 129). The nerves to be learned in this part of the perinaeum are, the trunk of the pudic and its inferior hajmorrhoidal and perinasal branches; an offset of the fourth sacral; and some branches of the small sciatic. The imdic nerve comes from the sacral plexus, and accompanies the artery to the genitals. In the anal half of the perina?um it is placed deeper than the artery, and furnishes the two subjoined branches. The inferior JuBmorrhoidal branch (1) crosses the ischio-rectal fossa, and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous off- sets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perineal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the tliigh. The perineal branch arises about half way along the fossa, and becomes superficial to the blood-vessels. It is larger in size'than the continuation of the nen^e to the penis, and divides into cutane- ous, muscular, and genital offsets. Its two cutaneous offsets (super-