CAVITY OF THE PELVIS The cavity of the pelvis is a part of the general abdominal space Definition of (p. 466), and is situate below the brim or inlet of the true pelvis, tion. Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm bony ring of Bouudaries. the pelvic bones: it is bounded behind by the sacrum and the coccyx, Behind and with the pyriformis muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; aiul laterally and in fi-ont, by the innominate bones covered by the obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perinajum, the cavity is limited by the Below, fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : only in this last direction, where the Loimding structures are moveable, can alterations be made in the size of the space. Contents. In the pelvis arc contained the urinary bladder, the Contents, lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, accordhig to the sex. All the viscera possess vessels, nerves, and Ijnnphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. On the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which extends Ontiine of -from the brim to the outlet, and covers the obturator muscle. {j;^ Svls."'" Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the internal iliac steps to de- vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- 'jjie^thc pei- tion of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through in the pei- on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a large quantity of fat. By this proceed- ing the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as tlie situation of a piece of fascia (recto-vesical) which is attached to the viscera. To display the lower half, the student must raise the outlet of the pelvis ; and, should the perina}um be undissected, the fat nmst be and the pe- taken from the ischio-rectal hollow. The lower part of the fascia ""I'^i"". N N