CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. 265 Fig. 76. than the precedmg, and crosses the brachial artery. It is larger than the corresponding vein of the outer side of the ann, and is firmly supported by the underlying fascia,—the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by fibres from the biceps tendon, intervening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerv'e lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median basilic is the vein on which the operation of blood-letting is com- monly performed. It is selected in con- sequence of its usually larger size, and more superficial position, and of the ease with which it may be compressed ; but fi'om its close proximity to the brachial vessels, the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The basilic vein (fig. 76, commencing as before said, ascends near the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, where it passes beneath -the deep fascia, and is continuous with the axillary vehi. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial arter3% The cephalic vein (fig. 70, -) is derived chiefly from the external branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small: it is continued to the shoulder along the ■outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most part along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the axilla. A few Ij^mphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and end as the others in the axillary glands. One or more superficial lymphatic glands are commonly found near the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves. SThe superficial nerves of the arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-humeral) all arc derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo-spiral and nmsculo-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves, large and small, (from the plexus,) a third internal cutaneous fi-om the musculo-spiral, and the intercosto-humeral nerve. median ba- silic vein. Veuesectrioa is jiractised iu this branch. Basilic vein on innei- side of the arm. Cephalic vein at onter side. Snperflcial lymphatics. Glands. The super- licial nerves. * Cutaneous veins and nerves at the bend of the elbow. (Qiiain's " Arteries.") —1. Median basilic vein. 2. Median vein of the forearm bifurcating. 3. Anterior ulnar veins. 4. Cephalic vein formed by radial from behind and the median cephalic in front. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is by the side of it. 5. Basilic vein, with the large internal cutanoous nerve by its side. 6. Brachial artery, with its companion veins (one cut). 7. Radial vein.