DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 400 in the neck; in tlie back; in the loins. Use on the sjiiue. Ilnter- transversc muscles in iA\o neck, in the dorsal region, in the loins. Use on the spine. Dissection ■of niulti- ifidus spinfc. Jn the nock. •over sacrum ^and over Jibs. "Multifidus .SJliUiL'. Origin on sacrum; in loins; in Back. In the cervical region the muscles are absent from the intei-val between the first two vertebra?. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and below to the bifurcated apices of the spines. In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary ; they exist between the first two, and the lowest two pair of spinous processes, and between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. In the lumbar region they are tliiii fiat muscles, which reach the length of the spines. Action. By the approximation of the spinous processes these small muscles will help in extending the spine. Necessarily the movement of each pair is very slight, but the aggregate of all would amount to perceptible motion. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra?; but only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the neck they are double, like the inters^^inal muscles of the same vertebras (p. 170). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, and are found only between the lower processes : their number varies from three to six. * In the lumbar region the anterior set are four thin and fleshy planes. The posterior set are rounded bundles, which are attached to the accessory points at the roots of the transverse processes : these have been named interaccessorii. Action. The small intertransversales help to incline laterally the spine by approximating the transverse processes : the motion be- tween a single pair of bones would be scarcely appreciable, as in the case of the interspinales. Dissection. The multifidus spina? muscle, which fills the hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now dissected. The upper part of the muscle is to be prepared and learnt by the dis- sector of the head and neck. It will be laid bare by cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and everting this. * Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis covering the multifidus and the erector spiufe must be turned aside. In the dorsal region tlie muscle will appear on detaching, and drawing the semispinalis from the spines. The MULTIFIDUS SPIN^ muscle extends from the sacrum to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis than in the neck. On the back of the sacmm it takes origin between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture; from the inner surface of the iHac spine (posterior superior) of the hip bone • and fi-om the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. It is attached difl;erently along its outer edge (origin) in the several regions of the spine :—In the loins it arises by large fasciculi from the accessory and the articular processes. In the dorsal region from the transverse processes. And in the neck, from the articular processes of the five lower vertebrse. From these attachments the