117 ENDING OF THORACIC DUCT. Tlie LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY arises from the arch of the aorta, subclavian instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the lirst rib in its course to tlie upper limb. With this difference on tlic 'litters miu-u two sides in the origin of the subclavian,—the one vessel beginning SbeiSu ■opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other in the thorax, —it is evident that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite :sides. Fh-st jmrt. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus i II the liist is much longer on the left than the right side, and is almost vertical ^"^^"'^ in direction, instead of being horizontal like its fellow. After leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the <jesophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between tlic artery and the surface are structures like those on Connections the right side, viz. the common teguments with the platysma and i^o^^uKih,." <leep fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. Behind the vessel is the longus colU muscle. To the inner side are the tcsophagus and the thoracic duct; and the pleura is in contact witli the outer and anterior parts. Its connections lower in the chest are descinbed in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular vein is superficial to the artery and Veins, parallel to it. Nerves. The imcumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel instead rosition of •of across it as on the right side ; and the phrenic nerve crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac braiiches of the sympathetic, whicli course along its inner side to the chest; and beneath it is the inferior cervical ganglion. The second and third parts of the artery, viz. beneath and beyond Rest of the scalenus, are nearly the same as on the right side (p. G8) ; but' the student nuist note for himself the variations that may exist in the connections. The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of the right Branches tnank, that one description will serve for both (p. 69 to 71). It those of may be remarked, that the superior intercostal of the left side is "fc'''* vesseL usually internal to, instead of beneath tlie scaleims as on the right .side ; in other words, tliis branch arises sooner. The thoracic duct (fig. 27, ^) conveys the chyle and lymph of the Thoracic greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escaping from the thorax on the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as liigh [i"|."thy,'ax' as the seventh or sixth cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid trunk, and arches outwards above •or over the subclavian arteiy, and in fi'ont of the scalenus miisclc an<i joins and the phrenic nerve, to open into tlie subclavian close to the union with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Frequently the upper part of the duct is divided ; and there may be separate openings into the large vein, correspond- ing with those divisions. subi'laviau vein.