DISSECTIOX OF THE THOEAX. 350 tbrough oliest and abdonieu. Its first, part is arched. The extent and divi- sions of the arch. First part: length and connections. Gives origin to coronarj- arteries. Second part is tran.s- verse. Connec- tions. Gives origin to large vessels. divided into two parts—arch of the aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta. AreJi of the aorta (fig. 105). The aorta has its origin in the left ventricle, and curving backwards over the windpipe and the gullet,, fonns an arch which ceases on the left side of the spinal column, at the lower border of Fig. 105.* the fifth dorsal vertebra, The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and its con- cavity to the root of the left lung ; and from it the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take their origin. For the purpose of reducing to order the numerous con- nections of this portion of the aorta, it is divided into three parts — as- cending, transverse, and descending. The Jirst or ascending part is about two inches in length, or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, and close to the sternum : it reaches as high as the upper border of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the peri- cardium. At first the pulmonary artery is supei-ficial to it; but, as the vessels take different directions, the aorta is soon uncovered, and remains so to its tennination. Behind it are the right branches of the pulmonary vessels. On the right side is the descending cava ; and on the left, the pulmonary artery. Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite the semilunar valves (fig. 105). There is some- times another dilatation along the right side, which is named the great sinus of the aorta. The second or transvei'se portion receds from the stenium and . reaches from the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra (the lower border). It rests upon the trachea above the bifurcation, and is placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Lying in fi-ont of this part of the artery are the vagus, phrenic, and superficial cardiac nerves of the left side,—the first nerve sending backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the left innominate * Arch of the aorta and its great vessels, a. Aortic arch. h. Innominate artery, c. Left common carotid, d. Left subclavian, c. Ligamentum ductus, arteriosi. /. Vena cava superior, g. Left innominate vein. Right in- nominate vein. i. Left upper intercostal vein. k. Vena azygos major. I. Left subclavian vein. n. Thoracic duct. o. Coronary artery.