525 SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTIS. vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis for some distance : their length is said by Lauth to be two feet aud a length, quartei". Ending, nize and structure. Within the lobes of the testis some Communi- tubes end in distinct closed extremities ; but the rest communicate, • forming loops or arches. The diameter of the tubules varies from •j-i-^th to y-jyth of an inch. The wall of the tubule is formed of a size; thin translucent membrane, but it has considerable strength. Lining the interior in the child is a iiucleated granular epithelium, with structure; polygonal cells ; but in the adult the tube is filled by cells in diffe- rent stages of development of the spermatic corpuscles. On the exterior is a plexus of bloodvessels. Names from the arranr/ement of the tubes. To different parts of 'Twijes^ the seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Where name, the tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they Fig. 167.* become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Com- municating in the medias- tinum, they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper part of the gland they are convoluted, and are called coni vasculosi, or vasa etferentia. The lobes of the testis (fig. 167, a) are formed by bundles of the seminifez-al tubes, and are situate in the inten'^als between the processes of the tunica albuginea : their num- ber is differently stated :—according to one authority (BeiTCs) they numlier, are 250; but according to another (Krause) 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, shape, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle are the largest. Each is made up o£ one, two or more tortuous seminal tubules ; tubes in ^ and the minute tubes in one lobe are united with tliose in the aiTa'nL'e- neighbouring lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are imited together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are further joined at the same spot into larger canals —the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti (fig. 167, c). Tlie seminal tubes unite together, Tubes next * Vertical and horizontal sections of the testis to sliow the arrangement of the seminal tubes, and septa, a. LoIdcs of the testis, b. Septa between the lobes, c. Tubuli recti, d. Mediastinum testis, c. Rete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. g. Globus major, h. Bod}^, and i, globus minor of the epididy- k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. n. Rete testis, Tlicy form the lobes : mis. cut. 0. Finer septa, p. Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut across.