536 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. Unnamed ott'sets. Orij^in of branches varies. Occasional brandies from it. Veins of the abdomen except vena porta;. Anatomy of external iliac: position to arteiy. Branches. Common iliac veins form cava : difference in length and connec- tions. Veins to it. Lovver cava is by side of the aorta: extent and connections. Branches from abdo- men. except those of digestive ai»paratus. Some small uimamed tw igs are given to the psoas muscle and the- lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in usval h-ancfies. The epigastric and circumflex branches- may wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the arter}'. In unusual branches. Though the trunk of the vessel is commonly fre& from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between the middle and the end by the obturator artery, or by the internal circumflex artery of the thigh. Iliac Veins akd Vena Cava (fig. 169). The larger veins of the abdomen con-espond so closely with the arteries, botli in number,, extent, and connections, as to render unnecessary much detail iu their description. As the veins increase in size from the circumfer- ence towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac (r) is a continuation of the femoral vein beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the aileiy of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac), to fonii the common iliac vein. On the pubes it is inside its companion artery, and lies between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; the left vein remains internal to, but the right slips beneath its artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliao (p. 455). The common iliac vein (fig. 169, jp) ascends by the side of its accom- panying artery, the right almost vertically, and the left obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the upper part), where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and lies at first behind, but after- wards outside the artery of the same name, below the artery of its own side, and crosses common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral branch ; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. The VENA CAVA INFERIOR (fig. 169, ??i) Collects and conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, below the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphi-agni. Its connections with the surrounding parts have been already noticed (p. 482), but the description may be referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Branches. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and dia- phragmatic), from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive apparatus, viz., the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena portas (p. 488) ; and the blood contained in those veins reaches the cava by the vena cavas hepatic.-e, after it has circulated through the liver. The left is altogether beneath the right