SUPRAEENAL BODY. 521 at the apex the mucous lining is prolonged into tlic uriniferal tubes through the small openings. Vessels. The arteriex are numerous but small, and are furnished VcsscLs. by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins correspond with the arteries. The lijnijjhatics are received into those of the kidney. Lymphatics. THE SUPRARENAL BODY. This small body, whose use is unknown, has received its name Use from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excretory duct. •l^ct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper extremity and fore Situation, part of the kidney ; and Avithout care it may be removed with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish yellow. It is like a cocked hat in form, with the upper part convex, and the Form and base or lower part hollowed, where it touches the kidney. colour. In the adult it measures about one inch and a half in depth, and Size and rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, ^ ' but the left is commonly larger than the right* Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the Iddney ; and Connec- large vessels and nerves retain it in place. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, with part of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. Structure (fig. 165). A perpendicular section shows the suprarenal Two body to be formed of a firm or external (cortical) j^art, and of an structures ■ internal (niedullary) soft and dark material. With the microscope p^^j, this body may be seen to consist of cells, which are lodged in spaces ^"^^ formed by a stroma of areolar tissue, with vessels and nerves. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule (a), which sends Surrounded processes into the interior, and along the bloodvessels. capsule. The cortical part, yellowish in colour and striated, forms about cortical two tliirds of the thickness of the whole body. Its stroma of areolar v^^'^- tissue (a) fonns a thin surface layer, and is connected internally j^'"{ig!.\'ie'^" with processes or septa, Avliich ai"e so arranged as to build up spaces forms elongated from without inwards, and an-anged vertically around the centre; but near the surface there are smaller oval spaces, some of them crossing the deeper and larger. The spaces or loculi (Z>) are for masses filled by columnar masses of cells, but slight force readily removes these from their containing hollows. The central or medullary portion (c) is rather red in colour, or it Mwiidlary may be dark brown or black from the presence of blood. About J''*'^' , . , , ,. , , ., . , 1, „ ^ Thickness. half as thick as the cortical part, it possesses intornally small round or oval spaces, on a section, which are vein trunks cut across. The areolar tissue of its stroma is veiy fine, and forms a network with Spaces in it.