418 DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. and folds and veins arountl that opening. Bounding parts same as those of outlet of pelvis. Fonn of the space, and measure- nieuts. Depth of the space. A line be- tween the tuberosities divides it into two. folds, but these are more or less obliterated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting oftentimes- through and around the opening are some dilated veins (hasnior- rhoids). Deep boundaries. The deep bomidaries of the j^erinasal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to con-cspond with the infei-ior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits ma}' be seen on a dry or j^repared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the individual boundaries with his finger. In front is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior part is the tijD of the coccyx, with the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the jDortion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz. from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity ; and still further back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included witliin the boundaries above said has the form of a lozenge, and mieasures about four inches fi-om before backwards, and three inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perina^um from the surface to the floor may be said to be generally about three inches at the anus, but this, measurement varies in different bodies ; and it amomits to about an inch near the pubes. Division. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to the coiTesponding point on the other, will divide the perinatal space into two ti-iangular parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the penis and the urethra, with their nuiscles and vessels and nerves. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. Contents and general l)osition, of anal half. Dissection of spliincter POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perinatal space contains the loAver end of the rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscle and the muscles acting on the anus. The gut does not occupy however the whole of the interval between the pehdc bones ; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in Avhich is contained much loose fat, with the vessels and nei-vcs for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissect ion (fig. 129). The skin is to be raised from this part of the perinajum by the employment of the following cuts : One is to be made across the perinaium at the fi-ont of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the middle and around the anus. Tlie flaps of skin thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line: in detachino- the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial subcutaneous