CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. Position of 1)0dy. atratA ill l)acli. To raise the sliiii. JSeek cutaneous nerves. Directions. The dissection of the Back may be undertaken by one student; or conjointly by the dissectors of the head and upper hmbs,—the former preparing the neck, and the latter making ready the parts in the dorsal and lumbar regions. If the Back should be allotted to more than one student, the dis- sector of the upper limb may attend chiefly to the paragraphs marked with an asterisk ; and the dissector of the neck may study specially the paragraphs which are not so marked. But as many of the dissections in the earlier stages require the co-operation of the students employed on the same side of the body, a general attention may be given to the whole by each. The dissector of the abdomen is to examine the arrangement of the fascia lumborum, after the first layer of muscles has been learnt. Position. The body lies with the face downAvards ; and the trunk is to be raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the dissecting table. To make tense the neck, the head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are five successive strata of muscles, amongst which vessels and nerves are interspersed. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps, by means of the following incisions :—One cut is to be made along the middle of the body from the occipital protuberance to the back of the sacrum. Another is to be carried from the last dorsal ver- tebra to the acromion process of the scapula. The flap of skin above the last cut is to be turned outwards by the dissectors of the head and upper limb. By another transverse incision opposite the iliac crest, the remain- ing piece of integument may be detached, and reflected by the dis- sector of the upper limb in the same direction as the other flap. Under the upper flap of skin is placed the trapezius, and under- neatli the lower one the latissimus dorsi muscle. The cutaneous nerves may be now sought in the superficial fatty layer: they are accompanied by small cutaneous arteries which will guide the student to their position. The nerves vary much in size in the different parts of the Back, and their number is also irreo-ular: