220 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. in the eor]ius striatum and optic tlialanuis. Fibres of ]iedunole ■diverge in corpus striatum and tlialanuis : their acces- -sory bands. Tn the hemi sphere they extend to •<-.onvo]u- ■tions. Fibres not reaching throughout, purpose is to show tlie passage of the radiatmg fibres from the crus through the two cerebral ganglia. To trace the diverging fibres onwards beyond the crus cerebri, and through the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus of this body should be scraped away (fig. 65); and the dissection should be made on the left side on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Keil comes into view, viz., gray matter passing between the M-hite fibres in the corpus striatum, and giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nucleus caudatus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those fibres, the upper part of the optic thalamus may be taken away at the posterior end, to denude the accessory bundles to the peduncular fibres, from the corpora quadrigemina and the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, ^): the last band lies beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Their arrangement (fig. 65, ^). Some of the diverging fibres radiate from the pedvmcle of the cerebrum to the surface of the hemi- sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus (^) and corpus striatum (^) ), and they form a conically-shaped bundle, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres forming the free or fasciculated part (crust) of the peduncle (fig. 66) pass through the striate body. The fibres on the opposite aspect, which form the tegmentum (fig. 57, (l)^ are trans- mitted through the under part of the optic thalamus, and through the corpus striatum, reaching as far forwards as, but much farther back than those of the crust. In the thalamus and the corpus striatum the fibres are greatly in- creased in number. The upper or sensory set receive also accessory bundles from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, ') in the crus cerebri (p. 200) ; and from the pair of the corpora quadri- gemina, and the corpora geniculata of the same side, in the thalamus. On escaping from the striate body and the thalamus the fibres de- cussate with the converging fibres of the corpus callosum, and radi- ate then into the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemisphere the fibres are continued to the convolutions : their expansion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in front and behind, form- ing thus a layer which is concave on the under side. Their extent. All the fibres of the peduncle do not reach the surface of the brain, for some end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially in the former. And some of the fibres in the convolutions begin in the ganglionic bodies before mentioned, and extend to the surface of the hemisphere.* Thus, in addition * AccordiDg to some authors none of the fibres of the peduncle reach farther than the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus.