EPIGASTEIC PLEXUS AXD OFFSETS. 489 SYMr.VTHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. SYMrATiiETic Neuve. In the abdomen, as in tlie tliorax, the General dis- synipathetic nerve consists of a ganghated cord on each side of the f°^y^,^]^ vertebral cohnnn, and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to tlie viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses exist in the abdomen. One of these, Two large the epigastric, is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to ^^jlf^'^'^' all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, the hypo- gastric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the and iiypo- " , . . ' r ) gastric. pelvic viscera. The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- ]^^,"g^g,^i.}'|I^' tion is to be made:—After the air has been let out of the stomach piexiis,' and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gastro-epiploic vessels are to be cut through near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will lind tlie large reddish semi- g'.^j'^^*''^^ lunar ganglion ; and mixed up with the nerves of the plexus are gmigiia.' numerous lymphatic glands, and a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the cteliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on tlie branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries : at its upper part the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper tliaii the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be observed in a fissure of the diaphragm, which throw themselves into the cccliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumogastric Follow the nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the upper tiie vagus border in front near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will be ii«i'ves. seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerv'e are to be followed to the plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the cocliac axis, and from tlie left, to tlie hepatic plexus. The EPIGASTRIC or SOLAR PLEXUS is a large network of nerves and Soiar le l)lexus; ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and the pillars of tl diaphragm : it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of api'^arante, opposite sides, and extends downwards to the pancreas, surround- extent: ing the cocliac axis and the superior mescntei-ic artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves ; and it is joined also by an offset of the riglit pneunio-gastric nei-ve. Laro-e branches are furnished to the different viscera along the gives offsets . on blood- vessels, vessels.