DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 320 Extension. Metacarjial Fis. 05/ by side union and by their heads. bones moves backwards, and renders prominent the posterior liga- ment. This motion is also brought into play in full bendmg ot the wrist. . . , Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. As the lower carpal row moves towards the palm, its progress is checked by the anterior ligament of the joint, and by the strong flexor tendons. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the bones joined fom- fi„gers are connected at their bases by the following hga- by bases ^^^^^^ superficial dorsal (fig. 95) and jjahnar fasciculus of fibres passes transversely from one bone to the next; and the band» in the palm are the strongest (fig. 92). Besides, there is a short interosseous hgament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Lateral nnion. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage ; and the articular surfaces are furnished with prolongations; of the synovial membrane serving for their articulation with the carpus. At their anterior extremi- ties the same four metacar- pal bones are connected by the deep transverse ligament, which was seen in the dis- section of the hand (p. 299). Union of the Metacar- pal AND Carpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpal hone of the thximh articulates with the os trape- zium ; and the ends of the bones are incased in a separate capsular ligament (fig. 92, ^). The joint is furnished with a synovial mem- brane which is simple in its aixangement. The thumb-joint possesses angular movement in opposite direc- tions, with opposition and circumduction, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed the metacarpal bone is brought into the palm of the hand, Avithout the ball of the thumb being turned to the tips of the fingers. Extension of the joint is very fi-ee, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed fi'om the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the metacarpal bone is placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. ♦ Posterior ligaments of the -wrist, and carpal and metacarpal tones (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb,—3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones. Carpal and metacarpal joint: that of the thumb. Motion. Bending. Extending. Lateral motion and opposition.