531 SPECIAL PARTS OF DIAPHRAGM. reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an inter- vertebral substance. The arches (Hganienta arcuata) are two fibrous bands on each Two arches, side over the quadratus huuborum and psoas muscles, which give origin to fleshy fibres. The arch over the psoas (hg. arcuat. internum/) is the strongest, internal and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the first or the second lumbar vertebra. The arch over the (juadratus hunborum (lig. arcuat. externum y) anciexteruai. is only a thickened part of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends firom the same transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. Apertures. There arc three large openings for the aorta, the vena Apertures cava, and the esophagus ; with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta (IS) is rather behind, than in the dia- For the phragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the contents spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. The opening for the oesophagus and the pneHmo-gastric nerves (/) is rather above and to the left of the aortic aperture ; it is placed in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres For of the pillars as above explained. auid Mrves. The opening for the vena cava (A) (foramen quadratum) is situ- For the ate in the right division of the central tendon ; and its margins are ^^'^'^ attached to the vein by tendinous fibres, excejit at the inner part. There is a jissure (j) in each pillar for the three splanchnic Fissures in nerves ; and through that in the left cms passes also the small n?^^^^^^- azygos vein. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt, the ribs that Take away support it on each side may be cut through, and the pieces of the oTthe^ ^ ribs with the fore part of the diaphragm may be taken away, to diaphragm, make easier the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior part of the diaphragm with its pillars and arches should be left; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The larsre vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena Clean aortn, , f'tiVti and cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, the remains of the branches, sympathetic, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and suprarenal body, and to the testicle. In like manner the large iliac branches of the also iliac aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery to the limb ; and on the iliac trvink .near the thigh, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought. The muscles are to be laid bare on the right side, but on the left Dissect side the fascia covering them is to be shown ; and the fat is to be "'"^'^ '^^' cleared aAvay from about the kidney. The psoas muscle, the most internal of all, lies on the side of the Psoas and M M 2