576 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. dimensions and diameter. On the floor is a crest: in the crest is a pouch. Vesical a projei'ts into the prostiite quarter in length, and is altogether the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesica3 with its slight ridge. In front of this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (d), about tlii-ee quarters of an inch in length, and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous pail of the canal, and is named c7-est of the urethra (veru montanum, caput gallinaginis) : it is fonned like the uvula by a bundle of the sub- mucous muscular and fibrous tissue. In that crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow (c) named vesicula 2^1'ostatica or sinus pocularis. The vesicula 2^rosfa(ica or utricle (fig. 178, fj) is directed back- wards and downwards in the prostate, for a quarter of an iacls,. Fig. 17S. passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity ami by it ,s about as large again. Along the wall, on each side, is placed ejaciUatory the common seminal duct (/), which terminates on or within the ducts. margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct beliind the prostate, they will render evident the apertures. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the ducts of Miiller in the fetus and represents the uterus in the female. ' ' • Section through the bladder, prostate, and urethra, to show the vesicula prostatica and the common seminal duct. a. Bladder, b Prostate and 7 prostatic part of the urethra, d. Vesicula semiualis c Xrddl^s f Common ejaculatory duct. rj. Vesicula prostatica. "eierens. /.