DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 484 ]>arts around it. l""oriii and situation (if tlie (lan- crcas. Its L'onnecf- tions hy the surfaces, borders, and extromities. In fi-ont of it are the superior mesenteric vessels with their plexus of iierv^es. Beneath it lie the vena cava and the aorta, Avitli the pillars of the diaphragm ; and the left renal vein is sometimes- betweeii it and the aorta. Above it is the pancreas. Pancreas (tig. 143,^). The pancreas is situate behind the stomaclv and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an elongated form, it extends across the spine fi-om the spleen to the duodemim, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right luml)ar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer of the- transverse meso-colon. It is in contact posteriorly with the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the chaphragm ; and it conceals, likewise the splenic vein and the commencement of the vena porta*. Projecting above the upper border, near the centre, is the arterial trunk of the coelic axis : to the left of that vessel, along the same- border, is placed the splenic artery; whilst to the right of it lie the hepatic arteiy and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the cccMc axis : to the right of that spot lies the third part of the duodeninn, and to the left, the inferior mesenteric ascending to join the sjilenic- vein. The left end or the tail of the pancreas touches the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney. The right extremity or the head is; received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being jjartly separated b}- the common bile duct and the i)ancreatico-duodenal arteries. This part projects above and below the body of the- gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the loAver projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenunv beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. COKLIAC AXIS AXl) VKNA TORTiE. Arteries of viscera. A short branch of the aorta,—the coeliac axis, furnishes arteries, to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleeen ; it subdivides into three chief branches,—coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins coiTesponding with the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one tnmk—the vena portas. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the plexuses of nerves around each. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronaiy artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the- stomach. Next the hepatic arteiy, Avith the vena porta^ and the liile duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder ; and a considerable branch of it shoxdd be pursued beneath the pylorus to .nnd si.ienic. the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the npper border of the pancreas, is to be cleanccl ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be Veins. How to dis sect cfcliac axis and coron- ary, liepatic,