485 COELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. defined ; this is a difficult task witliout the aid of some one to hold iiside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, iirteries ; but the origin of the vena portic is to be nuide out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CELIAC AXIS (fig. 143, c) is the first visceral branch of the Ciiiuc axis <ibdominal aorta, and arises between the pillars of the diaphragm. tiaSnfu It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which projects losing •iibove the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, •and splenic—radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. a. The coronary arterij (d) is the smallest of the three, and Coronary, passes between the layers of the httle omentum to the left end of the stomach. At that sjiot it furnishes some cesopliageal branches, and turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric (o) ) fi'om the hepatic artery. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed :— (EsopluKjeal branches ascend on the gullet through the opening otisets to in the diaphragm, supplj'ing that tube ; and'they anastomose on it pi,agiiL"" with branches of the thoracic aorta. Gastric hranclies are given to both sides of the stomach, and those <"vii'i^ the on the left end comnumicatc with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic arteiy. h. The sjilenlc artery (e) is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in ^^^'^^j^''^ the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to the spleen, along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four supplies tho to ten), which enter that viscus by the sm-face towards the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it; and it <Iistributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. Pancreatic hranclies. Nmnerous small branches are sujjplied to the the pancieas gland; and one of these, art. 2)ancreatica magna, arises near the small twig's, left end, and runs to the right in the substance of the viscus with the duct. Brandies for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near and the the spleen. Some of these, rasa hrecia. turn upwards to the left stomadi €nd of the stomach, beneath the gastro-splenic omentum, and ramify j^^yvhr'^ in the coats of that organ. Another longer branch, art. yastro-epiploica sinistra (/) turns to ami leit the right between the layers of the great omentum along the great •curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro- •epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peri- toneum forming the great omentum. c. The hepatic artery (fj) is intermediate in size between the other Hepatic two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of ner^-es. In its course ''''^' , . ■, 7- J ^ ii • 1 , . 1 ii 11 f.onrses to to the liver the vessel is bent first to the right towards the small the liver, end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superior