DIS8ECTI0X OF THE XECK. 80 cnils on occiput; offset to dura mater. Occipital vciu. Posterior auriyular ; a lirancli to the ear. Vein witli artery. Temporal artery, tenniiinl ■branches. to parotid, to articula- tioTi, anil ear. Branch to face. Branch to temporal muscle and fascia. the back of tlie head. It arises from the carotid opposite the- facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Next it turns horizontally backwards on the occii^ital bone^ passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally becomes cutaneous near the middle line (p. G). In the neck this arter}' passes beneath the digastric muscle and a part of the parotid gland ; and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hj^poglossal nei-ves. The onl}' offset from the artery in the fi-ont of the neck is a small imsterior meningeal branch : this ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen jugulare Q). IG). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. The occijyital vein begins at the back of the head (p. G ), and has. the same course as the artery ; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and coalesces with the internal (sometimes the external) jugular vem. The j^oHterior auricula^' arterij is smaller than the preceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides into two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6). A small branch, stylo-mastoid^ enters the foramen of the same name, and supplies the tympanum of the ear. The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and internal max illarj' veins. The teviporal artery (i) is in direction the continuation of the external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending under the parotid gland it divides on the tem- poral fascia into anterior and posterior branches, about two inches above the zygoma ; these are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 5). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the sur- rounding parts, viz.:— a. Parotid hranches are furnished to the gland of the same nam( Articidar twigs are supplied to the articulation of the lower jaw and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some anterior auricidar offsets are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. h. The transverse faded branch quits the temporal artery oppc^ site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over tlu masseter muscle (p. 28) ; on the side of the face it supplies the nuiscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. c. The middle temporcd branch aiises just above the zygoma, am pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of tlu temporal muscle : it anastomoses with branches of the interna maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal arteiy is likewise foun between the layers of the temporal fascia ; this anastomoses witl an offset of the lachrymal.