MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 151 Fig. 37.' Fibres. Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basio- and cerato-glossus, Ofhyo- p. 95), which arise fi-oin the body and great wing of the hyoid bone, are referred to above. To hvy bare the third part, or the cliondro- glossus, F, wliich is a small muscular slip attached to the small cornu of the OS hyoides, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid bone through the nnicous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of the cornu, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be exposed. The palato and stylo-glosms muscles, D and B, are partly com- Combined bined at their attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, and styfo^'* ^^'^ form, together with the following muscle, an expansion over the glossus; anterior two thirds of the dorsum be- neath the superficial lingualis. In this stratum the fibres radiate from the point of contact of the muscles with the tongue—some passing almost hori- zontally inwards to the midde, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the side of the tongue ; and some fibres are inclined to the under surface in front of the hyo- glossus, to join those of the opposite muscle beneath the tip. superficial and cerato- the under Stylo-glos- sus joins fellow. Hyo-glos- sus : superficial parts; Hyo-glossus. The tAvo parts of the nmscle (basio- glossus, c, p. 95) enter surface of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the linguahs. After entering that surface by separate bundles, they are bent round the mar- gin, and form, with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum of the tongue. The tliird part of the muscle, or the chondro-f/lossus, F, is distinct deeper part, from the rest. About two or three lines wide at its origin from the giossus, root of the small cornu, and from part of the body of the os hyoides, origin, the muscle entering beneath the upper lingualis, passes obhquely ending in inwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, to blend with the t^**^ tongue, hyo-glossus. Cortex of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with Muscular the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and tongue, longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where some muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down." This stratum is pierced by deeper fibres. The genio-hyo-glossus (fig. 38, ^) enters the tongue vertically on Arrange-^^^ the side of the septum, aud perforates the cortical covering to end tougue; * Muscles on the surface of tlie tongue. A. Superficial lingualis. b. Stylo- glossus, c. Hyo-glossus. d. Palato-glossus. f. Chondro-glossus. 0. rha- ryngeo-glossus. h. Septiun linguae (Zaglas).