596 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Dissection. An anterior and a posterior ligament. with a fibro- cartilage. Union of the cornua. Motion. Union be- tween tlie .sacrniii and hip bone. To dissect tlie liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligaments; one more distinct, the (juluj^ue. Articular cartilage. Motion is very slight, PS sernrity required; common ligament. And there is a separate articulation for the cornua of the bones. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. When the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that pass between the bones in fi-ont of the fibro-cartilage. The xwsterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the last piece of the sacrum, but naiTOWs as it descends to be inserted into the coccjrx. The/^'j-o-mrfeVa^/e resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebra;, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Articulation of the cornua. The cornua of the first piece of the coccyx are united with the coniua of the last sacral vertebra by ligamentous bands, and not by joints as in the artictilar processes of the other vcrtebne. Movement. Whilst the coccyx remains separate from the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take ])lace between them. Sacro-iliac Articitlation. The irregular surfaces by which the sacruui and the innommate bone articulate, are united by cartilage (synchondrosis), and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Interiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacnnn is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains. The anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic liga- ment will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a fcAV thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The jposterior ligaments (sacro-ihac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bimdles: these ligaments pass from the rough inner surface, at the posterior end of the in- nominate bone, to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from the others, and more superficial, is named the ollique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior upper iliac spinous process, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articukir cartilage. Between the iiTegular surfaces of the bones is a thin uneven layer of cartilage (fig. 187, a). It fits into the inequalities of the osseous surfaces, unithig them very firmly to- gether. On separating the bones after the other ligaments ai-e examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife. Movement. There is scarcely any appreciable motion in the sacro- iliac articulation, even when the hip-bone is seized by the hand, and forcibly pulled in different directions. The articulation seems designed for security and little movement, inasmuch as the surfaces are not in contact, are very irregular, and have a firm and in-