415 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. The middle set enter the substance of the crescent, and are lost t'*'' in it and in the cells of the intermediate tract. crescent. The posterior root (j) pierces chiefly the posterior column of the Posterior cord, and enters the posterior cornu of the crescent : but a few ^"""^ fibres penetrate by the lateral fissure. It terminates in two bundles of fibres. One bundle courses round the outer side of the vesicular column, j"ins vesi- some fibres enclosing, and others entering it; and a few fibrils escape into the posterior column of the cord, becoming longitudinal. column!'' The second bundle is prolonged into the crescent and the inter- gr<ay com- mediate tract, as well as into the transverse commissure behind the "r|fsce^t '^^^ central canal of the cord. Intraspinal Vessels (fig. 127). Arteries supply the cord and its Vessels of membranes, and the bodies of the vertebrfe. The veins form a re- the spinal markable plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless the veins have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (a) are derived fi'om the vessels along the Source of sides and fi-ont of the spinal column, viz. from the vertebral and gphiai*'*' ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in the Back, arteries, and from the lumbar and lateral sacral below. They are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- Distribution men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the ^,r,^^amUhe" point of division the branches are directed, one (i) upwards and cord the other {c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebr;©, and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- * Intra-spinal arteries in the loins (Museum of University College, London), a. Branch of the lumbar artery, b. Ascending, and c, its descending offset. d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. + Intra-spinal veins in the loins, a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. h. Anterior longitudinal vein, one on each side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrae.