DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. C44 Superior gluteal nerve is muscular. Gluteus luiuimus. The mperior gluteal nerve (fig. 199, is a branch of the lumbo- sacral cord (p. 541). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two branches for the supply of the two smallest gluteal muscles: its lowest branch terminates anteriorly in the tensor vagina) fenioris, B. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 199, c) is triangular in shape Attach- ments. It is next the bone, its borders. Use on femur hanging. and fixed: standing one leg. on Divide smallest gluteus. trace deep vessels. Outer head of the rec- tus. and Origin of I)ynformis. Insertion; lies in sacro- sciatic notch : position to other parts. arises from the dorsum of the liip bone between the superior and inferior curved lines, extending backwards as far as the middle of the hip joint. Its tendon is inserted into an impression along the fore part of the gi-eat trochanter, where it is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip joint. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve; the other with the hip bone, the hip joint, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the other gluteus ; and the posterior is covered by the pyi-iformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. Action. It acts as an abductor and rotator out of the femur when this bone is hanging ; and in walking, it and the medius will be employed in bringing foi-wards the limb. Both legs being fixed, the muscles are used in balancing the pel- vis. In standing on one leg the gluteus pitches the pelvis over the supporting limb with the preceding muscle. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the innominate bone, and define the tendinous part of the rectus femoris underneath it, close above the hip joint. Whilst detach- ing the gluteus from the parts midemeath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be obsei^ved and followed as the muscle is removed. The outer head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the groove above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, which is attached to the anterior in- ferior iliac spine ; and below, it is connected with the capsule of the liip joint. The I'YRiFORMis (fig. 198, b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 594), and leaves that cavity through the gi-eat sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. As the muscle passes through the sacro-sciatic notch it divides that space into two parts:—the upper givmg passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, and the lower transmitting the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius, and its lower, to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it