DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. C8G second. tliiicl, t'ourtli 'litrital .inm iinier jilaiitar. Distribution on tlie toes. Knding of the dorsal artery of the foot; its digital branches, on the ■digits. External ]>lantar nerve ends in the deep muscles: like ulnar ■ nerve. Dissection. ■ Transverse nietntarsai ligament. Dissect the last layer of the muscles. tlie flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the teguments of the outer ].)order of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The third is, distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the tliird lumbricalis. The last two digital are joined by superficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand. They extend to the end, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses with a branch from the anterior tibial artery. Near the front of both the meta- tarsal and the next phalanx, they fonn anastomotic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 211, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (mner) metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital miery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. The digital brunch (/) (art. magna pollicis) extends to the front of the first interosseous space, and divides into collateral branches (/t) for the contiguous sides of the gi-eat toe and the next ; near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch {g) for the inner side of the great toe. These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch of the plantar arch. External plantar nerve (fig. 211, 2). The deep branch (<) of this nen^e accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor polUcis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei; to the transversalis pedis; and to the two external lumbrical muscles. The nerve corresponds Avith the deep portion of the ulnar nen^e in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transversalis pedis muscle, to see a ligament across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transrerse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 290), which connects together all the I'neta- tarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia coverin<>- the interossei muscles is connected to its hinder edge. It is coii^ cealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. To complete the dissection of the last layer of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached and