SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. 699 obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator vessels and nerve perforate it. Pubic Akticulation (fig. 189, a) (symphysis pubis). The oval Union at pubic surfaces of the hip bones are united by cartilage, and by ^^'^ lib res in fi"ont of, and above the bones: they ai"e also connected by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior jpuhic ligament (fig. 189, a) is very strong and is Anterior formed of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, and cross one another, joining with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen; but the deeper fibres are transverse between the surfaces of the bones. Some of the deepest fibres contain cartilage cells. There is not any strong posterior band ; but beneath the perios- Few fibres teum are a few scattered fibres in contact with the articular carti- lage. The supefi'ior ligamentous fibres fill the intei*val between the bones Ui'per band, above the cartilage. The siLhpuhic ligament (fig. 189, d) (ligam. arcuatum) is a strong Snbpubic triangularly-shaped band below the symphysis, and occupies the °' upper part of the pubic arch. The apex of the ligament touches the articular cartilage, and the base, contained within the triangular perinatal ligament, is turned towards the membranous part of the uretln-a. Dissection. The cartilage will be best seen by a transverse section Cartilage, ilOW S66X1. of the pubes, wliich will show the disposition of the anterior liga- ment of the articulation, and the thickness of the cartilage, with its toothed mode of insertion into the bone ; but when an opportunity offers, a vertical section may be made. Cartilage (fig. 189, c). The cartilage is firmly fixed to the ridged Disposition bony surfaces of the symphj-sis : it is wider above than below, and physis.^^"^' is generally as thick again before as behind. Variations in its size depend on the shape of the bones. Towards the posterior part of the cartilage there is a narrow Hollow fissure with uneven walls ; and a fibrous structure with large inter- ' spersed compound cells is to be recognised in the wall. It extends variations usually the whole depth of the cartilage and through a half or a third of the thickness: it is said to increase in pregnancy. In some bodies it reaches through the cartilage so as to divide tliis into two collateral pieces. Movement. As the bones are not in contact in the pubic sym- physis, but are united by an intennediate cartilage, the motion is usually very slight. The kind of movement of the hip bone is inward and outward, so as to increase or diminish the pelvic and out; cavity. When the pubic cartilage is divided into two by a larger central space than usual, greater freedom of motion is present in the sym- ^^^^^j .^^' physis ; and in pregnancy the looseness of the innominate bone is pregnancy. i,-ometimes so great as to interfere seriously with locomotion.