602 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. more fixed not coiled; sacculated with bauds, not in the rectum. Append- ages. Take pieces of the lai-gu intestine. Definition of Cfficum : Icngtli and widtli: receives ileum and appendix. Vemiifonn ajipendix: attach- ment ; dimensions. It is hollow. Dry the <'a;cuni, open it to see the valve. Fig. 153.* also free from convolution, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations ; but at the lower part of the large intestine (rectum), the surface is smooth, and the longitudinal bands have disappeared. Attached to the surface at intervals, especially along the transverse colon, are processes of peritoneum containing fat,—the appendices epiploica;. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the large intestine the student should cut off and blow up the cajcum, with jDart of the ileum entering it; he should prepare in a similar way a piece of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 153, a) (caput caecum coh) is the rounded part of the large intestine which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the junc- tion of the ileum with it. It mea- sures about two inches and a half in length, and though gradually nar- roAving inferiorlj-, the cajcum is the Avidest part of the colon,—hence the name caput coli. At its iimer side it is joined by the small hitestine (Z^); and still lower there is a small wonn- like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Ajipendix vermiformis (fig. 153, c). This httle convoluted i^rojection is attached to the lower and hinder part of the ca;cum, of which it was a con- tinuation, at one period, in the em- bryo. From three to six inches iji length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is comiected to the mner part of the caecum by a fold of peritoneum. It is hollow, and has an aperture of communica- tion with the intestine (r7). In struc- ture it resembles the rest of the colon. „ , Dissection. To examine the interior of tlie caecum, and the valve between it and the small intestine the specnnen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made mto it:—One oval piece is to be taken fr-om the ileum near its tenmnation ; another from the side of the Ccocum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. Interior of a COT dried and laid open. a. C-ecum. i. Small intestine c Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, c. Ilio-colic piece of Zy^'e at the junction 0 the small intestine. /. Ilio-c^ecal piece It the valre I Ketinaculum of the valve on each side. ^'