558 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. vocal cords (fig. 44) ; it is placed on a level with the base of the position, 1 nsertion. Use on -:n>erturc of ■on saeculiis. Parts inside ■larynx. Dissection to expose fthem. Laryngeal si>ace. Upper orifice, shape, ■and bounda- ries. Lower opening. Cavity of larynx •sliape ■and size. <31ottis, directions, and are inserted into tlie border of the epiglottis on the same side. The strength of the muscle varies much in diiferent bodies. Some of the lower fibres of the muscle, which cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton as a sepa- i"ate muscle with the name arijtmio-epiglottideus inferior. Action. By the contraction of the fibres, the tip of the arytasnoid cartilage will be moved forwards and inwards, and the epiglottis will be lowered over the orifice of the larjnix. The fibres of the nniscle which are spread over the sacculus will compress it, and assist in the expulsion of the contents. Parts inside the larynx. The parts more immediately'- concerned in the production of the voice are, the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch : these are placed within, and are protected by the laryngeal cartilages. Dissection. For the purpose of displaying the vocal apparatus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the posterior part, as in fig. 42 ; and in cutting through the arytsenoid muscle, let the in- cison be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will appear on each side ; and bounding the ventricle above and below are the whitish bands of the vocal cords. If a probe be passed into that hollow, it will enter a small pouch (sacculus laryngis) by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the saccidus on the left side by introducing a small piece of cotton wool into it. The lai-yngeid space reaches from the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It opens above into the phaiynx, and below into the trachea ; and in the intermediate portion are lodged the parts producing voice. The upper orifice of the larynx (fig. 29, will be evident on placing in contact the cut surfaces. It is triangular in shape, with the base in fj-ont and the apex behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards in the antero-posterior direction. Its boini- daries are,—the epiglottis in front, the arytsenoid muscle and carti- lages behind, and the arytajno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The loioer opening, limited by the inferior edge of the cricoid car- tilage, is circular in form, and is of the same size as that cartilage. The laryngeal cavitij is much reduced in size within the thyroid cartilage by the vocal cords, and is dilated above and below them for the purpose of allowing their fi-ee vibration. The lower dilatation may be seen to be as large as the ring of the cricoid ; and the upper, much smaller, con-esponds with the ventricle of the larj^nx Above the upper bulge the wall of the larynx slants up to the epiglottis. The glottis or rima gloitidis, is the interval between the lower