DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 448 Fibres end in aponeu- rosis. The aponeu rusis iias.ses lieneatli rectus ■(■xcept infe- lioriy. Fibres to [ transversalis fascia. ' Use by itself, with others. At pelvis unites in (•(injoined tendon. Posterior aponeurosis. Connections of transver- salis muscle. Expose rectus and I'yraniidalis. Leave the left side. Rectu.s muscle. Attadi- ments to pubes. Insertion into ribs. the cartilages of the four next above. And between the chest and the pelvis it is connected with the lumbar vertebra) by means of the posterior aponeurosis or the fascia lumbonun. All the fibres are directed to the aponein-osis in front. Its anterior aponeurosis is widest below, as in the most external muscle. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, passing beneath the rectus as low as midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, but in fi-ont of the muscle below that spot. Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the fi-ont of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneatli the oblique muscle : some of the fibres are spent on the transversalis fascia, and are connected with a thickened band of that fascia beneath Poupart's ligament, wliich is called the deep crural arch. Action. The chief use of the muscle will be applied to diminishing the size of the abdominal cavity, and compressing the viscera ; but it will assist the internal oblique in replacing the ■vascera pushed down in inspiration. Conjoined tendon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are united more or less near their attachment to the pubes, and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeti- rosis of the oblique muscle extends about half an inch along the pectineal line; whilst that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the gi-eater part of the conjoined tendon. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- bomm, c, is described in the dissection of the Back, p. 385. Connections. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles before examined ; and beneath it is the thin fascia transversalis. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs digitate with like j^rocesses of the diaphragm. The lower border is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the iimer half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Dissection. To remove the aponeurotic laj-er from the rectus muscle of the right side, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the fascia is reflected, its union with three or more tendinous bands across the rectus will have to be cut through ; and near the pubes a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector should leave the nen^es enteruig the outer border of the rectus. On the left side of the body the rectus should not be laid bare below the umbilicus, for the sake of the hernia to be seen on this side. The REcrrs jiuscle (fig. 137, ^) extends along the fi-ont of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest. It is narrowest inferiorly, and is attached to the pubes by two tendinous processes ; one internal and the smaller, ctrises from the fi-ont of the symphysis where it joins the muscle of the opposite side ; and the external process is attached to the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the rectus is inserted by three large fleshy processes into the ensifonn cartilage, and the cartilages of the last three true ribs.