DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 626 and below from inner vastus. Vastus exteruiis is thill at tlie origin ; but is thicker below. Parts in confcict with the surfaces. Vastus in- temus and crureus. One mass. Its origin : insertion by a common tendon. Upper part «leep, lower supeilicial. Laj' bare common tendon of the exten- sor : Tendon of the exten- sor : attach- Jnents, To make out the lower separation of the two, look to the outer aspect of the thigh about half way clown, where the long and vertical fibres of the vastus externus descending to their tendon, cross over others (deeper), which are continued obliquely inwards, and belong to the inner vastus. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a very narrow attachment to the femur in comparison with its size. It takes origin along the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch tliick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; to the line connect- ing the trochanter with the linea aspera ; and to the upper half of the linea aspera, and the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inf eriorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis which blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus intenius in the common tendon, and sends a slip to the outer edge of the patella. The muscle is pointed at the upper end; but enlarged below where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is covered by the rectus, tensor vagina) femoris, and gluteus muscles. The deep sur- face rests on the vastus internus, and receives branches of the ex- ternal circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (fig. 194, ^) foi-ms the large head of the extensor.* The fleshy mass arises from the anterior and two lateral surfaces of the shaft of the femur, except where the vastus externus is attached, and its limits may be thus indicated :—Upwards it reaches as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line ; downwards, in the middle, to about two inches fi-om the articular end of the femur ; and laterally to both intermuscular septa. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres terminate in an aponeurosis, Avhich blends in the common tendon of insertion, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The upper part of the muscular mass is buried beneath the sar- torius and rectus muscles ; but the lower part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus externus: some of the lowest fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw inwai'ds the patella. The adductor muscles are almost inseparably joined with this vastus along the attachment to the linea aspera. Dissection. The tendon of the extensor will appear by dividing along the middle line of the patella and knee-joint a thin aponeu- rotic layer, which is derived from the lower fleshy fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards, that fibrous layer the tendon will be laid bare to its insertion into the tibia. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg is common to the rectus, the vastus externus, and vastus internus. It is placed in fi-ont of the knee joint, to which it serves the office of an anterior ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, it * Sometimes the part of the mass, inside a line continued up-wards from the inner border of the patella, is named crureus : naturally there is not any separation at that spot.