DISSECTION OF THE NECK. «0 iiitemus- Layers of the membrane are prolonged between the muscles; o.uiar strata. ^^^^^ ^j^^^ beneath the etenio-mastoid is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aoi'ta, and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACK. Anterior triangular sjiace. Dissection of" anterior triangle. Trace ^uteries. Seek longi- tudinal nerves, jintl trans- veise nen'es. Syiinal accessory. Larj'ngeal jicrves. Clean gland, seek ner\-e to iniylo- liyoid. Bouudaries. This space (lig. 15) contains the carotid -v essels and their brandies, with many nerves ; and it corresponds witli the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents take away the deep fascia of the neck, and the fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the hyoid muscles that appear along tlie middle line, leaving untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into wliicli the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose luunerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath tlie nuiscles at tlie lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small desceiiding branch of tlie hypo-glossal nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be fouiid the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath is the sym])athetic nerve. Crossing the space, in tlie direction of a line from the mastoid process to the h3^oid bone, are the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, with several nerves directed transversely. Thus lying below them is tlie hypo-glossal ncn-e, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Above the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and l)ackwards fi'oni l)eneath the same nmscles to the sterno-mastoideus, is the spinal accessory nerve. (.)n the iimer side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve; and l)y the side of the larynx, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hj-oid muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle ' • and in fi-ont, a line fi-om the chin to the sternum, along the middle