DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 510 Vessels in tlie transvei-sc fissure. He]iatic duct. Hepatic arteiy. Vena iiortif. Umbilical vein in the fetus; condition after Itirtli. Lolnilar stracture : incased by two coats. Serous coat. where deficient. Fibrous covering is prolonged to the interior. Lobules of the liver; sions :—one for the gall-bladder to the right of the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior edge ; and a third for the kidney near the posterior border. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz. vena port.-v, hepatic artery and duct, have the folloAving position :—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The lieputie (hut (fig. 15G, e) is formed by two branches from the liver, one from each lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct (g). The hejyatic artery (Ji) is divided into two, one for each lobe, and its branches are surrounded by ner\-es and lymphatics. The vena jyortcc (h) branches, like the artery, into two trunks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longest. Fetal condition of the umbilical rein. Before birth the per^^ous umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens pos- teriorly into the vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied from it to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left piece of the vena porta?. Purified or placental blood circulates through the vessel at that period. Adult state. After birth the part of the umbihcal vein in front of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament (fig. 156, c). The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord {d) remaining in its place. Whilst the lateral branches, which arc in the same line as, and continuous with the left branch of the vena porta", remain open, and subsequently form part of the left division of the vena porta;. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious. Structure of the Liver. The substance of the liver consists of small bodies called lobules or acini; together with vessels which are concerned both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutri- tion of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fihrous corerinrj is very thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) suiTounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 159, I) constitute