DISSECTION OF THE BEAIX. a. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or six small twigs,, which are named from their direction, and are distributed to the substance of the pons. One of them (") gives an offset (auditory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. h. Resembling this set of branches is the folloAving artery, the - inferior cerebellar (anterior) : this arises from the basilar trunk, and;' extends to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellum, on which it is distributed. c. The superior cerebellar artery (^) is derived from the basilar so ■ near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is to the upper surface of ' the small brain, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but parallel with the fourth nerve. On the upper surface of the cerebellum the artery spreads its ramifica- tions, which anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), which projects into the posterior part of the cerebrum. d. The posterior cerebral artery (") takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third ners^e. The vessel is then applied to the inner ■ surface of the cerebrum, and divides into many branches : some of these supply the under part, whilst others turn uj^wards on both the outer and inner surfaces of the back of the hemisiDhere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Near its origin it is joined by the posterior comnmnicating arterj' of the carotid ; and its branches to the brain are the following :— Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). A small choroid artery (posterior) supplies the fold of pia mater that projects into the cerebrum : this small branch is transmitted between the crus and hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. From the foregoing examination of the olfsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trunk, it appears that about half the en- cephalon—viz. the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through the branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Q) terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) inside the anterior clinoid process, and diA'ides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives ofE the ophthalmic offset, before it ceases in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum! a. The anterior cerebral artery supplies the inner part of the cerebral hemisphere. It is directed forwards to tire median fissure