DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Hi one to tuiii nasi: pterj'go- palatiue Lrani-h ; vidian branch. Other nasal arteries. Veins; alveolar plexus. Faeial iier\-e. Dissection of nerve in the bone. and its genu ; are distributed on the spongy bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. imso 2)f(^citma), runs on the parti- tion between the nasal fossae to the incisor foramen, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth : this branch accompanies the naso-i)alatine nen'e, and covers the- sc^jtuni Avith numerous r;miificatit)ns. The ptei-yrjo-XKilatine is a very small branch which, passing l)ack- wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the- lining membrane of the ])luirynx. The vidian or 2)ierij(joid bwiich is contained in the vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- brane of the Eustachian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small nascd arteries aro furnished to the I'oof of the nasal fossa by the posteiior ethmoidal bi-ancli of the ophthalmic (p. 46).. Also the anterior ethmoidal (internal nasal, p. 46), enters the cavity with the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibule ; a branch passes to the face between the os nasi and the cartilage, with its*, neive. Other offsets from the facial artery supply the part near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the in- ternal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxillary fossa in the- alveolar plexus. Into this plexus offsets are received from the- pterygoid plexus and the infraorbital vein ; and from the plexus a large trmdv (anterior internal maxillary) is directed fonvards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 28). Beneath the mucous, membrane of the nose the A^eins have a plexiform arrangement, as. before said. Facial neuvk in the t]':>ipoi!Al bone (fig. .^5). This nerve winds- through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difticulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided Avith a. temporal bone, in Avhich the ct)urse of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection. The examination of the nerve is to be begun at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be carried fonvards from that point. With this view, the side of the skidl should be sawn through ver- tically lietween the meatus externus and the anterior border of the- mastoid process, so as to open the posterior part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nen^e will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed by cutting- away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting al)ove it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less, opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorins internus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from that enlargement so as to allow of the petrosal nerves