28a RADIAL AETERY AND BRANCHES. whore it is more superficial in the lower half it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its upper half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus Connections. (^) ; and rests successively on the following nmscles, the fleshy i\"if''^"^^" supinator brevis, the pronator teres (''), part of the thin origin of with the flexor sublimis (^), and sometimes on the biceps tendon ('■'). Veins. Vena3 comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over veins, the arterj'. Nerve. The radial nerve is parallel to, and outside it, but separated an^l nerve., by a slight interval. In its lower half the ai'tery with its vcnm comites is superficial, in^lpwer being covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. Here it is placed in a hollow between the tendons of the supinator longus (^) muscles, and flexor carpi radialis('*). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two other muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Nerves. The radial nerve is still on the outer side until it passes nerve, backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and becomes cutaneous. Superficial to the lower end are the ramifications of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, some of Avhich reach the vessels (p. 278). Branches. The radial artery furnishes many unnamed muscular Brandies, and nutrient offsets to the surrounding parts ; and three named branches, viz. recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the radial re- • curi'Gnt muscles of the outer side of the limb. Its course is almost trans- verse to the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. b. The superficial volar branch (fig. 83, c) arises usually near the superficial lower end of the radius. It is directed towards the palm of the^°'^'" hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and anterior will be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles. '"^'^''^' Arising rather above the end of the radius, it passes transversely at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery : from the arch thus formed, offsets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radicd artery. When the radial arises high in the arm, Variations, its course is close to the hracliial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle ; "jj^;.,! and in passing the bend of the elbow it may be occasionally subcutaneous, viz.,)above the deep fa-scia, and be liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm it may be likewise subcutaneous and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, the Dissection o 9 , oi flexor flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near sublimis.