170 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. beneath precediDfi •Use. Dissection of inter- transver- Iiiteitians- VCTSO muscles. Number aud attach- Jiients. Connec- tions. Peculiari- ties. Use. Cervical nerves in iheir fora- mina give anterior •and pos- terior branches. First two nerves differ in botli ■anterior and liosterior branches. of the atlas; and is inserted into tlie basilar process of the occipital bone between the foramen magnum and the rectus major, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve, lies between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. Its power is very slight, but it will help in moving forwards the head. Dissection. The small intertransversales muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the fi-ont and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the inter- transversales will be readily seen on their sides. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the conjoined transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the verte- bral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slendcr fleshy slips in the inten\als between the transverse processes. In the neck there are seven pairs—the first being between the atlas and axis, and the last between the lowest cervical and the first dorsal vertebra. One set is attached to the aiiterior, and the other to the posterior tuber- cles on the tips of the conjoined transverse processes. Between the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cervical nerve ; and beneath the posterior muscle is the other primary branch of the same nen'^e. In the upper space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Action. By approximating the transverse processes these muscles bend the spinal column laterall}'. Cei-vical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The trunks of the cervical nerves issue fi-om the spinal canal tlu-ough the inter- vertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifin-cate into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior immcmj branch passes outwards between the inter- transverse muscles, and joins in plexuses with its fellows. The posterior primanj branch turns to the Back beneath the pos- terior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first two. The first two nerves leave the spinal canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primanj branch of the first or suboccipital nei-ve has been examined (p. 113). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vcrtebraj, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the first pair of intertransverse muscles, to join the cervical plexus. The p)osterior i^rimary branches of the first two nerves are de- scribed in the dissection of the Back.