190 Position of the part. Upper part of spinal •cord. "Situation. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the pons united, and another of a vertical median section through those bodies, he will comprehend much more readily the followmg description. „ Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as tor tne examination of the nerves and vessels. The MEDULLA OBLONGATA is tlic dilated upper part of the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium (fig. 54). Its limit is the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the upper margin of the atlas in the other. This part of the cord is pyramidal in Fig. 54.* Fig. 55. t form, and measures about one inch and a quarter in length ; half an inch m breadth below, and about an inch at its widest part. Ba.se. Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking Apex. its limit; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The anterior ■Surfaces. surface is irregularly convex, and is in contact with the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface is some- what excavated superiorly, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle; and it rests in the fissure between the halves of the cere- bellum. On the posterior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla, pivision The medulla oblongata is diAdded into halves by a median fissure ilyflssures^. front !ind l)ehind. The fissures are in a line with those along the cord : the anterior ceases at the pons in a dilated part (foramen cascum), but the posterior is prolonged, behind the pons, into the floor of the fourth ventricle. Components Eacli half of the medulla is constituted of pieces continuous of each lialf. * Antevior view of the medulla oblongata and pons. 1. Anterior pyramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform body. 5. Corpus olivare. 6. The decussation. t Hinder view of the medulla oblongata.—1. Floor of the fourth ventricle. —2. Eminentia teres. 3. Re-stiform body. 4. Posterior pyramid.