DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 104 the cranium, on the hnier side of tlie carotid, the ascending pliaryngcal arter}^ Avill be met with, inthctem- To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow iioiai i.oiR'. the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the skull in the following manner: the saw being placed beneath the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the Aving of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid caiial may be opened with the bone forceps. Ncn-esoiiit. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sj inpathetic will be found on it; and in a fresh part two small hlaments may be recognised with care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the vidian nen^c, at the front of the canal. Tjnii]..aimiii On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may obtained. pi-epare very readily the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. Internal The internal carotid artery (fig. 25, d) springs from the bifurca- caiotid tjoj-^ of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper enters the border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then skull. through the petrous portion of the temporal lione; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends Its course is in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided into three parts :—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium, througli the Cervical imrt. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically neck from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle less deep may be taken as the index of this difference. Thus, below that l)elow, muscle, the internal carotid is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and covered by the common teguments, fascia, and the platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther but veiy back. But, above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath deep aliQ\e, ^j^^ external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by rests on the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Whilst in rectus. neck the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebrai. Position of Vein. The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being vein, contained in a sheath with it, and placed on the outer side, of vessels, Small vessels. Below the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid ; and the offset from it to the sterno- mastoideus may run down on the carotid trunk. Above the digas- tric the posterior auricular vessels cross the carotid, nerves Nerves. The pneumogastric is contained in the sheath between