DISSECTION OF TEE NECK. 108 aftenvanls icloss<)-i>lia- lyngeal ami its branches. Dissection MftllC nerves in tlic neck : ■ )f spinal accessory : of glosso- liliai-yngeal of vagus; I'liaryngcal I'lexus, '•artliac, ' illsets, and recnr- •rcnt: of hypo- glossal ; of synijia- tlictiu in part. Eighth nerve Next follow tilt' glosso-pharyiigeal nerve through tliefore part of the foraiiieii, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This nerve presents two ganglia as it passes from the skull (fig. 2G) : o}ie (jugular), which is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrous), is situate at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temiwral bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve of Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal ; and another filament of communication with the ganghon of the sympathotic. Sometimes the dissector Avill be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricu- lar branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nen-e. JJeloio the foramen of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have been greatly denuded by the dissection of the internal carotid (fig. 25) ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypo-glossal, sympathetic, and first two spinal nei-ves near the skull, are to l>o traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufliciently laid bare already ; but its small piece is to be traced to the vagus, close to the skull, and onwards by the side of that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has been also dissected ; ' but the offsets on the carotid, and others to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and the pharyngeal plexus are to be displayed. On the pneumo-gastric trunk the student should define an enlarge- ment close to the skull (ganglion of the trunk) to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimate]}' united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pliarj-ngcal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the jiarts iiidicated by their names, especially the first which enters the jiharyngeal plexus. The task of disentangling the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the glosso-pharyngeal and sympathetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. TVo or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at the lower part of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly the dissector may prepare more fully tlie recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower part of the common carotid : by removing the fat around it, offsets will be seen entering the chest and the windpipe. Oidy the first, or the deep part of the hypo-glossal nerve remains to be made ready for learning ; its comnmnications with the vagus sympathetic, and the sjiinal nerves are to be demonstrated. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (p. 114); but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should be defined, and the small branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus- should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The three cranial nei-ves, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, anc spinal accessory, which constitute the eighth nerve of Willis, leave the cranium by the foramen jugulare (p. 10). Outside the skul the nerves take different directions according to their destination thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwards to the tono-uc aiu