145 FACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. Fig. 35. • being traced to it ; and the meatus auditorius is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow. Tlie course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the facial) across the tympamun will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may there- fore omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The facial nerve (fig. 35, is received into the internal auditory meatus, and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted through the tem- poral bone to the stylo-mas- toid foramen and the face (p. 36). In its serpentine course through the bone, tlie nerve is first directed out- wards to the inner wall of the tympanum : at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a ganghfonn swelling (intumescentia gangliformis), to which several small nerves are united. From this swelHng the nerve is continued through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve for the most part to connect it with other nerves ; but one supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. * ComiecHiuj branches communicate with the auditory and glosso- pharyngeal nerves; and with two trunks (superior and inferior maxillary) of the fifth nerve. * Union loith the auditor}/ nerve. In the bottom of the meatus the facial and auditoiy nerves are connected by one or two minute fila- ments. * Connecting branches of the fjangliform enlargement! The swelling of the facial nerve receives three small twigs. One in front is the large mperficialpetrosal nerve ^ (vidian); another is the small super- ficial petrosal^ of the tympanic nerve; and the third is the external of cliorda tyiuxiiiiii; and otlior braiiflies. Facial nerve winds through eni]ioral bouu, is iuarl<ed by swelling which receives many twigs. Brandies .joiiung uervc to aiiditory nerve, to ani)enor ninxillary tympanic, and synnm- thetic. * Nerves joining the enlargement of the facial nerre. 1. Facial nerve. 2. Large superficial petrosal. 3. Small superficial petrosal from Jacobson's nerve. 4. External superficial petrosal. 5. Chorda tympani of the facial.