340 Cavity oi right ventricle. Apex. Base and its openings. Anterior and posterior wall. Interior of the cavity is uneven: on it tliere are three sets of fleshy coluniiis. Opening from the auricle; position; form and size; is guarded by tlie tri- cuspid -valve: "the pieces Structure of valve: DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the antx^rior part of the ventricle. In the examniation ot the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. _ . The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 100) IS triangular m form, and has the l)ase turned upwards to the auricle of the same side.' On a cross section the cavity Avould appear semilunar m shape, with the septum between the ventricles convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance from the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c); the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pul- monary artery (g). The part of the cavity communicating with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infundibulum or conus arteriosus. The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds with the sep- tum between the ventricles, and is much tliicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is irregular, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular fibres, the columnm carnecc; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kmds. Some form merely a prominence in the ven- tricle, as on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle (trabeculaj carneaj). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi iminllares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the ventricle, and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third costal cartilages. It is slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval from side to side, its shape being maintained by a strong fibrous band around it; and it measures one mch and a quarter in diameter. Prolonged from the circumference of the opening is a thin mem- branous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is undivided, but it presents three chief points at its lower margin, and is named tricuspid ; to the lower margin are attached small tendinous cords (chorda3 ten- dineas), which unite it to the nuiscular bundles of the ventricle. Its three slips or tongues are thus placed :—one touches the front of the ventricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall; and tlie remainuig slip, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the auricle and pulmonary artery. The tricuspid valve is constructed by the lining membrane of the