316 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. motion ceases. Dissection. Bones form- ing wrist united^by] ^ because the radius cannot be moved except it is entire ; and m the other, because the uhiar support is wanting for the revolving radius. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wrist-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back : and the fibrous structures and the small vessels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist Joint (fig. 92). The lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bones, except the os pisiforme, enter into the wrist-joint. Four liga- external lateral. nitemal ^1 lateral, anterior and posterior ligament. IDissection. •Surface of radius. Fig. 92.* ments maintain in contact the osseous surfaces, viz, anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from this articu- lation by means of a piece of fibro-cartilage. The external lateral li- gament is a short and strong band, which inter- venes between the styloid process of the radius and the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. Tlie internal lateral li- f/ament is smaller than the external, but is longer than it. It is attached by one end to the styloid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough, upper part of the cuneiform bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 92,takes origin from the radius and the fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform, at the anterior surface. The iJosterior ligament (fig. 95,is membranous, like the anterior, and its fibres are directed dowmvards and inwards. Superiorly it is attached to the radius and the fibro-cartilage ; and inferiorly it is fixed, like the anterior, to the three outer carpal bones of the first row, but on the posterior aspect. Dissection. The see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior liga- ment, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces. The end of the radius, and the fibro-cartilage uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the reception of the carpal * Front view of the articulations of tlie wrist joint, and carpal and meta- carpal bones (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Anterior ligament of the wrist joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the os trapezium. 3. Pisiform bone, with its separate joint and ligamentous bands. 4. TransTerse bands to the head of the metacarpal bones.