ISCHIO-EECTAL FOSSA. 419 spliincter muscles may be injured without care, for they are close to and sub- the skin, without the intervention of fat. The dissector shoidd trace the sphincter back to the coccyx, and forwards for a short " distance beneath the skin ; and define a fleshy slip at each side in front and behind to the subcutaneous fatty layer. The next step is to bring into view the ischio-rectal hollow piffcrence between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip bone, the^isciilo? On the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference ^^^^ fossa-, to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissec- tion is to be made of tliera. To take out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the outer margin of the sphincter ani, and proceed forwards Dissection and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend farther ofieftischio- than the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be dissected. On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and nerve should be denuded : they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance fi-om the surface. On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular fibres. On rigM 1 . side seek when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at vessels and the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hgemor- i^erves. rhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to the pudic trunks: some of the branches, wliich join the superficial perinieal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and vessels turning roimd the border of the gluteus. Near the fi'ont of the fossa is a superficial perinfeal artery and nerve (of the pudic); and the last, after communicating with the haeraorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perinatal nerve with a deeper position may be found at the front of the hollow. The isciiio-nECTAL fossa (fig. 129) is the space intervening situation between the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. °^ It is a somewhat conical interval, uncovered by muscle, which is Form. larger behind than before, and diminishes in width as it sinks into Dimensions. the pelvis. Its width is about one inch at the surface ; and its depth about two inches at the outer part. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very oblique, and is Boundaries, bounded by the levator ani (d), together with the coccygeus muscle posteriorly ; but the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) ; and behind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the largest gluteal muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlaid in part by the gluteus e and the sphincter externus A. Position of vessels. Along the outer wall lie the pudic vessels and ^^'J^^^^^^^^^^ nerve (a), which are contained in a tube of fascia; opposite the outer wall,' ischial tuberosity, they are situate an inch and a half from the surface, but towards the front of the space they approach to about half an inch from the edge of the pubic arch. Crossing the centre E E 2