BLOODVESSELS OF KIDNEY. 519 of two vessels piercing tlie capsule, and is clothed with epithelium. One of the two, the afferent vessel (d), is an off'set of the renal artery, and divides into convoluted loops of the fineness of capil- laries, which form the exterior of the tuft. The other, the efferent vessel (/), begins in the interior of the tuft by the union of the loops on the outer surface ; and passing out is distributed in a close network of capillaries (</) on the convoluted lu-iue tubes ; and in one with elongated meshes on the straighter tubes near the pyramids. The office of the glomerulus is to secrete the watery part of the urine. Bloodvessels. The artery and vein distributed to the kidney are veiy large in proportion to the size of the organ they nourish. Menal artery. As the artery enters the kidney it divides into four or five branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and reach the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi, where they form arches. From those arches arise small interpyramidal two, aflcrciit, and, efterent, which niiitu. Use of ylonierulus. Bhwd- vessels of kidney. Branches of the artery supply MalpiyliiaTi bodies, Fis. 164.* A B branches, which ascend towards the surface, and furnish the afferent twigs to the Malpighian bodies, whose arrangement has been re- ferred to. Other offsets are supplied to the capsule and matrix of the Iddney ; the former anastomose with the subperitoneal branches of the lumbar arteries. Straight vessels descend amongst the tubes in the pyi-amids of j\Lalpighi, and some form loops like the tubes of Henle. Eenal vein. This vein begins in the capillary plexuses on the convoluted urine tubes ; and its small branches, receiving twigs fi-om the matrix and the fibrous coat, unite into larger veins, which anastomose fi-eely around the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. At this spot they are joined by offsets from capillary plexuses in * Plan of the vessels connected with the urine tubes, a. a. Urine tube. I. End-dilatation. c. Interpyramidal artery. d. Afferent branch. e. Glomerulus. /. Efferent vessel, y. ^Plexus of capillaries around the urme tube. h. Eadicles of the veins. B, e. Glomeruhis. d. Afferent and /, efferent vessel of the glomerulus Bowman and texture of the kidney: straight vessels in pyramids. Veins begin around tubules; anastomose around jiyramids.