DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 134 the general and special characters of those parts in the different groups of teeth ; and the structure of the different components of a tooth, must he referred to in some general treatise on anatomy. Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Direetions. Dissectiou. Cut tliroiigli the bone with SiMv. Situation of nose. Division into two. Form. Openings. Roof. To ol)tain a view of the interior of tlie nose, it will ])e necessary to make a lojigitiuhnal section through the hase of the skull.. Whilst the student is examining the boundaries of the nose he will derive advantage fi'om the use of a vertical section of a dried nasal cavity. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side should be taken away ; further, the tongue,, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, may be detached from the opposite- half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw through the frontal and nasal bones, the cribrifonn plate of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the suav descend into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right of the median line opposite the cut in the roof of the nose. The saw is then to be carried thi-ougb. the floor of the nose and the body of the sijhenoid bone in such a direction as to come into the incisioii above. The piece of the skull is now separated into two parts, right and left ; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the nnicous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is placed in the centre of the hones of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and betAveen the orbits. This space is divided into two parts—nasal fossaj,—by a vertical partition. Each fossa is larger below than above; and is flattened in form, so that the measurement from before back or above down exceeds much that from within out. It communicates with both the face and the pharynx by apertures named nares, and has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz. frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. The student has to examine in each fossa a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the os palati, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the etlnnoid