EXCRETOEY TUBES OF KIDNEY. 517 bedded in the cortical substance, and is resolved into bundles of tubes which are prolonged into the cortical covering. Each pyramidal mass is constructed of uriniferal tubes (tubes of Composi- BelHni) which open below at the apex of the papilla (fig. 162, a); and the cut surface has a grooved appearance indicatory of its construction. If the mass is compressed, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical or investing 2)art (fig. IGl, e) fonns about three- Extent of fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer s°/bstauce; about two lines in thickness, and sends prolongations between the same nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the colour; kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass consistence, gives way beneath the finger. In the injected kidney red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered amongst the cortex, giving it a gi'anular appearance. Structure of the Kidney. The mass of the kidney consists of Kidney minute convoluted tubes, intermixed with bloodvessels, lymphatics, flbro^ls^coat'! nei-ves, and an intcrtubular matrix. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. The fibrous coat is a white layer, which is connected with the Fitoous kidney by fine processes and vessels, but is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the Iddney it sinks into sends in the sinus, and sends processes on the enteiing vessels and excretory " ^" duct. Strovia or matrix. Between the tubules and the vessels of theMati-ixof kidney is a uniting material, which surrounds and isolates them, and is most abundant in the cortical substance. It somewhat re- sembles areolar tissue in its nature, and is fibrous at some spots. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting tubes, and of the bloodvessels, the dissector will require a microscope, and good fine injections of the kidney. Secretory tubules. The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uiiniferi) occupy Urmiferous successively the cortical substance, and the Malpighian pyramids ; but they have a different arrangement in each part as below (fig. 162, a). mentr In the j\Iali)i(jh!an pyramid the ti;bes are straight, and ascend in tlie fi'om the apertures in the apex, bifurcating repeatedly, as far as pj^i'iJJItV'^^ the base, and forming a cone wliich resembles the stem and branches of a tree. At the wide end of the pyramid they are collected into size and bundles which reach nearly to the surface of the kidney, and be- eutimg come convoluted as they enter the cortex, but some unite in arches (Henle). Near the apex they measure •g-oi)^^'^ across, but the last subdivisions are only half that size, or of an inch. Descending between the straight tubes arc the small " looped mixed witii tubes" of Henle (fig. 162, g). These run down fr om the cortical jj^Jde, substance nearly to the apex of the pyramid, where they turn up- wards, forming loops with the convexity down, and ascend to open which are into the straight tubes : their size is about a third of the others. In the cortical substaiice the tubes are more numerous and very in the convoluted (fig. 163) ; they have an average width of -jji^th of an Satio