738 Form of the lainiua\ Fibres DISSECTION OF THE EYE, anicroscope each layer may be seen to be const™cted ol^^hmt^ parallel fibres. It consists mostly of albumen, and no bloodvessels are found in its texture. _ . „.i,^rfv The lamina of each surface have their apices m the centie, whem the septa meet; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and may be turned outwards towards the equator of the lens The constituent^fcr^s of the laminai are about ^oW^ Fig. 235. t are wavy at the edge, and six- sided. in diameter, sohd, and flattened at the margin of the lens deeper fibres are nanowed and less distinct. In the superficial softer fibres are contained gra- nular nuclei (fig. 235, «). The edges are slightly wavy ; and each fibre touches six others (fig. 235, b), viz. two on each side, with one above, and another below : contiguous fibres are Fig. 234.* and the and attached to the septa by their ends. Change in form, colour, and consistence of lens with therefore dovetailed together, and this interlocking is best seen in the lens of the codfish. The ends are soft and not well defined, and are connected with the partitions on the opposite surfaces of the lens in this way :— those attached at the union of two septa on the one aspect, are fixed to the extremity of a septum on the other aspect: and the fibres passing between two septa are nearer to the pole at one end^ and farther from it at the other, Avhile the middle ones are at the same distance from the ends of the septa on both aspects. Chamjes in tJie lens loitli age. The form of the lens is nearly spherical in the fetus ; but its convexity decreases with age, particularly on the anterior aspect, until it becomes flattened iii the adult. In the fetus it is soft, is reddish in colour, and is not quite trans- parent ; in mature age it is firm and clear; and in old age it becomes flatter on both surfaces, denser, and of a yellowish colour. * A representation of tlie laminae in a hardened lens. a. The nucleus. 1). Superficial laminae. + Views of the lens fibres after Henle.—a. Surface fibres with their nuclei, in the equatorial region of the lens. h. Transverse section of the fibres of the surface of the leus, showing their union with others.