149 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. • ceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project heyond the other set; they are situate mostly at the tip and sides mostly at -of the tongue. They are covered with small simple papilho. suJ^T^ The circumvallate or caliciforin are fewer in number and larger caiiciform than the others, and are placed at the junction of the two anterior ^'^'■^'^ ""oot of with the posterior third of the tongue : their number varies from ""^'"^' eight to ten. These papillae extend across the tongue in a line form; resembling the letter V with the point turned backwards. Each papilla consists of a central truncated part of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane ; its wider part or base projects above the surface, whilst the apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla imd the surrounding fold are furnished with smaller secondary papilla?. Minute simple papilkc exist behind the caiiciform kind, and on the other under siu-face of the free portion of the tongue ; but they are not ^' observed till the epithelimn is removed. Taste buds. Around the circumvallate papilhe is a circle of small Taste buds, peculiar bodies, which are covered by the epithelium : they are ^'^ like a small carafe in shape, the base resting on the corium. They are formed of elongated epithelium-like cells, of which the central, gustativc resembling olfactoi-ial cells, are supposed to be connected with the nerve of taste. A small collection of similar bodies occupies the back of the tongue, on each side, just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Structure of the Papilkc. The simple papillae are constructed ■ like structure those of the skin, viz. of a projecting cone of membrane, which is "fi'^^P'^^*- • covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of capillaries, and a nerve. The other compound forms of the papilla) may be said to be pro- "^^^j'^^" duced by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary ■eminences spring from the common cone of limiting membrane; and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus -of capillary vessels in the interior of the papilla a looped offset is furnished to each smaller papillary projection. The entering nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, on :some of which end-bulbs may be recognised. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves sepa- P^^jQ^g"""*^ rated by a fibrous layer in the niiddle line. Each half is made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat ; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The whole tongue is enveloped by the raucous membrane ; and a special fibrous membrane attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the . tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum; and, the remains of the right raylo- and genio-hyoideus having been .removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separaring those muscles, except for an inch in fi'ont, and cuttmg across their inter-