Q Q 2 LIGAMENTS OF PELVIC BONES. 505 The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the Part of pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface with the "ivi? pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels cavity, and nen'e. Action. The muscle draws the trochanter towards the back of the Use as hip-bone over which it bends, and rotates out the hip-joint. For roSto? further notice of its use, see the dissection of the Buttock. CoccYGEUS Muscle. The position and the connections of this Coccygeus muscle may be studied with advantage in the interior of the pelvis. The muscle is described at p. 547. LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of the pel- Outline of vis :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccyx are united with laticm!'^" one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two innomi- nate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorly. Union of Pieces of Sacrum and Coccyx. Whilst the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain separate they are articulated as in Ligaments the other vertebrte by an anterior and posterior common ligament, ggp'a\?ate with a disc of intervertebral substance for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 372). After the sacral vertebrae have coalesced, only rudiments of the and joined, ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised; but when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, those ligaments disappear in the adult male. Sacro-vertedral Articulation. The base of the sacram is articu- Sacrum lated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to those ^"rtebra^ uniting one vertebra to another (p. 373) ; and by one special liga- ment—the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different liga- Dissection, ments into view, the dissector may consult the directions already given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebraa (p. 372). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an Byliga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous |"®^fe(!y,. substance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava ; tebrtw. and between the spines the supra and interspinous bands are situate. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with syno- vial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a rather strong bundle of fibres, and iiy which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse i/amrLicro- process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral part of the base vertebral, of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the articulation between the sacrum and the inno- minate bone. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are united Union of at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior and posterior '^■;'™ '■''"^