564 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Pudic arteiy in tlie pel- vis : some small offsets. Au acces- sory iiudit: branch. Branches in the female. Uterine aiteiy snp])lies uterus : offsets to vagina, joins ovarian. Vaginal arteiy. Branches of the aorta. Ovarian arterj': offsets. Superior hu'inorrhoi- dal ends in loops. bated to the buttock : in the pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygous umscles. The x>udic artery (fig. 174, o) supplies the perin»um and the geni- tal organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as the sciatic, fi-oiu wliich it often springs. It accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone, and enters the perina3al space (p. 422). The artery gives some unimportant offsets in the pelvis, and fi-equently the middle hicmorrhoidal branch arises from it. Accessory x>'udic (Quain). The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, and fails to supply some of its ordinary perinatal branches, especially the terminal for the penis. In those cases the deficient branches are derived from an accessoiy arteiy, which takes origin from the internal iliac (mostly fi'om the trunk of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular perinjcal ligament. It furnishes branches to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. c. The branches of the internal iliac artery which are peculiar to- the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. The uterine artei-y (fig. 173, f7) passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, and ramifying in it, are remark- able for their tortuous condition. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supplied to the vagina and the bladder; and opposite the ovary a branch bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. The vaginal artery (fig. 173, seldom arises separately from the internal iliac. Combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends along the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Other arteries in the pelvis. The remaining arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior haimon-hoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery (p. 534), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. The superior haimorrhoidal artery, the continuation behind the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p. 480), divides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends finally in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate oppo- site the inner spliincter in anastomotic loops beneath the nmcous membrane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior lu^morrhoi- dal arteries.