DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 440 Inguinal ducts enter abilonieu. Dissection of coverings of i)e)iis. Tegnmen- taxy cover- ing of jienis is thill, and without fat forms prepuce and fi'»:HB3aa. Sebaccoias glands. Teguments iu scrotum. Muscular nature fascia. Dissection of vessels and nen es. Suspensory ligament of penis ; attach- ments, contains vessels and iieiTes. Source of ♦■pssels aad aerves. Tlie glands of the groin are three or four in number, and lie over • the hne of Poupart's ligament. They are placed between the strata of the superficial fascia ; and receive lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh, and from the superficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass - downwards to the saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. Dissection. After the examhiation of the superficial fat with its vessels and nerves the student may prepare the cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be divided along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the 2^ems and scrotum. The penis is at- tached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory ligament, and is ■ provided with a tegumentary covering which is continuous with that of the abdomen, but it loses the fat and acquires special characters. Around the end of the penis it fonns the loose sheath of the prepuce in the folloAving way :—When the skhi has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the ^jj-e^^wce ; it is • aftemards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous mem- brane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular lold, frcenum imeputii. Where the skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with that part, is very thin and sensitive, being j^rovided with papilhe, and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glanduke odoriferce.. In the scrotum the superficial fascia becomes thin, and of a reddish colour. The prolongation around the testicle on one side, is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouches; coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and fi-ont of the perina?um, contains involuntarj- muscular fibres, to which the corrugation of the sldn is owing. This contractile structure is- named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By removing all the fatty tissue fi-om the root of the penis and the fi-ont of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nen-es, with the dorsal vem of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards in the teguments. The suspcnsoi^ ligament of the xHins is a band of fibrous tissue,, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the fi-ont of the symphysis pubis near the lower part. Widening below, it is . fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and is pro- longed on it for some distance. In the ligament are contained the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. Dorsal vessels and nerves. The arteries and nen-es on the dorsum of the penis are the terminal parts of the pudic trunks of both;