166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYXX. Usf. Kerato- iricoideu.s. iioideus : •deep trans- verse fibres, superficial ■oblique. Use. Dissection of internal muscles. Remove lialf (jf cartilage. Position of muscles. Lateral •(•rico-aryta;- iioideus is 'beneath tliyroid •cartilage. Action. It rotates the arytiiiiioia cartilage, turning out the ktcral projection at the base, and enlarges the interval between the carti- lages. At the same time the upper orifice of the larynx is widened by the separation from each other of its lateral boundaries. Ifusculus herato-cricoideus (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen below and close to the preceding muscle; it arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back part of the lower comu of the thyroid cartilage. The aryt.t:xoideur is a single muscle in the middle line (fig. 40, and is placed on the jiosterior surface of the arytasnoid cartilages : it possesses two sets of fibres, superficial and deep, with different directions. The deep fibres, B, are transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of each cartilage ; they close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres. A, consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other : a few of these fibres are continued bej^ond the cartilage to join the tliyro-arytivnoid nmscle, and the depressor of the epi- glottis. Action. The muscle causes the arytasnoid cartilages to glide towards one another, and diminishes much, or closes the rinia glottidis. Acting with the depressors of the epiglottis it will assist in closing the upper orifice of the larynx. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal ajiparatus would be leanit better on afresh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into view the muscles, which are concealed by the thyroid cartilage (fig. 41) it will be necessary to remove the right half of the carti- lage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid. By dividing next the crico-thyroid membrane attached to the lower edge, and the thyro-hyoid ligament connected with the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating it from the subjacent areolar tissue. the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-aiytajnoid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytsenoidcus muscle ; and still higher, the thin nmscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytfenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of tlie thyro-arytajnoideus near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glaiids will appear above the fleshy fibres. The crico-aryt;enoideus lateralis (fig. 41, ^) is a small lengtheiied band, which arises from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the lateral part; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted into a projection on the outer side of the base of the arytsenoid cartilage, and into tlie contiguous part of the outer sur- face. This muscle is concealed by the crico-thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle.