159 GLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL POUCH. aryt.enoid cartilages, and is the narrowest part of the hiryngeal cavity. Its sides are constructed partly of ligament and partly of carti- fpnstmc- lage :—thus, for about the two anterior thirds is the elastic vocal " cord (fig. 42, whilst at the posterior tliird is the smooth inner surface of the arytajnoid cartilage, E. Behind it is bounded by the arytJBnoid muscle ; and in front by the thyroid cartilage and the attachments of the vocal cords. The size of the interval differs in the two sexes. In the male it size differs, measures fi-om before back nearly an inch (less a line), and across at the base, when dilated, about a third of the other measurement. In the female the dimensions will be less by two or three lines. Alterations in the size and form affect the interval where it is Changes bounded by the cartilages, as well as where it is limited by the ligaments. In the former part, the changes are occasioned by the two ways, movements of the arytajnoid cartilages ; but in the latter they are due to the lengthening and shortening of the bands. In the state of rest it is a narrow fissure which is eidarged a Form iu little behind and rounded ; but when dilated it is triangular in form, like the upper orifice, though its wider part is turned back- Avards to the arytaiuoid muscle. In the liAdng body the fissure is Action of larger in inspiration than in expiration. The muscles too are con- ^''"^ "lusi^ies, stantly producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more im- mediately on the cartilages as dilators and contractors of the base; and others altering the state of the ligaments, by elongating and on sides, shortening the sides. The base is enlarged, and the interval rendered triangular by on base, the posterior crico-arytaiuoid; and is diminished by the arytsenoid, and the lateral crico-arytajnoid. And the ligamentous sides are elongated and made tense by the crico-thyroidei, but are shortened by the thyro-aryta3noidei. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 42, is best seen on the left Ventricle, side. It is the oval hollow between the vocal cords, whose upper margin is semilunar, and the lower straight. It is lined by the situation, mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-aryta^noid muscle. In the anterior part is the aperture into Pai-ts .the laryngeal pouch. The lai-yngealpouch (sacculus laryngis) (fig. 42, ^), has been laid roiuh of bare in part on the right side by the removal of the half of the ^"'y"^- thyroid cartilage (p. 156), but it will be seen again in the subse- quent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, half an inch deep and cylindrical Form and in form, which projects upwards between the upper vocal cord and the thyroid slip of the depressor of the epiglottis, and reaches sometimes as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its ca-vnty communicates with the front of the ventricle l)y a somewhat nan-ow aperture. On the outer sm-face are mimerous small glands, sun-ound- Avhose ducts are transmitted through the coats of the sac to the i'*"^- inside. Numerous nerves are distributed over the top. Its upper part is covered by the muscular slip before referred to.