31 APPENDAGES OF EYE. The cartilarje of the aperture (iig. 7) forms a ring around tlie xiic lower ■opeiiiiifr of the nose except heliiud. It has not anv attachment ^""'ou'kJs (Hreetly to hone : hut it is united ahove to the hiteral cartilai^e hv xt * • \ i . Ill • 1 t5 ' J N( it inserted lihrous tissue, and helow with the dense teguments forming the into boue. margin of the aperture of the nostrih The part of the cartihige ('') which hounds tlie opening exter- One part nally, is narrow and pointed hehind, wliere it ends in two or three ""^"^^^'^ > small pieces of cai'tilage—cartilaf/ines minores vel sesamoidece ; hut eartilage's; swells out in front Avhere it touches its felhiw, and forms the apex of the nose. The inner part (■*) projects haekwards along the septum of the anotlier in- Hiose nearly to the superior nuixillary hone ; it assists in the for- "o-'t'ii- ination of the partition hetween the nostrils, and extends helow the level of the septum nasi. T'he ArrKND.VfiKs ok the Eye include the e3'ehrow, the ejadid, Appendages -and the lachrymal apparatus. 8ome of these can he examined" now on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will he dissected after the orhit has heen completed. The ei/ehroir (supercilium) is a curved eminence just ahove the Eyebrow, eye, which is placed over the orhital arch of tlie frontal hone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the suhjacent orhicularis palpehrarum. It is furnished with long •coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids are two moveable semilunar parts in fi'ont of the Ej-elids. ■eye, which can he approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the largest and the most moveable, and descends below Upper the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided = with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named fissura ^^alpehrarum. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free mar<i-in is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is semi-s'l^^r^r of , , niar*''in, lunar in form ; but towards the inner side, about a (]uarter of an inch from the connnissure. it becomes straigiiter. At the spot Papilla, where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 13, the ixipilla lachrymalis; and in this is the pimctum lachrymale, or the Functuui. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near Hairs and the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian "P®'"''"'"''- glands : but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of tlie punctum laclnymale. The free margin of each lid is sharp at the anterior edge where it E<lge sloped, touches its fellow ; but is sloped at the posterior, so as to leave an interval between it and the eyeball for the passage inwards of iluid. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they Eyelashes, are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre towards the sides. The cilia are convex towards one anotlier, and cross when the lids are shut. The Structure of the Evelids. Each lid consists fundament- ^,i|^*j^rcnt ally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bone by ligaments. ^Cis!"