CHARACTEES OF TESTIS. 523 upper pnrt, and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned ; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis (fig. 1G6, (/) is a serous bag, which is con- tinuous in the fetus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but becomes subsequcntl}^ a distinct sac through the obliteration of the part connecting the two. It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes; for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covei'ing the testicle, and Fig. 166.* projects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an ex- ternal rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface ; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly where the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and forms a pouch between the testis and the arched body (epididymis) on this aspect of the organ. The parietal part of the sac (tvmic. vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the contiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and poiiition of the testis (fig. 166). The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. The anterior margin is convex ; and the pos- terior, which is flattened, is pierced by the spei'ltrafic vessels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer part is the epididymis {h). Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body (c) two or three lines in length, (corpus Mor- gagni,) which is the remains of the upper end of the fetal duct of Miiller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tunica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and lueight. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or two inches ; fi'om before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less than an incli. Its weight * The testis with the tunica vaginalis laid open, a. Testicle. I. Head of the epididymis, c. Corpus Morgagni. d. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. e. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Yas deferens. Tunica vaKiualis partly covers the testicle, and lilies scrotuiii. Its visceral part. and iiarietal. Testicle oval. MarKius. Corpus Suspended obliquely. Dimensions, and weight.