195 GRAY SUBSTANCE OF MEDULLA. Remains of gray matter of the spinal cord. At the lower part of Changes at the meduHa the central gray matter resembles that in the spinal inuedulfa. cord (see fig. 12G), but it midergoes the following changes —The posterior cornu increases in bulk, and extends towards the side of Posterior the cord, where it appears on the surface, in front of the restiform body, as the gray tubercle of Rolando (tuberculo cinero) (fig. 58, t). Higher in the medulla it becomes the chief nucleus of the sensory root of the fifth nei-ve. The piece of the gray commissure behind the central canal of the gi-ay com- cord joins, above, the nucleus of the vagus nerve, and contributes "ii^surb; to the auditory nucleus : and the piece in front of the canal is laid Fig. 58.t bare in the oor of the fourth ventricle by the inclination outwards of the restiform bodies; it disappears above in the fasciculi teretes. Special deposits of gray matter. Other masses of gi'ay substance Special are deposited in the medulla, both in front and behind :—those ^Jray Tnatter behind are near the floor of the fourth ventricle, and serve as nuclei of origin for certain nerves; whilst those in front are interspersed amongst the fibres continued from the lateral columns of the cord. Nuclei at the bade of the medulla. A nucleus for the hypoglossal Nucleus of nerve is deposited in front of the central canal, and extends up. i^^th "eive. wards into the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the median sulcus (fig. 58, o). The nucleus of the accessory paj-t of the spinal accessory nerve is Nucleus of placed opposite that of the hypoglossal, but behind the central canal, ^^'j^^^ * The description of tlie arrangement of the gray matter in the medulla oblongata is a summary of the facts contained in Mr. Clarke's Paper in the " Transactions of the Royal Society for 1858." f Transverse section of tlie medulla oblongata above the middle of the olivary body (Clarke), a. Anterior pyramid, h and c. Lateral column, tl. Restiform body. c. Posterior i^yramid. /. Corpus olivare with roots of the ninth nerve piercing it. y. (ilivary commissure. h. Deep transverse or commissural fibres of the medulla meeting in the raphe (a few more are added in this cut from a second drawing), k. Accessoiy olivary nucleus. I. Other gray deposits inside the olivary body. ii. Floor of the fourth ventricle covered by epithelium, o. Nuclei of the ninth nerve, p. Nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, r. Nucleus of the auditory nerve, s. Superficial transverse fibres, t. Remains of the gelatinous substance (tuberculo cinereo). 0 2