MUSCLES OF PALATE. 12a On the left side, the nmcons membrane is to be raised with great Ouloft care from the posterior surface of the pahate, to obtain a view of j.''.\',teus''''' tlie superficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus nuiscle ; and beneath them, in the middle line, are the longitudinal fibres of the azygos uvuhc. A deeper set of fibres of the palato- azygos pharyngeus is to be followed, on the right sitle, beneath the levator and a/ygos nuiscles. The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the paiato- muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and should ° follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see them in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fi-esh, some of the jialer fibres may not be visible. Aiwneurosis of the soft indate. Giving strength to the velum is a Aponeurosis thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. i"^^'^^*- This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. Th-e MUSCLES of the soft palate are four on each side,—an elevator Niue mus- and tensor ; with the palato-glossus and palato-phaiyngeus, which ^ ^ ' act as depressors. In addition there is a shiall median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 29, is a thick, roundish muscle, Elevatdi- which is partly situate outside the phaiynx. It arises from the arises out- imder surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal side pha- bone (fig. 30, ■'), and from the inner and hinder part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres enter the pharjoix above the superior constrictor, and then si)read out in the soft palate, where and is lost they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the^^^^^'""' opposite side. Outside the i)harynx this muscle rests against the Eustachian Connec- tube. In the palate it forms a stratum that reaches the whole ^ ' depth of that structure, and is embraced by two planes of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus (■*). Action. It tilts backwanis the free edge of the soft palate towards Use the pharynx so as to enlarge the isthnuis faucium, and to shut ofl: with the contracted pharynx the nose openings. In swallowing the palate is raised, and is arched over the bolus passing from the mouth to the pharynx. For its action on the Eustacliian tube, see Tensor I'litubo. palati. The TENSOR vel circumflexus palati (fig. 29, ^) arises like the preceding outside the pharynx, and is a thin riband-like band, situate between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle. About ^J'^^^^^^^' one inch and a half wide at its origin, it is attached to the slight Jlynxl' depression (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer and fore part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal (tympanic) process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the fleshy fibres end in a tendon which, entering the pharynx between tlie attachments of the buccinator muscle, is reflected round the