530 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Effect oil thorax and alxlomeii, on viscera, and on aiiertmvs. State in muscular efforts. Action in- voluntary. Special jiarts to be examined. Central tendon, lil<c a trefoil leaf. Two pillars. with certain reseni- Mances: arranjro- nient of fibres in each. as tliey a-scend to tendon: differences in the pillars. the lowest part of the arch, and the bulges on the sides reach rather higher. With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of the abdomen and thorax will be altered. In inspiration the thorax is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the upper part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and spleen,"are partly moved from beneath the ribs. In expiration the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored to its- fonner size ; and the displaced viscera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed ; but the other openings for the vena cava and aorta do not experience change. Preparatory to the making of a great muscular effort, the midriff' contracts, and descends for the purpose of permitting a fidl quantity of air to enter the thorax. Till the effort is over the diaphragm remains in a depressed position. Its action is commonly involun- tary, but the movement can be controlled by the will at any stage. Parts of the dicqjhrar/m. The following named parts, which have been noticed shortly in describing the muscle, are now to be re- ferred to more fully, viz., the centi-al tendon, the pillars, the arches, and the apertures. The central tendon (cordiform tendon) occupies the middle of the diaphragm (fig. 168), and is surrounded by muscidar fibres ; the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different directions. In form it resembles a trefoil leaf ; of its three segments the right (c) is the largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The ^>i7/rtr.s (crura) are two large muscular and tendinous pro- cesses (d and <?), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, where they are attached to the upper lumbar vertebrse, but large and fleshy above ; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverg- ing from each other : the greater number join the central tendon without intermixing, but the inner fibres of the two crura cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line decussating with the fibres of the opposite crus between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus. The fibres of the other crus (^7> may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oeso- phagean opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than that from the left, and is- commonly anterior to it. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right (e) is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebra;, and their intervertebral substance, reaching to the disc between the third and fourth verte- brae. The left pillar {d) (sometimes absent) is situate more on the side of the sjiine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not