671 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. Fig. 207. the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot, and have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 207 arises by- tendon, within the capsule of the knee-joint, fi'om the fore part of an oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur ; and external to the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise fi-om the posterior ligament. The tendon gives rise to fibres, which are inserted into the tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived m great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower arti- cular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee ; and the lower border corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Action. The leg being free, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The foot resting on the ground, it will support the knee. According to the view of Theile, it retracts the external semi- lunar fibro-cartilage. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 207, ^) arises below the soleus from the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; fi-om the intermuscular septum be- tween it and the peronei nmscles ; and fi-om the aponeurosis over (lestinatiou. Popliteus arises within knee-joint. Inserted into tibia. Parts around it Use with tibia free. and fixed. Flexor lonsus pollicis is attauliod to fibula. * Deep dissection of the 1)ack of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : a. Popliteus. b. Outer, and c, inner part of soleus, cut. r>. Tibialis posticus. E. Flexor digitorum. f. Flexor pollicis. o. Peroneus longus. H. Peroneus brevis. i. Tendo Achillis. AHeries: a. Popliteal. b. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular, d. Anterior tibial. e. Posterior tibial, and /, its communicating branch to peroneal, g. Peroneal artery, h. Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot. Nerves: 1. Internal popliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar.