UMBILICAL HERXIA. 461. life caniiot detennino whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring; for as an external hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line Avith the external, and in this way the swelHng acquires the appearance of a direct rupture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this fonii of hernia occurs most Stricture, frequently external to the neck of the tumour, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum; and it may occasionally situation, be foimd at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid to free from bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- ^^"^' jury to the peritoneum; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put backwards into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In the operation on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the ii li^vs*^ operator should cut on the front and mid-part of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, whose lateral position cannot be known. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of uaternal hernia (superior) Earcr kind occurs through that part of the area of the triangular space which hemia^^^' is external to the conjoined tendon. Its existence is determined by the unusual position of the obliterated hypogastric arteiy inside the abdominal wall (p. 462). The intestine protrudes through the Avail of the abdomen close to is oblique in. the epigastric artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the ^vuh the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring; so that the term cord. " direct" would not apply strictly to this fonn of internal hernia. Coverincjs. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the in- Coverings guinal canal, it has exactly the same coverings as the external hi^externai hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spennatic and i»eraia. cremasteric fascia?, the fascia transvcrsalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This fonn of internal hernia would be considered Diagnosis external during life from its course and its fonn; and yet it must fu ufc.^^''^'^ be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, whilst in the heniia which it stimulates, they lie on the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external hernia. ;^!^'extemai. Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in division of the living body whether a small heniia is internal or external, the stricture, rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other ^ kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umijiiicai through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal Avall. Course.