DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY EEGION. 94 Dissection, to detach iiiylo-liyoiil. To see ilee]) jiuiscles saw the jaw, fMsten tougiie. and cut mucous iiieuiLvauc. Befine iieiTes, and vessels. Farts be- neath mylo- liyoideus Dissection. To bring into view the muscles bencatli tlie mylo- Jiyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the substance of the- tongue (as in figure 23), the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the su])erficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the mylo-hj'oideus^ because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus ; and detaching that nmscle from the jaw and its fellow, shoidd throw it down to- the OS hyoidcs, but Avitliout injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Afterwards the bone is to be sawji through on the right side of the nmscles attached to the symphysis, the soft j^arts covering the lower jaw having been ])reviously cut. The side of the jaw, which will then be loose (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before), is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up out of the way with a stitch; but it should not be detached from the nmeous membrane of the mouth. The apex of the tongue is to be now ]Dulled well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, whilst the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be theji passed fron> below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the nriddle line of the tongue to the tip. By means of a stitch the os hyoides may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct; of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle ; also of the gustatory nerv^e neai-er the jaw. Between the gustatory nerve and the deeji part of the submaxillary gland the dissector should seek the small submaxillary ganglion (smaller than a pin's head), with its offsets and should endeavour to separate from the trunk of the gustatory the small chorda tympani nerve, and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the lingual vessels, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, all passing beneath that nniscle ; and at the anterior border find thr issuing ranine vessels which, with the gustatory and hypo- glossal nerves, are to be traced on the under surface of the ton"-uc to the tip. * Parts beneath mylo-hjoideus (fig. 23). The relative position of the objects brought into view by the steps of the previous dissection is now apparent:—Extending from the cornu of thi hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo-o-lossus