DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 458 Tlie intes- tine, follow- ing the course of tlie cord. has cover- ings of the peritoneum and fat, fascia trans- versalis. cremaster. spenuatic fascia, snjjerlicial fascia and skin. Number; how pro- duced. How to dis- tinguish it. Tlie taxis. Stricture ivliere situate. Cause. To set free external and internal stricture. margin a prolongation is sent on the i)arts passing through it (p. 443). Course ami coverings of the hernia. A piece of intestine leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every stratum in the lateral part of the M-all of the abdomen, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order:—As the intestine is thrust outwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis, f, (mfundibuliform fascia) around the cord. Still increasing in size it is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia, c, applied to it. Tlie intestine is next directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that opening re- ceives the investment of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends towards the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the superficial fascia and tlie skin. In a hernia whieli has passed the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without inwards are the following:—the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascia?, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal and sub- peritoneal, originate as the gut protrudes, but the rest are ready formed around the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The different layers become much tliickened in a hernia that has existed for some time. Diagnosis. If the hernia is small and is confined to the wall of the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the inguinal canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tumour with the large end below, and the narrow neck occupying the inguinal passage. Whilst eiforts are being made to force back a piece of protruded intestine during life, the direction of the canal, and the situation of the internal abdominal ring, should be borne in mind. Seat of stricture. The protruded intestine may be constricted at the internal abdominal ring; in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle ; and at the external abdominal ring. The stricture is placed usually at the inner abdominal ring, and may be produced in two ways ;—either by a constricting fibrous band outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or, by a tliickening^ and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner surface of the neck. Division of stricture. To set free the intestine, an incision is made doAvn to the internal abdominal ring; and, all fibrous bands outside the peritoneum being divided, the mtestine is to be returned into the abdomen by gentle pressure. Supposing the intestine cannot be replaced in the abdomen after the previous steps have been taken, the surgeon proceeds to lay open the peritoneum, and to divide the internal stricture, froiii