DISSECTION OF THE EAE. 744 of three layers. Ossicles of the tjTupa- num ;irc three. Malleus has head, neck, handle: short and long I)rocess. Incus, its body : lining of the tympanum; an internal or serous, continous with that clothing the cochlea; and a central layer of fibrous tissue. Ossicles of the Tympanum (fig. 240). Three in nun^ber, they are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; tlie next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stiiTup. For their examination the student sliould be provided with some separate ossicles. The malleus (fig. 239) is the longest bone, and is twisted and bent. It is large at one end (a) (head) and small and pointed at the other (c) (handle); and it has two processes with a narrowed part or neck. Tlie head or capitulum («) is free in the cavity, is oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression for articulation with the next bone. The nech (b) is the slightly twisted part between the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before backwards; but at the extremity it is com- pressed from within outwards: to its outer margin the special fibrous stratum of the merabrana tympani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in number, long and short. The short one (e) springs from the root of the handle on the outer side, and touches the membrane of the tympanum. The long process— processus gracilis {d), is a flattened slender piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure : in the adult this process is joined with the surrounding bone, and cannot be separated from it. The incus is a flattened bone (fig. 239), and possesses a body and two processes. The body (b) is hollowed at the upper and anterior Fig. 239.* processes; short and long. part to articulate with the malleus. The two processes (short and long) extend from the side opposite to the articulation :—The shorter process (c) is somewhat conical, and is received into the laro-e aper ture of the mastoid cells : the long process (d) decreases towards the extremity, where it curves, and ends in a rounded point (e) the or oicular process. . ^ i?V!"''^ the tympanum : the central bone is the malleus the eft-hand l^one, incus and the right-hand one stapes. Malleus a fead f'of ' y,^' long> apd c, short process. In us Head V