675 INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular ligament, or some- extent what higher than it, the nerve cli-vides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its connections with surrounding parts are the same as those of counec- the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal offset, but thence to the termination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular and Branches, •cutaneous. Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either sepa- iruseuiar ta i'ately along the trunk, or together fifom the upper part of the Hexoi^**^' aiei-ve. There is an offset for each of the muscles except the popli- teus ; but the branch for the tibialis is the largest, and that for the ilexor pollicis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (fig. 207, ^) begins above Cutaneous the OS calcis, and piercing the internal annular ligament as two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and imder parts of the heel; this uerA'-e will be followed to its termination in the ■dissection of the foot (fig. 208). The internal annular ligament stretches between the heel and the internal 4nner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer of ligament: muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a pointed piece to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the attach- , incuts Jeg; and the opposite gives attachment to the abductor pollicis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost incloses siieaths; the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove in the malleolus. Imme- <liately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum. And ^1^*;^^^*^" about three qiiarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the interval in which the flexor pollicis lies, resting in a groove in the astra- 4^alus. Each sheath is lined by a sjTiovial membrane. • Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the tibial vessels and nerve. Section V. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate rositiou of thickness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating, and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer. Raise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel " to the front ; and by another across the foot at the root of tlic toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same