481 VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. between the mesenteric vessels. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By removing the peritoneum from the front of the sacrum, and iiypogastric following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves from the i''"^"'^- aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will an-ive at the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis, opposite the top of the sacrum. The si(2)erior mesenteric pJexun is a large offset, and is distributed Superior to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric artery, piexus^^'^ The nerves suiTOund closely the artery with a sheath, but near the on artery intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and coramuni- of same cate before entering the gut. Branches. The secondary plexuses are ', S „ , . . 1 secondary the same as the offsets of the artery, viz., mtestinal nerves to the jaexuses. small intestine; and an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery; it is stronger on the sides derived than the front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving acces- ^''^"^ • sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, esi^ecially the left. At the upper part the plexus derives an offset, on eafh side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends inferiorly, on each side, offsets, in branches wliich cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it offsets are furnislied to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic j^l^xnis, formed by roots from both the aortic and Spermatic the renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle; in the i'^*^^^^*^ • cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spei-matic) artery are in female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plerus supplies the part of the intestinal inferior tube to which the artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished ".lex't^'^f ^° from the left part of the aortic plexus; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) tlie branching nerves join of the nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked, vessel^; Brandies. Its secondary plexuses are named from the arteries they secondary accompany, viz., left colic, sigmoid, and superior hcTmorrhoidal: plexuses, they ramify on the vessels, and have a like distribution. The hijpogastric plexus^ or the large prevertebral centre for the Hniogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate i'^^^"^ • in front of the upper pai't of the sacrum. It is developed more on situation, the sides than in the centre; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any intermixed ganglionic masses. Bv its uDPer part it receives the nerves on the aorta, and is joined rereivcs i, « J. £ At 1 !• aortic plexus by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral ganglia. Inferiorly the plexus ends in two parts, right and left, the last and ends in being the largest: each is continued forwards by the side of the Se'ra. internal iliac artery to the pelvic plexus of the same side, and to the ■\nscera. I I