659 BRANCHES OF PKOFUNDA ARTERY. Adductor magnus muscle (fig. 201, At its posterior caspect Posterior the Large adductor is altogether fleshy, even at the opening for the adductof femoral artery ; and the fibres fi'oni the pubic arch appear to form "lagnus. a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the hip bone. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nei-ve. Ending of the perforating arteries (fig. 201, c, e). These branches Perforating of the profunda appear through the adductor magnus close to the Q^^^^j^ femur, and are directed out through the short head of the biceps vasti, and the outer intermuscular septum to the vasti muscles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its course. In the vasti they and ending; anastomose together, and with the descending branches of the external circumflex artery. Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given by each theTkin"'^ to the teguments of the outer part of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Muscular branches of the profunda (fig. 201,/) pierce the adductor Anastomotic magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance fi'om the • femur. Three or four in number, the highest appears about five number and inches from the pelvis, and the rest in a line at intei-vals of about two inches from one another : they are distributed to the hamstring- muscles, especially the semimembranosus, and communicate below with offsets of the popliteal trunk. The HIP JOINT (fig. 202). Tliis articulation is a ball and socket Hip joint, joint, the head of the femur being received into the acetabulum or fonued; the cup-shaped hollow of the innominate bone. Connecting the its liga- bones are the following ligaments :—one to deepen the receiving '"ents. cavity, which is named cotyloid ; another between the articular surfaces of the bones,—the inter articular; and a capsule around all. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the back of ^^^Y i^are the hip joint, and the upper and lower attachments of the capsular behind^^^^^^ ligament are to be especially cleared from areolar tissue. Next, the fi-ont of the joint should be cleaned and examined in and in front, the same manner, with the body turned over for a short time, if this change in position does not interfere with the other dissections. In the capsule itself the student has to define a wide thick part define its in front, and a transverse band near the neck of the femur behind. The capsular ligament (fig. 202) is a thick fibrous case, which is Capsule, strong enough to check the movements of the joint. Its upper margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum at a short Attacii- distance fi'om the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous "^ove band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower and below, margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 202) ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 203); and above, into the neck, near the great trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength, and in the Capsule arrangement of the fibres at the fore and hinder surfaces. in frouT*^ u u 2