LIGAMENTS OF LARYNX. 1G5 cartila,e:e is the small, conical, fibro-cartilage of Santorini (corni- culum capituluin), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytaino-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, Fibro-carti- one on each side, which are contained in the arytaeno-epiglottid ^fisben- folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and rounded in form, Uke a grain of rice; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the aryttenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish pro- jection. The epiglottis (fig, 43, is single, and is the largest of the pieces Epiglottis, of yellow fibro-cartilage. In form it is cordate; and.it resembles a Form and leaf, with the stalk below and the lamina or expanded part above, position. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during de- glutition it takes a horizontal direction so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to Avhich it Surfaces, is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface, hollowed laterally, is convex from above down. To its Sides, sides the arytteno-epiglottid folds of mucous membrane are united. Foot stalk. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the epiglottis Glands in it. its substance will be seen to be perforated by numerous spaces, w^hich lodge mucous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of yellowish Supposed fat with some glands; this has been sometimes called the epigiot- s^^^*^- tidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is comiected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other "^j-ynx ligaments join together the cartilages, forming joints in some cases. Union of the lai~ynx icith the hyoid hone and the trachea. A thin between os loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) passes from the thyroid carti- and to*achea. lage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyr'o-hyoid ligament (fig. 42, ^) is attached on the one part Thyro-liyoid to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other, to ^'^®"'^''^^^» the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards Arrange- the sides ; and it ends laterally in a rounded elastic cord, which intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper comu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal ner^-e and vessels perforate the ligament, Connec- and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral part of the liga- ment will be found occasionally a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea—crico-tracheal ligament, resembles membrane, the band joining the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are Between