441. EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. sides (p. 431). The vein accompanying the arteries enters tlie pelvis tlirough the triangular perinatal ligament. The dorsal artenj, one on each side, pierces the suspensory liga- Dorsal ment, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many ''^^^^1 branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the integuments and the body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 432). The dorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by luunerous Dorsal vein branches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs backwards j.rostatio by the side of the artery, thi'ough the suspensory ligament, and the ri»Jsus. triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches fi-om the erectile structure and , the teguments of the penis. Each dorsal nerve takes the same course as the artery, and ends Dorsal nerve like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes a°^i'^"^^'°' large branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male; Vessels on they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ that repre- sents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of To expose the abdominal wall (fig. 133) is now to be freed from fascia on obu'iue both sides of the body. muscle. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because Precautious, there it has a thin aponeurosis, which is taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to cany the knife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in fi'ont of a line extended upwards from the anterior part of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure it, more particularly at the upper part, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. On the right side the external abdominal ring, c, may be defined, To (lefinc to show the cord passing through it; and on the left side a thin i\^,g°^""''' fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be preserved. Lastly the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the abdominal w^all. On the side of the abdomen on the side are three large flat muscles, whicli are named from their position ^1^11; iJiusoigg, to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial nniscle is the external oblique; the underlying one, the internal oblicpie; and the deepest, the transversalis. Alons: the middle line ai-e placed other nmscles which have a vcr- whose apo- 1 u * u rosGS tical direction. In front lie the rectus and pyramidalis, and behind iurnse three- is the quadratus lumborum: these are encased by sheaths derived vertical, from the aponeuroses of tlie lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 133, ^) is flcshy on the side, and aponem-otic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by muscle, fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs; the five highest pieces Origin from