290 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. vessels and nerves. and exiiose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves. One of median, other of ul- nar nerve. Palmar! s brevis is subcutane- ous. and ends in the skin. Use. Palmar fascia. Its central pai-t ends in a piece for each finger. and in the skin. Di.s.section. Deep endinfj of the itieces of fascia. the fat from tlie palmar fascia he will recognise, near the digits^ the digital vessels and nen^es ; and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be defined. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheatlis of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nen^es may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nei-ves. Some unnamed twigs are furnished to- the integument fi-om both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two named cutaneous nerves ramify in the palm. One is an offset of the median nerve (p. 287), and crosses the annular hgament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united Avith the palmar branch of the ulnar: a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerv^e (p. 286)^ it has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and its distribu- tion in the palm may be now observed. The PALMAKis BREVis (fig. 83, h) is a small subcutaneous muscle^ about two inches Avide, whose fibres are collected into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nen^e. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Action. Drawing inwards the skin of the inner border of the hand towards the centre, it deepens the hollow or cup of the palm. The i^almar fascia or aponeurosis consists of a central and twa lateral parts; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb- and little finger, are so thin as not to require separate notice. The central x>art is a strong, white layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but is expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Posteriorly the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued for- wards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the processes from one another some trans- verse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle, and the digital artery and nei-ve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are pro- longed to the integuments near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To follow one of the digital processes of the fascia to its termination, the superficial fibres being first removed, it must be divided longitudinally by inserting the knife beneath it' opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Endinrj of the processes. Each process of the fascia sends down- wards an ofEset on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep ligament connecting together the ends of the metacarpal bones and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance.