DISSECTION OF THE TIPPER LIMB. 252 Inner layer ileficicut beliiud; joins inter- nal obli(iue below. Use of outer nmscles ; inner layer, laterally, in front. Both actintr. Dissection t>f internal nianiniaiy vessels. Triangularis stemi is in the tliorax and attaehcd to the libs. Connec- tions. Use. The internal infercosial muscle, attached to the inner border of the ribs bounding the intercostal space, begins in front at the ex- tremity of the ribs, and ceases behind near their angles. Posteriorly they do not end at the same distance from the spine, for the upper and lower approach nearer than the middle ; and, anteriorly, in the two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with the internal obliciue of the abdomen. One surface is covered by the external muscle and in part by the intercostal vessels and nei-ve ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Action. By the alternate action of the hitercostal muscles the ribs are moA^ed in respiration. The external intercostals elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, so as to enlarge the thorax in the antero-posterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspiration. The internal intercostals act in a different way at the side and foro part of the chest. Between the osseous parts of the ribs they depress and turn in those bones, diminishing the size of the thorax ; and they are brought into use in expiration. Between the rib-cartilages they raise the ribs, and become muscles of inspiration, like the outer layer. If both sets of muscles contract simultaneously the motion of the ribs will be aiTested ; or if two or more ribs are broken near the spinal column, the muscles of the space or spaces injured will be imable to move these bones. Dissection. To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilages of the true ribs, except the first and seventh, are to be taken away with the intei-vening muscles on the right side of the body;* but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nerves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI (fig. 72, a) is a thin nmsclc beneatlt the costal cartilages. It arises internally fi-ora the side of the xiphoid cartilage, from the side of the sternum as high as the third costal cartilage, and usually from the inner ends of the lower three true costal cartilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most oblique, and are inserted by fleshy fasciculi into the true ribs except the last two and the first, at the junction of the bone and cartilage, and into an aponeurosis in the intercostal spaces. The muscle is covered by the ribs and the internal intercostals^ and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura. Its lower fibres touch those of the transver- salis abdominis. Action. The muscle assists in depressing the anterior ends of the * On the left side the vessels and the muscle will have been destroyed by the injection of the body.