397 POSTERIOR CERVICAL VESSELS. The ea-ternal jneces enter the erector spina^, and supply it and External the small intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector ^\''*'»ches spnifc, and become cutaneous after pertoratnig the aponeux'osis of neous from the latissimus. The branch of the last nerve is connected with the "'"^'^ corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the bones. * The internalineces are furnished to the multifidus spinai muscle, internal Near their origin they are difficult to find, in consequence of being ^'''I'liciies. contained in grooves on the articular processes. * Vessels IN THE BACK. The vcssels now dissected are the occipital The vessels and the deep cervical; part of the vertebral; and the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries for the most part. In tlie neck. The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the verte- in the neck. l)ral, and the deep cerA'ical. The occipital artery (fig. 119, a) coui-ses along the occipital bone. Part of the Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed arteiy!^^ Lackwards beneath the sterno-mastoideus, the splenius, and some- times the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line it perforates the trapezius, and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6). It sup- wliich ]dies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the following branch to the neck:— The cervical branch (h) (ram. princeps cervicalis) distributes twigs cervical to the under part of the trapezius, and passing beneath the com- plexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery (fig. 119, c) lies on the neural arch of the Part of the first vertebra, behind the articulating process, and appears in the artery"^^ interval between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches arc given to the surrounding liarts, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The deep cercical artery (fig. 119, e) is a branch of the superior Deep cervi- intercostal (p. 71), and resembles the posterior branches of the other '^'^^^^'T- intercostal arteries. Passing back between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the Jieck of the first rib, it ascends Letween the complexus and semispinalis muscles, as high as the npper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cer^'-ical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. In the dorsal reqion. The posterior branches of the intercostal Dorsal n'tGrics fire vessels (p. 362; pass back between the vertebraj and the anterior \y,\\t into costo-transverse ligament and are divided like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. The inner hranchea end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus inner and spinas and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and onter supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches ^•"-^"ches, of this set are the largest and extend to the surface.