EXTEENAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. 627 narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted inferiorly into the prominence of the tubercle of the tibia, and into the bone below it for an inch : close to its attachment to the tibia a synovial bursa bursa be- is beneath it. In it the patella is situate, some few scattered aponeu- rotic fibres passing over the cutaneous surface, but none being con- tinued over the articular surface of the bone. (See Ligament of the Patella.) From the lower part of the muscle a superficial aponeurotic ex- expansion pansion is derived : this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in fi'ont of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Suhcrureus muscle. Beneath the strong fibres of the vastus, near Small sub- the knee joint, is a thin layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of nmsck ■ the inner vastus, separated fi'om the rest by areolar tissue. Attached ends on the to the femur in the lower fourth, and often by an outer and inner slip, synovial sac. it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the Icnee joint. Action. All three heads of the triceps extend the knee joint when Use with the tibia is moveable ; and the rectus can flex the hip joint over aMe Z"^"^^' which it passes. The fleshy bellies are strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. When the tibia is fixed the vasti will bring forwards the femur, with tibia and straighten the knee, as in walking or standing ; and the rectus ' will prop the pelvis on the femur, or assist in moving it forwards in stooping. The suhcrureus contracts in extension of the knee, and elevates how sub- the synovial membrane above the patella. actsf'^^'' Intermuscular septa. The processes of the fascia lata, which limit intennns- laterally the extensor muscle of the knee, are thus named, and are '^^^^'^'^ ^"i'*''^ fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles of are two. the femur. The external septum is the strongest, and reaches from the outer The outer condyle of the femur to the insertion of the gluteus maximus. It strongest; is situate between the vastus intemus and externus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to which it gives origin ; and it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner partition is very thin along the side of the vastus the inner is intemus ; and its place is supplied by the strong tendon of the i"^^''*^""'*- adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea aspera: the internal articular vessels are transmitted through it to the front of the knee joint. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 195, is the chief vessel External for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises I^Sy""'^'' from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artciy, but often from the femoral trunk. It is directed outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles to the outer part of the thigh, where it ends in branches Offsets are given from it to the rectus and sartorius ; its branches s s 2 -'ire-