35 CARTILAGE OF AURICLE. It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres arc directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of tlic antiheUx. The small muscle of the helix (fig. 8, is often indistinct or One on root absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends- '^'^i'-''- into the concha. The large muscle of the helix (fig. 8, ^) arises above the small Another oi^ muscle of the same part, and is inserted iiito the fi-ont of the helix,, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse musclt of the auricle (fig. &, forms a wide layer, Ami one at which is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between concha! the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Actions. These muscles are said to alter slightly the condition Use, of the outer ear ; the muscles of the helix assisting, and those of the tragus and antitragus retarding the passage of sonorous undu- lations to the meatus. Dissection. The pinna may now be detached by cutting it close C^nn the to the bone. When the integuments are entirely taken ofi:, the cartilage of the pinna will be apparent; but in removing the inte- guments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 8. The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 8) resembles much the external Cartilage ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. Tlie rim of the of'external helix subsides posteriorly in the antihelix about the middle of the pinna; whilst anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The antilielix is divided about Deficient in- two-thirde down into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is ^'^""^'y' joined by the helix, the other is continued' into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical' process of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the externa! and at upper auditory aperture in. the temporal bone, and forms part of the J);"atus. meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and outer part the canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the under part of the meatus its lissuren. are two fissures (Santorini), one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, but others pass Ligaments: from one point of the cartilage to another. The external ligaments are condensed bands of fibrous tissue, and external; are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterica- passes from the back af the concha to the mastoid process. The chief siiecicd ligament crosses the interval between the tragus and special, the beginning of the helix, and completes the tube of the meatus. The FACIAL NERVE (portio dura, fig. 9) or the seventh cranial J^^utime^of ^ nerve, confers contractility on the muscles of the face. Numerous D 2