INNER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 207 The occipital lohule (-') is triangular in shape, with the base Occipital upwards, at the margin of the hemisphere. Measm-ing about an inch and a half in depth, it lies between the internal parieto-occi- pital fissure, PO, and the calcarine sulcus (Z). Sulci running fi-om apex to base divide it into four or five narrow convolutions. Internal perpendicular or paneto-occipital fissure (PO, fig. 62) inner; separates the two preceding lobules. Continuous with the external fissure of the same name, it opens below into the following. fissure. The calcarine sulcus Z, (Huxley) is directed across the back of caicarine the hemisphere below the level of the corpus callosum, and ends sulcus, in front at the gyrus fomicatus (''), whose hinder limit it marks. Fisr. 62.* TS It receives above the internal perpendicular fissure; and it sinks into the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, forming the eminence of the hippocampus minor. Internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions (fig. 62) are two in Two tem- number, viz., the uncinate and dentate, and occupy the tentorial noi^ai^c^- surface of the hemisphere. volutions: The uncinate or hippocampal convolution Q'^), is prolonged from uncinate > the posterior end of the hemisphere nearly to the tip of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. It is somewhat naiTowed in the middle, where the gyrus fomicatus blends with it ; and is enlarged at each end, especially at the posterior where it is subdivided by sulci. Below it is a long curved sulcus, the collateral ; and above it are the calcarine (Z), and the dentate sulcus (in). From the anterior extremity a narrow part uncus) is prolonged back for half an inch on the inner side, like a hook. Below the uncinate convolution is part of the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution ('), before described, which forms the lower * Convolutions and fissures on the inner face of the hemisplierc.—P.O. In- ternal parieto-occipital fissure. Cal, Corpus callosum, cut. calloso-marginal sulcus ; I, calcarine sulcus ; m, dentate sulcus ; n, collateral sulcus ; 17, mar- ginal gyrus ; 18, convolution of corpus callosum ; 18', quadrilateral lobule ; 19, uncinate gyrus ; 19', crochet or hook of the uncinate gyrus ; 25, occipital lobule ; 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gyms partly seen.