VESSELS OF FACE. 27 with the other muscles and witli both, parts of the orbicularis ; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of tlie buccinator are the ditt'crent nuiscles Parts in cfiii- converging to the angle of the mouth; and crossing the upper part ^'''^twitii it. is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle oppo- site the second upper molar tooth. Internally the nuuscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngcal) that is continued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator coiTcsponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and Use on aper- the cheek wrinkled. By the action of both the aperture of the mouth is widened transversely. In mastication the cheek is pressed by the muscular contraction on check, against the dental arches, when the corner of the mouth is fixed by the sphincter. In the expulsion of air from the mouth, as in whistling, the in expelling,- muscle is contracted so as to prevent Imlging of the cheek ; but in the use of a l)low-pipe it is distended over the volume of air con- tained in the mouth, and drives out a continuous stream of air by its contraction. The VKSSELS OF 'J iiE FACE (fig. 17) arc the facial and transverse Arterie.s (it- facial arteries with their accompanying veins. The arteries are ^'"^ branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugidar truidc. The facial artery (fig. 17,/"), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and a})pears on the lower jaw anterior to the masseter ■ nuiscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near tlie angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastojuoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial in the mass of course, fat of the inner i)art of the cheek. At first it is concealed by the platysma Avhilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not and conncc- prevent pulsation being recognised during life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the luouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the ai-tery is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to the outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches pianoftiu- arc furnished to the nmscles and integuments, some of which anas- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches : — The inferior labial hranck (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor Tn^f<^i''i- anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lii) and chhi; it comnumicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r and s). There is one for cac-h lip (superior Two