67C DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. uiid (li>seft cutaneous neivcs. Hul)fu- taiieoiis fat. Lay l>are the I'laiitai- fascia, and the iligital Vfs- .sels and nerves: deliue the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia: division into parts. Central part divides into live pieees : termination of the pieces. Inner part of the fa.seia; outer part. Expose the septa. In tlie fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve of the sole (p. 675) ; and he may trace out, at a little dis- tance from each hordcr of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The mhcutmmms fat is very abundant, and forms a thick cushion over the parts that press most on the ground in standing, viz., over the OS calcis, and the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. The fat should be now removed, and the jjlantar fascia laid bare. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between those processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst nuich fatty and fibrous tissues; but the vessels and nei-ves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe, pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. Tlie student is next to define a transverse fibrous band between the toes, over the digital vessels and ner\-es ; and when this has been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends sejDta between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal de- pressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral parts. The central part, Avhich is much the tliickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards, A slight depression, corresponding with an. intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side : and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes, which send fibres to the teguments near the web of the foot, and are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. Where the pieces, separate fi'om each other, the digital vessels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles become superficial; and transverse fibres arch over them. If one of the digital processes be divided longitudinally, and its. parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatarsal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one.. On the iimer margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength^ and is continued to the dorsum; but on the outer side it is''in- creased in thickness, and presents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the middle of the foot througli the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by canying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that nniscle.