DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 622 insertion. Connections of the first or oblique part; of the middle part and of the lower i>art. Use ; tlie limb free and fixed : standing on one leg. Divide tlie sartorius. show apo- neurosis, and dissect the nerves and vessels. which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an mc\\ and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated b}^ some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of the triangular space containing the femoral arteiy : it rests on the following muscles, iliacus, b, rectus, D, and adductor longus, G, as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus internus E, and the adductor muscles as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is jDlaced between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gracilis, H, with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous piece, i, rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semi- tendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion to join that from the extensor over the knee ; and from its lower border is given another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears Avith vessels ; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bends the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia ; and makes tense finally the fascia of the thigh. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will support the pelvis in standing, and will assist in bringing forwards the pelvis in stooping and walldng. When standing on one leg the muscle vnW help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 195). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral arter3^ Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is divided the in- ternal saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the upper part of the saphenous nerve but outside it, is the nerve to the vastus internus muscle, which sends an offset on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint : this may be traced now, lest it should be destroyed afterwards. The plexus of nerves on the inner side of the thigh may be more completely dissected in this stage. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises : this branch is to be pursued throuo-h the fibres of the vastus internus, and in fi-ont of the adductor