6 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. postorior I'laiich. Oooipital artery. Posterior auricular. Veirs of the scalp; how they join other veins. Nerves of the scalp Suprn-orhi- tal nerva ; its two ciita- neous and The X)osterior branch is larger than the other, and arches hack- wards above the ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its offsets to the parts around are similar to those of the anterior, and it communicates with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. Occijntal artery (a). The tenninal part of this artery, after perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-frontalis muscle. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the follow- ing artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipito-fron- talis muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. The posterior auricular artery (/) appears in front of the mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mastoid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital arteiy. The other (auricular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and the back of the pinna of the ear ; and an offset fi-om this pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. The VEINS of the exterior of the head are so similar to the arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the veins corresponding with branches of the internal carotid ailery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and witli the veins occupying the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, where it receives the supra-orbital vein, the two giving rise to the angular vein of the face : near its ending it receives small veins from the eyebrow, and from the upper eyelid and the nose. Both the superficial temporal and posterior auricular veins open into the external jugular ; and the occipital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 2). The nerves of the scalp are fur- nished from cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spinal nerves. The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few twigs from the facial nen^e. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primary branches), except close behind the ear, where there is an offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The supra-orbital nei-oe (fig. 2, *) comes from the first trunk of the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion artery; Avhilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nerve gives offsets to it and the orbicularis palpebrarun), as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication is estab- lished between this and the facial ner\^e. Finally the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify in the teguments: One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The other branch