DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 658 Use on knee and hip joints; on tlie pehis. Semimem- Lranosus reaches from l)elvis to tibia. Parts around it. Use on knee, and hip joints; on pelvis. Great sciatic nerve in the thiL'li snpplies muscles. Small .sciatic in the thigh ; cutaneous olTsets. Detach the ham- strings. the biceps as far as the popliteal space. As the tendon turns for- wards to its insertion, an expansion is continned from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, below the level of the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated fi-om the tendon of the sartorius by a bursa (p. 622). Action. If the leg is moveable the muscle bends the knee ; and continuing to contract, rotates iuAvards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by the semitendinosus and the other hamstrings. Should the limbs be fixed on the gi-ound, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk fi-om a stoopmg posture. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS muscle (fig. 201, ^) is tendinous at both ends, and its name is given from the membraniform appearance of the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest impression on the back of the tuber ischii, above and external to the semitendinosus and biceps ; and it is inserted below into the hinder and inner part of the head of the tibia. The muscle is thick and fleshy inferiorly, where it bounds the popliteal space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor mag- nus. Along the outer border lie the gi'eat sciatic, and mternal popliteal nerves. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bm-sa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the knee-joint. Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia ; and with the Icnee straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the femur has been carried forwards. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts altogether on the pehns. The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 201, ") fies On the adductor mag- nus muscle below the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurca- tion may be canied upAvards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps. Brandies. At the upper part of the thigh it supplies large branches to the flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small sciatic nerve (fig. 201, ^). Between the gluteus maximus and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh ; and the largest of these arises near the popliteal space. Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, and the branches of the perforating and muscular aiieries, the ham- string muscles must be detached from the hip bone and thrown down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned.