DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 674 !Siz« of tibial elianges. Peroneal artery is contained in flexor l)ollicis. Teniiina- tion. Veins and ]ier\f. Brandies. !Musculai-. Nutritions to libula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Conimnni- catinjc. Substitu- tions. Posterior tibial veins. Posterior tibial nerve, of the leg; the largest of these pierces the annular ligament, and accompanies the cutaneous plantar ner^'e to the sole of the foot. Peculiarities. If the posterior tibial aHcrrj is smaller tlian usual,_ or absent its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large commimicating branch from the peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole ot the foot. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 207, g) is often as large as the pos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half fi-om the bc'gimiing. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to that bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At this spot it sends forAvards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal) ; and it is directed onwards over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel, where it terminates in branches, which anastomose with offsets of the posterior tibial, and with the tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery ; and the nerve to the flexor pollicis lies on it generallj-. Branches. Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor pollicis ; and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. h. The nutritious artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior jjeroneal branch passes forwards through an open- ing in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsum and outer part of the foot: on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. d. A communicatiiig offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the jilace of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an en- larged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS begin on the imier side of the foot by the union of the plantar : they ascend, one on each side of the artery, and unite with the anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the otlsets of the arteiy : branches connect them with the saphenous veins. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 207,a continuation of the internal popliteal, reaches, hke the artery, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the