247 AXILLARY ARTERY. -intercostal muscles of the first space and the fii-st digitation of the serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein ((/). The cephalic vessels, vein (e), and offsets of the acromial thoracic artery and vein, cross over it. On the acromial side lie the two cords of the brachial plexus, nerves, separated fi-om the vessel by a slight intei-val. Superficial to it lies an anterior thoracic nerve ; and beneath, is the posterior thoracic. Beneath the xiedoralis, the pectoralis minor and major B and A . • are superficial to the axillary vessel. But there is not any muscle ^^.^^^ dmmediately in contact behind, for the artery is placed across the iimscles, top of the axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position re- ■-quired by the dissection. The companion vein (^7) lies to the inner side, but separated fi'om vein, the arterial trunk by a bundle of nerves. In tliis position the cords of the brachial plexus lie around it, one nerves, being outside, a second inside, and a third beneath the artery. Beyond the X)ectoralis minor the artery is concealed in part by the And. beyond lower border of the great pectoral muscle A, but thence to its tomlT'^" -termination it is covered only by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are the subscapularis muscle, F, and the tendons of the with lUUSClGS latissimus and teres, G and H. To the outer side is the coraco- brachialis muscle, J. The axillary vein remains as above on the thoracic side of the witii vein, artery. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves and nerves, into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer -side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nei-ve of Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter <?xtending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of Branches t» the thorax and the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in ^^^'^ t^oi-ax number ; two (superior and acromial thoracic) arise from the artery •above the pectoralis minor; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle; <ind one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. The last offsets are the external mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest offset, Upper.^ and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side ■ of the chest, anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. The acromial thoracic branch (fig. 70, a) is a short trunk on the Acrmuiai^ front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pecto- l.^I.ge, Talis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral iind deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed inwards, outwards, .:and upwards :— a. The inner set supply the thoracic muscles, and give a few offsets and suppUes