DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGIOX. detached from the ujiper border of the zygomatic arcli, and to ho removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, tlie arch of tlie zygoma is to be sawn througli in front and beliind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut oif) with the masseter muscle still attached to it, by separating the fibres of that nniscle from the ranuis of the jaw. In detaching the masseter muscle, its nerve and artery, which pass through the sigmoid notch, will be found. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned ; and to expose its insertion and deep origin, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole insertion; of the muscle. Before sawing the bone let the student find and separate from the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat removed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external j^terygoid close below them, may be observed. The temjMval muscle (fig. 18, ^) takes its or'ujin from the whole- of the temporal fossa (p. 4), reaching up to the semicircular line- on the side of the skidl, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great Aving of the sphenoid bone. From this exten- sive attachment, as Avell as fi-om the fascia over it, the fibres con- verge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the same process which reaches from the apex to near the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve : the last nerve perforates occasionally some of the fibres of tin muscle. Action. All the fibres contracting the muscle will raise tl, mandible and press it forcibly against the upper jaw ; but tin hinder fibres may retract the lower jaw after it has been mov. forwards by the external pterygoid. Dissection. For the display of the pterygoid muscles (fig. 18) it will be necessaiy to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be first d. tached from the subjacent bone with the handle of tlie scalpel and the deep temporal vessels and nerves are to be sought in if fibres. ^ A piece of the ramus is next to be taken away by sawing acros the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dent foramen ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve in conta' with its inner surface secure from injury, the handle of the scabv may be inserted between them and the bone, and carried dowi wards to their entrance into the foramen. The masseteric arte and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should thc^ be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and'afterwards t together the ends.