131 THE TONSIL. and gives rise to tlie eminence of the posterior pillar, l, of the soft ryuaeus, in palate. The muscle is attached below to the posterior border of the "f tiiyroid cartilage, some fibres blending with the contiguous portion *" of the pharynx ; and it decussates across the middle line with corres- lionding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side (Merkel).* Ascend- Attacii- ing thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and separate into two layers (fig. 30, "*). The posterior, thin and strata in in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the nii(hlle line a l'"''^**^- like offset of its fellow. The deeper or anterior stratum, much the "■strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins at the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle, whilst some of the upper fibres end on the aponeurosis of the palate. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos nvulio between its two strata. Action. Taking its fixed point at tlie thyroid cartilage the nuiscle Use: xlepresses and nuxkes tense the soft palate. °" i'"''**^, During the act of swallowing b >th muscles move back the lower inswaiiow- odge of the soft palate towards thj pharynx; and approaching each other, form an oblicpie plane for the downward direction of the food : in that state the uvula lies in the interval between the two. The AZYGOS UVUL^ (tig. 29, °) is situate along the middle Une of Azygos the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two "ingfetlou' narrow slips of pale fibres, which ariae from the spine at the posterior middle; 'l)order of - the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and Pnd inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separat- attach- ing it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato- l)harvngeus. Action. Its fibres elevate the uvula, shortening the mid part of Use. the soft palate, and direct that process backwards. The tonsil, k, is a collection of follicular capsides resembling those Tonsil is on the dorsum lingusc, Avhich is placed close above the base of the jlmarL^of tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate. Each is roundish I'ni'^te. in shape, but A-arialile in size ; and apertures are apparent on its surface. Externall}' the tonsil is situate opposite the superior con- strictor nniscle and the angle of the lower jaw ; and when enlarged it may press against the internal carotid blood-vessel. The apertures on the surface leail to rounded terminal recesses or Foimwl of liollows which are lined by mucous membrane. Around each recess "is a layer of small closed capsules, which are seated in the tissue beneath the mucous membrane, and are filled with a grayish sub- stance containing cells and nuclear-looking bodies. No openings from the capsules are to be recognised in the recesses. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lingual, Vessels, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the ex- ternal carotid. Its veins have a plexiform arrangement on the outer * Dr. Merkel, iu the w'ork before referred to, states that this muscle has no firm fixed attacliuient below, and that it ends altogether in the w<all of the pharynx, decussating with the muscle of the opposite side. This assertion does not accord with my experience.