STRUCT (JRE OF PERICARDIUM. 833; followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. The pericardium is larger than the viscus it contains. Somewhat Pericar- conical in form, the wider part of the bag is tm-ned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards to the large vessels of fonn'!"^^ the heart. Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the sternum, rositiou. and projects below on each side of that bone, but much more to- wards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond with Connec- the objects in the interpleural space ; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- Composi- tcrnally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is pierced by Fibrous part the different vessels of that organ : it gives prolongations around fi\elths to the vessels, and the strongest of these sheaths is on the aorta. Infe- vessels, riorly it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the diaphragm. Joins dia- This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of gtruc- fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal, tme. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior of the fibrous pericardium, and Serous is reflected over the surface of the heart. Like other serous mem- ifbrous"^^ branes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral ])art. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives and covers tlie shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface i^eart!^ of the heart by the diflierent vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the pulmonary artery it contains those vessels in one tube, not Peculiarities, passing between their contiguous surfaces ; and at the posterior "^^^^J*^ reflec- part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of opposite sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer fonns a Vestigial vertical band, the vestigial foJd of the x)ericardium (Marshall), which includes the remains of the left innominate vein of the fetus. On separating the pulmonary artery and bronchus, the band will be better seen. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the Vessels- internal mammaiy, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives nerves Nerves, from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular viscus, and is the agent in the propulsion of the blood through the body. Into it, as the centre of the vascular system, veins enter ; and fi'om it the arteries issue.