DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 462 Coverings, ■become united over the tumour clianges in. Stricture, where found. Other abdominal henii;e are femoral, obturator, isehiatic. Dissection of cords inside abdomen; one in middle line, another on each side, forming twi tbssie. Horaetimes last cord moved inwards, causing three fossae. Coverings. Tlic coverings of the intestine are few in number:— Tliey are the skin and the superficial fascia; a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the umbilical opening; together with coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the tumour the superficial fascia l)lends with the other contiguous structures, and its fat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the iuA'cstment otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall ; and it may be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be remembered that the narrowed neck is at the upper part and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction may be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife ma}^ be carried u]?wards in cutting through the stricture ; but there is not any vessel liable to injury in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so as to form a hernial tumour. For instance tliere may be femoral hernia below Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyi'oid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; and isehiatic hernia through the isehiatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, Avill be noticed pre- sently ; but the student must refer to some sj^ecial treatise for information respecting the other abdominal heriiije. Dissection. The abdomen may be now opened to see the cords and the depressions on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall. A transverse cut may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, fibrous cords Avill be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cot •ds of the abdominal loall. In the middle line is the prominence of the remains of the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery ; this is directed fi-om the side of the pelvis to the umbiHcus, and lies usually behind or close to the epi- gastric arteiy, near Poupart's ligament. Fossce. With this disposition of the cords, two fossjb are seen near Poupart's ligament, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery ; they correspond with the situation of the internal and ex- ternal abdominal rings, and with the places where the external and internal (common kind) hernitB occur. But occasionally the cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from the epigastric artery, to the line of junction of the outer with the inner two thirds of the triangular space through which the direct hernia comes. In this position of the cord there will be three fossaj on the lower part of the abdominal wall ; ^az. an inner between it and the urachus, a middle one between it and the epigastric vessels, and an external outside the epigastric artery.