130 turns aroiuiil lianiular in ocess ; is ileejier than tlie DISSECTION OF THE rilARYNX. hamnlai- process (fift-. 30, -), and is mseried into about one third of an inch of tlie posterior border of the paLite, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point; and inferiorly into the aponeurosis o± the vehnn. As the tendon winds round the l)one, it is tlnwn into folds; and between the two is a Imrsa. In the soft palate it hes l)cncath the Fig. 30. • Use in palate, on tube. Palato-glos- sus. Attach- ments. ■Connec- tions. Use: tongue lixud. ralato-i>lia- levator miLScle. The Eustachian tul)e is (hrected inwards between this muscle and the preceding. Action. Acting fi-oni the skull the muscle will fix and make tense the lateral part of the soft palate ; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. If the soft palate is fi.xed by the depressor nmscles, the levator and tensor, and the salpingo-pharyngeus, taking their fixed point.s below, open the Eustachian tid)e in swallowing. The PALATO-GLOSSUS MUSCLK (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch, i, of the soft palate. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral surface and the dorsum of the tongue ; ficom this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they fonn a thin nmscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus narroAvs the isthmus of the fauces ; the nmscles of opposite sides moving inwards towards each other, and separating fi-om the moTitli the morsel to l)e swallowed. When the tongue is fixed the nmscle will render tense and draw down the soft palate. The PALATO-rHARYNGEUS is much larger in size than the preceding, ♦ 1. Azygos uvulaj. 2. Tensor palati. 3. Levator palati. 4. Palato- pharyngeus—upper end. 5. External ptei7goid.