DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 612 Saphenous opening: situation, iiiicl size. Inner mar- fpn sharp below : outer is firm, and joins Gimbeniat; femoral ligament. Tenseness of the margins varies. Parts trans- mitted through the opening. of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nei-ves, are to be now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata (fig. 191,/) is a narrow semilunar slit, which is situate rather to the inner side of the middle line of the thigh. It measures about a third of an inch in width, and one inch and a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremit}^ (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure about one inch and a half, and presents a well-defined margin. The inner part of the opening is posterior to the level of the femoral vessels, and is flattened over the subjacent muscle (pecti- neus) ; but it is marked below hj a thin and sharp border. The outer boundary is much stronger, and has a semilunar border when detached, whose conca\'ity is turned downwards and inwards. Tliis edge is named from its shape/a/cf/orm margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the deeper layer of the superficial fascia. Traced upwards, the outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of Poupart): the upper end of this border, where it is internal to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named ^g, femoral ligament. The rigidity of the margin of the opening is much influenced by the position of the limb ; for with the finger beneath the upper part of the falciform border, whilst the thigh is moved in different directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated out, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous vein is transmitted: and through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lj'mphatics and one or two superficial vessels also pass through it. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. Anatomy of femoral hernia. Pissectiou for femoral •slieath To obtain a knowledge of the hernial protrusion in the thigh, the dissector has to study the undermentioned parts, viz. the crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection (fig. 192). To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose membranous sheath around the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions. One cut is to be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia marked out by those incisions has been raised and