662 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Use. Transverse ligament, forms a hole with bone. Round liiiament is divided internally. Attach- ments. How to see its action. State in extension, and flexion and adduc- tion. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. Articular surfaces of femur. acetabulum, bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free margin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This ligament fills up the hollows in the rim of the acetabulum, and deepens the socket for the femur in the same manner as the glenoid ligament increases the surface for the reception of the head of the humerus. The transverse ligament (fig. 180, h) is a firm but narrow band, which reaches across the upper part of the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum. It consists partly of deep special fibres (7i) which are attaclied to the margins of the notch ; and partly of a superficial bundle from the cotyloid ligament {fj). Beneath it is an aperture by which vessels and nerves enter the acetabuhuri to supply the synovial membrane, and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular or round ligament (fig. 204, b) (ligam. teres) is a slight band about an inch long, connecting the fenmr with the innominate bone. One extremity is roundish, and is inserted into the pit in the head of the femur. The other is flattened, and divides into two parts opposite the transverse ligament. The anterior piece (c) (pubic) is attached with the transverse ligament to the pubic edge of the notch. The posterior part (cl) (ischial) is inserted behind the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the cotyloid notch. Dissection. To see its condition in the different movements of the articulation, it should be examined in a joint in which the capsule is entire, and the bottom of the acetabulum has been cut out with a chisel inside the pelvis. When the joint is in the extended state, the ligament is generally lax, the two end attachments being near each other; but if the femur is adducted, the ischial part of the ligament is rendered tight because the head of the femur rises. In flexion of the joint the ligament is tighter than in extension, as the femoral insertion is removed from the acetabular ; and if, in the bent state, the femur be rotated out or adducted, the round ligament will be most stretched. A synovial memhrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along it to the acetabulum and the head of the femur. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it surrounds the ligamentum teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum the lower limb is to be separated fi-om the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis: at this stage the pelvic attachments of the round ligament can be better seen. Surfaces of hone. The articular surfaces of the bones are not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the femur is a pit into which the round ligament is inserted. The acetabulum is coated with cartilage at its circumference,