DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 574 fomis <letrusor urinie; Intenial <ontinuoui5 vith pi'O- state. Sub-niucous layer: -extent, libres, addition to it. Strata ai* .joined. Fibrous -coat. 0])en tlie bladder. Mucous coat has folds •except on one spot. ■Glands. Epithelium. Interior of the bladder. Ojiening of urethra, ■with the uvula. on the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer laj^er of fibres is called detruscyr urince. from its action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 177,') are thin and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, the sphincter vesica;, and are continuous before with the fibres of the prostate. When the fibres are hypertrophied, they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in some bodies tlie mucous coat may be forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The submucous stratum (fig. 177, •'') forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower third of the viscus the fibres are longitudinal, and are continued around the urethra, but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The pro- jection of the uvula vesicas is due to this submucous stratum. The muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated from another without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). Fibrous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enumerated as one of the coats of the bladder ; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hollow viscera, in which the vessels and nerves ramifj\ Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision down the front; and the cut is to be continued along the upper part of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous posteriorly with the lining of the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer ; and it is thrown into numerous folds in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular surface behind the urethral opening. The membrane is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. Its surface is studded with mucous follicles and branched glands, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. In the epithelium covering the surface are three kinds of cells :—the superficial are roundish and flattened ; the middle are pyriform ; and the deeper are conical and cylindrical. Objects inside the bladder. Within the bladder are the following named parts, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the triangular surface (fig. 179). Orifices. At the anterior part of the bladder is the orifice of the urethra, siuTounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small prominence below, uvula vesica;, occasioned by a thickening of the submucous muscular and fibrous layer. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate ; and fi-om its anterior part a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra.