421 MUSCLES OF ANUS. Action. By the contraction of the fibres the skin is raised into use. ridges radiating from the anus, such as may be seen wlien that aperture is firmly closed. The EXTERNAL SPHINCTER (fig. 129, ^) (sphincter ani externus) is External a flat, thin, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the lower part of the rectum. The fibres form ellipses around a central aperture, as in other orbicular nmscles. It arises posteriorly by a fibrous band Origin, from the back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the subcutaneous fatty layer. Its fibres pass for- wards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture; and in front they are inserted into the central point of the perinajum, and insertion, into the superficial fascia by a rather wide fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and conceals partly the Connec- levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa, and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Action. The muscle gathers into a roll the skin around the anus, Use: and occludes the anal aperture : by its contraction it makes tense also the central point of the perinanun. Commonly the fibres are in a state of involuntary slight contrac- usual state, tion, but they may be firmly contracted under the influence of the will, unusual. The INTERNAL SPHINCTER (fig. 129, ^) (sphincter ani intenius) is internal situate around the extremity of the intestine, internal to the pre- pale'band* ceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine jp part of in texture, quite separate from the surrounding external sphincter, intestine, and encircle the lower part of the rectum Jn the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, which is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus ; Use. and its contraction is altogether involuntaiy. The LEVATOR ANI musclc (fig. 129, ^) can be seen only in part; f"^f^^j.°^jji^ and the external sphincter may be detached from the coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from its origin at the inner aspect of the hip bone, and is inserted into coccyx along the middle line from the coccyx to the central point of the fj-out'of^ perinteum:—The most posterior fibres are attached to the side of it; the coccyx ; and between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle into rectum, fibres are blended with the side of the intestine (rectum). And the |l",',\Je of the anterior are joined with the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, perina;um. in the central point of the perina?um. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side, and ^^1^'"^*^*^' unites Avith its fellow to form a fleshy layer, convex downwards, through which the rectum is transmitted. Deeper than the muscle is the recto-vesical fascia. Along the hinder border is placed the coccygeus. o i Action. Its action on the rectum is to elevate and invert the lower use on end of the gut after this has been protruded and everted in the I'^ctum, passage of the feces. ^