251 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. ■^detaching the processes of origin of the scrratus from the ribs for a couple of inches, and by taking away the loose tissue on the sur- face. Towards the front of the chest is a thin aponeurosis, which is continued forwards from each external intercostal to the sternum; this is to be retained in the third intercostal space. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The INTKRCOSTAL MUSCLES are named from their position between the ribs. There are two layers in each space, but neither occupies the whole length of the space. The direction of Fig. 71.* the fibres diifers in each stratum ; for, wliilst the fibres of the external muscle run very ob- liquely downwards and forwards, those of the internal have an oppo- site direction between the osseous parts of the ribs, so that the two sets cross. The external muscle is fixed to the outer mar- gin of the ribs of each intercostal space, and consists of fleshy and tendinous fibres. Pos- teriorly the fibres begin at or near the tubercle of the rib; and ante- riorly they end short of the middle line, but after a different manner in the upper and lower spaces :—In the intervals between the true ribs, they cease near the costal cartilages, and a thin aponeurosis is continued onwards fi'om the point of ending to the -sternum. In the lower spaces they arc continued between the cartilages (Theile) reaching the end of the ribs in the last two. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle will be seen by cutting through and removing the external layer and the fascia in one of the widest spaces, say the second ; it will be recognised by the 'difference in the direction of the fibres. Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib above, the intercostal nerve and artery will appear, A branch of the nerve 'to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscle ; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forwards in one or more spaces to the sternum, and the sur- face of the thorax. The hinder part of these muscles will be seen in the dissection of .the Back and thorax. of the inter- costal muscles. Intercostal iimscles are two layers. Outer layer is deficient anteriorly ; difference above and below. Dissection of deeper muscle,] of nerves and vessels. * Diagram of the serratus magnus muscle, a, attachments.