DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, the dissection may be begun at the upper border ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. Fascia of the The fascia of the huttoch is a prolongation of that enveloping the tWnSum- and is fixed to the crest of the hip bone, and to the sacrum important, and coccyx. It is mucli thicker in front of, than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment anteriorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus, the fascia splits to incase the muscle. -Gluteus The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS (fig. 197, ^) is the most superficial muscle maximus. q£ buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of Origin the femur. Its origin fi-om the pelvis is partly connected with bone peMs f °™ partly Avith aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from above down, to the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to a sj^ecial imiDression on the liip bone below it; next, to the aponeurosis cover- ing the multifidus spinaj muscle ; then to the back of the lowest piece of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastly to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres inserted be- are directed outwards to their insertion :—About two thirds of the femur.*° upper fibres, and a few of the lowest, end in the fascia lata of the outer part of the tliigh: and the remainder are fixed for three inches into the lower part of the line leading fi'om the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur. Connections The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles faces'^ deltoid muscle of the arm in the situation, and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common teguments and investing fascia of the limb, and by the superficial nerves and vessels. The parts in contact with the under surface and borders, will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlays the gluteus medius. And the lower edge, which is longer and tliicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates, and bounds posteriorly the perinatal space ; beneath the lower border the ham- string muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue. Use on Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip joint femur free, ^nitting back that bone, and abducts and rotates out the limb, and fixed. When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised fi-om a sitting into a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pelvis. In standing, In standing both muscles assist in keeping the pelvis balanced and on its props; and in rising from stooping they are the active agents stooping; j,^ bringing upright the pelvis. When the body is supported on standing on one leg the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as •one eg. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^j^^ opposite side. SiSfs*^"^ -Disseciwii (fig. 198). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across maximus, i^ear the pelvis, and without injury to the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer