29 PAROTID GLAND. of the jaw to tlie sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the gland in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly the gland projects somewhat on the face, and in this direction a small accessory part, accessory socia parotidis, is prolonged from it over the masseter. l''^'"^- Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct—duct Tlie dnct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis, fig. 17), which crosses the masseter below the socia jicirotidis, and perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial arteiy and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be oi:)posite the open- ing into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches its ien<ftk and a half ; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe ^^""^1 size, to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and one or two surface of lymphatic glands are seated on it; but fi-om the deep part processes siand. are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the hollows Dissection that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dissector will ^"^^u see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attend- ing any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deejoly into the neck. Beep part One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the j'i\v'*' ^ '""^ mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the ijitemal maxillaiy arteiy. Passing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels and arteiy, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Supei-ficial to the artery lies the trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary A^eins, from which the external jugular vein springs ; and this common trunk, receiving some veins fi-om the parotid, is connected with the internal jugular vein by a branch through the gland.^' Crossing the gland from behind nerves in tiie gland. * Oftentimes there is a different arrangement of these veins. In such case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (hah" or all) and jjosterior auricular veins ; whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), which receives the facial helow the jaw, and opens into the internal jugular vein opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary vein accompanies the external carotid artery.