749 BOUNDARIES OF VESTIBULE. facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (fig. 35). Be- this called yond the union with the facial, the nerve is named small superficial y"}^' 2)eti'osal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 14G). Nerves to muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a Nerves for branch from the otic ganghon (fig. 241, ^): the stapedius receives ''^^^cies. an offset from the facial trunk ; and the laxator tj^pani from the chorda tympani nerve (?). The chorda tijmpani (fig. 241, is a branch of the facial ncr^e Chorda_ (p. 146). Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana crosses^ tympani, and issues fi'om the space by an aperture in, or internal cavity, to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the gustatory nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 92. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a nerve of Brancli of the tympanum, is an offset to the outer ear, and maybe now traced ojJterej*/^'^ in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. Ill), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. The labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing is so Labyrinth named from its complexness. It consists of three spaces sur- osseoas and rounded by dense bone ; and of sacs containing fluid for the membra- expansion of the auditory nerve, which are contained within the former. The OSSEOUS labyrinth includes the vestibule, the semicircular Constitu- cuts of the canals, and the cochlea: these communicate externally with the osseous tympanum, and internally, through the meatus auditorius internus, P'""*- with the cranial ca^'^ty. The vestibuli; (fig. 242), or the central cavity of the osseous Vestibule labj-rinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in fi'ont of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has Dissection been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to ° ' • be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear ; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the knowledge and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 242) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- Form and treraities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under part or floor is more nan-owed tlian the upper part or roof. It measures about ith of an inch in length, dimensions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of tlie space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (^r) leading Apertures into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the three Leh'ind!^ semi-circular canals (f/, /). The outer wall con-esponds with the tympanum, and in it is the i» outer wall.