DISSECTION OF THE FACE. -30 Stnifture o{ irlaiul. Tlio duct lias two uoats. Vessels and nerves. Molar ijlands. Nasal carti- ]a<;es. Take away tissue from surlace. The ujiper <;artilage toiR'lies its fellow. forwards is tlie trunk of tlie facial m-rvv, Avhicli ])asses over the artery, ai)d distril)ntes its l)ranches tlirongli the parotid. Tlie superlicial temporal branch of the inferior inaxillaiy nerve lies above the upi)er \nn t of the glandular mass; and oifsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower jiart, and join the facial. The sinirture of the parotid resembles that of the other salivary glands. The glandular mass is divided into luimcrous small lobules by intervening processes of fascia ; and each lobule consiste of a set of the tine closed saccular extremities of the excretory duct, which are lined by flattened and nucleated epi- thelium, and surrounded by cajiillarj^ vessels. These little sacs form by their aggregation the mass of each lobide. From the lobules issue small ducts, which unite to form larger tubes, and iinally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. The common duct (duct of Stenson) is composed of an external fibrous coat, consisting of white and elastic fibres ; and of an internal nmcous coat which is clothed with colunniar epithelium. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glaruls lie along the origin of the buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar todth by separate ducts. Cartilages of thk Nose (fig. 7). These close the anterior nasal aperture in the skeleton, and form ])art of the outer nose and the septum. They are five in number, two on each side—lateral cartil.age and cartilage of the aper- ture ; together with a central one, or the car- tilage of the septimi of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages arc seen in this stage of tlu^ dissectioji. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen A\ hen the nniscular and fibrous structure of the left side of the nose, and the skin of the lower part of the nostril of the same side, have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral car- tilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The iq)2)er lateral cartilage (fig. 7, -) is flat- tened, and is somewhat triangidar in form. Posteriorly it is at- tached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it meets the one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but, the two are separated below by an interval, in M-liich the cartilage of the septum appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. * Lateral cartilages of the nose. 1. Triangular septal cartilage. 2. Upper lateral cartilage. 3. Lower lateral, or the cartilage of the 'aperture tl outer part. 4. Inner part of the cartilage of the aperture. 5. Nasal bone