17i Si)ecial ligaments ■between first two vertebrd^ DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. thorax, with the description cf tiie ligaments of the spine. ShouhT the student examine them in the neck, to see their difference in this region of the spine, he should leave uncut the neural arches ot the three highest cervical vertehra^ to Avhich special ligaments arc attached. . , ^ , ^ , Special ligaments unite the first two ccn-ical vertebraj to each other and to the occipital hone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside tlie spinal canal are thin fibrous membranes, which connect the bodies and arches of the first two vertebrjc lu Fig. 46.* Posterior and andoccipital front and behind ; and join the atlas with the occipital bone at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular surfaces of all the bones ; but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. Union of the atlas v:ith the axis. The posterior ligament (atlo-axoid) (fig. 47, ^) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the coiTcsponding arch of tlie axis. Below the superficial part arc some deeper and stronger fibres. The posterior primary branch of the second nerve pierces it. The anterior ligament (fig. 4G, '') unites the bodies of the first twa vertebra; in the same manner as the preceding ligament connects tlieir arches. It is thickest in the middle. Union of the atlas vnth the occipital hone. The anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) (fig. 46, -) is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen mag- num, to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. anterior atlo-axoid and anterior * External ligaments in front between the atlas and axis and the occipital bone (Bourgery). 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Anterior occipito-atloid. 3. Anterior atlo-axoid. 4. Articulation of the articular processes cut open.