DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 and their relative position. Branches of vessels. Variations in the size of the space; also in the de])th, both natural and artili- cial. Departure from the ordinary state of the artery, and its branches. Position of veins. Occipital part of space contains clavicle. Behiiul tlie artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle, '\ And below the vessel is tlie first rib. Along the lower boundary of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle lie the supra-scapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are tlie transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugidar vein, which descends over or under the onio-hyoideus near the anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and trans- verse cersdcal branches, and sometimes a small vein, over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the /5pacc from before back is influenced by the attachment of the traj^ezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle : in some bodies these muscles occuiiy nearly the whole length of that bone, leaving but a small ij)terval between them ; and in others they meet, so as to cover the under- lying vessels. The space may be further inci'eased or diminished fi'om above down by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck ; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attaclied thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies natm-ally ; and iu a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by the position of the clavicle, according as the limb may be raised or depressed. And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid nmscle. The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery ma}' vary much, for the vessel may l)e one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual level just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be changed ; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch (fig. 14) may take origin fi-om it at different distances from the scaleims, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). The subclavian vein rises upwards not unfrequently as high as the arteiy, or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain ; and the branches connected with its lower end may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangle is larger than the other. Its boundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius ; and it is separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus;