DISSECTION OF THE SriNAL CORD. 414 Special tracts. VesicuLn- column. Intemie- Uiate tract. Size and extent. White sub- stance of the half of the cord. Areolar tissue. Gray and white sub- stance vary. Crescents alter their shape. Deep origin of nen'es uncertain. Anterior root enters lateral column, anterior columu of other side, Fiff. 126.' other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outUne. Mr. Clarke describes two special collections of cells, one on the outer and the other on the inner side of the gray crescent, which extend through the cord below the cervical swelhng, and with which the roots of the ners^es are connected.* The inner group, or the posterior vesicular column (fig. 12G, ^) is close behind the transverse commissure (*) ; wliilst the outer group, or the intermediate tract (^) is placed outside the crescent, about midway from firont to back. The first is best marked in the dorsal enlarge- ment, and the last in the upper part of the dorsal region. Above the cervical swell- ing of the cord only rudiments of those tracts remain; and the cells in a line with the intermediate tract are traversed by the roots of the spinal accessor}"^ nerve. The white substance of the cord is composed cliiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. A fi-amework of very fine areolar tissure extends through the substance of the spinal cord, supporting the fibres and cells : this is continuous with the pia mater on the surface. Modifications in the gray and white substance. The white sub- stance exceeds the gray in quantity in the neck and back; but it is less abundant in proportion to the gray matter in the lumbar region. The coniua of the gray crescents decrease in length £rom above down, especially the posterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Origin of the Nerves. The deep origin of the spinal ner\^es is uncertain, like that of the cranial ner^'^es, but the fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord (fig. 125). The anterior root (Z;) traverses the longitudinal fibres of the antero- lateral column in distinct bundles ; and entering the anterior comu of the gray crescent, it is resolved into three sets of fibres, external, internal, and middle :— The outer set penetrate into the antero-lateral column. The inner set pass through the anterior column and across the median fissure to the opposite half of the cord, decussating with like fibres of the opposite side. * Further researches on the gray substance of the spinal cord. By J Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S., Philosoph. Trans, of the Royal Society for 1859] Part i. + A representation of the gray substance in the interior of the spinal cord near the middle of the dorsal region (Clarke). 1. Posterior cornu (caput comu, Clarke) of the crescent. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Casing of the sub- stantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Transverse commissure 6. Tractus intermedio-lateralis. 7. Cervix cornu of Clarke, reaching from the anterior points of the substantia gelatinosa to the level of the canal 8. Posterior vesicular column.