225 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissm-e at the circumference. On the under sm-face of the cerebellum (fig. 66), there are five lobes ; and three of them are separated by sulci amongst the laminee of the hemisphere, but they are scarcely more distinct than the lobes on the upper surface. Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior lobe (A-), which joins the commissural laminfB behind the pyramid in the valley. Next in succession is the slender lobe (i), which is connected with the posterior part of the pyramid, as well as with the other transverse lamina) behind that body. And lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the hiventral lobe (Ji). The two other lobes, though smaller are more separate, and appear between the biventral lobe and the medulla oblongata : — One of these is the amygdaloid lobe (g), which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyramidal slip, which is directed outwards over (the under surface of the cerebellum being uppermost) the crus cerebelli, and is named Jloccidus, or subpeduncular lobe (/). Dissection. To see the flocculus and the posterior medullary velum, the biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted from the valley (fig. 67). The flocculus is laid bare by this proceeding, and pass- Fig. G/.* Five on sur- face, viz.. posterior, slender, and biven- tral. Two in valley : amygdaloid and floccu- lus. Dissection for floc- culus. ing fi-om it to the tip of the uvula is the thin and soft white layer of the posterior velum ; beneath the last a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can be fully seen now. Flocculus ami medullary velum. The position of the flocculus to the crus cerebelli has been before mentioned. This body (c) flo^cculus. * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebellum, with some of the lobes removed to show the posterior medullary velum, a. Uvula, e. Pyramid. b. Posterior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Sub- peduncular lobe or flocculus, d. Furrowed band. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside, g. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior surface. Q