FORE PART OF NECK. so- inner fibres of opposite muscles cross for the distance of about an inch, but those which are superficial do not belong always to the same side. Action. The ordinary action of this muscle is confined to the Use on skin,, skin of the neck, which it throws into longitudinal wrinkles ; but it can depress the corner of the mouth by the slip prolonged to the mouth, face. Through its attachment to the jaw it will assist in opening juw. the mouth. Dissection. Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and Dissection, dissect out the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branches of the facial nerve that are beneath it. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its origin in Superfioial the cervical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of the neck norVef (p. 57); but the nerve may arise from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch :— The ascending branch perforates the platysma, supplying it, and ascending, ends in the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down the neck. Whilst this branch is beneath the platysma it joins the facial nerve. The descending branch likewise passes through the platysma, and descending is distributed to the teguments below the preeeiUng, reaching as low as the sternum. The inf ra-maxillcmf branches of the facial or seventh cranial nerve Brandies or (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 38) pierce the deep cenncal fascia, and ti' tiie'iiccU. l)ass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck (fig. 9), which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in tlie platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the inuscle thei'e is a com- munication between the branches of the facial and the ofl;sets of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the Dissection, middle, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the super- ficial nerves of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cerviccd fascia in front of the steruo- Cervical. • 1 • I 111-11 1 11 1 fascia )u mastoideus is stronger than that behind the muscle, and has the ivont oi following arrangement. Near the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to tliat bone; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed above to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the parotid gland. From the ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged downwards, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to join the styloid process; this piece is named the stylo-maxillary liriament. And from the angle forms stylo- of the jaw a strong piece is continued to the sterno-mastoideus, iiga„n^,„t which fixes forwards the anterior border of that muscle.