508 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. duct. The several vessels and the ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned, follow left On following outwards the left branch of the vena portal to the vluapirta? longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united anteriorly with the round ligament or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the fine fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus. Colour anil The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence ; and consistence; ^ygjgijg commonly in the adult from three to four pounds (fifty to weight; sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures from ten to twelve measure- inches ; from front to back between six and seven inches ; and in uieuts. thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measure- ment varies with the spot examined. Form and In shape the liver is somewhat square. It has many named divisions. parts, viz. two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities ; and the under surface is further marked by lobes and fossa', and by fissures which contain vessels. The connections and the ligaments of the liver are described at p. 471 and p. 476. Upper Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is convex: extending smooth • from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the under larger. The under surface is rendered irregular by lobes, fissures, irre^lar. ^^^^ fossaj : in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longi- tudinal sulcus divides it into a right and a left lobe. Anterior Borders. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : audu"tci"ed opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the under surface before posterior alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the gall-bladder, thicker, The posterior border is much thicker at the right than at the left notched ^^^^^' ^^^^^ thickened part it touches the right kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral colunm is a hollow in this border ; and the vena cava is partly imbedded in it on the right of the spine. Extremities. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded ; and the left is thin and flattened. Lohes on Lohes. On the luider surface the liver is divided primarilv into surface are two lobes, a right and a left, by tlie antero-posterior or longitudinal live, viz. fissure ; and occupying this surface of the right lobe are three others, viz. the square, the Spigelian, and the caudate lobe :— The left lobe, n, is smaller and thinner than the right, and there is a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. right; Tlie right lobe, A, forms the gi-eater part of the liver, and is , separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the one divided into j. ^ ^ .^ ,. aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached below ; and the following lobes are pro- jections on its imder surface :— square, The square lobe, c (lobulus quadratus), is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posterioriy to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus.