DISSECTION OF THE BACK. ■394 inner and •outer branches. Find sub- occii)ital; and the ^•essels. Nerves and vessels in the dorsal region: in the lum- bar region. Posterior branches of spinal nerves. In the neck they divide into two, except first. External branches •are small. Internal •branches: from the occipital bone and the spine of the seventh vertebra, and throwing it outwards carefully from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in wliich are contained the ramifications of the cervical nerves, and the deep cervical and other vessels. Each nerve except the first divides into an inner and an outer piece. Dissect out first the inner pieces of the seven lowest, which lie partly over and partly beneath the fil)res of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external pieces C) are very small; they are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks appear; they are to be looked for outside the complexus, and enter the muscles prolonged fi-om the erector spina?. The first or suboccipital is %lie most difficult of the set to find : this little nerve is a short trunk, which is contained in the interval between the small recti and obhqui muscles near the head ; it will be best fomid by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinalis muscle ; a part of the vertebral artery will be found in contact with the suboccipital nerve ; and the occipital artery will be seen crossing the occipital bone. Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will be readily displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse pro- cesses. Externa] and internal pieces are to be traced from eax;h nerve and vessel into the muscles ; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. '* The two pieces of the lumbar nerves and vessels -will be found in the same line as the dorsal; but the inner set are the most difficult to be discovered. The small sacral nerA-^es are placed beneath the multifidus spinfc, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 401). Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cei-vical and sacral groups, bifurcate in the intervertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches (p. 170). The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. Li the necJc. The posterior primary branches of the cervical ner^'-es are eight in number, and issue between the transverse processes ; but tliose of the first and second, which begin on the neural arches of the atlas and axis, cross those arches. All, except the first divide into internal and external pieces. ' The external jneces (fig. 118) are very inconsiderable in size, and end in the splenius, and in the muscles prolonged fi-om the erector spinse. The internal pieces (fig. 119) are larger than the external; they are directed towards the spinous processes, the three lowest nen^es passing beneath the semispinalis, and the four next over that muscle. By the side of the spine cutaneous branches are furnished to the