-202 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Eacli half is marked liy convolu- tions and sulci. Three"' fissures. Each liemisphere is larger in front than behind. Its outer surface is convex ; but the inner is flat, and in contact in front with the opposite half. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere is divided by fissures into lobes, and on the under aspect it is cleft into two large pieces by the fissure of Sylvius. The superficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, the projections on it being named convolutions or gyri, and the intervening depres- sions, sulci or anfractuosities.* Fissures of the HEMisruERE. The larger fissures separate the lobes, and the smaller sulci mark the extent of particular convo- lutions. The fissures dividing the hemisphere into lobes are the three following :— Fis. 60. t S ivian "^^'^ fissure of Sylvius (S, fig. 60) begins below at the anterior perforated spot, and directed out between the fi-ontal and temporo- sphenoidal lobes, divides into two parts, anterior and posterior. lore part, ^p^^g anterior limb, 'S, ascends for a short distance into the fi-ontal lobe. hinder part. The posterior limb, the continuation of the fissure, is directed obli([uely upwards and backwards to about the middle of the outer face of the hemisphere. At its extremity it is sometimes divided into smaller sulci. * In the following description of the surface anatomy of the cerebrum I have followed chiefly the arrangement of Professor Turner in his i^aper "On THE Convolutions of the Human Cerebrum ;" and to him I am indebted for permission to copy the woodcuts employed in illustration of his publication. f Lobes of the hemisphere, and convolutions and fissures of the outer surface. —Fr. Froutal lobe. Par. Parietal lobe. Oc. Occipital lobe. T S. Temporo- sphenoidal lobe. li. Fissure of Rolando. S. Posterior. '*S'. Ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure. PO. Place of the external parieto-occipital fissure which is not visible^in a side view. IP. Intra-parietal sulcus. P. Parallel sulcus.—1, inferior ; 2, middle ; and 3, superior frontal gyrus ; 4, ascending frontal; and 5, ascending parietal gyrus ; 5', parietal lobule ; 6, angular gyi'us • 7, superior; 8, middle; and 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gyrus ; 10, superior* 11, middle; and 12, inferior occipital convolution. A. Supra-marginal convo- lution—a, first; b, second ; c, third ; and d, fourth, annectant gyrus.