451 FASCIA TRANSYERSALIS. The ilio-lngidnal nerve perforates the transversalis inusclc near iiio-inguiuai the front of the iliac crest. It pierces afterwards the internal tifri^fg^ oblique, and reaches the surface of the thigh through the external abdominal ring (p. 439) : it furnishes offsets to the internal obhque, the cremaster, and the pyramidalis. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the transversalis fascia, it Dissection will be necessaiy to raise, on the right side, the lower part of the sails fescla' tranversalis muscle by two incisions ;—one of these is to be carried thi-ough the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament; the other, across the muscle from the front of the hip bone to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily from the thin fascia beneath. The fascia transversalis (fig. 138, is a thin fibrous layer be- Pasoiatrans- tween the transversalis nuiscle and the peritoneum. In the groin ^•^''^"-^''^ or inguinal region, wliere it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is iiest is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of "he'^l^^oin'^ the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle ; but farther from the pelvis it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare, is the internal abdominal internal ^ J.-U i- IT abdominal ring, which gives passage to the spennatic cord, or the round liga- nng; ment, according to the sex; this opening resembles the finger of a . glove in being visible internally, but mdistinguishable externally I in consequence of a prolongation fi-om the margin. On the inner ' side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is there fixed into the pubes and the pectineal line of the hip bone, beliind the conjoined tendon with wliich it is united. At Poupart's ligament the fascia is joined to the posterior margin is partly of that band along the outer half ; but along the inner half it is '^ouplit^s directed down to the thigh, in front of the blood-vessels, to form ligament, the anterior part of a loose sheath (crural) around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 138). This opening is situate mid-Situation of way between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac ring. spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the fascia is continued around the cord, as before said. Dissection. The tubiform prolongation on the cord may be traced Dissection by cutting the fascia transversalis horizontally above the opening [.rocess^n of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle ^'o^d- of the scalpel the thin membi-ane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia trans- ^JJ^^PJ'j:,^ j,^ versalis and the peritoneum. Its thickness varies much in different the groiii. bodies, but is greater at the lower part of the abdomen than higher up. This structure Avill be more specially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be Tra.ce re- reflected to look for the remains ot a piece ot peritoneum along peritoneum, the cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects Peritoneum G G 2 " lOgroui