278 Superficial nerves of forearm and back of hand are, internal cutaneous; external cutaneous; external futaneoxis of mu.sculo- spiral. Ending of the radial nen'c by external and internal brancli, which sni)ply some digits. Termina- tion. Branch of ulnar ner\-e to back of DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. the vein divides into external and kiternal branches (inediaii basilie and median cephahc), which unite, as before seen (fig. 76, -), with radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median- receives a communicating branch from a vein (vena comes) beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. Some of the supei-ficial nerves of the forearm.- are continued fi-om the arm :—those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, from the- two external cutaneous nen'-es of the musculo-spiral, and the mus- ■ culo-cutaneous. On the forepart of the limb there is occasionally a small offset of the ulnar nen^e near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the tennination of the radial nerve, together with a - branch of the ulnar nen^e. The internal cutaneous nerve (p. 271) is divided into two parts. The anterior branch extends on the front of the foreann as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous otfset from the ulnar nerve. The posteHor branch con- tinues along the back of the forearm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle. The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nei-ve (p. 272) is prolonged on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial arteiy, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel and supply the carpus. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve sends backwards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and com- municates with the radial, and the following cutaneous ners'^e. The external cutaneous branch of the mi;sculo-spiral nerve (p. 275) after passing the elbow, turns to the hinder part of the foreami, and reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding cutaneous nerve. The radial nerve ramifies in the integument of the back of the hand and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so tliat the radial neive distributes the same nmnber of digital branches to the dorsum as the median nerve furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nen^es ; and the offset to the coiir tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twio- from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. * On the side of the fingers each of these dorsal digital brandies is united with an offset fi-om the digital nerve on the palmar surface" The dorsal branch of the tdnar nerve gives offsets to the rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid