132 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. Mucous iiicinbranc of i)liuryiix Nen-es. side. Nerres are furnished tf> it from the fifth and g-losso-pharyn- g^eal nerves. The mucous memhrane of the i^liarynx is continuous anterioi-1}- with- tlie lining- of the nioutli, nose, and larynx. Covenn^ the soft palate and its numerous small glands (palatine), the mend)raneis continued to the tonsils on each side, and is prolonged by tlie Eustachian tul)e to the tympaninu. In front of each arytanioid cartilage it encloses; a mass of muciparous glands (aryta?noid). Inferiorly, it is con- timied by tlie o-'sophagus to the stomach. The mucous mend)ranc is provided with more glands in the u^jper, than in the lower part of the pharynx ; and its character, near the' different apertures, resembles that of the membrane lining the- cavities connnunicating with the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the nares (Henle) ; but is colunmar and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Beginning of the (esophagus. This tube is much smaller than the pharynx, and the walls are flaccid. For the conmiencement, and its. connections in the neck, see p. 120. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with, a lining of mucous membrane. The external layer, is foi-med f)f longitudi- nal fibres, which begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles,, anterior and two lateral ; the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constiictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, is formed of circular fibres,, which are continuous Avith those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more fully in the dissection, of the thorax. sn])('i-ioi-Iy has cifiuuL- iiar, iiil'e- riorly scaly epitlieliuiii. of (i.»st)i)ha- Formed of two layers ; outer or lon- gitudinal, <an(l inner or t-irc-.ular. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, are to be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory jiarts. Mouth. The Mouth. The cavity of the mouth is situate below that of the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces-. Situation, behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw bone. When lonn, the lower jaw is moderately removed from the ujjper, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof, concave, and boimda- is constituted by the hard and soft palate, and is limited anteriorly by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath the tip of that body is- the fr.-cnum lingu.-e, with the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior oi)ening of the mouth is- bounded by the lips; and the posterior corresponds with the anterior pillars of the soft palate.