DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. 406 and see next covering. Arachnoid membrane has a parietal or attached, loose or visceral layer, and space heneath. To exijose sub-arach- noid space. Sub-arach- noid space contains a fluid, and opens into cavities of brain: imperfect septum behind. Dissection of next covering. Pia mater supports the cord, gives ofisets. its membranes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebrae, and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface upper- most with the lateral offsets widely sepai-ated. To show^ the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle as far as the small terminal fibrous cord before referred to ; but the membrane is to be raised wliilst it is bemg cut through, so that the loose arachnoid on the cord may not be injured. Lastly, fasten back the dura mater with pins. The arachnoid membrane (fig. 122, l) is the thin serous covering of the cord which is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like the corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the spinal cord and lines the dura mater, and consists thus of a visceral and a parietal part. The outer or parietal ])SiVt\?. inseparably joined to the inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to that membrane a shining appearance.*'' The inner or visceral layer surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable interval between the two (sub-arachnoid space). At the lower part of the spinal canal the loose sheath is largest, and envelops the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. As the different spinal nerves extend to the intervertebral foramina, they receive loose tubes from the araclmoid, but lose the same when they perforate the dura mater. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath the visceral layer ; or by putting a piece of the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and blowing air beneath the serous membrane. The suharachnoid space separates the loose or visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, from the spinal cord invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than the upper part of the spinal canal it con- tains a special fluid—cerehro-spinal; and it communicates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by an aperture in the fourth ventricle. Crossing the space, at the posterior part of the cord, are bundles of fibrous tissue, which are most marked in the neck. In the space are contained the seiTations of the ligamentum denticu- latum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the next covering of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be taken away ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reflected, as in the wood-cut 122. The pia mater (fig. 122, Ti) is much less vascular on the spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a thin prolongation into the anterior median fissure ; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nei-ves. • According to the opinion of Kolliker, tlie arachnoid membrane is a simi^le tube corresponding with the visceral layer in the text.