HI SniENO-PALATIXE GANGLIOX. the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the g-anghon of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii: its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that iierve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering Seek the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), before dissected in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxillary artery- with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The SPUENO-rALATINE GANGLION (fig. 34, ') (ganglion of Meckel) Gjmglion of occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine ^ "-^ ^'^ " foramen, and is connected with the branches of the superior max- illary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat tri- angular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate for Sitiuition the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior tio*,V\vi'ti^' maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround only part of their ^^t't'^ uene. fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the v^idian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles tlie other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensoi'y, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots Comiiosi- connected with it. The Branches of the ganglion are distributed for the most part to Biandu-s. the nose and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharynx and the or])it. Other offsets connect it with surrounding nerves. Branches of the nose. The nasal branches, fi-om three to five in mimber, are for the most part very small and soft, and pass inwards are— tbrougli the spheno-palatine foramen : their disti-ibution is given 1)0 low :— The superior nasal branches (f f) are distril)uted in the mucous Superior membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments ' reach the back part of the septum nasi. The naso-2>alatinenerre (nerve of Cotimnius) (fig. 33, ^) crosses the Naso-paln- roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and descends on that partition to near the front. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being antei-ior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are united in the mouth, and are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth. On the sq)tuni nasi filaments are supphed by the naso-palatine nerve to the niucous meml)rane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth nmst be opened. Branches of the palate. The nerves of the palate, though con- to tiir nected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of P"'''*''- the splieno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 101). Below tlie ganglion they are divided into three—large, small, and throe, external. The large palatine nerve (anterior) (fig. 34, ^) reaches the roof of f;^^'e^',|J«;'^''; the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and courses forwards to noscT'""^ nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve.