590 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. intenial, iincl middle. Mucou.s liniiii; is covered witli glands. Follicles in the neck. Epithelium. Vessels are large. Arteries; veins; iierves. Lymphatics, two sets; their ending. Round liga- ment ends in groin : .-ittaehment to uterus; liow formed. peritoneal fibrous tissue ; and others are continued into tlie Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they are arranged in ca transverse direction. The middle or intei-vening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of tlie uterus is continued into the vagina at one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body of the uterus it is of a reddish-white colour, and is thin, smooth, and adherent, but without papillae. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands, which may be either straight and simple, or twisted and branched; they are lined by ciliated epithelium, and their minute apertures are scattered over the surface. In the cervix uteri, between the rng-x, mucons follicles and glands are collected, and near the outer opening are papillas. The epithelial covering of the mucous membrane consists of a single layer of cells, which are columnar and ciUated throughout the cavity of the uterus. The bloodvessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished fi'om the uterine and ovarian branches (p. 564). The veins correspond with the arteries: they are large in size, and form plexuses in the uterus. The nerves are deriA^ed from the sympathetic (p. 568), and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus: in the cervix they are traced to the papillae. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accompanies the ovarian artery to the glands on the aorta: the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Fallopian tube. Round ligament of the uterus (fig. 173, n). This firm cord sup- ports the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and partly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, and is attached to the upper part of the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum accompanies it in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary: OvARY (fig. 185). The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with position, the testes of the male. They are contained in the broad ligaments of the uterus, one in each.