DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 760 Ci-est on aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On tlie inner ^vall, nearer the front inner wall: ^^^^^^ ^^ic back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista (&). In front of it- front of the ridge is situate a circidar depression,/wm hemis- pherica (a), which is pierced by minute apertures for nerves and Fig. 242.* and aque- duct beliind. Roof has ii fossil. Three semi- circular canals;' preparation of them. Length. Termination by five open- ings : one end dilated. vessels, and corresponds with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. Beliind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two of the semicircular canals, is the small aperture of the aqueduct of the vestibule (c), which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The roof is occupied by a slight transversely oval depression^ fovea semi-elliptica ; this is separated fi-om the fovea hemispherica by a prolongation of the crista (&) on the inner wall before men- tioned. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS (fig. 243) are three osseous tubes, which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. Dissection. These small canals will be easily brought into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or hone forceps. Two may be seen openhig near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are unequal in length, and each fonns more than half an ellipse. They communicate at each end Avith the vestibule, but ■ the contiguous ends of two are hlended together so as to give only five openings into that cavitj'. Each is marked by one dilated * View of the vestibule obtained by cutting away the outer boundary in a fetus, enlarged three times. a. Fovea hemispherica. h. Crista vestibuli. c. Aperture of aqueduct of the vestibule, d. Common opening of two semi- circular canals, e. Upper vertical semicircular canal pai'tly laid open. /. Horizontal semicircular canal, partly opened. fj. Opening of the scala vestibuli.