725 STRUCTUEE OF CORNEA. its transparency is destroyed by disturbance of the position of the strata. The tissue when boiled gives chondrin. Between the corneal layers are flattened irregular spaces, wliich join freely with one another ; and these intervals are occupied by nucleated stellate cells, called corneal corpuscles. In the healthy condition bloodvessels do not permeate it, but cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Nerres ramify in it, after losing- their opacity at the circumference : they are said to form a subepithelial plexus on the anterior surface, fi-om which varicose fibrils are prolonged amongst the pieces of the epithelium. The membrane at the back of the cornea (fig. 22G)—menihrane of Demours—consists of a basement layer covered by epithelium. The hasement layer, e (posterior elastic lamina, Bowman), may be peeled off after a cut has been made across the cornea. It is dense, hard and elastic, measuring ^J^tli to ness ; it is very brittle, tearing readily when an attempt is made to separate it, and curls up when it is free, with the attached surface innermost. Though very elastic, the struc- ture is destitute of fibres. It is always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into processes ("pillars of the iris ") which blend with the outer margin of the iris, and with the sclerotic and choroid Comciil spaces, and cells. Has not blood-ves- sels. Nerves. Layer lie- luud coniea. Basement layer; ^Q^^jyth of an inch in tliick- coats. A laminar ejiitkelium, a, like that on serous membranes, clothes its fi-ee surface (fig. 226). The covjunctica in front of the cornea (fig. 22G) consists chiefly of epithelium cells, though there is a subjacent basement-like stratum. The hasement layer, b (ant. elastic lamina. Bowman), is transparent, and only fi'om "■cToo*^ ToVo*^^ "^^^^ thick. It seems to be a somewhat hardened piece of the cornea, without corneal si:)aces and cor- puscles. From it fine tlu-eads are prolonged into the proper corneal layers, as in the woodcut. The ej)it1ielium, D, is formed of three or four layers of scales, the deeper being columnar, but the superficial laminar in fonn. Vascular Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 22'J). The next covering is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of blood-vessels characters ; attachment at margin ; lias an ex>i- theliuui. '^-r:^^^ Conjunctiva. Basement layer has an epi- thelium. Choroid coat is vascular. * Vertical section A of the cornea.—l. Basement layer of coi-nea, with fZ, the conjunctival epithelium on it. c. Oblique fibres from it to the layers of the cornea, e. Basement lamina, witli /, epithelium on it of the mem- brane of Demoiu-s. a. Surface View of the epithelium of the membrane of Demours.