579 CORPORA CAVERNOSA PEXIS. stratum of longitudinal unstriated musculai- fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- mucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratum differs along the canal:—It is most developed in the pro- state, where it forms the projection of the crest; in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms the greater portion of the submucous layer. In the prostatic and membranous divisions of the urethra there is, in addition, a thin enveloping laj'-er of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued backwards fi-om the corpus spongiosum urethrEC to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the Penis. The form and the connections of the penis having been described in page 555, the tissues of which it is composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one side of the penis, it will show this body to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) incased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 179, ?•). These bodies form the bulk of the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- taining erectile structure. Each is fixed behind by a pointed process, crus penis, to the upper part of the pubic arch for about an inch; and blends Avith its fellow in the body of the penis, after a distance of an inch and a half. There is a slight swelling on the crus, called the bulb of the corpus cavcrnosum (Kobelt). Each corpus cavemosum is composed of a fibrous case with a cavernous or trabecular structure inside, with vessels in the intervals Fig. 180.* nature; ari-ange- meut in uietln'ii. Erectile tissue throu^rliout- Peuis formed of two vascular erectile bodies. Coi-pora cavernosa, attached belli ud separately, blend to- gether ia front; bulb. Tlie struc- tures of which it consists. of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fibrous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 180), A * View of the fibres of the case of the corpus cavemosum. h. The external or longitudinal Layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. The pectiniforra septum.