349 PULMONARY ARTERY. Fis. 104.* from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductus arteriosi. The right branch is longer than the left. In its course to the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava superior, and rests ou the bronchus or piece of the air tube : and as it passes outwards it lies above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe. The left hvanch is rather smaller than the right ; it is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fis- sure of the root of the lung, wiiere it ends in two branches for the two pul- monic lobes. Rif,'ht braiK^h is longest. As the right and left Left branch. branches of the pulmo- nary artery pass outwards, they cross the air-tubes residting from the divi- sion of the trachea, and enclose with them a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. The ligamentous structure was the continuation In the fetus of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period the vessel receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arteriosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the origin of the last great vessel <it the head and neck from the arch. As the lungs do not give passage to tlie circulating fluid liefore birth, the impure blood in the pulmonary artery passes througli the arterial duct into the aorta below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may l)e transmitted to the placenta to be purified. But after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of tlirough the arterial •duct; and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is obliterated before the eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The AORTA is the great systemic vessel which conveys the blood from the heart to the dilferent parts of the body. It arches back- wards at first to reach the spinal colunm, and is continued on the spine through the chest and abdomen. In the thorax the vessel is Space at the bifurcation. Condition of tlie artery in the fetus. Use. Tliis great vessel ex- tends * The formation of the septum ventriculorum by the fibres of both ventricles is represented in this cut.