DISSECTION OF THE BRAIX. 204 On outer smface. Frontal coH' volutions. Four outer: one ascend- ing. and three longitu- dinal. Inferior, ■with mar- ginal. Four jiarie- tal convolu- tions : first, or as- cending. second, or parietal lobule; third, or supra- marginal : A. Convolutions of the Outer Surface. About tlie middle of the hemisphere are two straight vertical convolutions, one on each side of the fissure of Eolando, R, which will serve as a starting- point. In front of those two the convolutions are longitudinal; and behind they take an oblique direction to the back of the brain. a. The frontal convolutions (fig. 60) form two sets, one on the outer, the other on the under surface of the fi-ontal lobe : those on the outer aspect are four, viz., one vertical or posterior, and three longitudinal or anterior, as follows :— The ascending frontal (■*) is the vertical, straight convolution, which bounds in front the Rolando fissure. It reaches down from the median to the Sylvian fissure (posterior limb). Along the anterior border it is joined by the three frontal convolutions ; and below it unites with the most anterior convolution of the parietal lobe round the lower ejid of the fissure of Rolando, R. The three loMjituclinal frontal convolutions are much subdivided and blended, and are separated by two intervening sulci. They are named superior (^), middle (*), and inferior : they communi- cate behind by secondary gyri with the ascending frontal (^), the highest having often two processes ; and are directed fonvards one outside another to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. The tmder or orbital surface of the firontal lobe, concave, is^ repreifcnted in fig. 61. Near the inner margin is a sulcus, the olfactory, lodging the olfactoiy nerve ; and internal to it is the lower end of the marginal convolution (''). External to the sulcus lies a convolution, which is i:)ointed behind, but widened and sub- divided in front, and encloses smaller gyri and sulci within its coil : tliis has been subdivided into three parts, an inner (^), a posterior (^), and an external ("). b. The parietal convolutions (fig. 60), like the outer fi'ontal, are four in number ; an anterior, or ascending, which is vertical along the fissure of Rolando, and three directed back fi'om it. The ascending parietal (^), narrow and straight, limits behind the fissure of Rolando, and reaches from the middle line to the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, S. Above, it runs into the parietal lobule, and below, it joins the ascending fi'ontal round the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. Behind it is separated from the other gyri of the parietal lobe by a sulcus, / P.^ The parietal lobule ('') appears to be an appendage to the upper end of the ascending convolution, and is continued back along the upper margin of the hemisphere as far as the parieto-occipital fissure. Subdivided on the surface into two chief parts it is joined behind to the occipital lobe by the small annectant gyrus (a). To its outer side lies the upper part of the intraparietal sulcus; and here it joins usually the following convolution, A. The supra-marginal convolution, A, lying outside and below the * The intraparietal sulcus (/ P, fig. CO, Turner), is placed between tb& ascending parietal and the supra-marginal convolution, A. Above, it is directed back near the xipper part of the hemisphere, separating the parietal lobule (5') and the supra-marginal convolution, A.