CHAPTER XI. DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The organ of hearing is made up of complex parts, which are Constitu- lodged in, and attached to the surface of the temporal bone. The fundamental structure, as in the eyeball, is an expansion of Outline of a special nerve over a membrane containing fluid. This delicate helriii°^ apparatus is enclosed in bone for its protection ; and it is surrounded by certain accessory bodies which convey to it the vibrations pro- duced by the sonorous undulations of the air. The auditory apparatus may be arranged into the parts outside, Arrange- and those within the substance of the temporal bone. tvro sets * In the EXTERNAL SET wluch may be first examined, are included outer set the pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal : the former has been noticed at p. 33, and the latter is described below. The AUDITORY CANAL (fig. 236) (ineutus auditorius 6xt6imus) is the Auditory passage which leads from the pinna to the ca^'lty (tympanum) in the temporal bone, and transmits inwards sonorous imdulations of the air. Dissection. To obtain a view of this canal, a recent temporal How to ob- bone is to be taken, to wlaich the cartilaginous pinna remains ont.*^ ^^^^ attached. x\fter the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn ofE; and the front of the meatus, except a ring internally which gives suppox-t to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone forceps. The canal (fig. 236) is about one inch and a quarter in length. Length, and is formed ]3art]y by bone, and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely. In shape it is rather flattened from direction, before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous part. The size and outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ^ ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The cartilaginous part (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in cartiiagi- length, and is formed chiefly by the pinna of the outer ear which i^'"'* is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed is deficient by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) cross the piece of cartilage. The osseous part (b) is about three quarters of an inch long in Osseous the adult, and is constricted sometimes about the middle. Its outer ^''^'■'^' 3 B 2