294 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. third, fourth, nfth. On the sides of the lingers: lateral offsets. Dissection of the deep tendons. Divide ligament, open sheaths. Synovial sac snrroiinds tendons. Snperficial flexor in the hand. Insertion. Slit for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers: it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. Oil thefinrjers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are super- ficial to the arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments for the ball and the pulp beneath the nail. In their course forwards the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches: one of these is directed backwards by the side of tlie metacarpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 278), is continued to tlie dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection. The tendons of the flexor muscles may be followed next to their termination. To expose them the ulnar artery sliould be cut through below the origin of the profunda branch ; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been divided, the palmar arch is to be tin-own towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned forwards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexgii tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are suiTounded by a large and loose synovial membrane, wliich projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of the thumb and that of the little finger.'-* Flexor suhlimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs, as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the sheath of the fingers (fig. 82, e), and are inserted each by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor subhmis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but near the front of the first phalanx it is split for the passage of the tendon of the latter muscle. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- brical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the AVTist, and thrown towards the fingers. Aftei-wards the areolar tissue should be taken away. Flexor prof undus. At the lower border of the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four * Theile refers the notice of tliis fact to M. Maslieurat-Lagemard in No 18 of the "Gazette Medicale," for 1839. u, m i>o. ijs