DISSECTION OF THE L^liiYNX. 154 two branches :—One turns to the dorsinn, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen cascum. The otlier passes beneath the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the muscular sub- stance ; it supphes the papilla? circumvallatre, as well as the raucout? membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Arteries and VESSELS. The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual of each veins. ^.j^j^ . these, together with the veins, have been examined (p. 97). Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Outline of larynx. Dissection. Situation and form. Size. Position. Is vei-y moveable. Six special muscles of laiynx. Dissection of the exter- nal set of muscles. The LARYNX is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in whic]> the voice is produced. It is constnicted of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by cutthig tluough its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. If the student learns the laryngeal cartilages before he begin.s the dissection of the larynx, he will obtain more knowledge from the study of this Section. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is placed in front of the pharynx, and l)etween the carotid vessels. It is pyrami- dal in fonn. The base is turned upwards, and is attached to the liyoid bone ; and the apex is continuous with the trachea. In length it measures about one inch and a half ; in width at tlu^ top one inch and a quarter, and at the lower end one inch. The front is prominent along the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharyn.x. The larynx is very moveable, and during deglutition is elevated and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles. Muscles. Commonly five pair and one single muscle are des- cribed in the larynx. Three are outside the cartilages, and three are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with pins^ the dissector may clear aAvay from the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles, viz. constrictor, sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid. • In front, l)etween the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, one of the three small external muscles,—crico-thyroid (fig. 39), will be recog- nised. The other two external muscles (fig. 40) are situate at the pes-