175. MOVEMENTS OF THE HEAD. Between the lateral bands is a central odontoid ligament, which With a cen- connects the tip of the odontoid process to the margin of the ^^^^ basilar process of the occipital bone. Union of the atlas nrith the axis. The transverse ligament of the To fix odon- atlas (fig. 49, is a flat, strong, arched band behind the odontoid Sl.J'ir.r' process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle below the inner part of the articular process. This ligament is widest in the transveisf centre ; and at this spot it has a band of longitudinal fibres con- iis'^"'«"t. nected with the upper and lower margins (fig. 49), so as to produce named cru- a cruciform appearance: the upper piece is inserted into the basilar process, and the lower, into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito-axoid ligament. This hgament fixes the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring (fig, 50). When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut through, articular the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous surface.^. Fig. 50.* surfaces ; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate the movements of the odontoid and two process, one serving for the joint between this piece of bone and inembranes the atlas; and the other for the joint between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. The articular surfaces of the Capsule aud occipital bone and atlas are surrounded, by a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, and the hollowed surface of the atlas inwards. A synovial membrane is present on each side. synovial s;i(; The articular surfaces of the first two vertebras are enclosed on to nrticniar each side by a capsule (fig. 4G, ■*), which is stronger in front than behind. On opening tlie joint the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. Movements of the head. The head can be bent forwards and MovL-ments of licflcl backwards ; turned from side to side—rotation ; and inclined towards kinds of. the shoulder. * First vertebra -with the odontoicl process removed from the socket formed liy the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament with its offsets cut. 2. Socket for the odontoid process.