71 SUBCLAYIAX VEIN. l)0(ly it divides into branches wliich ramify in the under surface, and communicate with the superior thyroid, and its fellow, forming a very free anastomosis between those vessels. Near the larynx a laryngeal branch is distributed to that tube, gives laiyn- and other oifsets are furnished to the trachea. ^^'^^ The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards and ascend- between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in bl-anclu'"''^ branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. The reins corresponding with the branches of the thyroid axis Veins eor- have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and to^arteries^ transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein begins in the thyroid body, and descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to the innominate vein. The sujierior intercostal artery arises fi"om the j)Osterior part of Superior the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck of the first rib: artery"^*^^ its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in connnon with tliis branch is the deej) cei'viccd arteiy Dee-p cervU (art. profunda cers'icis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an ^^ery. intercostal artery (Quain), it passes backwards between the trans- verse 2>rocess f)f the last cci'vical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to or beneath the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips continued upwards from the erector spina;, to end beneath the eomplexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spincd branch (Quain) is fre(]uently given fi-om the second part Siiinal of the artery; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intei'\-ertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVIAN VEIN has not the same limits as the companion Subclavian artery, reaching only from the lower edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the inno- minate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus. The anterior aiul external jugular join the subclavian vein outside Its the scalenus, aiul the vertebral vein enters it inside that muscle. ' Into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins the oiiening of right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 27, ^) ; and at the like spot, on the Julct!?^"*^" left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends (fig. 27, *'). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is placed outside the Valves, opening of the external jugular vein.''^ It should be borne in mind tliat not unfrequently the vein is as Position high in the neck as the third part of its companion arteiy ; and that '"'^y^^^^- the vein has been seen twice with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. * See a paper on the Valves in the Veins of the Neck in the Edin. Med. Journal, of Nov., 1856, by Dr. Struthers.