FOURTH VENTEICLE. 229 ^ibout half way down, the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (Z), which projecting over it forms part of the roof ; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body (fig. 55, ^). The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above Roof, by the valve of Vieussens (Z;), and the under part of the vermiform process ; and below, by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the spinal cord. The fioor of the ventricle is constituted by the posterior surfaces Floor, -of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along Parts in it its centre is a median fissure, which ends below, near the point of fissure"*^^"^" the calamus, in a minute hole,—the aperture of the canal of the ami ce'ntrui cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped elevation, cauaL the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (o). This eminence reaches the Fasciculus whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inferiorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more prominent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the lower border of the pons. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight Fovete, ^•oove, which points out the position of two small fossas (fovea anterior et posterior). The posterior (r) is near the lower end of posterior, the groove ; and the antenor (jj) is opposite the crus cerebelli. anterior. Above the anterior fossa is a deposit of very dark gray substance. Locus which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum <^r^s"^- covering it from it a bluish streak is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the White stria?, pons, are some white lines, which vary much in their arrangement (fig. 55): they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the iiuditory nerve (p. 188). Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other eminences Eminences in the floor of the ventricle indicating the position of the nuclei of nucleiJ^ origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the space are three slight eminences on each in lower side for the hypo-glossal, vagus, and auditory nerves :—that for ''^^^' the hypo-glossal is close to the middle line below, and corresponds nuclei of the with the lower pointed end of the eminentia teres. The other two, ^'"i''""''' outside that eminence, are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove (fovea posterior); the lower is vagus, the nucleus of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and the upper is the nucleus of the auditory nerve. Running into the lower auditory and rpart of the vagus nucleus, is the nucleus of the accessory portion accessory. ot the spinal accessory nerve. (See p. 189.) In the upper half of the space some other nex-ves take origin J^'^j^^iPi^c'' fi-om nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is placed over ' ' .the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial }ierve : it is a * The term locus cseruleus has been applied to the spot, and the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.