THIRD AND NASAL NERVES. 43 nearly a quarter of an inch wide, which is attached by fibrous ti»sue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margins of the pully on the tendon ; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the motion of the tendon, this prolongation must be cut aAvay. For the use of the muscle, see the description of the inferior Use. oblique, p. 49. Dissection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided Dissection, about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 11), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve: these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the pos- terior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external To find len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fine *au!l-iion nerve-threads (ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nerve ; and by tracing the ciliary nerves backwards, they will guide to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head) and its branches. The dissector should find then two and offsets. I)ranches fi'em the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion ; the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind, and that of the third nerve, shoi't and thick, joins the lower part. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, Separate third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the "^^^'^s- external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Tliird nervu sinus (fig. 4, ^) ; bmt at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachry- mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between as it enters the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two ' ] tarts. The upper piece (fig. 11, ^), the smallest in size, ends in the,its upper under surface of the levator palpcbras a^d superior rectus muscles, '^'"•'•"'^i'. The loioer piece supplies some of the other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). bi.iuch. The naso;l branch of the ophtlialmic nerv^e (fig. 11, ^) enters the Nasal nerve, orbit between the heads of the rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards to reach ithe anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal General o o . 1 • 1 . • f^ourse to (nasal) artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margm the face, of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at tlie front of the 'cribriform plate : and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed outwards between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath In the orbit.