58 DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. Lymphatic glands of neck. The lymphatic glamh {g\nm\\\\<xi concatenata}) lie along the stenio- inastoid mu.sclo, and are contiinious at the lower part of the neck witli tlie glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a super- ficial chain along the external jugular vein. Dissection. Dissection. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the ditference hi the vessels may he observed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, presen^ative fluid or salt having been previously applied. Directions. It is supposed that the body will now be turned on the fore part for the examination of the Back ; and during the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (Dissection of thk Back.) After the completion of the Back, the student should take out the spinal cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. The back to be exainineil now. FRONT OF THE NECK. Detach the head., Examine right side of neek. Position of l>art. Dissection to raise skin to show l)latysnui. Anterior ])art of jilatysnia. Insertion into jaw. Crossing of the libres. Directions. Supposing the thorax and Back finished, the head and neck may be detached from the trunk by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebra}, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the head. The dissector con- tinues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 35). Position. Supjiosing the facial nerve completed, a small narrow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Further, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will readily allow the piece of integinnent in front of the sterno-mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia, containing very fine offsets of the superficial cervical ncr\'e. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat which covers it, carrying the knife down and back in the direction of the fleshy fibres. Platysma Myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz. from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers the greatei portion of the anterior triangular si)ace. At the base of the jaw it is inserted between the symphysis and the masseter muscle ; "while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joiniii"- the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek bone. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. Below the chin the