184 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". external and interna]. External of cerebellum. Dissection. Care to lie taken in removing pia mater. The external veins of the upper surface are collected into the superior longitudinal sinus (p. 10) ; and those of the lateral and under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especially the lateral sinus. The deep veins of the interior of the cerebrum join the veins of Galen, and reach the straight sinus. The veins of the cerebellum end differently above and below. On the upper surface they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occipital and lateral sinuses. Dissection. The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves is to be defined. Over the greater part of tlie cerebrum, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater can be detached Avith tolerable facility by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely as to requne some care in removing it without tearing the substance of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane bounding the opening of the fourth ventricle will probably be taken away : therefore the posi- tion, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum should be now noted. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. Section II. Origin is apparent and real. Eeal enters giay matter. Classifica- tion as nine or twelve pairs. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The cranial ner\^es take origin from the enceplialon, with one ex- ception (spinal accessory), and pass from it through apertures in the skull. The origin of a nen-e is not determined by the place at which it appears on the surface of the brain, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain substance. Each nerve has therefore a super- ficial or apparent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be any doubt; but there is much difference of opinion concerning the deep origin, in consequence of the difficulty of tracing the roots. When the roots are followed into the encephalon, they enter masses of gray substance, which are looked upon as ganglia of origin. The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve pairs according to the mode of classifying them.* ' * Those anatomists, who take the smaller nnmher after the example of Wilhs, include in one nerve all the trunk, contained in the same apertiire of the skull: as m the case of the eighth nerve, M-hicli consists of three trunks m the foramen jagulare. But those who are disposed with Sommerring to