DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Branches . joining it. Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right side below the upper two spaces ; some of the intercostals of the ■Use of vein. L.eft lower Teiu begins in 4»bdoinen, •ends in larger •azj-gos. Branches. Left upper vein. (Esophagus in the thorax ] losses through -iliaphragni. Parts covering it, beneath it, .and on sides. Three coats are in it. A muscular coat of left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins ; and some small tcsophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial vein. By means of the right vein the inferior communicates with the superior cava, so that blood may reach the heart fiom the lower part of the body, or the opposite,^if one of the cavae should be obstructed. The left loioer azygos vein (fig. lOG, begins in the abdomen m the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Entering the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the dia- phragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that vessel and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left upper azygos vein (fig. 106, *) is fonned by oflisets from the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding, lle- ceiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The a=:sorHAGUS or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which extends fi-om the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion has been described at p. 120, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing m the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diaphragm, Avhere it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the esophageal opening of that muscle. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the longus colli muscle and the vertebra?; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the intercostal vessels, and the aorta. Laterally it touches the left pleura above the arch, and both pleura? beloAv, but more of the right than the left. Below the bronchus the pneuinogastric nerves sur- round the a'sophagus with their branches; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with tow, it will be easy to show a muscular, fibrous, and mucous coat, one within another. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and possesses two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the fibres are red, but below that spot the colour becomes paler.