DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 194 Nucleus and transverse commissure. FiUet, composi- tion. Restiform body enters cere- bellum. Pyramid passes to cerebrum. Decussation of medulla. Mr. Clarke's ^•iew of the decnssatiou formed by lateral cohMnn, posterior column, and gray substance. Commis- sural llbres. Superficinl set; beginning and endinpr. Fibne arci- fonnes. Deep set; beginning, and ending. Raphe. Situation, and use. Gray matter of f lic me- dulla. The nucleus is tlie yellowish white substance filhng the capsule; and fi-om it and the capsule issue transverse fibres, which unite the olivaiy bodies across the middle line (fig. 58, rj): this uniting band is close below the anterior median fissure. The fillet is a narrow band of fibres, which ascends from the olivaiy body to the cerebrum (fig. 57). It is formed in part by longitudinal fibres of the lateral tract which diverge to enclose the corpus olivare, and in part by fibres derived fi-om the sac. The restiform body (fig. 54, is continuous inferiorly Avith the posterior column of the cord. Superiorly it bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons. The^osfe?-iorp?/7-amw7 runs below into the posterior median column- of the cord, and is directed above along the floor of the fourth ventricle, joining the fibres of the lateral tract of the same side. The decussation of the medulla oblongata (pyramids) (fig. 56, 5) occupies the anterior groove of the oblong medulla, at the distance of three quarters of an inch from the pons. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and is constructed by the crossing of tlu*ec or four bundles of fibres from each side. In this intercommunication the fibres are derived, according to Mr. Clarke, from all the constituent parts of the half of the spinal cord of the opposite side except from the anterior column; but the fibres from the lateral column of that side, blended with offsets from the contiguous gray substance, form the chief portion of the decussation. Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla. In each half of the medulla oblongata are fine transverse fibres, both on the exterior and in its substance. At the middle line the fibres of opposite sides unite, and give rise to a commissure between the halves (raphe). The superficial transverse fibres (fig. 58, s, and fig. 54), more marked in some bodies, issue from the nucleus in the restiform body (Clarke), and advance over the surface of the oliA\ary and pyramidal bodies to the anterior fissure, where they enter the half of the medulla of the same, and of the opposite side. Below the olivaiy body they form oftentimes a distinct band, the fibrm arciformes (fig. 54). The deep transverse fibres (fig. 58, h) are to be seen with the microscope on thin hardened transverse sections ; they begin behind in nuclei of the posterior j^yramid and restiform body (Clarke), and penetrate between the longitudinal fibres, and through the corpus olivare, as they reach forwards to enter the raphe in the middle line. The raphe (fig. 58, h and g), in which the arched fibres meet, occupies the middle line of the medulla above the decussation of the pyramids, and serves as the commissure between the halves of the medulla and the olivary bodies. Gray matter of the medulla oblongata. In the medulla oblongata there are the remains of the gray matter of the spinal cord ; and some special deposits. Cross sections of the part when hardened would be required to see them.