153 J^ERVES OF THE TONGUE. .-interior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue, at Ending. AvhicU they end in the faseia. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue ; and tliey will Use. bend the point back and up. The inferior lingualis (fig. 38, ^) is much stronger than the pre- Lower lin- ceding, and is placed imder the tongue, between the hyo and ,genio-hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia at Origin, the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle: from its attached surface fasciculi are continued vertically Ending, through the transverse fibres upwards to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, wliere the nuiscle is overlaid by the • st3^1o-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that nuiscle and dis- tributed with it. Action. Like the upper lingualis this muscle shortens the tongue, Use. and bends the point down and back. The mucous membrane is a continuation of tliat lining the mouth, Muoous and is provided with a lamhiar epithelium. It partly invests the jts'ypSthe-' tongi:e, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds ^i^""- (p. 148). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-ejnglottid folds, Folds, ■connecting this body to the root of the tongue ; the central one of these is called the fra:;num of the epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished with numerous glands, and some follicles. The follicles are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Follicles, surrounded by closed capsules in the submucous tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil : they occupy the dorsum of tlie tongue between the papilhe circumvallatas and the epiglottis, where they form a stratinn, close beneath the mucous membrane. The glands (lingual) are racemose or compound in structure, and glands similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the ' mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the papilla? vallatte. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papillae, where they project ijito the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others into the hollows around the large papilhe, or into the foramen caecum and tlie depressions of tlie follicles. Opposite the papillaa vallata?, at the margin of the tongue, is a l^^^'^V'^j^^ .small cluster of submucous glands. Under the tip of tlie tongue, j^^^nj^^g^^^-jj on each side of the frasimm, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands imbedded in the niuscuhu- fil)rcs, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nei-ves on the under part of each half of Nerves from tlircc the tongue, viz. the gnistatory, the hypoglossal, and the glosso- sources, pharyngeal (fig. 23). Tlie gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the n\uscular snli- gustatory, stance, and to the two smallest sets of papilhx), conical and fungi- form ; it joins also the hypo-glossal nen^e. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the ^i>To-glos- muHcular substance of the tongue. The qlosso-vhaninneal nen-e divides under tlie hyo-glossus uito and glosso- ^ J ^ -J -J ^ pharyngeal.