INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 561 "When the vessels are prepared the bladder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC AKTERY (fig. 174, g) is One of the trunks }-^}iQrna.\ resulting from the division of the common iliac ai'tery, and furnishes ' ^ ^' branches to. the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the generative and genital organs, and to the limb. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk of large capacity, which 1'^,^,^"*^ measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards " as far as the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery terminates generally in termination; two large pieces, from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends for- Avards to the bladder. In entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of the lumbo-sacral connection, nerve. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, whicli is pos- position of terior to it, and somewhat to the outer part on the right side. The hranches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the Brandies, following manner:—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbai*, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And from the anterior portion come the vesical (upper and lower), ha;mor- rhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic: in the female there are in addition the uterine and vaginal branches. Artery in the fcetus. In the foetus the hypogastric artery takes the Hypogastric place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. fffiuJI, At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to the the bladder, apex. Beyond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally at the umbilicus the vessels of opposite sides come in con- and beyond: tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the arteiy, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased the hypo- Tmnsfomia- gastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of the current that of*tiio of blood through it, and finally becomes obliterated, more or less ''^^l^^t. completely, as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the upper part of the bladder, and gives origin to the vesical arteries. Peculiarities. The length of the internal iliac artery yaries from half an Trunk variea inch to three inches, its extreme measurements; but in two thirds of a certain lengtli. number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. Size. When the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, and is Size, placed at the back of the thigh, the parent vessel is larger than the external iliac. 0 o