DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 238 nerve of Wrisberg. -Cutaneous nerves of ■••ervical plexus. Cutaneous branches of intercostals; two rows. One along middle line. Tlie other I •on side of the chest: these have anterior and liosterior jiieces. ■One reaches .the arm. 'Third nerve. Office of the breast. The posterior pieces of the highest two nei-ves are larger than the rest. They are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junc- tion is to be found there with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous nerves of tlie cervical plexus. These cross the clavicle and are distributed to the integuments over the pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number and larger in size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near tlie lower border of the pectoralis major ; they join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived fi-om the trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs (fig. G9), Of these there are two sets:—One set, lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arise fi-om the trunks of the nerves about mid way between the spine and the sternum. The other set, anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves piercing the pectoral muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments as slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cerA^cal plexus ; and the others supply the integuments and the mammaiy gland. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany the nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves (fig. 69) issue Avitli companion vessels between the digitations of the serratus muscle, and divide into an anterior and a posterior piece. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk. The anterior offsets bend over the pectoral muscle, and end in the integuments and the mammary gland : they increase in size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second inter- costal trunk wants commonly the anterior offset. The jJosterior offsets C) end in the integuments over the latis- simus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula, and decrease in size from above down. The branch of the secoiid intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and perforates the fascia of the axilla ; it supplies the integu- ment of the arm (p. 26G), and is named intercosto-humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg (^) by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal gives filaments likewise to the arm-pit and the inner part of the arm. The MAMMA is the gland for the secretion of the milk, and is situate on the lateral aspect of the fore part of the chest.* * If the student has a male body, he may disregard the description of the mamma ; and if_ the body is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.