OBTUKATOR NERVE AND BRANCHES. 633 articular arterj^, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. The ADDUCTOR BREVis (fig. 196, ^) has a thin fleshy and aponeu- Adductor rotic attachment, about two inches in depth, to the fi-ont of the hip STn atlhe bone with the gi-acihs. Tlie muscle arises from the pubic border origin of the bone close to and outside the gracilis, reaching upwards as high as the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the gracilis. It is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line leading from the and wide at linea aspera to the small trochanter. tlon.'"^^^' In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus, vavia ia with the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda arteiy ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their in- sertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, behind, with the deep piece of the obturator nei-ve and a branch of the inner circumflex arteiy. In contact Avith the upper border is the and at upper obturator extemus, F, and the internal circumflex arteiy passes be- tween the two. Action. This muscle adducts the limb with slight flexion of the Use on hip joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur it will ^"^^^^^ , , T J. 1.1 1 • and fixed, balance and move ionvards the pelvis. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 196, is a branch of the lumbar Obturator plexus (p. 543), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as ^^^^ well as the hip and knee joints. The nei^ve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and js divided it divides in that opening into two pieces, wliich are named super- ficial and deep from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. A. The siqierficial part (') of the nerve is directed over the adduc- The super- tor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to ^"^^ the femoral arteiy, on which it is distributed ; at the lower border femoral of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two to join in a plexus artery, and with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 628), and . supply the teguments.*^ Near the pelvis or in the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve branches are sends outwards an articular twig to the hip joint with the joint-artery. *^ Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to ductor brevis, and the gracilis. adductors, B. The deep part (^) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of Deep part of the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:— Muscular branches enter the obturator externus as the nerv-e ends in pierces it; others are frimished to the large, and sometimes to the mat^^us^"^ short adductor. A slender articular branch (fig. 196, enters the fibres of the and gives adductor magnus, and passes through it near the linea aspera to Sg^iut * In some bodies the superficial part of the nen-e is of large size, and Las a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, whose place it takes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus.