LIGAMENTS OP THE RIB. the rib, and on the other to the libro-cartilage between the vertebrae. In tlie joints of tlie first, eleventli, and twelfth ribs, wliere the liead is not in contact witli tlie intervertebral substance, tlie ligament is ■absent. Synovial sacs. There are two sacs in the articulation, one on each ^vitii twi> side of the interarticular ligament. In the three joints before men- sai'h"^"^^ tioned (1st, 11th, and 12th) there is but one sac. Movements. In the costo-vertebral articulation there is a gliding Kind of of the rib up and down, and forwards and backwai-ds. The move- "'o^'enicut; ment of the head is more limited in the iirst seven ribs which are fixed to the sternum than in the others ; and is greatest in the last degree, two, in consequence of the ribs being fi-ee anteriorly, and not fixed l)ehind by a joint to the transverse process. During the increase and decrease of the chest the body of the Motion of rib is rotated out and in, around a line subtending the arc of the ^' " circle of which its fore part is a segment. The degree of motion is ^•reatest in the longest ribs. Ligaments of the Neck and Tubercle. Three ligaments (costo- Ligaments transverse) pass fi-om the neck and tubercle of the rib to two trans- rib^*^*^ " verse processes. And there is a synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. The anterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 108, is larger and anterior longer than the others. It ascends fi-om the upper edge of the neck verse"*^''^"^" to the transverse process of the upper of the two vertebrae witli which the head articulates : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this ligament and tlie vertebra the posterior branches of the inter- <:ostal vessels and dorsal nei^ve pass ; and externally it is joined by the fibi-ous membrane between the strata of the intercostal muscles. The posterior costo-transverse (tig. 115, •'') is placed at the posterior J.'°gto-traus- ^ispect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the rough verse, part of the tubercle and the tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebne touched by the rib head. This band is longest in the lowest two articulations. The mulclle or interosseous costo-transverse is placed horizontally middle between the neck of the rib and the transverse process with whicli verse! the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish areolar tissue. In the lowest two ribs the interosseous costo-transverse blends in in the two one band Avith the posterior costo-transverse ligament. ^^^^ Synovial sac. If the posterior ligament is divided, a synovial mem- Synovial hrane will be exposed in the joint between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process. In the lowest two ribs, which do not touch transverse processes, where the synovial sac is absent. Movement. In the motion of the rib, the bone glides upwards and Motion, downwards on the articular facet of the transverse process ; and the degree will be limited by the surrounding costo-transverse ligaments. B B 2