615 COURSE AND COVERINGS OF THE HERNIA. Anterior to the canal, are Poupart's ligament and the upper end parts of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the outer side of the canal, but in the sheath, is the femoral vein. Through this channel the intestine passes fi-om the abdomen in femoral hernia. The crural ring''^ is the upper opening of the crural canal. It is Crural ring: on a level with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 140, and situation is larger in the female than in the male. Oval in shape, its greatest' ' measurement is fi-om side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch ; and it is filled by a lymphatic gland. The structures around the ring, outside the crural sheath, are structures similar to those bounding the canal, viz. in front the superficial and the deep crural arch, and behind, the pubes covered by the pectineus muscle and the fascia lata. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament with the conjoined tendon ; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. The position of vessels on the several sides of the ring is stated at page 464. Septum crurcde. That part of the subperitoneal fatty layer which Crural sep- is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has been named ' crural septum from its position between the thigh and abdomen position; (Cloquet). The situation of the septum is now visible, but its how formed, characters are ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 463). Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion of Femoral intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut descends in the crural sheath, being placed on the inner side of the vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its pro- Course; gress from the abdomen, and passes through the crural ring, and first ver- along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface next of the tliigh, where it becomes elongated transversely; and should audThen the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on the abdomen, upwards, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector How it is the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- i,ack.^"''^"^* testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it Avill be necessaiy if the protrusion is small to direct it backwards and upwards; but if the hernia is large it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and after- wards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity the thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Coverings. As the intestine protrudes it is clothed by the follow- Cowrings peritoneum, * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature be made to resemble more that used in describing inguinal hernia, by calling this opening the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture ?