724 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Endiug ill front. Outer and inner sur- face. Thickness. Sinus circidaris. Formed of white and yellow libres with cells. Vessels and nerves. Cornea; form, size, extent. Ciure. Surfaces. Action on the rays of light. ■ Composi- tion. Coniea proper is formed of layers; its tissue continued into that of the sclerotic. being due to the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is con- tinuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached ; on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch fi-om the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Where it joins the cornea it becomes again somcAvhat thickened. In its sub- stance near the union with the cornea is a small flattened venous space, the canal of Schlemm (siiius circularis iridis) (fig. 233, ''). Structure. The sclerotic coat is formed of layers of white fibrous tissue, collected into bundles, with a fine network of yellow or elastic fibres. In it are scattered nucleated cells, fusiform in shai^e,. or possessing rays, and some with pigment. Though interlaced with one another, the fibres have rather a longitudinal direction to- wards the back of the ball, and a transverse one at the outer surface near the cornea. Only a few vessels ramify in the membrane, and end in capillaries with large meshes. The presence of nerves in it is a subject for inquiry. Cornea (fig. 225, d). This firm transparent membrane (coniea pellucida) forms about one sixth of the eyeball, and measures about half an inch transversely, but rather less from above down. Its shape is circular ; though, when viewed in front, it appears largest in the transverse direction, in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure encroaching further on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex anteriorly, but concave posteriorly ; and it is -Jpth to -j^jjth of an inch in thickness. Its anterior is of rather less extent than its posterior surface. At the circumference it is thinned, and is blended with the sclerotic coat by continuity of tissue. Sup- ported by the aqueous humour, it deflects the light transmitted to the eye, and influences by its greater or smaller convexity degrees of sight at difirerent distances. After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour ; or, if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered opaque by infiltration of the tissue by that flnid. Structure (fig. 22G). The cornea is laminar in texture. It is con- structed of a special thick part called corimi j^roi^er: in front of this is the conjunctiva, and behind is the membrane of Demours. The cornea proper^ a (lamellated cornea), is made up of a series of superposed layers, about sixty in number, which join one another at numerous points, and cannot therefore be detached for any dis- tance. The laminte are formed of fibres, continuous with those of the sclerotic, and are flattened into membranous layers, arranged one over another. This structure possesses great toughness ; and.