DISSECTION OF THE rilARYXX. 122 licad is to 1)0 placed downwards, so that it may stand on the cut o^lge of the skull. Next the trachea and esophagus, togetlicr with the vagus aiid sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and without hijuring, on the left side^ the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skidl turn upwards the inner surface of the base, and make thr following incisions in the posterior fossa, cut l)ase of On the right side a cut, with the chisel, is to be cairied along the iroiii hislle. of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone. On the left side another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occi])ital bo7ie internal to the foramen jugulare and the inferior petrosal simis : this is to begin i-ather behind that foramen, and to end opposite the one on the Saw the side other side. The sknll is to be sawn througli vertically on the ' left side close behind the mastoid jiart of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the outer end of the cut made with the chisel. niul ciiisei Finally jjlacingthe skull again upside down, let the student chisel i);i!>c|"° ' through the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- ments of the pharynx and the nuiscles of the spinal column, the tiien cut instrument being directed backwards. The base of the skull is now so iidits. fijyjfjpfi jjj^o t^yQ parts (one having tlie pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), Avhich can be readily separated with a scalpel. Preserve The sj^inal colunm with the piece of the occipital bone connected spine."' with it should be set aside, aiid kept for after examination. Fasten Di>tsectio?i of the jjharyn.c (lig. 28). Let the student take the an- iiliuryiix. tcrior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately iilling th( pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oeso l)hagus may be pendent and towards him. Dissect On the left side of the pharynx a different view from that of left side, tl'c right side may be obtained of the cranial and sympathetic nerves near the skull (p. 100), Avhen some loose areolar tissue, and the styloid process with its muscles, have been removed: if the lower ends of the nerves arc fixed with pieces of thread, a more satisfac tory examination can be made of them, then ^ After wards the dissector may proceed to remove the fascia fron viz!" tlif^ constrictor muscles of the right side (fig. 28), in the directio of the fibres,—these radiating from the side to the middle line lower aii.l^^ The margins of the twf) lower constrictor nniscles (middle and in strktor,*^"" ferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one near the laryn.x will be found the recuirent nerve Avith vessels ; whilst intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscl and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, upper con- To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower ia\l stnctor. ^^^^^ pterygo-maxillaiy ligament,it will be necessary to cut throuir the internal pterygoid nniscle of the right side. Above the upp, fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skidl, are t\\ small muscles of the palate (F and li) entering the phurynx:—on