PARTS ON FRONT OF THORAX. 237 muscle ; and on each side of that eminence is a groove, which prominence- subsides inferiorly in a depression in fi-ont of the elbow-joint. The '"^"^ gi"oov.w. inner of the two grooves, the deepest, indicates the position of the brachial vessels. If the elbow joint be semiflexed, the prominences of the outer Promi- and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, espe- j^^*:",',',^!^! t,,^ cially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it elbow joint, by a slight interval, the head of the radius projects ; it may be recognised by rotating the bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissection. As the first step in the dissection, raise the skin from Dissection the side of the cliest and the arm-pit, over the great pectoral muscle inte'nimon^^ and the hollow of the axilla, by means of the following incisions :— One is to be made along the middle of the sternum. A second, earned along the clavicle for tlie inner two thirds of that bone, is to be continued down the front of the arm rather beyond the anterior fold of the ann-pit, and then to be turned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hinder iold of the axilla. From the xiphoid cartilage a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The flap of skin now marked out should be reflected outwards Reflect skin, beyond the axilla ; but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used afterwards for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the same Fascifc, structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region it does not supernciai, contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger special and deep: fascia which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the side of the chest, but be- comes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An where incision through it, over the arm-pit, will render e^adent its increased ^'"ckest. strength in this situation, and the casing it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of confining an abscess in that hollow. Disi^ection. The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to Dis.section be next sought. At the spots where they are to be fo^^nd they are °erves or""* placed beneath the fat, so that the student must cut through it; the chest, and those on the clavicle He also beneath the platysma muscle. Small vessels will indicate the position of the nerves. Some of them (fi-om the cervical plexus) cross the clavicle at hom cervi- the middle, and the inner part. Others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each inter- costal space. And the rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about one inch below the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal and inter- space except the first : as the last-mentioned nerves pierce the wall ' of the thorax, they divide into an interior and a posterior piece.