DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 34 Swrfaces marked by fossit and einiueuces. Margin. The surface next the head is generally convex ; but the opposite is excavated, and presents the undermentioned elevations and depressions. In the centre is a deep hollow named concha, which is wide above Imt narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus audi- torius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the under surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection. —the antitragus. The round rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the concha, is called the helix; and the depression internal to it is the groove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, between it and the Fig. 8.* Lobule. Five small muscles of external ear. How to find the muscles, One mtTscle on tragus. One on antitragus. concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a well-marked depression, X\\q fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the external ear is terminated by a soft pendulous part, the lobule. The special muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part ot the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. FiA'^e small muscle s are to be recognised ; and these receive their names for the mosi part from the several eminences of the external ear. Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the integu ments be removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for tlu display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will no find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 8, ^) is always found on the external aspect of the process from Avhioh it takes its name. The fibres are short, oblique, or transverse, and extend fi-om the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 8,is the best marked of all. ♦ Muscles on the outer surface of the ear cartilage. 1. of Muscle of tl the helix. 4 J tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the ear cartilage. 6. Transverse muscle 7. Oblique muscle (Tod) sometimes seen.