86 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGIOX. the deep ccn^ical fascia, which extends from tlie styloid process to tlie hinder part of the ramus of tlie jaw : it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Surface of Articulav surfaces of the hones. The lower jaw possesses a thin "''^^^ narrow condyle, which is elongated transversely, and directed back- wards and inwards. and tem- On the temporal bone is a narrow deep articular hollow (glenoid poral boue. f^gg^^)^ which is lengthened from without in, and is placed in front of Fig. 19.* Fig. 20.t Kinds of movenaent. Tn opening the mouth, how jaw moves. Dislocation. State of ligaments. Shutting mouth ; condyle moves. State of ligaments. the Glaserian fissure. In fi-ont of this is a prominence of hone, (transverse root of the zygomatic process) which is convex from before back and rather hollowed from side to side. Movements of the joint. This condyloid articulation is jDrovided with an up and down, a to and fro, aiid a lateral movement. Iji depressing the jaw, as in openmg tlie mouth, the articular con- dyle moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity at the fore part of the articular hollow, but the interposed concave libro- cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion throws the condyle oil the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and gives rise to dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are made tight; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the con- dyle by the external ptcrj-goid nuisclc. When the jaiv is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and the fibro-cartilage glide back into the glenoid fossa. In i\m posi- tion the jaw is placed in the state of greatest security against dis- location. The ligaments and the surrounding muscles, which were stretched in the previous movement, are then set at rest. * Ligaments of the jav-—an inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillary. + A view of the interior of the compound temporo-maxillaiy joint (Bour^erv and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage-^- the dark intervals above and below ai-e the hollows containing the synovial membranes.