DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 Use. Elevator of wing of nose. Fig. 5* Use, bone. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, whicli covers the cartilaginouSr part of the nose, and joins the tendon of the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the next—the common elevator o£ the ala of the nose and the upper lip. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose. The LEVATOR LABii surERiORis AL^EQUK NASI (fig. 5, ') is placed by the side of the nose, and arises from the top of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attachment of the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a narrow slip to. the wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly witli tlie orbicularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is i)artly con- cealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Action. As the name expresses, it can, raise the ujjper lip, and draw outwards the Aving of the nose, dilating the aperture but Avhen the mouth is shut it can enlarge the nostril independently of the lip. Dilatator Naris. In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore- and back part of that ajjerture (fig. 5, and to which the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom visible without anterior and a lens. The anterior slip, passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril ; and the posterior, arising fi'om tlie upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raising and everting the outer edge. The DEPRESSOR AhM NASI (fig. 5/') will be seen if the upper lip is. eveiied, and the mucous membrane is removed from the side of the frsenum of the lip. It arises below the nose from a dejiression of the upper jawbone above the roots of the second incisor and canine teeth ; and ascends to be inserted into the septum nasi and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size. Muscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow are four in number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator Dilator of nostril; posterior parts. Use. Depressor of wing. Use. Four mus- cles of ej'c- lids. * Muscles of the nose. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alas nasi. 7. Orbicularis oris, attached to the septum nasi.