CHAPTER VIIL DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. Directions for tlie dissection. Position of tlie body. Appear- ances on the front of the abdomen. Projection of thepubes. Abdominal rings, ■outer. inner. Poupnrts ligament. Eaisc the The examination of the abdomen is to proceed as far as the end of Section III. before the body is turned for the dissection of the Back. Position. The body will be sufficiently raised by blocks beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the ujiper limbs and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pehas. If the abdomen is flaccid, let it be inflated hy an aperture through the umbilicus, but if it is firm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marlcing. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is for the most part convex, especially in fat bodies; but on the sides, between the ribs and the crista ilii, the surface is somewhat depressed. Along the middle line is a slight groove over the linea alba, which presents about its centre the hollow of the umbilicus. Inf eriorly the groove ceases a little above the pelvis in the prominence of the pubes ; and. superiorly it subsides below the ensiform cartilage in a hollow named the epigastric fossa. On each side of the middle line is the projection of the rectus muscle, and this is intersected in adult well- formed bodies by two or three transverse lines. Underneath the eminence of the pubes the student will be able to recognise with his finger the symphysis pubis, and to trace out- Avards from it the osseous pubic crest which leads to the pubic spinous process. Rather above and to the outside of the pubes, the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt; and the prominence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be detected. The internal abdominal ring is still to the outer side, though it cannot be recognised on the surface with the finger; but its position maj' be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the in- nominate bone, and a little above Poupart's ligament. If the finger is carried upwards and outwards between the abdomen and the thigh, it will detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or two inguinal glands. Dissection. The requisite incisions for raising the skin from the