296 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Attach- ments. Is the most superficial. Vse. Dissection. Oppouens fixed to iuetacaii>al bone. beneatli fonncr. Use. Flexor brevis. Origin; is inserted by two parts. It is deep in the hand. Adductor joins short flexor. ligament at the radial side, and fi-om the ridge of the os trapezium and is inserted into the base of tlie first phalanx of the thumb.^ ^ The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is connected oftentimes at its origin Avith a slip from the tendon, of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. It removes the metacarpal bone of the thumb from tho other digits ; and when it has so acted it may assist slightly the short flexor in bending the mctacarpo-phalangeal joint. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the fore part of the meta- carpal bone, where there is usually a slight intei-val. The OPPONENS POLLICIS, B, arises from the annular ligament beneath the preceding, and from the os trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserte(P into the fi-ont and outer border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it pro- jects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the flexor brevis- pollicis. An insertion into the external sesamoid bone is described by Theile. Action. From its attachment to the metacarpal bone it is able to- draw that bone inwards over the palm of the hand, turning it at the same time, so as to allow the ball of the thumb to be applied to the ball of each of the fingers, as in picking up a pin. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS, c, is the largest of the short muscles of the thumb : it consists of two pieces (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are imited at the origin. Posteriorly it arises- from the os trapezoides and os magnum ; from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones ; and fi-om the annular ligament, at the lower part. In fi'ont it is inserted by two heads into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb,—the inner piece being united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each head at its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on this muscle, occupying the inten^al between the processes of insertion ; and the deep palmar arch of the radial artery issues fi-om beneath the inner head. Action. The muscle bends the metacaipo-phalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS, D, is pointed at the thumb, and wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the anterior or lower two thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit, on the palmar aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the short flexor, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb. The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the deep surface lies over (in this position) the first dorsal interosseous muscle, j. and the second and tliird metacai-pal bones with the intervening muscle.