270 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projecting bony point of the humerus. In muscular Muxcular covering. In some bodies the Immeral artery is covered by an coverii)^'. additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. Its branches iire muscular; ■snpenov jirofunda, inferior lirofuada, ■nutrient of the bone, and anas - toniotic. Aben-ant branches. Veins end in the axillary. Nerves on front of arm. Median iier\-e with the artcrj-; Branches spring both externally and internally fi-om the brachial artery (fig. 77). Those on the outer side, muscular^ supply the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus ; those on tlie inner side are named superior and inferior profunda, nutritious, and anastomotic. The superior jirofimla branch (') is larger than the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of the teres major; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the tricejis muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm. The inferior in'ofuncla branch (") arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nen-e to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It arises often in common Avith the superior profunda artery. A nutritious artery of the bone shaft begins near the preceding branch, and enters the large aperture about the middle of the humerus; it is distributed to the osseous and the medullar}- substance. The anastomotic branch (') arises one to two inches above the elbow, and courses inwards through the intermuscular septum to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery inosculates with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent branches, ar.d gives twigs to the triceps muscle : one of the offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus with a branch of the superior profunda. In front of the elbow joint the anastomotic branch sends an offset to the pronator teres muscle: this joins the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Vasa aherrantki. Occasionally long slender vessels connect the brachial or the axillary trunk with the radial artery : the accessor^'- vessel very rarely ends in the ulnar artery. The BRACHIAL VEINS (fig. 78, d) accompany the artery, one on each side, and have branches of communication across that vessel • they receive contributing veins corresponding with the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they miite into one, which joins the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Nerves of the Arm (fig. 78). The nen^es on the front of the ann are derived from the terminal cords of the brachial plexus. Few of them furnish offsets above the elbow, but they are con- tinued, for the most part without branching, to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been referred to (p. 265). The median nerve Q) arises from the brachial plexus by two roots one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord (p. 249). Its