CORPORA UUADRIGEMIKA. 21f*> these begin at the base, and extending forwards, one on each side along the inner part of the thalamus, end by joining the crura of the fornix. At the base of the gland is a band of transverse white fibres which unites it with the posterior commissure. This body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses two or Structure, more cells containing a thick fluid, with amyloid bodies, and a calcareous material (brain sand) consisting of particles of phos- phate and carbonate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia and am- monia.* In its substance are large pale nucleated cells. The corpora quad rig emina (fig. G8) are four small bodies, which Corpora are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a median ^^^'^^"°' groove. Each pair is situate on the ujjper aspect of the cerebral peduncle of the same side. The anterior eminence (A, nates) is somewhat larger than the Anterior posterior, from which it is separated by a slight depression ; it is (iwtes)_ oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards a Avhite band to join the optic tract and thalamus. The posterior eminence (^, testis) is rounder in form and whiter Posterior in colour than the preceding : it has also a lateral white band (te'^tis). which is directed beneath the corpus geniculatum internum, and blends with the peduncular fibres in the thalamus opticus. These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped by Structure white, and are placed on the band of the fillet which forms the roof i^amis. of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cere- brum (p. 220). I^illet of the olivary body. If the upper margin of the cerebellum FOiet of ^^^^ be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of an inch in width, ^"'^ Avill be seen to issue from the transverse fibres of the pons, and to bend upwards over the peduncle of the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 65, *). This is the upper or commissural piece of the fillet (p. 127), which j^gfj^lfcor- passes beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and joins with the similar pora quadri- part of the opposite side over the Sylvian aqueduct. gemma. Structure of the Cerebrum. In each cerebral hemisphere three Three sets oi „, fibres m principal sets of constituent fibres are recognised, viz., diverging, cerebrum. transverse, and longitudinal. The former are in part derived from the spinal cord ; while the two latter, joining distant pieces of the cerebrum, are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their ofiice. Peduncidar or diverqinn fibres (fig. 5G). In the eras cerebri two Fii)res of 11 , 1 ,1 J. 1 • cms cerebri bundles of longitudinal fibres are collected ; these are separated, in to tiic hemi- part, by gray matter, and are derived from the medulla oblongata sphere, (p. 200). Dissection. A complete systematic view of the diverging fibres can- ^^.'^^^''^'j^'''"' not be now obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the chief * These particles are refen-ed to by Kolliker, as pathological products ; and the concentrically arranged masses amongst them are said to be incrustations of fibrin coagula.