91 INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. pterygoid branches come from both parts of the inferior Biauchfis to maxillary nei-ve. pterygoid The branch or branches to the external ptenjgoid spring from tlie Extemai small part, or from the buccal nerve, and enter the under surface of its muscle. The nerve to the internal pterygoid arises from the large part of internal, the maxillary trunk close to the skull, and may be followed beneath the upper border to the deep surface of the muscle ; it will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section 14). The buccal branch ('), longer aiul larger than the others, perfo- Buccinator rates the external pterygoid, and is directed inwards, beneath the ■coront)id process to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in terminal branches. As it i>erforates the pterygoid nmscle filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed tlu-ougli supplies the fibres it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle. The nerve is directed towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integu- ment, the buccinator muscle, and the lining mucous membrane. It ami mucous is united freely with the facial nerve, the two forming a plexus. '"^I'li'iime. The LAUGEU I'ART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into Sensory three trunks—auriculo-temporal, dental, and gustatory. A few of jntvlijOT the fibrils of the small (motor) root are applied to it, and are con- maxiliaiy. A^eyed to certain nmsclcs, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, pter3^goideus internus, mylohyoideus, and digastricus. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (•*) separates from the others Aurlcuio- ffiear the base of the skull, and has commonly two roots. Its course to the surface of the head is directed first backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle, as far as the inner jiart of the articula- lies beneatli tion of the jaw ; and then, upwards with the temporal artery in front of the ear. The nerve furnishes branches to the surrounding parts, and supplies viz., the joint, the ear, and tlic i)aroti(l gland; and it conniiunicates 'with the facial nerve. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the fol- lowing :— a. Branches of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to to the the meatus from the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enter that tube between the •cartilage and bone. b. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises near and joint of the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to the meatus. ''''^^' c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the external ear below car, and the meatus auditorius : it sends offsets along the internal maxillary- •■artery, which communicate with the sympathetic nerve. d. Parotid brandies. These small filaments ramify in tlie gland, p.n'otid; e. Communicating branches. Two or more branches around the ex- *°;i°gj!„^paf' ternal carotid artery communicate with the facial and sympathetic tiietic. nerves. The INFERIOR DENTAL (") is the largest of the three trunks hito Inferior T • 1 T • J.1 1 dental which the inferior maxillary nerve divides. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the nerve is external to the gustatory, and lies at j^^^J'^j!;^^^:^'^ first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it is afterwards placed muscles.