rOSTEEIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. 073 joint. The toes resting on the gi-ound, it will aid the muscles of Axed: the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the hod}-. In standing, the muscle can raise tlie inner border of the foot in standing, with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight of the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones "^'"S "P- of the leg, with the soleus. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally to the Tho muscle bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the muscle. By one ||"i^ai)oueu^ surface it gives origin to the flexors of the toes, and by the other to ro.sis. the tibialis. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 207, C) is One of the branches Posterior tiuin.! resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk. The vessel arterj', extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent, part of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, internal to the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is concealed Parts cover- by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but per anV^'' below that spot, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner lower half: edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its npper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but parts be- afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is the flexor pollicis. Between the heel and the ankle, the arteiy is placed between the Beneath tendons of the common flexor of the digits and special flexor of the ^gament. great toe. Venas comites closely suiTOund the vessel. The posterior tibial Veins, nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but at the distance of one Nerve, inch and a half it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a Branches, large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular brancJies enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an offset from the branch to the solens pierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. b. A nutritious artery of the shaft of the tibia is uncertain in its Nutritious place of origin : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the ' posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. A communicating branch (/) arises opposite the lower end of Coinmuni- the tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to imite ^" in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. (L Articular branches arise from the artery opposite the ankle- joint, and enter the articulation. e. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous.