REFLECTIONS OF PEIUTONEUM. Vertical circle from above dowmvards. From the under aurface of Circle from the liver the peritoneum may be followed along the hepatic vessels, "'^^'^dowii;. one piece before and the other behind them to the upper border of the stomach, the two forming the small omentum. At the stomach the two pieces disunite, one passing before, and the other behind it; but beyond that viscus they are applied to each other to form the funns great omentum or epiploon. After descending in contact to the lower part of the abdomen they bend backwards, separating to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach, and they are then continued to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the abdominal wall, the two companion pieces part from each other,—one passing upwards, the other downwards.* The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and the the a-sccmi- pillars of the diaphragm, and blends with the peritoneum on the ^"''^^' under surface of the liver. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- deseemiing verse meso-colon over the duodenum and the great vessels on {^^^pghtsf'^^'^' the spine (aorta and cava), till it meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesen- tery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesenteric artery the peritoneum descends in tue peh ii to the pelvis, and covers partly the viscera in that cavity. For instance, surrounding the upper part of tlie rectum, it attaches this to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum ; next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder in the male, or between the rectum and the uterus in the female, where it forms a pouch. Thence it passes from the pelvis over the back and sides of thf bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the ingumal region, cm the front where it presents the fossie before alluded to (p. 462) ; and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdomen, and over the dia- phragm and upper surface of the liver, to the under surface of this viscus. Folds of the Pkiutoneum. After tracing the continuity of the ciiief folds serous sac over the viscera, the student is to learn the chief pro- |',cHtoiieuni. cesses or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum fixing the liver will be examined afterwards ; and the processes on the viscera of the pelvis will be seen with the dissection of that cavity. Folds on the stoiiiarh. The processes connected with the stomach on tiic^ are named omenta. They are tlu-ee in number:—one, small omen- o,neuta':. tum, is attached to the upper cun^e ; another, great omentum, to the lower curve ; and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to th(> great end of the viscus. * Sometimes the two pieces ascend over the transvei-se colon, being slightly attached to it and the transverse meso-colon, as high as the pancreas before they separate. In that case the descending layer would form a distinct mesentery for the transverse colon, like that for the small intestine.