DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 218 Uuder part. luuer side. Outer side. anterior, and pos- terior euds. Corpora seuiciilata. Optie nerve. Origin. Dissection. Origin of fornix in thalamus ; liow forms cor^ins albicans. Joined by other fibres. Dissection. Pineal gland ; position, .shape, attachment to thalamus. the taenia semicirciilaiis. The under surface forms part of the roof of the inferior coriiu of the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By its inner side it enters into the third ventricle ; and along the upper part lies tlie peduncle of the pineal bod3\ On the outer side are the corpus striatum, the taenia semicircularis, and the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior end looks to the foramen of Monro. And the pos- terior part, which is free in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inferiorly two small roundish tubercles, which are placed one outside and the other inside the bend (genu) of the optic nerve, and are named from their position to it, internal and external genicu- late bodies. The structure of the optic thalamus will be subsequently referred to, p. 222. The origin of the ojitic nerve can now be seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract receives fibres from the thalamus which it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands :—One of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadi-igemina (nates) ; the other is connected with the internal geniculate body. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may be followed out next. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure, the anterior part of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of tlu^ optic nerves, should be cut along the middle line, so that the left hemisphere can be separated from the other. On the left hemi- sphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards through the gray matter of tlie third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and' then ui)wards into the optic thalamus. Anterior jnllar of the fornix. The fornix begins in the thalamus near the tubercle on the upper surface. From this spot it descends in a curved direction to tlie corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, and furnishes a white envelope to the gra}' matter of that body. The crus then ascends through the gray sub- stance in front of the optic thalamus, and is applied to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. It is joined by bands of fibres from the tienia semicircularis and peduncle of the pineal body. The pineal body and the corpora quadrigeinina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially on the right side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior part of the hemisphere of the same side may be taken away. The pineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body (fig. 08, g), which is situate above the posterior commissure, and between the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape like the cone of a pine, it is about a quarter of an inch in length, and has the base or Avider part turned forwards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two white bands,—peduncles of the pineal body (/) :.