DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 746 mnscles to the ossicles. Tensor tym- l>uiii. Origin. Insertion. Use. Laxator tympani. Origin. Insertion. Use. Stapedius attached to stapes. Use. Lining of tympanum. transversely striated fibres are connected with the chain of bones ; two of these are attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. The tensor tympani (fig. 240, h) (internal muscle of the malleus) is the largest and most distinct of the nmscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of its containing tube, Avhich must be laid open to see it completely. The muscle arises fi-om the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform process, Fig. 240,* and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the mal- leus, near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the membrane of the tympanum ; and as the long process of the incus is moved inwards with the malleus the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra ovalis. Laxator tijmjjani (fig. 240, </) (external muscle of the malleus). It is connected externally with the spinous process of the sphe- noid bone ; and passing through the Glascrian fissure, it is at- tached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Action. The muscle draws inwards and forwards the upper part of the malleus, and tilts outwards the handle, so as to relax the membrana tympani ; and on the cessation of the contraction of the tensor, it can move out the bony chain. The staindius (fig. 240, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small tendon, which issues from the pja-amid, and is inserted into the neck of the stapes at the posterior part. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminish- ing the pressure on the fluid in the vestibule ; and supposing it to contract sinndtaneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous memhi'ane of the tymjMnum. The mucous lining of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall ; it is contmuons with * Plan of the ossicles in position in tlie tympanum with their muscles. a. Cavity of the tjanpannm. b. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. Malleus, c. Incus. /. Stapes, y. Laxator tympani muscle, h. Tensor tympani. i. Stapedius.