LIGAMENTS OF SHOULDEE. 311 Articular surfaces (fig. 89). The convex carticular head of the Surface of humerus is two or three times Larger than the hollow in the ii'^^'erus, scapula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is joined to the shaft at an angle as it is in the femur, and a rotatory movement is possessed by the humerus in consequence. The glenoid surface of the scapula is oval in form with the large of scapula, end down, and is very shallow ; it is not large enough to cover the head of the humerus. Movements. In this joint there is the common motion in four Kinds of directions, with the circular or circumductory ; and in addition a ^"o'^enieut. movement of rotation. In the sfioinginrj or to and fro movement, the carrying forwards of Flexiou the humerus constitutes flexion, and the moving it backwards, ex- ^^'^ tension. Flexion is freer than extension ; and when the joint is extension, most bent the scapula, rotating on its axis, follows the head of the j^J^q'*^^ humerus, so as to keep the centre of the glenoid fossa applied to flexion the middle of the articular surface of the arm-bone. In extension j,^ ^j.. the articular surface of the scapula does not move after the humerus, tension. During these movements the head of the bone rests in the bottom Movements of the glenoid fossa, tmning forwards and backwards around a line of representing the axis of the head and neck; and it cannot be dis- lodged by either the rapidity or the degree of the motion. The muscles have more influence than the loose capsule in con- Muscles, trolling the swinging motion. ^^^'^'^ Abduction and adduction. When the limb is raised, it is abducted, and when depressed, adducted; and in both cases the humerus rolls on the scapula which is fixed. * View of the interior of the shoulder-joint, a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital gi-oove. c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa, d. Tendon of the biceps fixed to the top of the fossa.