47 RECTI MCrSCLES. arteries and nen^es entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal ends in expansion of the eye. retina. Dissection (fig. 12). Take away the ophthahnic artery, and divide Dissection, the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear ; and lying on the two first, are the offsets of the lower branch of the thu-d nerve. The loiaer branch of the third nerve (fig. 12) supplies three Lower muscles in the orbit. Whilst enteiing this space between the thfrd nJi ve heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve divides into three branches. One (*) enters the internal rectus ; siirr'ies another the inferior rectus ; and the third (^), the longest and ^'^'^'^i'^'^' most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the and joins lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. 11, ^) of that S*^"*^'^""- body; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus. The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 12, ^) lies below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, above the ophthalmic vein, in the inten''al between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it is distributed to the external rectus muscle. Recti Muscles. The internal D, inferior C, and external rectus B straight (fig. 12) are placed with reference to the eyeball as their names oyebaiT express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of the origin, optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads :—The upper joins the superior rectus in the common origin. The lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin, and is attached in addition to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near the inner end ; whilst some of its muscular fibres are connected with a tendinous band between the heads. All the insertion, muscles are directed forwards, but the lower obliquely outwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and in front of the transverse diameter of the ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different Botweeii nen^es before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz. the ofi'tgr. third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Action. The four recti muscles, attached to the ej-eball at oppo- Use of all. site sides in front of the transverse diameter, are able to turn the pupil in opposite directions. The inner and outer recti move the ball horizontally around a inner and vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple.