447 TEANSYERSALIS MUSCLE. Fig. 1-36.' until the examination of those parts in connection with hernia is resumed. On the right side the dissection is to he carried deeper hy the removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last nuiscle may be reflected from the cord by means of a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal oblique, it will be necessary to cut it througli firstly near the ribs ; secondly near the crest of the hip bone and Poupart's ligament; and lastly at the hinder part, so as to coimect the two first incisions. Its depth will be indicated by SI fatty layer between it and the transversalis. Tn raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with gi'cat care the lower fibres from those of the transver- salis, with which they are often conjoined; and dis- sect out, between the two, the intercostal nerves and aile- ries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and ilio-ingui- nal) near the fi-ont of tlie crest of the hip bone : the offsets of the intercostals entering the muscle must be cut. Paris covered hy the ob- lique (fig. 136). The internal oblique conceals the trans- versalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spei-matic cord and the fascia transversalis. The rectus muscle is concealed below by the aponeurosis. The TKANSVERSALis MUSCLE (fig. 136, ^) forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique in having a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the foi-mer muscle it is attached on all sides, except where the spermatic cord lies. At tlie pelvis it ariaes along the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the chest it takes origm from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of * Dissection of the third hatei-al muscle in the wall of the belly, with the vessels and nerves on it. A, Transversalis muscle, with b, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumboi-um). d. Poupai-t's ligament. 1. Last dorsal nerve with its accompanying arter}-. 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery. +t Intercostal nerves and arteries. On rig] it side reHoct cremaster and interual Parts covered by internal oblique. Transversa- lis muscle. Origin from clie.st, loins, and pelvis.