SUPERFICIAL PARTS HOW SHOWN. 437 sides and front of the belly are the following:—One cut is to extend skin from outwards over the side of the chest from the ensifonn cartilage to about midway between the sternum and the spine. A second in- cision is to be begun in the middle line midway between the um- bilicus and the pubes, and to be carried outwards to the iliac crest, and along the crest till it ends opposite the first cut. Lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and the belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, but is not to be taken away; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves ai"e to be sought in the fat at the side and middle line of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous Position of nerves, five or six in number, which issue in a lino with the corre- J^e^ves"^^^ spondmg nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneatli the fat, and divide into two: one offset is to be traced forwards, and the other backwards, with small cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near on the side: the front, is a large branch fi-om the last dorsal nerve; and usually farther back on tlie crest, and deeper, is a smaller branch of the ilio- hypogastric neive. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous and in front. ner\'^es will be recognised with small arteries; these are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the integuments. The piece of skin covering the lower part of the abdomen or the Take tiie groin is next to be tlu'own downwards, on both sides, by an incision ti'^""roTa! along the middle line to the root of the penis. After its reflection the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and tlie suj^erficial fascia on the left. To make the necessary dissection on the right side, all the fascia Seek vessels superficial to the vessels is to be raised in the same manner as the piece of skin. The vessels which will then appear are the super- ficial pudic internally, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iliac artery externally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of the reflected fascia. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought:—one, the ilio-inguinal, comes through the abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh and scrotum; andnei-ves the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, "JJj'if''* and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the examination of the fatty layer on the left side two strata separate are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be reflected by means jiito^super- of a transverse cut fi-om the fi-ont of the iliac crest, about two ficial inches above Poupart's ligament; and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubes. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a flap of the fascia, like that of the skin, is to be thrown towards the thigh. To define the and deep thinner under stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and detach it with the vessels from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum; and as the student follows it down- wards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that stracture.