299 RADIAL ARTERY AXD OFFSETS. the digital branches of the superficial pahnar arch at the cleft of the fingers. These branches supply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three imier lumbricales ; they A^ary much in their size and distribution. d. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) Digital (art. princeps pollicis) runs between the first metacarpal bone and ^•^'^"'^•I'^s- the flexor brevis pollicis, to the interval between the heads of the uie^t^fumi). muscle, where it divides into the two collateral branches of the thumb: these are distributed like the arteries of the superficial ■arch. e. The digital branch of the index finger (cl) (art. radialis indicis) Artery of is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle, J, and beneath nuger'*^' the short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of the fore finger. At the free or anterior border of the adductor pollicis, D, this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the digit it unites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery. The deep branch of the idnar nerve (-) accompanies the arch of the ^/^^j^„!^'^'^°'^^ radial artery as far as the muscles of the thumb, and terminates nerve, in offsets to the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the short flexor. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the Muscular ■ offsets muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (^), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The transverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of Ligament of the four inner metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is hollowed metacarpal Avhere the flexor tendons cross it; and beneath it the interossei ijones. muscles pass to their insertion. To the posterior border the fascia covering the interossei muscles is united. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interossei muscles. The INTEROSSEI MUSCLES, SO named from their position between the Seven inter- metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles occupy each °j|g^^ space, except in the first where there is only one ; they arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanx of the fingers. Tliey are divided into palmar and dorsal interossei ; but tiivided into all the small muscles are evident in the palm of the hand, though dorsal.' some project more than the others. Th.Q palmar muscles (fig. 85), three in number, are smaller than Nuinbcrand the dorsal set, and are most prominent in the palm of the hand, palmar They arise from the palmar surface of the metacai-pal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz., those of the fore, ring, and little fingers ; and they are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the other two digits. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 82, b):— SiTIlf the fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first ijutu sets, ■or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. The dorsal interossei (fig. 8G) extend farther back tlian tlic palmar Dorsal set. set, and arise by two heads from the lateral surfaces of tlie meta- 0"g"i-