607 SEEK CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. lymphatic vessels fi-om the surface of the lower limb enter them, which ip- The upper or abdominal group is joined by the lymphatics of the i.'eiuy,'"'*' penis, by those of the lower part of the abdomen, and by those of phatks. the buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfrequently the longitudinal set by the side of the vein are blended together. Dissection. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is to be Raise the detached fi-om the subjacent fascia lata. Internal to the saphenoxis tum of the vein a thin membrane can be raised by transverse cuts above and s'i)>ei-ficiai below, and by a longitudinal one on the inner side of the thigh ; but external to that vessel there exists scarcely a continuous layer. The handle of the scalpel may be employed in the separation ; and the dissector is to avoid injuring the nerves and vessels. In re- flecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will become apparent. The deej)er layer of the superficial fascia is a veiy thin membrani- Deep jiart of form stratum, which is most evident near Poupart's ligament, and nciaifoscil on the inner side of the saphenous vein. About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata; and as it stretches across the aperture it is attached to the circum- ference,—internally by loose areolar tissue, but externally by firm covers fibrous bauds ; it is also connected with the loose ci'ural sheath of opg|jjQ°"'^ the subjacent vessels in the aperture. The part of the stratum over the saphenous opening is perforated where it is by many small apertures for the transmission of the lymphatics ; cdbrifonu and it has been named cribriform fascia from its sieve-like appear- f^'scia. ance. In a hernial protrusion through that opening the cribrifonn portion is projected forwards by the tumour, and forms one of the coverings. Dissection. Now the student has obseiwed the disposition of tlie Dissection superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he may proceed to ex- °f ^j{g amine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of tlie thigh, a cut is to be Take away carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee joint, to rather below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but tliis is to reach farthest on the inner side. The skin may be reflected in flaps inwards and outwards ; and as it is raised from the front of the knee a superficial bursa between it and the patella will be opened. Tlie saphenous vein is first to be traced out in the fat as far as and follow the skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it the student ve|','i'''"°^^'* should be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 190) are to Seekcutane- be sought in the fat, with small cutaneous arteries, in the following f/ont'of positions:—On the outer margin, below the upper third, is placed tiiigh, the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin are the ramifications of the internal cutaneous