505 PANCEEAS AND DUCT. The absorbent vessels form two sets as in the small intestine ; absorbents, after leaving the gut they join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE TANCREAS. Tlie pancreas (fig. 143, e) is a narrow flattened gland, from six Form and to eight inches in length, which has some resemhlance to a dog's • tongue. It is larger at the right than the left end ; and it is divisions, divided into head, tail, and body. The head, or the right extremity, occupies tlie concavity of the situation, duodenum; and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and touches The head the spleen. ^'"^ t^'^: The bod// of the gland is iiarrowest a little to the right of the and the vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and fi-om half an inch to an inch in thickness. The connections of the pancreas with surround- ing parts are described at p. 484. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface. Trace out and let the excretory duct be traced from the head to the tail by cutting away the substance of the gland. The small duct will be recognised by its whiteness. St][IUCTURE. The pancreas is a gland consisting of sej)arate lobules, it is a and is provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct giand°with- capsule ; but it is suiTouuded by areolar tissue, which projects into ^"g^j^j^^^ the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The fluid capsule, secreted by it assists in the digestion of the aliment. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a grayish white colour, and Texture and are united into lai'ger masses by areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each consists ultimately, as in the parotid, of the branchings of the like the ^ excretory duct, which end in closed vesicular extremities, and are f,jg^||''J^ surromided by a plexus of vessels. In the vesicles the epithelium ° is spheroidal. The duct of the pancreas (fig. 148, d) (canal of Wirsung) extends Thoduct of the entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower ' than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where extent; it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many braiiches. It finally ends by opening branches: into the duodenum, either in union with, or separate from tlie common bile duct (p. 497). Of the tributary branches, the largest is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures from y^-th to ^^ch in diameter near size and the duodenum. It is foiTned of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the Epithelium latter is lined by a cylindrical e2)itheliu7n, and is provided with and glands, small glands in the duct and its largest branches. Vessels, lymjphatics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been Vessels and described (p. 485) ; and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. "'^'^'^^ The nerves are furnished by the aolar plexus.