DISSECTION OF THE BACE:. 39G Tliiril snji- l)lies neck and head. Suboccipital nerve different branching; ends in muscles. Posterior cervical plexus. Dorsal nerv'cs liave inner and outer branches. Outer branches of upper six. of lower six; give cuta- neous. Inner branches: upper six have cuta- neous off- sets. lower six not. Lumbar nerves are divided into two. pearing beneath tlie inferior oblique muscle to which it gives offsets, is directed upwards through the complexus and trapezius to end on the occiput (p. 8). The branch of the third ncn-e (fig. HO,'*) supplies an offset to the integuments of tlie neck ; and ascending to the head through the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the great occipital nerve." Usually this nei-ve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The 2>osterior i^rvnary hranvli of the suboccipital or first spinal nerve (fig. 119,^) is very short, and appears in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral arterj'. The following branches radiate from its extremity :— One enters the under surface of the complexus near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles bounding the space in which the nei-ve is contained, viz., the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique : the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally this nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. Posterior cervical plexus. Sometimes there is an intercommunica- tion between the suboccipital nerve and the internal pieces of the next two cervical nen'es beneath the complexus ; this forms the posterior cendcal plexus of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region. The posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between the trans- verse processes. Each divides into an internal and an external piece ; and these are distributed after the same plan as in the neck. * The external ineces increase in size fi-om the first to the last, and are differently distributed above and below. The xipper six or eight pass beneath the longiseimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as the interval between the longissimus and the ilio-costalis, and end by supplying these muscles and the levatores costarum. The loioer six or four have a similar arrangement and distribution with respect to muscles; but, after reaching the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. * The internal pieces decrease in size from above downwards, and are directed inwards between the semispinaHs dorsi and multifidus spinai muscles ; offsets are supplied to the muscles between which they are placed. The uj^iur six become cutaneous along the side of the spinous processes by perforating the seiratus, rhomboideus, and trapezius. The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus spinge muscle. * In the loins. The posterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the erector and multifidus spinse. In their mode of dividing and general an-angement they resemble the dorsal ners^es. Cutaneous offsets are furnished by the external set of branches.