AURICLE OF THE EAR. 33 tendon of the levator palpehrce will be seen to be inserted into the levator fore part of the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeurotic expansion. P^U'ebrai. The conjunctiva, or the mucous membrane, lines the interior of the Mucous eyeUds, and covers the anterior part of the ball of the eye. Inside ^'^ the lids it is inseparably united to the tarsal cartilages, and has numerous fine papillaj. At the free margin of the lid this membrane joins the common integuments. Through the lachrymal canals and sac it is continuous with the pituitary membrane of the nose. At the inner commissure of the eyelids the conjunctiva forms a forms prominent and fleshy-looking body—caruncula lachrymalis, (fig. 13, *) which contains a group of mucous follicles, and has a few minute hairs on its surface. External to the caruncle is a small and con- vertical fold of the mucous membrane—plica semilunaris; this extends to the ball of the eye, and represents the membrana nictitans of birds. Bloodvessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are fur- Arteries of uished by the ophthalmic artery, and come fi'om the palpebral and lachrymal branches :— The palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from Palpebral the inner canthus. lying between the tarsal cartilage and the tendon of the special elevator in the upper lid, and between the cartilage and the palpebral ligament in the lower lid ; and they anastomose externally with the lachrymal artery. From the arch that each forms, branches are distributed to the eyelids. The lachrymal artery furnishes an offset to each lid to form and lacliry- arches with the palpebral arteries, and then perforates the palpebral ligament at the outer part of the orbit to end in the upper lid. The veins of the lids open into the fi'ontal and angular veins at Veins, the root of the nose (pp. 6, 28). The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic and Nerves of J. . , lids facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nen-e (of the fifth) which give from fifth offsets to the upper lid, are the following : lachrymal, near the outer part; snpra-orbital, about the middle ; and sujyra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (pp. 41, 44). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a palpebral branch of the superior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Branches of the facial nerve (p. 38) enter both lids at the outer and seventh part, and supply the orbicularis muscle ; they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nerve. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a trumpet-shaped Parts of ex- structure, named pinna or auricle, which receives the undulations ^^^^ ^ of the air ; and of a tube—meatus auditorius, winch conveys them to the inner ear. The pinna may be examined on the left side of the head ; but the anatomy of the meatus will be described with the ear. The pinna, or auricle, is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage. Texture and which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of ^l^^^^ the meatus auditorius externus. It is of an oval fonn, with the margin folded and the larger end placed upwards.