18.T ORIGIN OF CEANIAL NERYES. tract,—those of tlie right nerve being contimied to the left side, to the opposite eye, and vice versa. And the most internal are con- tinued through the tract of the other side back to the brain without entering the eye. At the front of the commissure are placed some transverse fibres, which are prolonged to the eyeballs through the part of each nerve in front of the commissure, but have not any connection with the tracts and the brain. The part called nerve extends from the commissure to the eye- Trunk of ball. Leaving the skull by the optic foramen, it receives a tube of dura mater, and its course in the orbit is described in p. 46. In the eyeball it ends in the retina. The THIRD NERVE (^), motor ners^e of the eyeball, is round and OiiKin of firm, and is attached by a slanting line of threads to the inner ^^^^'^ surface of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. Deep origin. The deep origin is uncertain. According to Stilling,* the deep in cms fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing through the locus niger, and cerebri, enter a nucleus of gi-ay substance near the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The FOURTH or trochlear nerve (^) cannot be followed back- Origin of wards at present to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial from cere- nerves, and issues from the valve of Vieussens over the fourth Vellum, ventricle (fig. 68, ■*). The nerve appears between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri; aiid is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Deep origin. In entering the valve of Vieussens, filaments of the nerves of and Sylvian opposite sides cross and communicate. Each divides into two parts : the aqueduct, anterior enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the posterior joins a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the toi) of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). The fifth or trigeminal is the largest of all the cranial nerves, Fifth nerve and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or ]-oots.^" motor, which are partly blended in one trunk beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the Origin from upper than the lower border ('). The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the large one by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards tlu-ough an aperture in the dura mater, above tlie petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the pecuhar manner stated in page 18. Botli roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and are connected in floor of i with nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. tricieP*^"" Deep origin. The large root divides into two parts near the mass of gray beginning matter called locus cajinleus (p. 229). One piece arises from the gray matter near the locus creruleus (upper trigeminal nucleus) ; and the other, from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fasciculus teres (Stilling). The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper trigeminal nucleus and of sraalL near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). * Untersuchungen iiber den Bau des Hirnhiotens.