OSSICLES, LIGAMENTS, AND MUSCLES. 745 The stapes (fig. 239) lias a base or wider part, and a head, with Stapes: two sides or crura, Hke a stin-up. The base (d) is formed by a base; thin osseous plate, which is convex at one margin and almost straight at the other, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis : the surface turned to the vestibule is convex, Avhile the opposite is cxcaA-ated. The head (a) is marked by a superficial head; depression which receives the orbicular process of the incus ; and below it is a constricted part (&), the neck of the bone. The a-ura crma- (f) extend fi-om the neck to the base, and are grooved on the inner surface : the anterior crus is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of the ossicles (fig. 240). The malleus (d) is placed verti- Position of cally in the tympanum, with the head upwards, and the joint sur- face turned backwards to articulate with the incus. Its handle is inserted externally into the membrana tympani between the mucous and fibrous layers ; and its long process is directed forwards into the Glaserian fissure. The incus (e) is also upright, so that the long process is vertical, of the incus^ and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united with the mal- leus ; the short process is received into the large aperture of the mastoid cells ; and the long one descends, like the handle of the malleus, but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the and of the cavity, to join inferiorly Avith the stapes. The stirrup bone (/) has a horizontal position, with the crura directed forwards and backwards : its base is fixed over the fe- nestra ovalis, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. Lirjaments of the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity are united into one chain by joints, and are further kept in i^osition sets of liga- by ligaments fixing them to the surrounding wall. mcuts; Joints of the hones. Where the ossicles touch they are connected [ojjj'^one'to together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger another bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are sur- rounded by a thin capsular lir/ament of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second be- hy joints, tween the extremity of the long process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Union of the hones to the roall. The bones are kept in place by the or to Mx reflection of the mucous membrane over them, and by special liga- tynlpauic ments. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of wall, fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band {posterior) passes backwards fi-om the incus, near the end of its short process, to the bone supporting it. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by ^ fibres constituting an orhicular ligament. In the recent bone the thin mucous membrane closes the interval Membrane betAveen the crura of the stapes, and is attached to the groove on the inner aspect. Muscles of the ossicles (fig. 240). Three muscles which possess Three