DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 248 thorax and slioulder: inferior aei-oiuinal oifset, imiscular ofl'sets. Alar tho- racic. Long tho- racic. Extcrnnl mauiiimry. Subscapular has a dorsal branch, and infra- scapular. Two cireuin- flex. Muscular. Axillary vein, extent and connections, Branches. Dissection of brachial plexus. to tlie side of the chest to anastomose witli tlie intercostal and other- thoracic arteries. h. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid ; but one small artery accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance ; and another (inferior acromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and anastomoses on the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery of the neck. c. One or two small twigs ascend to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, and its place is taken by offsets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries y it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axillary space. The long thoracic branch is directed along tlie border of the pecto- ralis minor (fig. 70, b) to about the sixth intercostal space ; it suppKes the pectoral and sen-atus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic artericB. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. An external mammary artery is commonly met with, especially in the female ; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a companion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the preceding. The suhscajnilar branch (fig. 70, courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magims, and the latissimus doi'si and teres muscles : it gives many offsets to the glands of the space. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal branch roimd the edge of the subscapular muscle : this gives an ivfrascapular offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, Avhere it will be afterwards dis- sected. The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial; artery. The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise near the border of the subscapular muscle. One turns in front of, and the other behind the humerus. They will be followed in the examina- tion of the arm. Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis nmscle. The AXILLARY VEIN (<jf) Continues upwards the basilic vein of the arm and has the same extent and connections as the axillary artery.. It lies to the thoracic side of its artery, and receives thoracic and shoulder branches. Opposite the subscapular muscle it is joined externally by a large vein, which is formed by the union of the venas comites of the brachial artery; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. To follow out the branches of the brachial plexus cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid process, and turn it towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are next to