DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". £08 with colla- teral and dentate sulcus : •dentate convolution. A convolu- tion has base and siunmit; IS gray outside and white within. Its strac- ture. Outline of ■cerebrum. €ut down to ovale minus of the hemi- sphere. Reflect gyrus fonii- catus. edge of the temporo-splieiioidal lobe, appearing more largely on the inner than the outer face. The collateral sulcus n, (Huxley) courses along the lower border of the uncinate convolution ; it projects into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and gives rise to the prominence of the emi- nentia collateralis. Secondary sulci emanate from it, and it is often interrupted by cross gyri. The dentate sulcus m, (Huxley) is the deep groove at the upper edge of the imcinate convolution ('^), and corresponds with the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Upwards it is limited by the corpus callosum (Cal) and downwards it inten'cnes between the hook and the body of the uncinate convolution. In the dentate sulcus is the gray substance of the hemisphere, which presents a notched border at the inner edge of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe ; this has been called the dentate convolution, and will be better seen in a subsequent stage of the dissection of the brain. Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous with the interior of the brain on the one side (base) ; and is free on the surface of the brain on the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts. On a cross section it will be seen to consist externally of gray cerebral substance as a cortical layer, which is continued from one eminence to another over the surface of the hemisphere ; and internally it is composed of white brain substance—the medullary jjart, which is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior. The cortical layer is composed of two, or in some parts of three strata, which are separated by their interven- ing paler laj^ers; and an outer white stratum, which covers the surface, is most marked over the internal and lower portions of the uncinate convolution. Interior of the Cerebrum. The cerebrum consists on each side of a dilated part or hemisphere, and of a stalk or peduncle. In the interior is a large central space, which is subdivided into smaller hollows or ventricles by the before-mentioned connecting pieces. And the whole, except the peduncle, is surrounded by a convoluted crust. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and. the connections between these by means of fibres. Dissection. Supposing both hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut ofl; to the level of the convolution of the corpus callosum. When this has been done, the surface displays a white central mass of an oval shape (centrum ovale mmus), which sends processes into the several convolutions. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping from the divided vessels. Next, the convolution of the corpus callosum is to be divided about the middle, and the two pieces are to be thrown backwards and forwards. Under it lies a thin narrow band, the covered band of Reil, which bends down before and behind the corpus callosum