DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 378 Ligaments of spec ial vertebne. Kinds of motion. Flexion ; degree. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Extension ; ■where most, and least. Movement of bones. State of liKameuts. Side bend- ing; extent. Movement of bones. State of ligament.s. Rotation: ■where present. Motion of bones. Ligaments of Sricci.M. VKRTEBRiE. The ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertebra?, will be given with the dissections of the neck (p. 172) and of the pelvis (Section vii.). MovEMKNTS OF SriNAL CoLUMN. The Spinal column can be bent fonvards, backwards, and to each side ; and can be rotated. In flexion the vertebra) between the axis and sacrum are bowed forwards. The gi-eatest movement takes place between the last two lumbar vertebrae and the sacnim (Humpluy) ; there is an inter- mediate degree in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front^ whilst they are separated behind. The inferior pair of articular processess of the second vertebra glide upwards on the upper articular of the third vertebra ; the inferior of the third bone move in like manner on the upper jDrocesses of the fourth ; and so on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is loose, but the posterior, and those uniting the neural arches and processes, are stretched. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is squeezed and tliinner, and the back is elongated. In extension, the vertebraj are arched backwards, but not to so great a degree as when the spine is bent forwards. The motion is most in the neck ; and is least in the dorsal vertebrae, which are fixed by the true ribs and tlie sternum, and are impeded in their movement by the overlapping spinous processes. The posterior parts of the vertebras are approximated, whilst the anterior are separated ; and the inferior articular processes of each (fi'om the second ceiwical to the sacrum) glide downwards, on the upper articular processes of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion. Thus, the intervertebral discs are compressed behind and widened before ; the spinous and subflaval are relaxed ; the anterior common of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be curved to the right or the left side. Like the other movements, this is least in the more fixed upper dorsal vertebra^, and is greatest in the neck. On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the bodies are brought nearer together; and are carried away from each other on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints with the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the inter- vertebral substance compressed ; and on the left those structures will be tightened so as to check the movement. Rotation is the twisting of the bodies of the vertebraj around a line tlirough their centres, the fore part being turned to the right and to the left. Its degree is greatest in the cersacal and the upper dorsal vertebra?, but is absent in the lumbar part of the column. The verteV)ral bodies are directed horizontally, and the articular processes move differently on the two sides. Supposing the face