DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. S70 Surfaces; base, and apex. Three lobes; two lateral and a cen- tral Gland con- tains three tubes. Structure. Fibrous case distinct from pelvic lascia. Mnscnlar and fibrous tissue; how arrangetl. Glands only few. ending of ducts; on vesicles are vessels ; open into urethra. The upper surface of tlic prostate is narrow and rounded. The under surface, which is larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, or the base, is thick, and in its centre is a notch which receives the common seminal ducts. The fore part or apex is pierced by the urethra. Tliree lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no lissure in the firm mass. The lateral parts or lobes (fig. 176, c) are similar on both sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe {d) will be brought into view by detaching the vesicuhi? seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder; it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in the substance of the prostate (fig. 178). The former is transmitted through the gland fi'om base to aj^ex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure. On a section the gland appears reddish gray in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of unstriated muscular and fibrous tissues, with inter- spersed glandular stioicture; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous corering. This forms a thin investment for the gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite distinct fi'om the denser sheath derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated from that sheath by a plexus of veins. Muscular tissue. The firm part of the gland consists of involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. The muscular fibres are arranged circularly around the tube of the urethra: they are continuous behind with the annular fibres of the bladder, and in front with a thin layer of circular fibres around the membranous part of the urethra. At the lower and outer parts the texture is looser and more spongy, especially where the glands are situate, and the larger vessels enter (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). This arrangement will be better seen when the urethra has been opened. Glcnuhdur structure. Small branched glands project from the tube of the urethra amongst the muscular fibres ; they form but a small part of the prostate, and are most numerous in the middle lobe. The final radicles of the ducts are surrounded by small sessile vesi- cles : on the exterior of the vesicles and ducts the bloodvessels ramify. Lining the interior of the tubes is an epithelium of the columnar kind. The ducts of the glands vary in number from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the urethra (p. 577).