MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 180 Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneumo-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 112.) The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the sixth spinal: nerve, but only a small piece of it can be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord near the lateral fissure, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamen- tum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be connected ; and it finally enters the skull bv the foramen macrnum. All three nerves converge below the crus cerebelli, and rest on all converge a small lobe of the cerebellum (flocculus). From that spot they are directed outwards to the foramen jngulare (p. 19). The fibrils of the nerves pierce the medulla ; and each nerve, except the spinal part of the last, takes origin fi'om a special deposit of gray matter at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle (p. 229). Deep orifjin. The (ilosso-pharyngeal penetrates as far as the vagus nucleus, Deep origin where it ends in fibres which enter that deposit. of glosso- The vagus nerve arises in a special nucleus (p. 229); but some fibres pass Pharygeal; through the hypoglossal nucleus. of the The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is transmitted to a special "^^^^^ ■ nucleus below that of the vagus ; and some fibres decussate across the middle accessory line with their fellows. The roots of the spinal part of the nerve, piercing the lateral column of the and spinal, cord, pass through a collection of cells to the anterior cornu of the crescent (Clarke). The MXTii or HYrooLOSSAL nerve of Willis (twelfth nerve, Sum- Ninth nerve, merring) (') is placed on" the front of the medulla oblongata, and arises by a series of filaments from the sulcus between the pyra- midal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce origin from separately the dura mater, and do not blend together till they are medulla, outside the cranial cavity. Deep origin. The filaments of the nerve can be traced through the corpus Deep origin olivare to a nucleus below the level of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the "ear fourth canal of the cord ; but some bend inwards to decussate through the raphe with ^'^iituc e. the ner\'e of the opposite side (Clarke). Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper. Directions. On a single brain the student may ascertain nearly Directions, all the anatomy of the parts composing the medulla and the pons ; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla and