DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. 416 Ly loops; ;iud a cen- tral vessel. Intraspinal veins are large. Anterior longitudinal are on bodies of vertebne. Veins of the vertebra. Posterior spinal veins are in eon- tact with arches. spinal artery above and below. And from the loops offsets (d) are fiUTiished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebrie. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebra?. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the bodies of the vertebrte, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal veins (fig. 128) consist of two anterior longitu- dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebrai ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. The anterior- longitudinal veins (a) are close to the bodies of the vertebrje, one on each side of the posterior common ligament; and they are irregular in outline, owing to cei-tain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the inter- vertebral foramina they have branches of communication (a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the bodies of the vertebras. Within the canals in the bodies of the vertebrae are large veins, which join on the front of the bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the body they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater- and the arches of the vertebra. A large vein may be said to lie on each side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Off- sets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral fora- mina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse pro- cesses.