455 INGUINAL HERNIA. As the vessel extends backw<ards it gives lateral offsets, which and anasto- supply the neighbouring muscles, and coniniunicate on the one side with the iho-luinbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- Circumflex lateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Tlie lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved Inguinal on the left side of the body, should be now dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The teguments and the aponeurosis of the external The dissec- obhque having been thrown down hi the previous examination of [eft groin!^ the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 138. To raise the oblique muscle, let one incision be made across the Eeflect fleshy fibres fi-om the iliac crest towards the linea alba ; and after ob^fqug. the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By raising the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis, so that it may be tui-ned upwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended • together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac artery will mark their intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched ^^gg^^*"^^"(.g border ; and trace with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal obhque to show the exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the intei-val apparent below the border of the trans- ^^9^ J^.^ versalis muscle, are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the vessels, inner side of the internal abdominal openhig, but beneath the fascia transversalis. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine through the lower '^^ part of the abdominal wall near Poupart's ligament (the part hernia, answering to the inguinal region), is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the Predis- deficiencies in the muscular strata, by the passage of the spermatic naturally, cord through the abdominal parietes, and by the existence of fossje on the inner sm-face of the wall.