DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 fc;c'i>avate jiiid blow the 3t()ina(.')i. Fonu, direction, size, divisions. Left end and right. ■Cardiac Mu\ pyloric openings ; last has a valve. •Surfaces. Upper bonk'r : lower bolder, •ditierence in •outline. For.r strata in stomach. The serous •coat is thiu and adhe- a«nt. The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, Dissection. To see the fonn, tlie stomach must be blown up mode- rately, and the surface cleaned; but, previousl.y, let the student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodenum close to the pylorus. Form and Divisions. The stomach is somewhat conical in form (fig. 145). Its size varies nuich in different bodies, and is some- times much diminished by a constriction in the centre: when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or cui-ves to be examined. Extremities. The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventriculi) is the largest part of tlie stomach, and projects about three inches to the left of the opening of the oesophagus. The right or j)yloric end, much smaller than the other, is cylindi-ical, and forms the apex of the cone to which the stomach is likened. Ojienings. The left opening (cardiac), which comnumicates with the oesophagus, is at the highest part of the stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The right or pyloric orifice opens into the duodeimm, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus) : at the same spot the stomach is slightly constricted externall}', where a firm circular ring may be felt. Surfaces. The surfaces (anterior and posterior) are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but romided when it is dis- tended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 4G7). Borders. The upper border or small curve is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end ; and the lower border or large curve is convex, except near the riglit end, where it is concave—the concavity of the one border coi-respondijig with the convexit}'- of the other. An arterial arcli, and a fold of peritoneum (omentum), are fixed to each border. Structure. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are vessels, nei"ves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an intei-val exists con-esponiling with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in those spaces are contained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. It consists of three sets of fibres,—longitudinal, circular, and oblique; these lie from without inwards in the order mentioned and are unstriated or involuntary. ' The longituclincdfibres (fig. 145, a) are derived fi-om the oesophagus; they spread over the surfaces, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particulariy at tlic smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of tlie stomach.