STRUCTURE OF SPLEEX. 507 155.* Microscopic appearances. The characters of the spleen substance cannot be ascertained without the aid of the microscope. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass, which is lodged in the areolcc of the trabecular structure. Under the microscope this material is seen to be composed of a fine network of ramif3ing connective tissue corpuscles, with blood-cells in its meshes. The Ilalpighian corpuscles are small rounded whitish bodies, about -g^^th of an inch in diameter, and are connected with the outer coat of the smallest bi-anches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp of the spleen, and are surrounded by it. In structure they are like the lymph follicles of the intestine, consisting of reticular tissue, with lymph corpuscles in its meshes, through which blood-capillaries pass. Bloodvessels. The larger hrancJies of the splenic artery are suiTOunded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabecular; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. In the smallest branches, with which the !RIalpighian corpuscles are united, the outer coat is thickened by lymphoid tissue, and is directly continuous with those bodies in structure. The splenic vein begins in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. From the union of these radicles arise small branches, which unite into trunks larger than the accompanpng arteries, and issue by the fissure of the spleen; in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Nerves ami lynqjhatics. The hjmpluitics are superficial and deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum. In the spleen they begin in the corpuscles of jVIalpighi, and in the outer coat of the smallest arteries ; they are conveyed to the hilum of the spleen on the vessels. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and sur- round the artery and its branches. Siilenic ]iull>; colour, and coiiiposi- tiou. l^r.alpighiaii bodies ; size; sti'iicture. Splenic artery. Ending. Peculiarity in smaller branches. Vciu begins by open spaces. Branches. Lymphatics. Nerves. THE LIVEU. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body. <^0'ice of the Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 15G). Preparatory to examining the liver, the clean vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. Tl lis proceed- un(ier ing will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena porta3 surface; Avith tow or cotton wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its * A drawing of the trabecular structure of the spleen of the ox, at some distance from the hilum.