ANATOMY OF FEMOEAL HERNIA. 613 turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brougiit into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be sepai-ated Define carefully fi-om the fascia lata beneath, from Poupart's ligament in fi'ont, and from Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side. PoujKirfs ligament (fig. 192, ^'), or the crural arch, is the firm The crural band of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the ^'^^' abdomen, which stretches fi-om the front of the iliac crest to the ^Int^' pubes (p. 444). When viewed on the surface, the arch is curved ^^1.^. downwards towards the limb, whilst the fascia lata remains on the thigh. The outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is in serted into the pubic spine and pectineal Hne of the hip bone, forming Gimbernat's ligament. The space between the crural arch and the innominate bone is parts cios- larger in the female than in the male, and is closed by parts passing l]efiea°tii°^ from the abdomen to the thigh. The oiiter half of the interval is filled by the fleshy psoas and iliacus muscles, to which the arch is closely bound by fascia ; and the inner half is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath. Glmhernafs ligament, or the part of the tendon of the external Gimbernat's oblique muscle which is inserted into the pectineal line, is about '^sament; three-fourths of an inch in length, and is triangular in shape. Its apex is at the pubic spine ; whilst its base is in contact with the form and crural sheath, and is joined by the fascia lata. By one margin connections, (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural sheath (fig. 192, ^) is a loose tube of membrane around Crarai the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel, sloped unequally • on the sides. The wide part or base of the tube is upwards : and ^^''7^^ 1 . , • 1 11 -r. ,1 T 1 and connec- the narrow part ceases about two mches below Poupart s ligament, tious, by blending with the common areolar sheath of the bloodvessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve (^). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/); this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is con- nected to the falcifoiTn margin and the superficial fascia. In front of the crural sheath and behind it is the fascia lata of the thigh. The sheath is continuous with the fascife lining the abdomen in iiow formed, this way ;—the anterior part is prolonged beneath Poupart's liga- ment into the fascia transversalis, and the posterior half is continued into the fascia iliaca (p. 464). Crossing the front of the sheath beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, is a fibrous band, the deep crural arch. A notice of it is included in the description of the fascia transversalis (p. 453). Dissection (fig. 192). The student is to open the sheath by an Open the incision across the front, and to raise the loose anterior part with sheath, hooks. Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each