281 EADIAL FLEXORS OF WRIST. ■covered by the radial arteiy, and some of the outer set of muscles, supmator longus, aiid radial extensors of the wrist. The VIZ Fig. 80. t pronator forms the inner boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the flexor carpi radialis. By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the ulnar artery and the median ner\-e: the second small head of origin is di- rected inwards between that artery and nerve. Action. The pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius over the ulna, so as to pronate the hand. When the radius is flxed the muscle raises that bone towards the humerus, bending the elbow-joint. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 80, •*) takes its or/gin fi'om the common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becom- ing free fi'om fleshy fibres about the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, outside the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted mainly into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger. The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum ; but near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus pollicis,—a muscle of the deep layer. As low as the middle of the forearm the muscle corre- sponds externally with the pronator teres, and below that with the radial artery to Avhich its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris longus muscle, and for about two inches above the Avrist, with the me- dian nerve.** Action. The hand being free the muscle flexes first the wrist joint, inclining the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and will assist in bringing •10 Jl Use oil radius caiiil elbow. Kadial flexor of the wrist. 2 Tlie muscle is super- ficial : is the guide to radial arterj'. Use on \vTist and radius. * In the body of a ■woman which was well developed, the muscle was absent on both sides. t Superficial view of the forearm (Quain's Arteries). 1. Radial artery with its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve where they are su2)erficial. 3. Pronator teres. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor sublimis. 7. Flexor carj)! ulnaris. 8. Sui^inator longus. 9. Biceps.