638 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and by side of sacrum: other neiA'es of small sciatic below. cutaneous ai;teries. Sources of the cutane- ous nen'es. From lum- bar and sacral nerves. From last dorsal nerve. From lum- bar plexus. through ilio-hypo- gastrie, and external cutaneous. From sacral plexus, through small sciatic. Clean By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three offsets of the sacral nerves are to be looked for beneath the fat. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. A few turn upwards over that muscle ; the rest are directed down the thigh, and one (inferior pudendal) bends below the ischial tuberosity to reach the periniBal space. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will serve as guides to their situation. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 197). The nerves distributed in the integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived fi-om the spinal nerves (posterior primary pieces) ; from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses ; and fi-om the last dorsal nerve. Branches of the lumbar nerves (^). The offsets of the posterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (p. 396) are two or three in number, and cross the crest of the hip bone near the anterior edge of the erector spina3: they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the trochanter major. The branches of the sacral nerves Q) perforate tlie gluteus maximus near the sacrum and coccyx, and are then directed out- wards for a short distance in the integuments over the muscle. These offsets are usually two in number : the largest is opposite the lower end of the saci'um, and the other by the side of the coccyx. The last dorsal nerve (^) supplies the buttock by means of its lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). This offset perforates the muscles of the abdomen, and crosses the anterior part of the iliac crest to be distributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar 2)hxus. Parts of two ners-es of the lumbar plexus (p. 541), viz. iUo-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in the integuments of this region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (") crosses the iliac crest in fi-ont of the branches fi-om the lumbar nerves, lying generally in a groove in the bone, and extends only a short distance below the crest. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend back- wards to the integuments above the great trochanter, and cross the ramifications of the last dorsal nerve. Small sciatic ('). This nerve of the sacral plexus (p. 566) sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus maximus, accompanied by superficial branches of the sciatic artery: two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower part of the buttock ; the remaining branches (-) descend to the tliigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it. Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this reoion