670 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Use like gastrocne- mius. Detach soleus. anil clean the deep fascia. Piantaris. The TLANTAius (fig. 206, ^) is remarkable in having the longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when Origin. it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the muscle aiises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and fi-om the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and the tendon Insertion, is inserted into the os calcis with or by the side of the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. Position of The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed the muscle. the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Actioji. It assists the gastrocnemius to extend the ankle if the foot is not fixed ; and to bend the knee-joint if the foot is im- moveable. Dissection (fig. 207). The soleus is to be detached fi-om the bones of the leg, and the muscles and nerves entering it are to be di-vided ; but in raising it, the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nerves beneath. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis ; and the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the OS calcis should be opened. Tlie piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep layers is next to be cleaned ; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken aAvay to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nei-ve to the sole of the foot, Avhich pierces the ligament, is to be presen-ed. Deep part of Deej) part of the fascia. This intermuscular piece of the fascia of the leg"'^ is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus it is thin and indistinct; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance and oflfice of an annular ligament in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles (in part), the posterior tibial nerve, and the trunk and offsets of the posterior tibial vessels will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two muscles (flexor communis and flexor pollicis) on the sides ; and it will not fully appear until after the membrane covering it has been divided longitudinally, and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery, evert and partly divide the flexor pollicis in which it is contained; then follow branches of it to the fore part of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and to join the posterior tibial arteiy. Deep Layer of Muscles (fig. 207). The deep muscles at the back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus polhcis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered Position and by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of Clean the deep muscles : dissect l>eroneal artery. Four mus- cles in the deep layer.