DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 408 Trunks of spinal nerves. Number and groups. Last nerve of a group below the vertebra. Primary divisions. Roots anterior and posterior. Posterior larger than anterior: forms two biuidles that enter theganglion. Fig. 123. the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior beyond the ganglion. SpraAL Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves ; and each nerve is constructed by the blending of two I'oots (anterior and posterior) in the inter\'-ertebral foramen (fig. 123). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in num- ber as the vertebrEe, except in the cei-vical region of the spine where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. In consequence of the number of nerves in the neck exceeding that of the vertebrte, the last is placed below the seventh vertebra; and the lowest nerve of each group, except the coccygeal, will be below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two primary branches, anterior and posterior, the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots of the Nerves (fig. 123). Two roots (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the inter- vertebral foramen. The posterioi- root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The 2^osterior or ganglionic rooU (fig. 123, h) surpass in size the anterior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils. They are attached to the side of the cord between the posterior and lateral columns in a straight line, which they keep even to the last ners'^e. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bundles (fig. 123 B, h) which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from A. rian of the origin of a spinal nerve from the spinal cord. a. Anterior root, b Posterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root, d Anterior primary branch, c. Posterior primary branch of the nerve trunk B. A drawing to show the arrangement of the nerve-roots, and the form of the ganglion in a lumbar nerve, h. Posterior root gathered into two bundles of threads, c The gang ion, bifid at the inner end. a. Threads of t^e anterior root, also gathered into two bundles.