357 TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. the right side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behind mitcrior the right branch of the puhuonary artery : those in front running IX^xus"^^ on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the anterior coro- nary plexus (p. 337) ; and the nen-es behind supply the right auricle -of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch of the artery a low go to to the root of the lung. "^"^ " The left half of the plexus lies close to the ligamentum arteriosuiu, i-eft i)ait: and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac entering it: •nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest; and numerous and large branches of the left recuiTcnt nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and "^^j^*^ ^^^^ •trunk of the pulmonary arteiy, and after supplying branches to the nary plexus, left auricle, terminate in the posterior coronary plexus (p. 337). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the hga- mentum ductus arteriosi to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some and in root Tierves reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac brandies of the sympathetic nerve of Other car- the neck (p. 115). diacneiTes. On the right side there are usually only two cardiac nerves enter- Two right , . enter deei» ing the thorax, for the highest nerv^e is blended commonly with one plexus, of the others. The middle and inferior ner\'^es pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus : they com- mimicate with the branches of the recun-ent larjnigeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the One left aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a supediciai, branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve, ^jggp the lower cardiac, may be seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, as the middle one throws itself oftentimes into it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see the pieces of the air tube in the root of the To see the^ iung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery with its itsdivisions. branches, and the pulmonary veins. And when the transverse part of the arch of the aoila, wliich has l^een already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the ner\'-es, and the fibrous tissue fi-om the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into wliicli it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to the Ti-aciiea lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the fifth cer^'ical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends in_ fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. Its point of splitting majr be a vertebra lower. Its connections in the neck are described in p. 120, and its structure in the neck. in p. 167. The part in the thorax remains to be studied.