THIED LAYER OF MUSCLES. 683 hollow below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the os caleis, being enveloped by a synovial membrane. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see page i^'se on fust 671. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the flexor ^^^^ o"^'^'" longus going to the second and third toes, it may bend those digits with the gi-eat toe. Dissection (fig. 210). For the dissection of the third layer of Dissect muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to of muscles, be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. Whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and two small nerves and vessels to the outer two lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third layer of muscles (fig. 210). Only the short muscles of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal cousists of bone of the great toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external to it is the adductor pollicis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS rOLLlCIS muscle (fig. 210, ^) is tendinous and Flexor brc- pointed posteriorly, but bifurcated in front. It is attached behind to the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone, and to a ° ' prolongation from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal insertion. phalanx. Kesting on the muscle at one part, and in the inters^al between connet- the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is imited with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the meta- Use on the tarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe. ^' The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 210, ^), which is larger than the Adduotor preceding muscle and external to it, arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united joins outer with the outer head of the short flexor, and is inserted with it into short "flexor, the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer Covers border the external plantar vessels and nerve are directed inwards, lu-ej}.^^ Action. Its first action will be to adduct the gi-eat toe to the use on others, and it will help afterwards in bending the mctatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The TRANSVERSALIS TEDis (fig. 210, ^) is placed transversely over Tmnsvcrsa- the heads of the metatarsal bones. Its orifjin is by fleshy bundles 'V,^'^^^"