609 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THIGH. Fig. 190.* Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side of the limb. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 542) ramifies on the outer aspect •of the hmb (fig. 190, '). At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigli, Avhere it •divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or tliree others, wliich arch backwards to supply the integuments of the outer part of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the sur- face of the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's ligament and is continued to the knee ; it distributes branches late- rally, but those towards the posterior sur- face are the most numerous, and the largest in size. Mkldle cutaneous (fig. 190, ■). The nerve of the centre of the thigh is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 542), and divides into two branches. It is trans- mitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee. In the fat this neiwe is united with the genito- crural and internal cutaneous nei-^^es. Internal cutaneous. Derived from the an- terior crural trunk, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of the tliigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), which perforate the fascia in sepa- rate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 190, ^), along which it is continued to the Icnee. This branch is distributed in the aower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner side of the knee- joint, and is united with the patellar branch of the internal saphe- nous nerve. The inner branch (fig. 205, ^) perforates the fascia at the inner side of the knee behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communicates ; it furnishes offsets to the inside of the knee, and to the upper half of the leg on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the inner side of the thigh, * Cutaneous nerves on the front of the tliigh. 1. External cutaneous. 2. Middle cutaneous. 3. Internal cutaneous. 4. Internal saphenous. 5. Patellar branch of saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. 7. Ilio-inguinal. 8. Ilio- hypogastric on the belly. R R unusual state. External cutaneous. posterior, and anterior branches. Middle cutaneous reaches the knee. Internal eutaiieous: the anterior branch extends to knee; tlie inner ends in the leg : otlier small twigs to thii thiL'li.