342 PISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Shape of cavity of left auricle. On anterior wall is auricula. On septum remnant of foramen ovale. Openings: four pul- monary veins, and to ventricle. Valves. Current of blood in adult; in fetus. How to open left ventricle. Fig. 101. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE (fig. 101) is Smaller than that of the right side. Irregularly conical in shape, the wider part is turned towards the spinal column, and receives the pulmonary veins ; and the narrowed pai't (Z) opens inferiorly into the left ventricle. On the left side towards the upper part, is the aperture of the pouch of the auricula which is narrower than that in the right auricle. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around tlie entrance, are Heshy fibres (muscuU pectinati) which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. On the part of the wall correspond- ing with the septum auricularum, is a superficial fossa (fig. 101, o), the remains of the oval aperture through that partition ; this is bounded below by a projecting ridge, concave up- wards, which is the edge of the structure or valve that closed the opening in the fetus. This impres- sion in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, be- cause the aperture between the two in the fetus is an oblique canal through the septum. The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmonary veins, two on each side, together with the opening of communication with the left ventricle. The mouths of each pair of pulmonary veins are close to one another ; those from the right lung (i) open into the extreme right of the auricle near the septum, and those fi-om the left lung Qi) enter the opposite part of the cavity, near the auricula. The pulmonary veins are not provided with valves. The aperture into the ventricle (Z) will be subsequently seen to have a large and complicated valve to guard it, as on the right side. In the adult the blood enters this cavity from the Itmgs by the puhnonary veins, and passes to the left ventricle by the large inferior opening between the two. In the fetus the lungs arc impen-ious to the air and the mass of the circulating fluid ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. Tlie left ventricle may be opened by an mcision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended upwards * Diagram of the two cavities of the left side of the heart, k. Left pul- monary veins, i. Right pulmonary veins, o. Remains of the foramen ovale. I. Left auriculo •ventricular opening, of the aorta. m. Auricular appendix, n. Aperture