431 rUDIC ARTERY AND NERVE, Connected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Length and which perforates obliquely the wall of the urctlu-a (corpus spongio- o?"he"ducL sum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an inch in front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. In the wall of the duct are unstriated muscular fibres; and the interior is lined by a columnar epithelium. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not known. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and Tiiey vaiy they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The student may complete the examination of the Dissection perinteum by tracmg out the pudic vessels and nerve, and their TCssdsTiul^ remaining branches. From the point of its division beneath the nerve, cms into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed backwards, along the pubic arch of the left side. The pudic nerve Avill be by the side of, but deeper than the artery. Pudic Artery (a). The posterior half of this artery has been Pudic already dissected (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perinasum it ascends between the layers of the triangular ligament, and along the pubic arch nearly to the pubes ; there it perforates the super- pg^jg""^ ficial part of the ligament, and divides into the arteries of the Branches ■ cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. In this course it is placed beneath the constrictor uretlii-re, and is accompanied by venaj comites and the pudic nerve. Its offsets are subjoined:— a. The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable artery of^ size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing triangular almost transversely inwards between the layers of that ligament, I'gament, about half an inch fi-om the base, the artery reaches the back of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of tliis branch from the base of the ligament will be situation, influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perinteal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the ligament, and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. h. Deep muscular branches (d). As the arteiy is about to enter between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one or more branches to the levator ani and sphincter, and line twigs tlu-ough the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. c. The artei-y of the cavernous structure of the xtenis (c) (art. cor- '^^^^^^ poris cavernosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At penis, first this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis. (1. The dorsal artery of the penis (h) is in direction and size the artciyof continuation of the pudic; it runs upwards between the crus and py^it"° the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 440. It is much smaller in the female than the male.