758 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. Blood-vessels of the mem- branes. Internal iiiiditoiy arteiy has a hranth to mem- branous sacs; termination: and another to the cochlea: mode of tenuination: joins a longi- tudinal vessel. Vein to petrosal .sinus. Auditory nerve divides into two. A cochlear branch, runs at first in the bone. and then enters the membrane. Ending un- known. Vestibular bninch divides into three. Blood-vessels. The membranes of the lab^Tinthic cavity receive their blood from an artery Avliich enters the internal auditory meatus with the ner\-e ; but some offsets from the posterior auricular supply their hinder part. The internal auditorij artery arises fi'om the basilar trunk Anthin the skull (p. 183), and enters the internal meatus -with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches —one for the vestibule, the other for the cochlea. The hronch of the vestibule^ after piercing the wall of the cavity, subdivides into small offsets, which supply the lining membrane, and ramify over the sacs, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a network of capillaries on the exterior of the special layer of the sacs, and this is most developed about the termination of the nen'es. The branch of the cochlea subdivides into twigs which enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets from these are directed out- wards through canals in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near the margin of that osseous zone. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the basement layer and the membrane lining the seal® ; but the septum cochleaj prevents the communication of the vessels of the two passages. A longitudinal vessel is placed on that surface of the membranous part of the septum cochlea! which is turned to the scala t3-m23ani, and is opposite the outer rods of Corti; it communicates here and there Avith the arterial Iooids before mentioned. The vein. One branch of vein is derived from the cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth : the two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the sui^erior jDetrosal sinus in the base of the skull. Nerve of the Labyrintti (fig. 247). Only one special nerve, aiKlitoi-y (p. 188), is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the in- ternal auditoiy meatus, the nei"ve divides into two branches, like the artery, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In the trunk and in both branches nerve cells are contained: in the branch to the labyrinth they form a swelling (intiimescentia gcmrjliqformis of Scarpa). The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modiolus into twigs, which enter it, and are directed outwards with the vessels, into the canals in the lamina spiralis (fig. 245, -). As they enter the lamina they form a plexus with ganglion cells, and are con- tinued onwards near the scala tjonpani, being still plexiform, as far as the edge of the bone. At this spot they leave the bone and are arranged in conical bundles, which pass through apertures at the junction of the bone with the lamina basilaris of the septum cochlear: consisting now of axis cylinders they are directed towards the cells of the organ of Corti, but their ending is unknown. Tlie vestibular branch ends in three nerv-es for the membranous labyrinth: these pierce the cribriform plate in the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed :—One appertains to the utricle (c), and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior