631 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES OF HIP JOINT. fibres, and one issuing beneath the adductor longus, to join the plexus at the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and Remove its branches, they must be removed. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 196, and Gracilis is fleshy and ribbon-like above, but tendinous below. The muscle takes origin arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the pifivig*,'"^ pubic border of the hip bone close to the margin, viz., opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about one third of an inch is inserted wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. At the upper part of the Position thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as niusciea to have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third, it inten'-cnes between the sartorius and semi-membra- nosus muscles, and forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. At its insertion the tendon is neai'er the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth fi-om the surface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; and fi-om the tendon an expansion is continued to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bursa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating Use on knee in that bone ; and then brmgs the moveable femm- towards the '[e,"nu-''"^ middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground the gracilis will aid in pelvis, propping the pelvis on the limb. The PECTINEUS (fig. 194, ^) is the highest of the muscles directed Pectineus. from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin Origin from fi-om the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone, and fi-om the triangular ^ ' smooth surface in fi-ont of that line ; and it is inserted inferiorly by a tendon, about two inches in width, into tlie femur behind the small trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which extends fi-om that process to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, so that the surfaces which are directed ^Jj^^^^!^ forwards and backwards near the pehds are turned inwards and outwards at the femur. One surface is in contact with the fascia surfaces; lata; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the r/irts on tiie adductor longus ; and thie internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. p. Psoas. Vessels : a. Femoral artery, and b, femoral vein. c. Trunk of the profunda, d. Internal, and e, external circumflex. /. Fii-st, ff, second, and h, third perforating, i. Muscular and anastomotic of the profunda, k. Anastomotic of the femoral, with I, the articular, and n, the cutaneous piece. Nerves: 1. Obturator, joined by the accessory obturator nerve, with 2, the superficial, and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep piece. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus internus and 9, its articular branch to the knee.