STRUCTURE OF LUNG. 369 noise known as crepitation. If tlic lung contains serum, a frothy- red fluid will run out when it is cut. The toxtux-e of the lung is very elastic; this elasticity causing the and elasti- organ to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of Specific dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water ; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and -sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is and weight influenced greatly by the quantity of other material contained in its °^ texture ; ordinarily it ranges from eighteen to twenty-one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection. By tracing the large branches of the bronchi, and the Follow blood-vessels and nerves into the lung, the mode of branching of the vesseis^nto air tubes will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the lung, the ^^'^ ^^^S- cellular structure may be seen. But the arrangement of the small air cells about their tube, and the disposition of the different vessels, cannot be ascertained without fine injections and a micro- scope. Structure of the Luxg. The spongy pulmonary tissue consists ^^^^^'^^^ of minute recesses or cells, in which the smallest branches of the t he lung. air tube tenninate ; and the mass of the lung is fontned by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of the lobules into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from its fellows, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its set of vessels concerned in the function and nutrition. The parts of the lung are imited by a serous covering, prolonged Covering continuously over the surface ; and by a subserous layer of areolar ™yers."*'°^ tissue which penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Sei'Otis and subserous coverings. The casing derived from the pleura Serous is thin and transparent, and forms an entire capsule for the lung, except at the root where the vessels enter. The subserous areolar layer contains filn-es of elastic tissue, and not only covers the sur- and areolar face, but extends inwards, establishing tlie division of the mass into lobules : where it separates the lobules it is named interlobular tissue, and is fi-ee from fat. Bronchial hranches in the lung. When a bronchus is followed into the pulmonary structure it is found to divide generally in a binary jn the lung, order, and to diminish in size at each subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule the tube has a diameter till they end of Jo to of an inch. When this last degree of diminution is reached, the tube gives origin to the air cells. The larger l)ronchial branches have the same composition as the Difference trachea, but they arc round in the lung, instead of being semi-^^^.1^, elliptical as in the trachea. The smallest branches want some of V