EEMOVAL OF BRAIN. 11 of the falx cerebri, and the different cerebral veins entering the ceeding, and longitudinal sinus; raise and throw backwards the falx, but leave i'.'JI^,!,^.'?^ it uncut in the middle line behind. Gently raise with the fingers the frontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of the large brain. Next Anterior cut through the internal carotid artery and the second and third ^5^^^'^.'^"*' ners'-es, which then appear; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. A small branch of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at this time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. A strong horizontal process of next the the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view at the back of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath: the following ners'^es, which will be then visible, are to be di^^ded in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth posterior nerve, consisting of a large and small root; whilst towards the ' middle line of the skull is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the three trunks of the eighth nerve in one line:—of these, the upper small piece is the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the pneumo-gastric; and the long round nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the spinal accessory. The remaining nerve nearer the middle line is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, am! they wind round the upper part of the spinal cord. Lastly, cvrt across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of lastly, the the spinal nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing ^^^^^^• the first two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be taken readily from the skull in the left hand. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- How to pre- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures through '\)j-Mn. them on the under surface, the brain may be immersed in spirit to harden the texture ; and methylated s.pirit may be used on account of its cheapness. Placing the brain upside down on a piece of calico long enough to wrap over it, put it in the spirit. Examination of the hrain. At the end of two or three days the ^^^"^['VJ' dissector should examine the other membranes, and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow the spirit to penetrate its substance.