115 CERVICAL GANGLIA OF SYMPATHETIC. <»neans of an oftWt from the ganglion into tlie carotid canal some in the (p. 20). «kuii. Branches for DLitributio)!. This set of brandies is more numerous Blanches than the preceding, and the iierves are larger in size. Branches for Mood-vessels (nervi niolles). These nerves suiTound to external tlie external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches so as to form plexuses on the arteries with tlie same names as the vessels : »-:ome small ganglia are occasionally found on these ramifying nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the sub- formiufi niaxillarv ganglion cnnxnnmicates with the sympathetic; and |i|,*|{'"!'i',^tiia• through the plexus on the internal maxillarj^ artery tlie otic gang- lion obtains a similar comnnuiication. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion accompanies to internal the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it" ' •divides into two i)ieces, which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel: and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary plexuses on the which join ophthalmic and cerebral arteries. In the carotid canal communic.a- Jiyi ves; tions are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 100) and with the •spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 142) ; with the former near tlie lower, and with the latter near the upper openuig of the canal. The ■communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the base of the brain are described at p. 20. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, to phai-jni- where they join with other branches of the cranial nerves in the ^'"^'^ l>exuh, pharyngeal plexus (p. 111). Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join hi the plexuses of the liioart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, i"^-""• middle, and inferior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior cardiac nerve (superficial) of the right side courses one nerve behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax ,,'i,'xus' beneath the subclavian artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent ners-e. In some bodies it ends by joining joins others /- ,1 ,1 T "I neclv. one 01 tlie other cardiac nerves. The MIDDLK CKRVic.M. (iAXGLiON (gang, tliyroidcum) is of small y\wwy. •size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually on or near the inferior tliyroid artery. It has a roundish shape, and Situation, lies beneath the great vessels. Its branches are the following :— ■■^Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the is joined lo borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth •^,1!",'.','!;. ■and sixth cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid liod}-, together with the middle cardiac nerve. The thijroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid artery, |J|>^|''^'.','^^^^ -and end in the thyroid body; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The mkldle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across and a oar- c> .... T 1 •11 uiac iicrvc, the subclavian arterv ; its termination in the cardiac plexus wiu I 2