DEEP MUSCLES OF URETHRA. 429 border is a tliin fascia wliicli covers tlie surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. Superficial to it are the muscles parts over in tlie anterior half of the perineal space ; and tlie superficial fascia is miited to it near the lower border. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (anterior Consists of •and posterior) which are united below. The posterior layer is strata. <lerived from the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the fore part of the ligament, about one inch below Apertures the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra, F ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethraj. About midway between for dorsal the preceding opening and the symphysis pubis is the aperture for vessels'aiid the dorsal vein of the penis ; and external to this, near the bone on nerves, each side, the terminal parts of the pudic artery and nerve to the penis {b and 3) perforate the ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- Parts ous part of the urethra, with its muscles, vessels, and glands; and j^j^'^yg^g®'^ the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscles between the layers of the ligament will Dissection, be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the •superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dis- section, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will <;ome into view with the undermentioned position :— Parts between the layers of the ligament. Near the base is a narrow Parts in the transverse muscle, n, which is directed to tlie bulb of the urethra. i[,iall^jJt.^ Higher up, and crossing inwards from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the constrictor uretlu-te muscle, I, which sur- rounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone are the pudic vessels (a) and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb, and the latter being deeper in position; and below the pubes is the sub- pubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student will recognise the. posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the recto-vesical fascia, which separates those parts from tlie cavity of the pelvis. Muscles. The two muscles connected with the membranous part Muscles ot of the urethra, are, deep transverse, and constrictor of the urethral passage. The DEEP TR-VNSVERSE MUSCLE (fig. 131, h) (clcvator urethras, Beep trans- Santorini) is a thin flat band on a level witli the base of the tri- angular ligament. It arises externally from the pubic arch of the Origin, innominate bone, and is directed below the tip of the bulb and the Termina- membranous part of the urethra to the middle line, where it joins the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central j^oint of the perin;i3um. The muscle conceals Cowper s gland, and is frequently placed ^onnec- over the artery of the bulb. The transversa muscle is not always separate from the following.