206 DISSECTION OF THE BllAIX. is connected to the middle occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (c). lower. The inferior (^), less well marked than the other two, forms part also of the inner surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. By the upper end it is united to the third occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (d). with parallel The jj;oro7/e^ sulcus (P, fig. GO), named from its position to the sulcus. Sylvian fissure, extends from the lower end of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe to the angular convolution. Central lobe ^- The convolutions of the central lobe (C, fig. Gl), about six in convolu- number, are straight for the most part, and are separated by shallow sulci : they are directed upwards from apex to base of the lobe. The posterior gyri are the longest and broadest ; and the anterior joins the convolution of the under surface of the orbital lobule. Convoin- B. The CONA^OLUTIONS ON THE INNER SURFACE of the hemisphere tions on (flg, 62) are generally well defined ; but some being so long as to face of he- reach beyond the extent of a lobe, the arrangement of them in lobes misphere. cannot be followed, as on the exterior. How to see Dissection. Without the use of a separate hardened hemisiihere, them. ^YiQ parts to be now described will not be seen satisfactorily. If the student possesses only one brain, he may bring into view much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as- the white corpus callosum in the median fissure. Convolution Convolution of the corpus callosum, gyms fornicatus ('**), is long callosum. ^^^^ simple, and arches round the body from which it takes its name. Beginning at the base of the brain in the anterior perforated spot,, it bends'backwards in contact with the coi*pus callosum (CaZ), and below the back of that body blends by a narrowed part with the uncinate convolution ('') of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Anteriorly a sulcus separates it fi'om the following convolution ; and smaller gyri often connect the two across that sulcus. Marginal The marginal convolution ('') is named from its position on the convolution, ^^^^ ^-^^^ median fissure. Its extent is rather more than half the length of the hemisphere, for it begins in fi-ont at the anterior perforated spot, and tenninutes near the back of the corpus callosum just behind the fissure of Rolando. It is much subdivided both internally and externally; and on the under part of the frontal lobe (fig. 61) it lies internal to the olfactory sulcus. Between it and the preceding convolution is situate the calloso-marginal sulcus (i) which marks its hinder limit, andcalloso- The ccdloso-marginal sulcus (i, Huxley), designated from its. Sf''^ situation, begins in fi'ont below the corpus callosum, and ends. behind, near the back of the same body, by ascending to the edge of the hemisphere. Smaller gyri uniting the two bounding convo- lutions, fi-equently interrupt it, and secondarj^ sulci are prolonged from it into the same convolutions. Quadriiate- The quadrilateral lolule Q^) reaches from the marginal convolu- rai lobule, tion in front to the parieto-occipital fissure behind. It is much divided by sulci, and projects above to the edge of the hemisphere • it joins below the gyrus fornicatus. *