DISSECTION OF TEE THORAX. ^34 Form. Sui'fa'^es and borders Size and weight. ituation in the cliest; its axis, oblique, ydaeed al- most hori- zontally. Only some jiarts touch the wall. Limits of base and apex of upper margin, lower border. Lateral limits. circular :ind longitu- dinal : how placed. Form. When the heart is distended, its form is conical, but it is rather flattened from Ijefore backwards. Its surfaces, and borders have the followinj^ differences ; tlie anterior surface is shghtly con- vex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat : the left border is thick and round, but the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size. The size varies gi-eatly, and in general the heart of the woman is smaller than that of the man. Its average weight is fi'om ten to twelve ounces in the male, and fi-om eight to ten m the female. The measurements may be said to be about four inches and three quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness. Position and Direction. The heart lies beneath the lower two-tliirds of the sternum, and projects on each side, but more on the left than the right. Its axis is not parallel to, but is incHned obliquely across that of the body ; and its position is almost horizontal with the base directed backwards and to the riglit, and the apex forwards and to the left side. The left margin of the viscus is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. In consequence of the direction of the heart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in contact with the parietes:—thus the right half and the apex will correspond with the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intei-vening, whilst the base is directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages : and the left half will be imdermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 98). The Hmits of the whole heart are the following : the base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds with four dorsal vertebrae (5th to 8th). The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life just below the fifth rib, near the junction with the cartilage. The upper limit would be shown by a line across the stenunn on a level with the tipper edge of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit would be marked by a line over the junction of the stcrmun with the xiphoid cartilage, drawn from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it projects from one to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is constantly varying Avith the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the apex projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the breast bone. Componentxmrts. The heart is a double organ, and is made up of two similar halves. In each half are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle ; these on the same side communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. On are grooves indicatory of this composition. Thus passing circularly isoimd the heart, nearer the base than the apex is a groove which cuts off the thin auricular from the fleshy ventricular part. A longitudinal sulcus on each surface marks the situation of a median partition between the ventricles: this sulcus does not occupy The heart is double. Grooves, the surface