20 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. foruis carotid plexus. cavernous plexus; niiion with cranial nerve Sw Distribn tioii. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissec- tion of the base of the brain. Sympathetic SYMPATHETIC Nerve. Aronnd the carotid artery is a prolongation of the synipatlietic nerv'C of the neck, wliich forms the following plexuses:— The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nei-ve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous jilexus is placed below the bend of the arteiy which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is connected with that offset of the upper cervical ganglion Avhich courses along the inner side of tlie carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and oi^hthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming those plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost claiefly in the cerebral membrane named pia mater; but some ascend on the cerebral and ophthalmiitj- branches of that vessel, and one offset is said to enter the eyeball with the central artery of the retina. Petrosal nerves (fig. 34). Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the larrje superficial x>etrosal nerve (fig. 34,'-) entering the liiatus Fallopii to join the facial nei-ve. Externally to this is occasionally seen another small j?)e/rosa? nerve (fig. 34, (external sujierficial), whicrt springs fi'om the sympathetic on the middle meningeal ai-teiy, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve. A third, the small x>etrosal' nerve (fig. 34, is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source, and the destination of those three small nerve& will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to note the two first, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of the teguments should be stitched together over all. Three petro- sal nei-ves. Two seen in base of skull. Directions for preser- Ting parts. Section III. DISSECTIOX OF THE FACE. Directions. Directions. The left side of the face may be used for Icarnino- the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position of Position. The previous position of the body for the examination of the base of the skull will require to be changed :—the head is. to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dissected is to be placed upwards. Dissection. Dissection. As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres of the apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity