DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 664 motion of the lieait, state of the ligaments. How dislo- cation is produced in the lateral movements; position after reduc- tion. Circumduc- tion, less free than in shoidder. What rota- tion is. Rotation in motion of bone, state of ligament. Rotation out: motion of bone; state of ligament; why greatest. Bend of femur: towards the middle line of the body. Of the two, abduction is tlie most extensive, because the limb may soon meet its fellow when it is moved inwards, though, if it is carried in fi'ont of the other^ adduction is considerable. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and the greater part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum ; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the great trochantei- comes to rest on the margin of the acetabulum, so as to limit farther motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head i-ises into the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the inner band of the capsule is tightened over the projectmg head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the capsule is rendered tense enough to aiTcst the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum by Avhich the femur can be lifted out of the hollow ; in the one case (adduction) the neck of the femur I'ests on the brim of the acetabulum, and in the other (abduction) the gi'cat trochanter is supported on the margin of the joint-socket. After a dislocation has been reduced, the state of adduction, with the knees fastened together, is the securest posi- tion in which the limb can be placed, inasmuch as the head of the femur then occupies the deepest part of the acetabulum. In circuviduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, whose base is at its ex- tremity, and apex at the imion of the neck with the shaft of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint, be- cause of the greater bend between the neck and shaft of the femm-. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external: in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter, the more extensive of the two, it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur rolls backwards hori- zontally across the acetabulum, the gi-eat trochanter being put forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line inside it, wliich passes from the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out the head of the bone rolls forwards across the cotyloid ca\'ity, and the gi-eat trochanter is brought backwards, whilst the shaft of the femur moves round the hne on its inner side before noticed. The fore part of the capsule is now put on the stretch, and the hinder is rendered loose. The movement of rotation is destroyed by fi-acture of the neck of the bone. Its degree is proportioned to the length of the neck and is therefore greater in the femur than in the humerus. Use of lend of femur. By means of the angle at the union of the neck with the shaft, the pelvis is more fimily propped than it would