88 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. it sends downwards branches to join the auriculo-temiDOral i^ortion of the inferior maxillary nerve ; and in front of the ear it gives has three gome filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of ter- rrS.ehes. niinal branches, temporal, malar, and infi-a-orbital, are derived from the teniporo-facial part. Temporal The temporal brunches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch to'ski^of to enter the orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the an- head. terior belly of the occipito-frontalis ; they are united with offsets • of the supra-orbital nerve ("). The attrahens .aurem muscle receives a branch from this set ; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve Malar The malar hmnches are directed to the outer angle of the orbit, eyelids!''* and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle. In the eyelids com- munications take place with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve ; and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small sub- cutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve ("). J5ianciic.s The wfra-arhital branches are larger than the rest, and are and mouth*^ fnmished to the muscles and the ijitegument between the e}-e and mouth. Close to the orbit, and '.beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication—mfra-orbital plexus, is formed between these nervee and the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillaiy ('^). After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small ofi'eets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the noee, and others ujjwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply .the musclee, and to join the masal and infrartrochlear (^) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. Lower ])art. Tlie CERVico-FACiAL ie Smaller than the other trunk, and dis- ff thetnmk {^^.jimi^^f, serves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. It« highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face, three sets of This trunk, whilst in the parotid, -gives twjgs to fhe .'gland, and is branches. united with the great auricular-nerve. The terminal branches dis- tributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. Buc(-al to The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the moufh"^ mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator nrascle, and .terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch ('-) of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. Sui)r3- The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the base of ileuS? j'^^^ the middle line of the chin, and supply the mouth and muscles and the int^ument between the -chin and mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of .the facial join f)ffsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental .nerve in their course to the middle line. mSuarvto "^^^ infra-maxillarij branches lie below tlie jaw, and are dis- neck. ' tributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these iiei-^'es will be given Mith the dissection of the anterior triano-lo of the neck (p. .59). ^