714 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Union of the scaplioid bone to the cunei- fonn: synovial sac. To the cu- Jjoid hone: sjTiovial sac. Union of the cuneiform hones ■one witli anotlier. 4in(I witli the cuboid hone : sjniovial sac. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of hones. Motion in inversion Articulations of the scaphoid boxe. The scaphoid bone articu- lates in fi-ont with the three cuneiform bones, and laterally with the OS cuboidcs. In the artkulatlon with the cuneiform hones (fig. 221) there are three longitudinal dorsal lifjaments (i, h, I), one to each bone ; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 223, e). The place of j^Janfar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial memhrane (common of the tarsus) lines the articu- lation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneiform bones. In the articulation with the os cuhoides there is a dorsal oblique band of fibres (fig. 221, //) between the contiguous surfaces of the bones ; a plantar transverse band (fig. 223, f7), which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and are furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial memhrane of the tarsus. Articulatioks of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands; and the external one articulates with the OS cuboides after a similar manner. The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal bands (fig. 221, ii) between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except one between the two inner- most (fig. 223, /). There are also interosseous ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. Laterally there are articular surfaces between the bones, Avith offsets of the common synovial membrane. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 221, n) jiasses transversely between the two ; and a plantar ligament (fig. 223, g) takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct sjniovial sac, or w^ith a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane. The synovial memhrane of the articulations of the cuneiform bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiforms it sends one pro- longation forwards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones ; another, out- M-ards, to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone ; and sometimes a third to the jomt between the external cuneiform and the os cuboides. Articular surfaces. On the scaphoid are three articular faces, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The three cunei- forms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, Avhich is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the scaphoid