ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. 185 The several ner\'-es may be designated first, second, third, and so Designa- forth: this numerical mode of naming applies to all, and is the one generally used. But a second name has been derived for some of the nei*ves from from num- the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this nomen- ■clature the terms hypo-glossal, pneumo-gastric, may be taken. And name of a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms auditory and olfactory express. In this way two names may or function, be employed in referring to a nerve :—one being immerical, the other local or functional, as is exemplified below. The FIRST or olfactory nerve (olfactory process) (fig. 53,^) is Olfactory soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neurilenmia; and it may be ^^^^""^ considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both gray sub- stance and white fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a llat-looking band, wider at each end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the under aspect of the lies on frontal lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from the sulcus, it is prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position). Anteriorly the neiwous substance swells into the olfactory hulh,— forms a pyriform grayish mass, about half an inch in length, wliich rests buib*°^^ ■on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriori}^ the olfactory process is connected to the cerebrum by tlu'ee roots, external, internal, and middle. The external or long root is a slender white band, which is directed has external, backwards along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissure of Sylvius, and sinks into the substance of the cerebrum. The internal or short root, not always visible, is white and delicate, internal and and comes from the inner part of the cerebrum. The middle or gray root is connected with the gray matter on the middle root, surface of the brain by means of a conical elevation at the back of the sulcus wliich lodges the nerA^e. Deep origin. The external root is said to be traceable to one of the con- Origin, volutions of the island of Reil. Tlie inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyi'us fornicatus) to be afterwards cxainined. And the middle root, continuous with the gray matter of the convohitions, contains white fibres which enter the corpus striatum. The SECOND or optic (^) is the largest of the cranial nerves, except Optic mrve, the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the cms cerebri. Anteriorly the nerves of opposite sides are united in a commissure. The part part caUed of the nei-ve posterior to the connnissure is named optic tract; but the part beyond the conunissural union, which is round and firm, is 1'^^ nerve, called optic nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball. enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notwithstanding that it may be combined M"ith others in the foramen of exit.