439 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AXD NERVES. rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above down, supply the anterior integuments on the side of the belly; they furnish offsets to the <ligitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerne is larger than Last dorsal •the rest, and does not divide like the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pierce the sheath of Anterior the rectus : in the integuments they bend outwards towards the ueJves lateral cutaneous nen'es. The number, and the situation of these intercostal, small nerves, are very uncertain. The ilio-hypofjastric nerve is distributed by two pieces: one passes liio-liypo- over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the other ramifies on the lower funibaj."^ pai-t of the abdomen (liypogastric branch) :— plexus: The iUae branch lies close to the crest of the hip bone near the iliac branch, last dorsal nerve, and enters the teguments of the glute<al region. The hypofjaHtric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external hypogastric oblique muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed, as the name expresses, to the lower part of the abdomen. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the external iHo-ingninal abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and piexus° upper and inner parts of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous vessels run with both sets of Vessels from ■nerves on the abdomen :—Avith the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and with the anterior <aitaneous are offsets fi-om tlie intercostal, internal mammary, and •epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same distribution as the both lateral iier^^es they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the fi-ont of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular in number and in posi- an'l anterior tion, like the uerA'-es. After piercing tlie sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the ner\'es towards the other set of branches. Brandies of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend From fi-om the thigh between the layers of tlic subcutaneous fat, and artery^'hree ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of branches: the abdomen. Tlie greater portion of these vessels appeal's in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic external cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the ^'^^^ imder part of the penis. The supefi-ficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament, ■^"j^^.J^^'J.i^.' ■near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high a« the innbihcus. The circumflex iliac brunch lies usually below the level of the circumflex iliac crest, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal saphe- Vems. nous vein of the thigh.