SYMrATHETIC NERVE AND OFFSETS. 367 to joiu spinal nerves to supply viscera. Upper six gaugli I oflf- sets are small. others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebras. Each ganghon furnishes external branches to communicate with Branches the spinal nerves, and internal for the supply of the viscera. External or connecting branches (fig. 107). Two offsets pass out- wards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (in- ^ig- 107.* tercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic nerve fibrils are combined; but one (Ji) consists almost entirely of spinal, and the other (^) nearly altogether of sympathetic }icrve fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size nnd distribution, according as they are derived from the upper or lower six ganglia. The offsets of the iq^per six are very small, and are distributed to the aorta, and the vertebra} with the ligaments. Mr. Swan des- •cribes a plexus in front of the spine, from the union of the branches of oppo- site sides. Fi'om the third and fourth ganglia offsets arc sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six are larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen : these are three in number (large, small, and small- est,) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives roots apparently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on tlie knotted cord as high as the thii-d ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebras, it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in tlie semilunar ganglion of the al)domen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may {^resent a ganglion. * Scheme to illustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganglion, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, c. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. {/. Ganglia on the cord. /;,. White offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nei've. i. Grey ofTset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve. lower six, lar},'e, and form great splanchnic to semilunar ganglion;