DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. bladder. It is placed about an inch below the level of the sym- physis pubis, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape is conical witli the base turned backwards, and its size equals nearly that of a large chestnut. In the present position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards towards the end of the sacrum ; but in the erect state of the body, upwards and backwards fi-om the trian- gular ligament. The upper surface is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. On this surface are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is contiguous to the rectum ; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The apex touches the posterior layer of the triangular ligament; and the base surrounds the neck of the bladder, and the vesiculse seminales with the vasa deferentia. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- vesical fascia (p. 549), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) surrounds it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis ; and the ejaculatory ducts pierce it obliquely to open into the urethra (fig. 178,/). The size of the prostate alters much, and in old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. The vesicul;e seminales (fig. 172, (j) are two small sacculated bodies, each about two inches long, between the under part of the bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, whilst the smaller is surromided by the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesicular ajDproach one another, only the vasa deferentia intervening ; but farther backwards they diverge, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum the triangular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesicuLij are con- tained in a membranous sheath, whicli is derived from the recto- vesical fascia, and is lined by involuntary muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 172,/) in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring ; and crossing the obliterated hypogastric arteiy, is directed inwards along the side and under part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, whei'e it forms the common ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much en- larged, and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretoiy passage for the urine and semen (fig. 172), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In length it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two ounces according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards through the triangular ligament of the peri- naium to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with the