402 First three have inner and outer branches; Fig. 120. the last give cutaneous otfsets. Last two are midivided. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. « The first three nerves are covered by the multifidus spina?, and divide regularly. i xi, i <■ llh^ inner pieces Q) are distributed to the multifidus; and the last of this set is very fine. . The outer pieces f) are larger, and have commumcatmg ottsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum: further, the branch of the first nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the last lumbar ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and become cutaneous. (Dissec- tion OF THE Buttock.) * Last tv)o nerves (4 S and 5 S). These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regu- lar branching of the others : they are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior primary branch issues through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx. It is joined by a loop from the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior surface of the coccyx. Small sacral * Sacral Aeteries. Small branches leave the spinal canal with arteries. sacral nerves ; they supply the muscular mass of the erector spina?, and anastomose with branches on the back of the sacrum fi'om the gluteal and sciatic arteries. Dissection * Dissection. The examination of the posterior part of the wall mus°cies^ of the thorax may be made before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite the ribs, the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi, Coccygeal ner\'e. * Dissection of the sacral nerves (Lond. Med. Gazette, 1843). Muscles : A. Multifidus spinse, and b. Erector spinas: both cut. c. Gluteus maximus detached from its origin, and tlirown down. D. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves : 5 I. Last lumbar. 1 *S to 5 S, the five sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve, escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and first three sacral (these are too large in the cut) ; and 2, external offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior primary branch, and 4, posterior of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The nerve de- rived from the anterior primary branches of the lower sacral nerves, which pierces the sacro-sciatic ligament.