DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 aipper, lower, and louy siib- scai)ulai'. Tosterior tlioracic. Latissimus ilorsi. Insertion, Dissection of the ser- ratus. Seri'atus jiiuscle is attaclied to tlie ribs and scapula, . and its fibres seem to fonu tliree parts. Connections of tlie . muscle. Use on scainila. Dissection The branch of the snbscapiilaris is the highest and smallest, and enters the upper part of that muscle. The nerve of tlie teres major gives a small offset to the inferior part of the subscapularis, and ends in its muscle. A long nerve of the latissimus dorsi (^) takes the course of the subscapular artery along the posterior wall of the axilla, and enters the fleshy fibres near the outer end. Another small nerve, nerve to the serratus (*), (posterior thoracic), lies on the surface of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 72), from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; it descends behind the axillary arteiy, and enters that surface of the serratus magnus which is turned towards the axilla. The LATISSIMUS DOKSi MUSCLE, G, may be examined as far as it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising from the spinal column and the back of the trunk, and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove by a tendon, one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a bursa intervenes between them near the insertion. Dissection. To lay bare the serratus muscle between the side of the chest and the base of the scapula, the arm is to be drawn fi-om the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus may be cut through opposite the third rib ; and the fat and fascia should be cleaned fi-om the muscular fibres. The SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE (fig. 71, a) extends between the scapula and the thorax. It arises by nine pointed processes fi'om the outer surface of the eight upper ribs,—the second rib having two pieces ; and between the ribs it takfes origin fi'om the aponeurosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge towards the base and angles of the scapula, but fi"om a difference in their direction the muscle appears to consist of three parts. The V2^2^er part is attached internally to the first two ribs and an aponeurotic arch between them ; and externally, to an impression on the ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle. part, which is very thin, extends from the second, third, and fourth ribs, to the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, Avhich is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates Avith like processes of origin of the external oblique muscle ; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the special surface on the costal aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The serratus is applied against the ribs and the intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves : in the ordinary position of the arm the scapula and the subscapularis are in contact with it. Action. The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried forwards. But the lower and stronger fibres can move forwards the lower angle, rotating the bone around an axis through the centre, and raise the acromion. Dissection. The intercostal muscles will be brought into view by