INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 19 nerve consists of two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter uervc has the meatus auditorius internus. In the bottom of tlie meatus Ihey separate ; the facial nerve courses through the aciueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to tlie internal ear. EuiHTii Nhrve (fig. 4, ^). Three trunks are combined in tlie Eiglitu eighth cranial nen'-e of Willis, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- tiT^GiMiU; gastric, and spinal accessory. All three pass through the central compartment of the foramen jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of the membranes of tiie brain. The glosso-pharyn- their pas- geal nerve is external to the other two, being separated from them foi°a„*en^"°'' by the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the jugulare. 'dura mater and the arachnoid membrane ; b\it the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves are inclosed in the same tube of the diua mater, only a piece of the arachnoid intervening between them. The NINTH NEiiVK (fig. 4, is the motor nerve of the tongue, and Ninth nerve, consists of two small pieces, which pierce separately the dura mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these unite after passing through that aperture. DiHsection. The dissector may now return to the examination of Dissection the trunk of the carotid artery as it winds through the cavernous ^^ c'lrotul, sinus. On the opposite side of the head, viz. that on which the nerves of sjnnpa- in the wall of the cavernous sinus are untouched, an attempt may *i^es'l^ be made to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid arteiy, thotigh in an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of these (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid cavernous, process ; and to bring it into view it will be necessary to cut off that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between tliem and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth carotid, nerves, surrounds the artery as this enters the sinus. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in tlie base of the skull internal nt the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In its |'^.[yry^ ascent to the brain the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to look like the letter S reclined. At first, the artery ascends to the posterior clinoid process ; it is then winds directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of the same (.avenu.us name ; and lastly it turns upwards internal to this last point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The hranchea of the artery here are few. In the sinus there are Branches to some small arteries (arteriie receptaculi) for the supply of the dura ^ mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body ; and at the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. c 2