DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 634 Dissect pro- funda. Profunda artery, origin, course, and ending. Parts around. Branches to muscles of the thigh join freely. The named branches are— External ■circumflex. Internal • -oircuiuflex, ■ends on back of tliigh, supplies hip joint and jnuscles. Tliree perfo- ating branches. First. Second gives nutritious arterj'. reach the popUteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee joint: its termination is seen in the dissection of the pop- liteal space. Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, sup- poshig the veins and tlie fat removed, it will be requisite to follow backwards the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The PROFUNDA (fig. 196, c) is the chief muscular artery of the thigh, and arises from the femoral about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament (p. 619). At its origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femm-, and ends at the lower tliird of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor raagnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh it rests on the iliacns muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its temiination between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles on the fi'ont and back of the thigh, and maintain free anastomoses with other vessels of the tliigh and leg: through these communications the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named hranches are these:— The external circumflex artery (fig. 196, e) has been described in the dissection of the muscles of the fi-ont of the thigh (p. 627). The internal circumflex branch (fig. 196, d) arises fi-om the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the adductor brevis and magnus. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 648). It supplies the undermentioned offsets to the inner side of the thigh:— An articular artery may enter the hip joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular branches arise:—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles; the other, which is larger, descends with the deep piece of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor bre-vas, and ends in this and the largest adductor. The x^erforating hranches, three in number, pierce the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the hnea aspera of the femur: they supply muscles on the back of the tliigh, and wind romid the thigh-bone to end in the vasti. The first (/) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second branch {g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding: from it a nutritious vessel is supplied to the shaft of the femur.