FASCIA LUMBORUM. 385 it covers the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the humerus it turns round the lower border, and is inserted in front of that Forms muscle. Between the angle of the scapula and the humerus the '^^^^^^^ latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissection of fascia lumhoriun. After the latissimus dorsi has been Dissection reflected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition umijorum of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lum- borum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. aVfter the removal of those muscles the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves:—one, the last dorsal with an artery near the last rib: and the other, the ilio-hypogastric with its vessels, close to the iliac crest. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from this fascia to the trans- Show two verse ^jrocesses. To see the more superficial layer which passes fro"°i*'ft*^'^ l)eneath the erector spinfe to the apices of the processes, the latis- «imus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy superficial, part) by a horizontal incision directed outwards from the spinous processes, on a level with the third lumbar vertebra. On raising the outer border of the erector spina; muscle which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing transversely this first prolongation, another muscle aud deep, ^quadratus lumborum) will be seen ; and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumhorum (fig. 136, ^) is the posterior aponeurosis or Fascia tendon of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the in-1""^^°""" terval between the last two ribs and the crest of the hip bone. By its cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique muscle, and sometimes to the external oblique. The last dorsal Q) *ind ilio-hypogastric (") nerves, accompanied by vessels, pierce it in their course from the abdomen. From the inner part of the ],ng ^^^^ q^-. aponeurosis two offsets are prolonged to the transverse processes ««ts behind, of the lumbar vertebrae, and enclose the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. The more superficial of the two is the strongest; it lies beneath superficial the erector spinje in this position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intervals between them: at the outer border of the erector spinai it blends with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and inferior serratus. The deeper or anterior prolongation passes on the abdominal sur- and deep, face of the quadratus lumborum, and is fixed to the tips and borders of the transverse processes. In like manner the erector spina) lies in another slicatli, which which form is foi-med by the vertebral aponeurosis and the tendons of the ;''„u.seies. ""^ latissimus and serratus on the one side, and by the superficial of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. * Second Layer of Muscles (fig. IIG). This stratum contains the Second c c