547 PARTS IN OUTLET OF PELVIS with hooks whilst the levator aiii and coccygeus muscles below it arc cleaned. Parts closinr/ the pelvis heloio. In addition to the recto-vesical Outlet of fascia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each side, JjioJedby between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriformis passing through pyriformis, the great sacro-sciatic notch, Avith the gluteal vessels and nei-ve !^ens°and above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle, c, on the small sacro- sacro-sciatic sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx : one ° Fig. 17L* border of tlie muscle reaches towards the pyriformis, the other to the levator ani ; and between its hinder border and the pyiiformis lie the sacral plexus of nerves ('), and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The gi"eater part of the rest of the pelvic outlet is closed by the levator ani, D, which extends foi-wards fi-om the coccygeus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow inferiorly, but the muscles of opposite sides are separated in front by the urethra, with the vagina in the female ; and the interval between them is closed by the triangular ligament of the perinfeum, H. The COCCYGEUS MUSCLE (fig. 171, is flat and triangular, and assists to close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises from the upper part of the iscliial spine, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. Widening as it passes inwards the muscle is inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lower piece of the sacram. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left side ; the opposite surface rests on the small * Side view of the muscles in the outlet of the pelvis (Ilhistrations of Dis- sections). MuM-lcs: A. Gluteus maximus, cut. b. Psoas and Iliacus, cut. c. Coccygeus. i>. Levator ani. e. External anal s^jhincter. f. Ejaculator urinte. 0. Ischial spine, cut off. n. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a. External iliac artery, cut ; h, its accompanying vein. c. Obliterated hypo- gastric cord. d. Upper vesical, and c, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. Nerves : 1. Sacral plexus. 2. Inferior htemorrhoidal. 3. Pudic. N N 2 with vessels, and nerves ; by levator ani, and by ligament Ix'low the pubes. Coccygeus; ori^'iu Q o-cuAt I p. and inser- tion. Connections of surfaces