DISSECTIOX OF THE SPINAL COED. 410 Union of the roots in inter- vertebral foramen. except in iirst two cervical. the sacral. and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cen'ical, sacral, and coccygeal. Arteries of cord are Anterior .spinal, a single arterj-. Termina- tion. Offsets. Posterior arteries are two; lie on sides of coixl. Veins. Termination at top of cord. lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of vnion of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot mto anterior and posterior primary- branches (fig. 123, d and e). But deviations from this arrange- ment are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column in the following nei-ves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the coiresponding vertebraa; and the anterior and poste- rior primary branches diverge from the trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place within the spinal canal; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its tnink escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed conmionly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the position of those ajDcrtures is irregular, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal column, they have the following situation :—In the first two nerves they lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Vessels of the Spinal Cord. The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It begins by the union of two small branches of the vertebral artery (p. 180); and it is continued to the lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived fi'om the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in the Back. Inferiorly it supphes the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolonga- tion of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries^ one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nei-ves. These vessels are furnished from the same source as the anterior, and their continuity is maintained by a series of anasto- motic branches, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some offsets enter the posterior fissure of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches; after communicatmo-