370 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. l)r?e and the cartilage. To see liga- ments of the verte- l)rie; of ril) and sternum. Ligaments of head of rib are costo-verte- Lral or stellate: attach- ments. differs in certain Tibs. Inter- articular, Fig. 108.' other, by three sets of h"gameiits, viz., one between the head of the bone and the bodies of the vertebne ; a second from the neck and tubercle to the transverse processes of the vertebra?; and a tliird between it and the cartilage. Dissection. For the purpose of examining tlie ligaments between the rib aiid the vertebra?, take a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will be .able to define, as below, the ligaments passing from the head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebras. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the Head of the Rib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebras, the articulation is provided with two retaini]ig ligaments — costo- vertebral and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The costo-vertehral ligament (fig. 108, ■•'), named stellate ivom its form, is composed of radiating fibres, and is placed in front of the joint. Attached by one end to the rib, it is di^aded at the other into three sets of fibres :—The upper, the largest, ascends to the body of the vertebra above the rib head ; the lower descends to the vertebra below the head ; and the central part is united with the fibro-carti- lage between the vertebrae. Where the rib is in contact with only one vertebra, as in the first, eleventh, and twelfth, the ligament has but two sets of fibres. The chief fibres in those three joints arc fixed into the body of that vertebra which is touched by the costal head ; whilst the ascending band is attached to the body of the vertebra immediately above. In the first rib-joint the ascending band is continued to the last cervical vertebra. The interarticular ligament will be seen when the stellate is divided It IS a short thin band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular surfaces on the head of .J, f ^""'^ (Bourgery .-1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae. 2. Lateral part of the anterior ligament of the spine. 8. Ligament (stellate) between the vertebra; and head of the rib 4 Ascending costo-transverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament '