223 SURFACES OF CEREBELLUM. of the base of tlie skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres ;—the division being marked by a wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border Avhich receives the falx cerebelli. Upper Surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre (fig. G8), bu|; slopes towards the circumference. There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the halves are united by a central constricted part,—the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper fi-om the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards from the pons Varolii to the middle line of the cerebellum. The UNDER SURFACE is couvcx, being received into the fossoe of position of cerebellum. Divisions. No groove on the upper surface; halves joined by- median part. Horizontal fissure. A fissure below. Yi" 66. the base of the skull, and is divided into hemispheres (fig. 66) by a median hollow (vallecula). The central fissure, or the vallecula, is wider at the middle than which is at either the anterior or the posterior end, and receives the medulla valley, and oblongata. In the bottom of the fissure is a mass named inferior contains vermiform process (fig. 66, c to c), which corresponds with the j;^"^^."" central part connecting the halves-of the cerebellum on the upper sm-face. The two vermiform processes constitute the general com- missure of the halves of the cerebellum. Constituents of the vermiform process. In the inferior vermiform Constituents process are the following eminences, which may be easily separated process! * Under part of the cerebelhim, seen from behind, the medulla oblongata, h, being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, h. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to e. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of c. Uvula, d. Pyramid, c. Commissural lamincB. Lobes of each half of the cerebellum on the under surface. /. Subpedun- <;ular, g. Amygdaloid, h. Birentral. i. Slender. Jc. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the crus cerebri. 5. Two roots of the fifth nerve attached to the side of the pons Varolii.