DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. <26 tlistributed to scrotum and penis. Muscular ■branches ; Inferior ]mdendal nerve ■ends in Bcrotuni. Dissection •of muscles of the urethra and jienis. «0f nerves. Three imiscles over tri- angular ligamenti Central point, where mus- cles join. Erector jienis. Origin. Insertion. Use. Ejaeulator 11 rinse. and the posterior is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender lilaments, which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these ner^'■es supply the labia pudendi. Other muscular branches of the pudic ^^■ill be afterwards exa- mined (p. 431). The inferior 2}udenflal nerve (■*) is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perintEum, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- tions take place between this nerve, the inferior hismorrhoidal, and the posterior of the two superficial perinoeal branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to the labium. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the fatty layer, as well as the vessels and ner^^cs of the left side, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perinaeal space. Afterwards a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the muscles. Along the middle line lies the ejaeulator urinai ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres fi'om it on the same side,—one in fi'ont, the other behind. On the outer part of the space is the erector penis. And behind, passing obliquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of the two superficial perinasal nerves to the underlying muscles; and beneath the transversalis, an ofliset of the perinatal branch which supplies the deep muscles and the urethra. Muscles (fig. 130). Superficial to the triangular ligament in the anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz. the erector penis, the ejaeulator urina?, and the transversalis perina?i. Other muscles of the urethra are contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and Avill be subsequently seen. Central2)oint of the 2>erinaiuin. Between the urethra and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, half an inch in front of the anus. In it the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra are united ; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The ERECTOR PENIS (fig. 130, ^) is the most external of the tliree muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis ; and its fibres arise from the ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and firom the bone on each side of the crus. Superiorly the muscle is inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from that organ by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the continuance of distention. The EJACULATOR URiN/E musclc (fig. 130, ^) lies on the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perinaeum (origin). The