DISSECTION ()¥ THE SFBlfAXILLARY REGION. 96 of one. Oenio- Coiinec- tiojis. Use. Ccilio-liyo- glossxi.s. Origin. Iiisertinii. Contiguous parts. Use: the tongue free : tongue /ixed. the roof of the inoutli, hut if tlie toiif^ue is protruded they will restore it to the cavity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the moutli. The GENio-HYOiD MUSCLE (fig. 22, ") avises from the lower of tlie two lateral tubercles on the inner asi)ect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the Fig. 22.* middle of the hyoid bono. Covered by the mylo-hyoi- deus, this muscle rests on the genio-hyo-glossiis. The inner border touches the muscle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Arfton. As long as the mouth is shut it raises the hyoid bone ; but acting from tlie OS hyoides, and the closers of the mouth being relaxed, it can depress the jaw and open the mouth. The GENIO - HYO - GLOSSUS (fig. 22, ^) is the largest muscle of this region; it has a triangular form, with the apex at the jaw, and the base at the middle line of the tongue. It takes ori(jiii from the u])per tubercle behind the symi^hysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the pos- terior passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate to the tongue from root to point. Lying along the middle of the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow. The lower border of the muscle corresponds with the gem'o- hyoideus, and the upper with the frs^enum lingua\ On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus nmscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve jierforates the posterioi- fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of all the fibres the tongue is depressed in the floor of the mouth, and hollowed along the middle. But different parts of the nuiscle are thought to have different uses when they act from the jaw :—Thus the fibres attached to the OS hyoides advance and fix that bone before swallowing ; the hinder tongue fibres raise the root of the tongue and protrude the tip, and the anterior then turn down the tip of the tongue over the teeth. When the mouth is open swallowing can be performed if the tongue is fixed against the teeth and roof of the mouth, because this muscle and the hyo-glossus can then raise the hyoid bone. * Muscles of tlie tongue. 1. Hyo-glossui?. 2. Stylo-glossus. 3. (Jeni liyo-glossus. 4. Genio-hj'oideus. 5. Stylo-pharyngeus.