213 FLOOR OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. "ing the body of the fornix, is continued as a distmct piece to the •uncinate eonvokition. Theforaynen of Monro is the interval beneath the anterior part Thisaper- of the fornix, which opens on each side by a sHt between the edge latemf"^ of the fornix and the optic thalamus. In it the plexus choroides ventricles, lies; and through it tlie lateral ventricles communicate with one another and with the thhd ventricle. Floor of the Lateral Ventricle.—The student may leave un- in floor of touched, for the present, the membrane on which the fornix rests ; tricle is and proceed to examine, on the riglit side, the different bodies which have been enumerated as constituting the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corpus striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum) (fig. 63, striate ijocly «,) is the large gray body in the fi'ont of the lateral ventricle. It ie placed opposite the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius ; and it has received its name fi-om the striated appearance of a vertical section. Dissection. To see the composition of the corpus striatum, the pisseetiou student should slice off obliquely the upper and outer part until ture^. certain white fibres crossing it obliquely fi-om within outwards are reached. The knife should then be carried through this layer of white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the .first, is arrived at. The striate body is a pyriform mass of gray matter of consider- its form, able thickness, which is surrounded by the white substance of the liemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its and position is oblique with respect to the middle line of the brain, for i'^*"'*^"^ > the anterior part is near the septum of the ventricles, whilst the j^^'^^^^^®'^ posterior is external to the optic thalamus. By means of the jmrts by incision in the corpus striatum, white fibres can be seen to be ^^i^res. directed through it in such a way as to divide the gray matter into two parts, one being situate in the ventricle (intra-ventricular) above the white fibres, and the other outside the ventricular space ^extra-ventricular), below these fibres. The intra-ventricular piece (nucleus caudatus) is shaped like a One part kite, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed ventricle, forwards, is large and rounded; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum. The extra-ventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will be better seen, the other ^ afterwards, by sections made from the outer side or from below, cavity. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent •dissection will show. The toinia semicircularis (fig. 63, /) is a thin and narrow white T^rm^semi- band of longitudinal fibres, which lies between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. In front this band becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind it is continued, along