DISSECTIOX OF THE ARM. 268 Use on radius, and tlie trunk, on humerus. Coraco- Imicliialis. Origin. Insertion. Connections of surround- ing pai'ts. 'U33 on linil), Jianging .-aid fixed. Brachial artery ex- tends to elbow. Position to bone, and in the limb. •Connec- tions with miiscles and fasci.T, with veins. Action. It bends tlie elbow-joint, and acts powerfully in supi- nating the radius. When the body is hanging by the hands it will apply the scapula firmly to the humerus, and Avill assist in raising the trunk. With the arm hanging and the radius fixed, the long head will assist the abductors in removing the limb fi'om the thorax ; and after the limb is abducted, the short head will aid in restoring it to the pendent position. The CORACO-BRACHIALIS (fig. 73, is roundish in form, and is named fi-om its attachments. Its origin is fleshy from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous short head of the biceps. Its fibres become tendinous, and are inserted, below the level of the deltoid muscle, into the ridge on the inner side of the liumerus : from the insertion an aponeurotic slip is continued ujDwards to the head of the humerus, and is joined by fleshy fibres. Part of the muscle is beneath the pectoralis major (fig. 78), and i'orms a prominence in the axilla ; but the rest is superficial, except at the insertion where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nen'e. The coraco-brachialis conceals the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex artery, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. Along the inner border are the large artery and neiT'es of the limb. Perforating it is the musculo-cutaneous nen'-e. Action. The hanging limb is adducted to the thorax by this muscle ; and the action is greater in proportion as the humerus is removed from the trunk. The humerus being fixed, the muscle will bring down the scapula, and assist in keeping the articular surfaces of the shoulder joint in apposition. The BRACHIAL artery (fig. 77, ^) is a continuation of the axillary trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminates raflier below the bend of the elbow, or " opposite the neck of the radius" (Quain), in two branches—radial and ulnar, for the forearm. In the upper part of its course, the vessel is internal to the humerus, but afterwards in front of that bone; and its situation is indicated by the surface depression along the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In all its extent the brachial artery is superficial, being covered by the^ integuments and the deep fascia ; but at the bend of the elbow it becomes deeper, and is crossed by the prolongation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following niuscular connections (fig. 78) :—Whilst it is inside the humerus it is placed over the long head of the triceps, r, for two inches, but separated partly by the musculo-spiral nen^e and profunda vessels; and over the inner head, g, of the same muscle for about an inch and a half. But Avhen the vessel turns to the fi-ont of the bone it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, c, and on the brachia'lis anticus, H. To the outer side are laid the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, c, and b, the latter overlapping it. Veins. Vena? comites lie on the sides of the artery (fig. 78, d)