DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 8 ItaliHibral Lraiicli. Temiwral nerves; of suiierioi- inaxillaiy; of inferior maxillary. branch and of facial nerve.. Posterior auricular nerve has integument. Branches are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercihi, and some palpebral twigs enter the eyelid. The superjicial temporal nei-ves are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig (fig. 2, which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cutali^us, Hie nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates -with the facial nerve, also some- times with the next. "" "^ '•' -. . The auricxilo-temijoral branch (fig. 2, of the inferior maxillary nerve (third tyunk of thes-fifth) lies near the ear, and accoili-panies the temporal'artery ^;o tlXe_top of the head. As soon, as the nerve emerges from beneath the parotid glancj, it divides into two terminal branches :—The more posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens aurem muscle and the integument above the ear. The other branch ascends vertically , in the teguments to its auricular the top of the head. The nerve also furnishes an (luricular branch (upper) to the anterior part of the ear above the auditory na^tus. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed upwards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the ■orbicularis palpebrarum muscle: they will be described with the dissection of the trunk of the facial nen'e. The posterior auricular nerve (fig. 2, ■*) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an •auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express:— The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure, and furnishes offsets to the integuments. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pinna. The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The great occipital (fig. 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the^ back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing from the posterior primary branch of -the second cer%acal nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets ; these spread over tlie posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle' ending mostly in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nen-e; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cei-vical plexus (fig. 2, ") lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and Ts continued occipital branch, ami auricu- lar. Great auri- cular nerAe. Great occipi tal nerve: Junctions. Small occi- rital nerve