619 UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. about a third of an inch neai- Poupart's ligament ; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve approaches the artery, or lies ou it, near the apex of the containing space. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectineus(-). Unusual position. Four examples of transference of the main artery of the Unusual limb from the front to the hack of the thigh have been recorded. In these position, cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The hranches of the first part of the artery are the superficial Brandies, epigastric and circumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 606), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external imdic artery (fig. 193, e) arises separately One external from, or in common with the other pudic branch (superior).- it i'^*^^^- courses inwards over the pectineus muscle to end in the teguments of the scrotum or the labium pudeiidi, according to the sex, and it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its destination : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the supci'ficial perinatal artery. The deep femoral branch (fig. 195,") or the profunda, is the largest Profunda, offset of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer part of that trunk one to two inches (Quain) below Poupart's ligament. It is Origin consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascertained. In the present dissection it may be seen to and position lie over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex "^^^^^^[1'''^ ^ artery to the outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb.* Variation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to Origin of Poupart's ligament until it arrives opposite that band; or may even go beyond, pi'ofunda and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). And the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement ; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise separately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the si)ot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of so large an olfset. Femoral Vein (fig. 193, li)- The principal vein of the limb, whilst Femoral in the triangular space, has almost the same relative anatomy as the drst inside artery: its position to that vessel, however, is not the same through- arterj% out. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between the psoas and pectineus muscles; but it soon winds beneath ^^^^^g^^lj^^*^-^ the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. Occasionally it is inside the artery * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to the part of the tnink above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal parts into which it divides.