240 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. open on end another, and gi-adually nan-owing in size, to open on the summit of nipple. apertures varying fi-om the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Structure. Like many other excretory ducts, tlie milk tubes consist of an external or librous, and of an internal or mucous coat; the}' and the vesicles are sheathed by a columnar epithelium, which becomes flattened towards the outer opening. Small glands Beneath the skin of the nipple and areola are branched lubricating of skin • glands, which open on the tubercles before mentioned. Arteries of Bloodvessels.—The arteries are supiDlied liy the axillaiy, internal mammary, the glaiul j^j^j intei'costal, and enter both surfaces of tlie gland. The veins end principally and veins, in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; but others enter the inter- costal veins. Nerves. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the thorax, viz., from the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. Lymphatics. The lymphatics of the inner side open into tlie anterior mediastinal glands : but on the outer side they reach the axillary glands. Dissection Dissection (fig. 69). With the limb in tlie same position to the nuisc'le?'^'^' trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat fi-om the sm-face of the great jiectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at the lower border on the right side, and at the upper border on the left side. Remove fat The fascia and the fat are to be taken from the axilla, without of axilla, injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning first the large axillary vessels at the outer part, Avhere these are about to enter follow the arm : and then following their branches which are directed vessels. chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundaiy, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves along the posterior boundary. Some arterial twigs entering the axillary glands should be traced out. Clean hack In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles in the posterior of space. boundary of the space, the small internal cutaneous nerve of the musculo-spiral should be looked for near the great vessels. Trace nerves The large neiwes of the brachial plexus are then to be defined, of plexus, rpj^g smallest of these, which possibly may be destroyed, is the nerve of Wrisberg : it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and on inner When cleaning the seiTatus muscle on the ribs the student is to wall. j^pgj. j^j^ surface the posterior thoracic nerve; and to trace the posterior offsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla. THE AXILLA. an!r'fnnn of axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig 69). the arm-pit. It is somewhat pyramidal in form, and its apex is directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as folloAvs : Boundaries. Boundaries. In front and behind the space is limited by folds.