DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 024 cuds below liy a free Lorder. Deep part of femoral arterj- : connections ]>osition of veins and ■saplienons nerve. The femoral Jirtery may- be divided. Branches. Anastomo- tic ; superficial and deep piece. Jfuscular brandies. Femoral rein. To ex]iose muscles on front of the femur. above, but below it is formed of strong fibres, Avhich are directed transversely between the vastus intemus and the tendons of the adductor muscles. Infcriorly the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the sajjlienous nerve and its vessels escape. The deep part of the femoral artery (fig. 195, ') lies in a hollow- between muscles (Hunter's canal) until it reaches the opening in the adductor maguus. Here it is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fascijr. Beneath it are the pectineus, the adductor brevis in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. External to the artery and close to it is the femoral vein ; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Crossing over the artery from the outer to the inner side is the internal saphenous ner^'-e, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Splittinf) of the artenj. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two below tlie origin of the profunda. Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with ; but, in all, the trunks were blended into one above the open- ing in the adductor muscle. Branches. One named branch, anastomotic and muscular offsets, spring from this part of the ailery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 196, Ic) (arter. anastomotica magna) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and di^ddes at once into two parts, superficial and deep :— The superficial offset (n) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (Z) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in fi-ont of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur w^ith an offset of the upper external articular artery ; fi-om this loop twigs descend to the joint. Muscular brandies. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the femoral artery ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The FEMORAL VEIN Corresponds closely with the femoral artery in its connections with the parts around, and in its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the ^^rofunda, and are to be thro\vn downwards pre- paratory to the deeper dissection. Aftenvards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed fi-om amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is completed, the upper part of the vastus internus will not be prepared for learning.