20O DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Its super- ficial fibres form crust, deep fibres form teg- mentum. Gray matter of crus. jboeus perfo- ratus. Coi-pora albicantia. Tuber cinereum and infundi- buluiu. Pituitary body. Situation. pear ; and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longi- tudinal fibres. The superficial fibres, which form the under or fi-ec part of tJie crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal body (hg. 56, c). They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. The surface of the pedimcle, which is composed of these fibres, is cMed the fasciculated portion, or the crust. The dee2yer fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. They are derived chiefly from the lateral tract and posterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, with a slip from the olivary fasciculus (fig. 57, cl). Others come fi'om the cerebellum, and mix Avitli the former : some of these decussate across the middle line * (p. 226). The fibres obtained from these four sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the gray matter: besides being deeper they are finer than the superficial set, and enclose much gray substance : the part of the crus formed by them is named tegmentum. The gray matter (locus niger) of the crus (fig. 57, g) forms ca thin layer, which reaches nearer the inner than the outer margin of that body ; it is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direction. The j^ostenor jierforated spot (pons Tarini, g) is situate between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; in the area of the space is a layer of grayish matter, and numerous vessels penetrate it. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora alhicaniia (corp. mamillaria, e) are two small, white bodies, about the size of peas, which are constructed in greater part by the crura of the fornix. If one, say the right, is cut across, it will be seen to contain gray matter. In fi-ont of them is the gi'ay mass of the tuber cinereum. The median eminence of the tuber cinereum (li) foiTns part of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it are the optic tracts and conunissure, and from its centre projects the following. The infundibuluvi (funnel) is a conically-shaped tube which reaches fi-om the tuber cinereum to the upper part of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It consists of a layer of gi'ay matter, surrounded by the pia mater ; and it is lined by the ependyma of the third ventricle, as far as it is pei-vious. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitaiy body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it has been dislodged from its resting-place : therefore it should be sonie- times examined in the base of the skull by removing the surround- ing bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow (sella Turcica) on the sphenoid bone,. * M. Foville describes a median commissure for the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles, -which is composed of the interweaving of fibres of opposite sides. See the work of M. Foville entitled : Traiti complet de VAmitomie, &c., du Systime Nerreux cerebrospinal, p. 323, 1844.