343 LEFT VEXTRICLE OF HEART. so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the caAaty \vill be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE (fig. 101) is longer, and more Form of left conical in shape than that of the opposite venti-icle ; and is oval or ^eitricie. almost circiUar, on a transverse section. The apex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The hose Apex, -is turned towards the auricle, and is not sloped like that of the Base with its right ventricle ; in it ai-e the openings into the aorta (h) and the "P'^"'"g«- left auricle {I). The icalls of this ventricle are thickest, and the anterior boundary Walls, is formed by the septiun ventriculoruin. Its surface is irregular, like that of the riffht ventricle, in con- inner sur- sequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or carneae columiue; fleshy but near the great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There columns, iire three sets of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle. But the set (nuisculi papillares), which project into the ca^^ty, and and some receive the small tendinous threads of the valve, are the most marked: ^'^^^ these are arranged chiefly in two large bundles, and spring from the anterior and posterior walls of the cavity. The aperture into the left auricle (J) (auriculo-ventricular) is placed Leftauri- beneath the orifice of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous cular\per- band intervening between the two. It is rather smaller than the t^"^^- corresponding aperture of the riglit side, being somewhat more than ^j^"" '^^^ fin inch in diameter, and is longest in the transverse direction. Placed, as before said, beneath the aortic aperture, it extends also Position, to the right, so as to lie beneath the left extremity of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. ,It is furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, as well as to the aortic fibrous ring, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its seg- segments, ments lie one before another, with their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the fi'ont and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior segment. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office structure. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also secondary pieces between the two primary seeinents. The tendinous cords ascend to be attached to the valve attachment o of cords in the notches between the tongues; and they end on the segments in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both poi-tions of the valve. When the blood enters the cavity, the pieces of the valve are Use. raised as on the right side, and meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in pro- ducing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is next Aortic open- tbe septum of the ventricles. Its aperture is round, and rather