DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 Uvula, nodule. furrowed band, velum. pyramid, and commis- sures. Lamintp and their ar- rani'ement. from one another with the handle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula (fig. 66, e), Avhich is named from its resemblance to the same part in the throat; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle (fig. 67); and on the side is a band of gray matter with ridges and sulci, the furrowed band (fig. 67, d), which unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected with the nodule is a thin white layer,—the medullary velum (h) ; but this, and the fuiTOwed band will be seen in a subsequent dis- section (p. 225). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named 2)yramid (fig. 66, d), which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse lamina?. Farther back are certain transverse pieces (e), extending between the posterior lobes of the hemi- spheres, of which they were considered by Keil to be the commis- sures. Sulci are shallow and deei). A lamina has white inside: collateral white libres: and gray oixtside. Seven lobes in each hemisphere. Two lobes on upper surface. Laviince. The surface of the cerebellum is covered by plates or laminaj (fig. 68), instead of convolutions, which form segments of circles with their convexity directed backwards. On the upper aspect the anterior lamina; pass fi'om the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those on the under aspect join the sides of the different commissures in the median fissure. Sulci. Between the laminaj are sulci, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to different depths : the shallower separate the laminaj ; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach downwards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interi-upted by cross laminaj. Structure of the laminm. On cutting across the laminaj of the upper surface on the right side they will be seen to possess a white internal, and a gray external layer (fig. 68). The white part is derived fi-om a central medullary mass ; and dividing, like the brandling of a tree, it ends in small lateral offsets which enter the subdivisions of the laminae. Besides the white stalk of the lamina;, derived from the central mass, there are other white fibres which pass from one lamina to another beneath the sulci. The stratum of gray matter enveloping the white substance re- sembles the cortical covering of the convolutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, which can be dis- tinguished by a difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is clear and gray, and about equal to the other in thickness ; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminae. Between the two a layer of ramified cells (Purldnje) may be recognised with the microscope. Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is subdivided into lobes on both aspects. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a