201. BASE OF THE BRAIN. and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid, and firm in texture ; but in the fetus it is hollow, and opens uito the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Structure. It is firm and reddish externally, but softer and yel- Structure, lowish internally. In it are nucleated cells, mixed with a granular semi-fluid substance ; and the whole is contained in roundish spaces, which are constructed by a stroma of areolar tissue with blood- vessels (Sharpey). Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior termination Dissectioiu of the corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other at the fore pai-t. The lamina cinerea (m) is a thin concave layer of gray substance, Gray which gi-adually tapers forwards fi-om the tuber cinereum to the anterior termination of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The corpus callosum (??), bent in fi-ont, is continued horizontally Corims backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends in two white narrow bands, the fillets or peduncles of the corpus callosum : each band is continued onwards by the side of the lamina cinerea to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior ends in- bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is a^Dplied, two*bands and tottre prolonged central part the appellation rostrum has been given. Laterally the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and extends, and fonns part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. sp^lere!"^^" Antenor perforated spot (substantia perforata antica, 1) is a space Substantia near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is situate between antiau''''^ the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the cerebrum, and ex- ternal to the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea ; and crossing it, from within outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface ; it corresponds with the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain, . arid is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of the j^fO't. Now the base of the cerebrum has been dissected, the brain should be turned over for the examination of exaniiuo the upper part. Something should then be placed beneath the i''"*'"*- front, in order that it may be raised to the same level as the back ; and a rolled-up cloth should loosely encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. On the upper surface the Cciehrmu • a • ■ • convex. cerebnam, taken as a whole, is oval in form, and is convex m its above, and outline, in accordance with the shajoe of the skull. two by a'"**^ A median longitudinal fissure divides the cerebrum incompletely median into two halves. At the front and back the hemispheres are quite «s3ure. separated by it; but at the middle and under parts they are united by connecting pieces, the largest of which is the white corpus cal- losum. In it the falx cerebri is lodged.