DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 566 last and coccygeal. sympa- thetic. Sacral nei-ves are live; tliose that are peculiar are fourth, which gives visceral. and mus- cular ofl'sets. Fifth is be- low aper- tures in sacrum: ends on coccyx. Coccygeal neiTe. Sacral plexus: situation, and form. the fourth to the viscera. The last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the coccy- geus muscle, close to the coccyx ; these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will succeed best by tracing the connecting- filaments which pass from one to another, beginnmg above with the offset fi-om the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the sympathetic (pelvic plexus,) which sends branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissections ; but if any of it remains the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral SpiiXAL Nerves (fig. 175). The anterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease suddenly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the apertures in the fi'ont of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted) they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve, and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, will be noticed before the plexus is described. The fourth nerve (4 S) divides into two parts :—one communi- cates with the sacral plexus ; the other joins the fiith nerve and distributes the following branches to the viscera and the surrounding muscles :— The visceral hranches (3) suppl}' the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerv^e to foiTn the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come fi'om the tliird sacral nerve. The muscular bronches are three in number. One (2) rather long branch enters the levator ani on the visceral aspect; another (4) supplies the coccj'^geus ; and the third (5) reaches the perinteum by piercing the levator ani muscle (p. 423). The JiftJi nerve (5 ^S') comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch fi-om the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nei"ve, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maximus, to end on the posterior siu-face of the coccyx. The coccygeal iwve (1 c.) after issuing by the lower aperture of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral ners^e as above stated. Sacral Plexus (fig. 175). This plexus is formed by the lumbo- sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyrifonnis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery ; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic notch, to unite in a flat band. From that spot the plexus becomes gradually smaller towards the outer end ; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyrifonnis, terminates in branches for the limb at the lower border of that muscle.