87 INTERNAL MAXILLAEY ARTEEY. During the Jiorizontal motion foricards and bade wards the condyle Forward and is moved successively to the fi-ont and back of the temporal articu- ^^^kward lar surface ; and the lower jaw is slightly depressed, in order that ,.onavie" ' tlie fore teeth in the upper dental arch should not impede those of moves, the lower. By turns the front and back of the capsule will be stretched ; and state of the tibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even hi i'«'""'^"ts. ■dislocation. Too great motion forwards will be prevented by the coronoid pro- cess of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch; and that back- Avards, by the meeting of the condyle and the auditory process of the OS temporis. Lateral horizontal movement puts the jaw first to one side and Lateral then to the other. AVhen the jaw is forced to the left side, the right condyle sinks into its articular hollow, whilst the left is pro- condyle . jected ; and the grinding teeth of the lower dental areh are moved to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. The inner part of the capsule on the right, and the outer part on state of the left side, Avill be put on the stretch when the jaw is carried to the left of the middle line ; and the opposite. With old edentulous jaws the capsule is much enlarged, and per- Joint in inits the condyle to wander backwards behind the Glaserian fissure. " Without this provision the altered lower jaw would not meet the upper to crush the food. Dissection. The condvlc of the jaw is next to be disarticulated, Disseetion " of flt'tll the external pterygoid muscle being still uncut ; and it with the nerve, ■attached muscle is to be drawn forwards so as to allow tlie fifth jierve to be seen, ^^'hilst cutting tlu"ough the joint capsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath <fig. 21). On drawing forwards the i)terygoid muscle, and removing some fat, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. All the small muscular branches of the nerve before noted should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The auriculo-temporal branch should be followed backwards with -care belrind the articulation, and the dental and gustatory nerves beneath the muscle should be cleaned. The small cliorda tympani and chorda ■is then to be found joining the posterior part of the gustatoiy nerve ^J'^P*^"'* -near the skull. The middle meningeal artery is to be sought beneath the external and arteries, pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery •lies beneath that muscle, and in such case, it and its branches are to be traced out. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 17, h) is One of the ter- Internal . infixillary 'jninal branches of the external carotid, and takes a windmg course .„.tery. beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior ^jf the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, between Coiirse and connections.