DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 ami connec- tions. Brandies. Arteries of the lung : distribu- tion : two left. one riiiht. Vein of the lung. Pericardial branches. CEsophageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal ai'teries : number. course to intercostal spaces. right longest. The anterior branch of upper occupies intercostal space the smaller azygos veins. In front of the vessel is the root of tlie left lung with'the pericardinm. On its left side it is covered through- out by tlic pleura; and on its right side are the ocsopliagus and the thoracic duct, though near the diaphragm the gullet is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the surrounding parts, and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they ramify (p. 361) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and inferior), which arise from the front of the aorta at a distance from each other. The arterj' of the right lung arises in common with one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of the right side. Broncki<d veins. A vein issues from the root of each lung, and ends in the following manner:—the right joins the larger azygos vein; and the left ends in the superior intercostal vein of its own side. b. The pericardial branches are some irregular twigs, which are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac bag. c. Oesophageal branches arise at different points of the aorta, and are four or five in number. Kaniifying in the gullet, the vessels anastomose with one another ; above, ihey communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery near the j^haiynx ; and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. c1. Small mediastinal branches (i^osterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are ten on each side ; nine are furnished, to the same number of lower intercostal spaces, whilst the last lies below the twelfth rib : to the upper two spaces branches are sup- plied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These small vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebra?, beneath the cord of the sympathetic ncn^e, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine the right vessels are the longest : the right also pass beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the azygos vein. Many twigs are sujiplied to the bodies of the vertebrae. In the spaces bounded by the true ribs, the anterior branch, the larger of the tAvo, continues onwards between the muscular strata nearly to the anterior third of the intercostal space, where it ends in two pieces, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammaiy (p. 253). At first the artery lies in the middle of the intercostal Ri)ace, beneath the pleura and a fascia from the internal intercostal muscle, and resting on the external intercostal