NERVES OF HEART SUBSTANCE, 337 Antenor and posterior cardiac veins. Some small veins on the anterior part of the right ventricle open separately, by one or more trunks, into the lower part of the right auricle. Similar small veins exist over the back of the ventricles ; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum ventriculorum: they enter the coronary sinus by separate valved openings. Smallest cardiac. A third set of veins (vena; minimai) lie in the substance of the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nei-ves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta, and pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to •^^S- 99. the pulmonaiy artery, and part beneath ; and an off- set is sent fi-om each with a coronary ailery. Only the superficial pai*t of the plexus can now be seen. The superficial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, and by the side of the ductus arte- riosus. The nerves joining it are the left superficial cardiac of the sympathetic, the lower cardiac of the left vagus (p. 355), and a considerable bundle from the deep cardiac plexus. A «mall ganglion is some- times seen in the plexus. Tnferiorly it sends off ner\''es on the right coro- nary artery to the heart. A few filaments pass on the left division •of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. The right coronary nerves pass fi'om the plexus to the right coronary •artery, and receive near the heart a communicating offset from the ■deep cardiac plexus. Tlie left coronary nerves are derived, as will be subsequently seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompany the left coronary artery to the heart. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular ■substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. * Back of the heart with the coronary sinus and its veins. (Marshall.) A. Right auricle, b. Left auricle, with the auricula, c. 1. Coronary sinus. 2, Oblique vein. 3. Vein from the right side of the heart. 4. Left or great cardiac vein, f f Veins joining the sinus from the back of the ventricles. Small ante- rior and lK)sterior cardiac veins. Smallest cardiac. Cardiac nerves. Superficial idexus ends in anterior ci irouary. .\nterior coronary idexus. l>osterior plexus, ending in the lieart.