STRTJCTURE OF URINAEY BLADDER. 578 flattened from before backwards; but out of the body it is more circular than when in its natural position, and it loses that arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across (Huschke). Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and sex, and by the habits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without in- convenience during life, though it can contain mucli more when distended. As a general rule Dimensions. Fig. 177.^ it is larger in the female than in the male. Structure. A nuiscular and a mucous coat, with an inter- vening .fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering of peritoneum has been described (p. 550). The muscular coat is formed of thin layers of imstriated muscular fibres, viz. an exter- nal or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 177, form a continuous covering, with the usual plexi- forra disposition of the mus- cular bundles, and extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the urachus, and the subperito- neal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; whilst the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, with the exception of a fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back of the pubes through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than Coats of tlie bladder. PeritoueaL Muscular has three strata. External or longitudinal attach- ments : * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and urethra. 1. E.xternal or loDgitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Ciixular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 5. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous witli the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver- nosum. 10. Ureter.