MEMBRANES OF BRAIN. 179 the cereln-um there is a large space between it and the centre of the hollow be- hrain. Still more posteriori)^, between the hemispheres of the little brain, there is an interval, similar to that at the under part of the sjot^^^* cerebrum. The suharachnoid space, or the interval between the arachnoid it is the sub- membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot than another ; space]'"^'^ and it contains more or less fluid, which has been named cerebro- spinal. The space is largest at the under part of the great brain, about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres of it and the cerebellum. Under the arachnoid, in the fissure between whidi opens the halves of the cerebellum, is the aperture of the fourth ven- ^^^^ ^i'""- tricle, by which that cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. The riA mater closely invests the diiferent parts of the brain, Pia mater and dips into the fissures, as well as into the sulci between the ■convolutions and lamina?. Besides covering the exterior of the scnds^pieces brain, it sends processes into the interior to supply vessels to the inain: walls of the enclosed space : thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fringes, which project into the fourth ventricle, are known as the choroid plexuses of that cavity. This membrane is a network of vessels, and is constructed of it is a net- the minute ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into or i)iood-ves- issuing from the cerebral substance ; whilst the inter\'-als between seis, the vessels are closed by fine areolar tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous thin layer. From the under surface of the membrane proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves. The araclmoid membrane lias but few vessels. Vessels and ■whilst the pia mater is composed almost entirely of vessels. The jjfenib^,.aucs. pia mater is largely supplied by offsets of some cranial nerves, and by branches of the sympathetic which accompany the vessels at the base of the brain (p. 20). Bochdalek has described branches to the arachnoid from some cranial nei-ves. Subdivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the arteries is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon will be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system consists of Outline of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, pons, and '[l^^"^] medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord, lies ^yj.i;i'^.'"_i^'^''^ "in the groove between the halves of the small brain, and is divided yoi-d" ' into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii is situate in fi-ont of the medulla oblongata, and Pons varolii is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separa- tion into halves. Anterior to it are two large processes (crura and its cerebri) connecting it to the great brain ; on each side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli) ; and behind it is the enlarged upper part of the cord. N 2