DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 730 Position and fomi of I'ig- inent cells The 2)igment cells are spread out in tlie stroma, and are disposed' also on both surfaces. In the stroma the}' are ramified and irre- Piguicnt Arteries are looped. gular, as in the choroid (lig. 228, and may contain j-ellow,. brown, or very dark pigment. On the front they are ovahsh or- rounded, but still ramified ; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uyea), the cells are round without outrunners, and are filled! with granules. The colour of the iris is dependent upon the tint,, gives colour. ^^^^^^ ^j^^ position of the pigment. The arteries of the iris (fig. 230, ^) have a looped an-angement: they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (r7), but some come Fig. 230.* from the vessels of the ciliary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the long ciliarj'- arteries form a circle (e) around the margin of the iris ; from this loop other anastomotic branches are directed towards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the arte- ries in their arrangement in the iris, and terminate in the- veins of the choroidal coat. The verves of the iris (fig-.. Veins. Ncn'es of the iris. Arteries of the eyeball are posterior ciliary ; two of tlicni named lonp ciliary. Anterior ciliary. 230, a) divide into branches, are with- which communicate, and extend towards the pupil ; they out dark outline, and their ending is not known. Ciliary Vessels and Kerves (fig. 229). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 46), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior and anterior,, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but they Avill not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. The posterior ciliary branches (j/) pierce the sclerotic coat around and close to the optic nerve, and running forwards on the choroid^ enter its substance at different points. Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards, one on each- side of the eyeball, and form a circle around the iris in the ciliary muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather- above, and the inner, rather below the middle. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, arc smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the iris. a. Half of the iris representing the nerves. a. Nerves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, 1), within it (Kijlliker). b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, c. Arch of vessels at tlie outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. </. Sphincter of the iris.