121 PREPARATION OF PHARYNX. Directions. The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo- ^{"^I.J'^*^,"'''^ Iiyoid muscles, with the hypo-glossal nerve (p. 75). Afterwards lie jintiTior may take the trunk of the external carotid, with the following ^''•'"«'>-'. branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, and ^superficial temporal (p. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the i^terygo-maxillary or sub- Regions to maxillary regions on the left side because such a proceeding would ^" """"ed. interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the disi)]ay of the two lower gajiglia of the sym- Dissection pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the theti'"^'"" .great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near tlie digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion nuist be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., Diid.ile near the inferior tliyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen ^"uigi"".'^^ •on the neck of the first rib, after the subclavian artery has been divided. Tlie upper cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The upper end of the sternum witli its attached clavicle is to be Reserve taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; johit."^ and the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the symjiathetic nerve -are so similar to the CDrres2?onding ganglia of the right side, that ume? " the same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in mnnber on the left as on the right Cmdiai- side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but tliey present some differences. The suj^erior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both Uppei'. sides ; but the left in entering the cliest lies between aiul parallel to tlic carotid and subclavian arteries. Tlie middle cardiac nerve unites fi-cquently with the next, and Middle, passes beiieath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small i)rancli, wliicli enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the ijrecediiig, to end in the cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of tlie alimentary passage. Directions, can be examined only when it has been separated from the rest of the head ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the maimer mentioned below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the JJl^^^^J^^I'^'i