DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 756 Lainuia reticularis. Two saos Hoat in fluid of labjTiutli. Dissection of them in a fresh bone. Lamina reticularis (/) (Kulliker). A veiy thm layer of flattened particles (phalanges) is continued over the outer half of the organ of Corti; in it are apertures, through which pass the filaments at the end of the cells. And around the upper ends of the inner cells is a similar uniting material. It is supposed to fix and keep in place the cells. Eintbelium. An epithelial layer, consisting of cubical cells, covers the floor of the space outside and inside the organ of Corti. The MEMBKAXOUS LABYRINTH (fig. 24G) is Constituted of sacs, con- taining fluid, in which the auditory nerve is expanded. The sacs are two in number, viz., utricle and saccule, and have the general shape of the surrounding bony parts ; they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals. Surrounding them is tlie perilymiDhic fluid. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone wliich has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous stnictures "\\'ithin it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. A microscope will be needed for the comiDlete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood-vessels a minute injection will be required. The utricle (fig. 246, rf), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is trans- versely oval in form, and connected with it i^osteriorly are three looped tubes, which are prolonged into the semicircular canals. These prolongations {rj) are smaller than the osseous tubes, being only one third of their diameter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is filled by fluid—the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they are marked at one end by a dilatation (/) corresponding with the ampulla of the osseous tube ; and, further, two are blended at one end, hke the canals they occupy : they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the fluid of that sac. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection into the interior of the cavity, and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the Avail. The utricle and its offsets are filled with a clear fluid, like Avater which is named endolymph; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit (otolith, e) opposite the entrance of the nen-e into it. The saccule (fig. 246, o) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It is separate from the other ; but it is continuous, beloAv, by a short and small duct (c, ductus reunicns) with the The utricle, situation, and form It sends tul)os into tlie arclied canals ; they are ililated at one end. and contain a fluid. Endolympli and otolith. Smaller sac is before the other, .joins (■anal of <!ochlea: fluid in it. canal of the cochlea. Like the larger sac it has a translucent wall, in which IS an