Thickness; tlisjiositiiiii ;it iiyloni.s. On the SU1-- t';ic(' arc ]iits ■or alvi'oli: their size, shape, auil ajipear- ^uii-e. The texture made \i\< of tubules ; DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fokl, opposite tlie muscuhir ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane ami its submucous layer are removed fi-om the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will l)e more perfectly seen. -j f „ jWn-osrojur structure of the mucous memhrane. With the aid o± a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig. 140), which measure from ^i^th to -^^t\v of an inch across, (lenerally hcxao-onal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more^elongated towards the small end of the stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irre- gular. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubes. By means of a thin section under the microscope the membrane may be obsen^ed to be composed almost altogether of minute Fig. 147.t Ti". 146. vertical tubes, which lie side hy side, and project into the submucous tissue. Pleasuring from -jroth to -juth of an inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of •< losed at the stomach both in the alveoli (fig. 146) and in the interalveolar Hleep cud: gpaccs. They are formed of a homogeneous membrane, and are for tlic most part straight, but towards the pylorus they increase m length, and are somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity ; some are divided into two or more pieces (fig. 147). lined i)y At the cardiac end of the stomach the tubes are lined at the free ■t'liiihcliuni; * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Sprott Boyd.) f Enlai'ged repi-esentation of the tubes of the stomach, a. Gastric tube from the pyloric end lined, throughout, by columnar epithelium (Kiilliker). h. Gastric tube from tlie cardiac end, with a columnar epithelium lining near the mouth, and flattened nucleated gx-anular cells beyond (Thomson).