CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Section I. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. Directions for the • dissection. Position of tlie 'body. ]\[arking of tlie surface. Arm-iiit. Head of 1 lone to he felt. Shoulder arch of bone. Iiitermus- ■rnilar de- pressions. Arm: its The parts included in this section, viz., the wall of tlie chest and the axilla, are to be learnt within a fixed time, in order that the examination of the thorax may be undertaken. Whilst the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his labours on the upper limb ; but, on the completion of that cavity, he must be ready to begin the part of the Back that belongs to him. Position. Whilst the body lies on the Back, the thorax is to be raised to a convenient height by a block; and the arm, being slightly rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle to the trunk. Directions. Before the dissection is entered on, attention should be given to the depressions on the surface, to the prominences of muscles, and to the projections of the bones ; because these serve as guides to the position of parts beneath the skin. Siaface-marking. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the arm-pit, in which the large vessels and nerves of the limb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the fore and hinder boundaries are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this spot the skin is of a dark colom-, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different directions, whilst the lingers of one hand are placed in the arm-pit, the head of the humerus may be recognised. On the outei- side of the limb is the prominence of the shoulder; and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed in- ternally by the clavicle, and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Continued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle, is a slight depression between the pectoral and del- toid muscles, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle, corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and sternal origin of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps