DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN, 41)0 The semilunar f/amjiia, one on eacli side, are the largest in the body, and each is joined at the upper end by tlie great spLinehnic nerve. Each is situate at the outer part of the plexus, close to the suprarenal body, and on the pillar of the diaphragm: the ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. Irregular in shape, the mass is oval, or divided into smaller ganglia : from its outer side nerves are directed to the kidney and the suprarenal capsule. Of .sets of the plerctiH. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses around the vessels; thus there are cocliac, mesenteric, renal, spermatic, diaphragmatic, &c. DiapJmujmatic j^lexus. This plexus comes from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nen^e of the cervical plexus (p. 73) and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion Avhere the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it hlaments are supplied to the vena cava and the suiirarenal body. The ganglion is absent on the left side. (Swan.) The suprarenal nerces are very large and numerous, in comjiarison with the size of the part supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splanchnic nerves communicates with this plexus. The renal plexu>< is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer part of the plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic nerve. The nen^es suiTOund the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 481). The fOiliac 2>le-cii^ is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splaiichnic nerve on each side, and by an offset from the right jmeumo-gastric nerve. Tlie plexus divides like the artery into three parts—coronaiy, splenic, and hepatic. a. The ccn-onanj plexm accompanies the vessel of the same name to the upper border of the stomach, where it ends: it comnuuiicates with the left vagus nerve. b. The splenic p>lexus furnishes offsets to the pancreas, and to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery: and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nen-e. aiuihcpatic: c. The hepatic p)lexns is continued on the vena porta?, the hepatic artery, and the bile duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels: in the small omentum, the plexus is joined by ofl'sets from the left vagus. The following secondaiy plexuses are furnished around the branches of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels :-— A j^yioric plexus is distributed along the upper border of the stomach. Two other i>]Q\uHes—gastro-epiploic (right) and imncreatico-duo- denal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each arteiy. cystic. A cystic plexus ramifies in the coats of the gall bladder with its artery. Seiiiiluiiar ganglia : situation ; form. Several offsets of tli« iikxus. Plexus to the dia- phragm lias a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal nerves. Kenal lik'xus joins si)crniatie. Coeliac plexus divides like the artery, into coro- nary. splenic. the last has secondai-y lilexuses; pyloric. gastro- epiiiloYc, and duodenal: