57 BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. and a chain of lympliatic glands lies along the sterno-mastoid nerves and muscle. The spinal accessory nerve, is directed obliquely across lyipiiaties; this interval from the sterno-niastoid nniscle, which it pierces, to liJ.t^ssory^ the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place nerve, between this cranial and the spinal nerves in the space. Sui'EHFiciAL Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Behind theNmesof sterno-niastoid muscle appear some of the ramihcations of the plexus cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name; and superficial bi-anches are furnished from these both upwards and downwards. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 14) are three in number, viz. small that asceud, occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital branch (fig. 2, ") comes from the second Small occi- cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along the pos-1'^**'" terior border of the sterno-niastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia ; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. The great auricular nerve (fig. 2, is a branch of the part of Great auri- the plexus formed by the second and third cervical nerves. Per- forating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards beneath the plat^^sma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches :— facial &ra»r7/f.s'are sent forwards to the integuments over the sniipiies parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular brandies ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly auricular, distributed on its cranial aspect ; one or more reach the opposite surface hy piercing the pinna. On the ear they communicate with branches furnished fi-om the facial and pneumogastric nerves. The madoid branch is directed backwards to the integuments between the ear and the mastoid process; and it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nen^e (p. 8). The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 2, ") springs from the same Superficial source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the sterno-mastoid nerve!' muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia and platysma, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space (see p. 59). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. The DESCENDING SET of branches (fig. 2), (supra-clavicular) are Nerves tiiat derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lovVer part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three on the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its sujim ciavi- inner end ; the middle branch lies about the middle of that bone ; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distributed hi the integuments of the chest and shoulder. Derived fi-om the descending set are two or \\\ovqposterior cutaneous ^^^tj^^y^ ■cervical nerves, which ramify in the integument over the lower two of neck, thirds of the fore part of the trapezius.