SERRATI AI^D SPLENIUS MUSCLES. 38»: Action. The superior serratus raises the upper ribs, and officiates uaeofboth as an inspiratory muscle ; and the inferior, depressing the lower ribs, ^J'^^^lQ^gj. becomes an expiratory muscle. Theile supposes the inferior to act indirectly as a muscle of inspiration, because, by fixing the lower ribs, it enables the diaphragm to contract more effectiA'-ely. * The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, which is spread Vertebral over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines the erector spina3 in ^PO'^eurosis. the vertebral groove. mentsV Inferiorly it is thickened by the tendons of the latissimus and above, lower serratus ; but it is continued above beneath the splenius, without joining the upper serratus, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. Internally it is attaclied to the spinous processes. Externally it inside and is connected to the posterior third of the iliac crest, uniting with outside, the tendon of the latissimus ; between the hip-bone and the ribs, to the fascia liimborum ; and in the dorsal region to the ribs and a Below, fascia over the intercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and vertebral attachments, it blends with the underlying tendon of the erector spinae and multifidus. * Dissection. The upper serratus is to be cut through, and the Dissection, subjacent vertebral aponeurosis to be taken away ; and the part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. The SPLENIUS muscle (fig. 117) is thin and elongated ; it is un- Splenius has divided internally, but is split externally into two parts. It takes P*^^ • origin along the middle line from the six upper dorsal spines, from the seventh cervical, and fi'om the ligamentum nuchaj as high as the third cervical vertebra. Some fibres ascend to the head (splenius capitis), and others to the neck (splenius colli). The splenius colli, c, is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- one to the tenor transverse processes of the upper three cervical vertebra? with, ^^'^'^^" attach- but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the ments: scapula. The splenius cajntis, B, much the largest, is inserted by a thin one to the tendon into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. ments. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and Connec- the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the occipital bone is be- neath the stemo-mastoideus. The complexus muscle projects above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Action. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head Use of directly back ; and one will turn the face to the same side. capitis. The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical splenius vertebra); but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. * Fourth Layer. In this layer are included the spinalis dorsi; j^o^^^^^^ the erector spina?, with its divisions, and accessory muscles to the mugcies. neck ; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the Back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig. 118). To lay bare the complexus muscle in the Dissection