456 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN". Course it follows. Two kinds : external or oblique; internal or direct. External or oblique. Anatomy of parts concerned. Inguinal canal. Direction. Length. Openings. Boundaries next sur- face ; next the abdominal cavity. Flooring and roof of the canaL Canal in the female. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected througli the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by the names external and internal, from their position to the epigastric artery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the direction tliey take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external fi-om being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; whilst the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named internal from being inside the arterj', and direct from its straight course. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavit}^ of the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal canal, makes its exit fi-om that passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy of the external hernia. To acquire a knowledge of the anatomy of this hernia it will be necessary that the space in which it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by Avhich it enters and leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal lings), and the coverings it receives in its progress to the surface of the body, should be studied. The inguinal canal (fig. 138) is the interval between the flat muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Its direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to, but above Poupart's ligament ; and its length is about one inch and a half. Superiorly it ceases at the internal abdominal ring ; and inferiorly it ends at the external abdominal ring. Towards the surface of the body the canal is bounded by the teguments, and the two oblique muscles in this way :—The skin with the subjacent fatty layer, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, A, reach the whole length of the passage ; but the internal oblique, B, extends only along its outer third (half an inch). Towards the cavity of the abdomen the wall of the canal is con- structed by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis, and by the deep membranous strata in the wall of the abdomen in this wise :—The conjoined tendon, H, placed in front of the other structures, reaches along the inner two thirds of the space (about an inch); and beneath or behind it come the fascia transversalis, G, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum, in the order mentioned, which are continued all along the passage. Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupail's ligament, and by the fibres of the ligament inserted into the pectineal line ; whilst along the upper part its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles. In the female, the canal has the same length and boundaries though it is usually somewhat smaller. In that sex it lodges the round ligament Internal abdominal ring: The internal ahdominal ring (fig. 138) is an aperture in the fascia transversalis, which is situate midway between the symphysis pubis