OF ROBERT BENTLEY TODD, M.D. MAEOH, ISCO.KING'S College LONDON AbWl^Uiij Library^ 200825117 4 llllllllilliilliii KING S COLLEGE LONDONDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21300963_0001iTHE SURGICAL WORKS KING'S C^' "^^^ ^'OSP' OF. MEDICAL bOilOou. JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. &CC. &:o. &c. VOLUME THE FIRST. ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES ; ANEURISM; DISEASES RESEMBLING SYPHILIS; AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, ANfl BUOWX, PATERNOSTER-ROVr. 181I.Strahan and Prefton, Printers-Street, London.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS ON TH£ CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN AND TREATMENT OS LOCAL DISEASES} AND OH ANEURISMS. BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OV EDINBURGH, AND OF THE MEDICAL SOCIETIES OF PARIS, PHILADELPHIA, &C. ASSISTANT SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, AND TEACHER OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY. " Chirurgo necejfariam ejfe cogn'ittoneum Phyftces, Chimia:, Logices., " omnis (fere) ambitus Medicina s neque folo manus exercith « -veros chirurgos fieri." Herm. BoERnA.\v. Method. Stud. Med. locupletata ab Alb. von Haller. LONL ON; PaiNTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, AND ORME, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1809.11. L 1- U C I iVIEDICAL SCHuOU PREFACE. rpHE beft mode of obtaining and extending medical and furgical knowledge is, in my opinion, to pay that ftri6l attention to difeafes, which qualifies us to note even the {lighter fhades of difference that diftinguifh them from each other. Such difcrimination leads us to form fome regular arrangement of them, which, even if it be not corre6t, may ultimately enable us to difcover their natural feries and order. This method I have pur- fued from the beginning of my profeflional ftudies. Whenever the opinions on fubjc6ls of importance, which an attention to cafes had impreifed upon my mind, differed from thofe which feemed to prevail amongft other praftitioners, I publifhed the fa6ls, and the inferences which I drew from them, becaufe I thought that the former at leaft deferved attention, and that the latter would either be confirmed or confuted by the refult of general experience. A3 Itiv , PREFACE. It is more, however, on account of the cafes, than of the conckifions which they fug- gefted, that I am defirous of repiiblilliing my furgical writings. Various advantages refult even from the pubhcation of opinions j for though we are very liable to error in form- ing them, yet their promulgation, by exciting inveftigation, and pointing out the deficien- cies of our information, cannot be otherwife than ufeful in the promotion of fcience. The publication of the opinions which naturally arife in the mind of the furgeon, from the cafes fubmitted to his obfervation, polTefTes the further utility of rendering a prolix detail of circumftances ynnecelTary. It would be almoft impoffible to relate every minute occurrence, that tended to imprefs certain conclufions on the mind of the ob- ferver; or to relate every trifling particular of treatment, by which the furgeon endea- voured to accomplifh his objeft. Such a dull and tedious narrative, which would weary and difguft the reader, may indeed be well fpared; becaufe the practitioner may, and muft, repeatedly perufe the cafe at large in the bookPREFACE. V book of nature. The writer merely points out thofe figns by which any difeafe may be difcriminated from others, and identified as one of the particular clafs to which he is defirous of exciting the public attention. With regard to the cafes, which I confider as the valuable part of the book, I may ob- ferve, that it is not to be expefted that the re- cords of them will make fo ftrong an impref- fion on the minds of the readers, as the ob- fervance of them has done on that of the writer; but when the fame occurrences are met with in pra6lice, then will the impref- fion become more vivid, and knowledge arife, as it ufually does, from perfonal experience. If the fa6ls contained in thefe volumes oc- curred fo rarely, that others could not be expefted to meet with them, their relation would be of little value. They may, how- ever, not improperly be compared to certain fpecies of plants, by no means uncommon, which are liable to be confounded with others by an inattentive obferver; but when their difcriminating chara6lers are once pointed out, they may be fo readily diftinguiflied, col- leftedPREFACE. vi Ie6led and examined, as to render a more mi- nute defcription of them unneceflary. If difeafes could, like other obje6ls which we mean to delineate, be placed in various points of view, and illuminated at pleafure, fo as to fhew diftinflly their different parts, one ac- curate reprefentation would fuffice; but we fee them obfcurely, and as knowledge in- creafes, it fei-ves, like light fhining from dif- ferent places, to illuminate the various parts of the obje6ls of our examination. For, as I have expfelTed it in the firft edi- tion of thefe writings, " in proportion as we advance in knowledge, we are led to remark, many circumftances in the progrefs of a diforder which had before paffed without notice; but which, if known and duly at- tended to, would clearly point out the na- ture of the complaint. Hence the records of former cafes are of much lefs value; as the fymptoms about which we are now anxious to enquire, have in them been entirely over- looked." It, therefore, becomes neceffary that each writer fhould ftate thofe circum-. ftances to which he has been particularly at- tentive JPREFACE. tentive; nor need he further delineate the cafe than by a general outline, fo as to render it intelligible. The relation of cafes may be compared to the reprefentations which an artift gives of natural obje6bs, and which are valuable only in as much as they are corre6l or vivid deline- ations of reality. Such portraits, fketched by a perfon of dull perception, or by one whofe optics are perverted by prejudice and theory, are either valuelefs or deceptive; and hence, perhaps, has arifen that objection to books of cafes which I find to be very prevalent. In the imperfeft Iketches which I have laid before the public, my chief objeft has been to touch up and bring into view fome parts of the fubjefts which have not been fo clearly feen or ftrongly delineated by former draftfinen. When books of this kind are publifhed, mutual forbearance is requifite on the part both of the writer and the reader. The former fhould not expe£l his work to be approved of, till the latter has examined whether his reprefentation of difeafes be correal, and his con-PREFACE. 7 feirion conclufions legitimately drawn from the fafts which he has obferved and collected. Neither fliould the reader condemn the work till he has examined the fubjeft, and is in confequence able to point out the errors of the premifes or conclufions. The author's view of a fubjeft may indeed-be corre6lly formed from the fa<5ls which he himfelf has witnelTed; but it may differ from that which more extenfive experience would have fug- gefted. For this difference no blame can properly be attached to him he relates what has fallen under his own obfervation, and in- vites others to attend to the fame fa6ls. ^ I have been induced thus to offer my fen- timents refpefting the defign, mode, and probable advantages of recording cafes, not with a view of vindicating the plan which I have purfued, for that indeed cannot be neceffary, fmce it is the fame that has been followed by the beft authors on furgeiy. My objeft, by thefe remarks, has been to induce others to refleft how they may moft effe6lually promote medical knowledge. No one can have thoroughly ftudied his pro-IX PREFACE. feflion without perceiving how fufceptible it is of improvement, without difcerning how inadequate the efforts of an individual muft be towards the accompUfhment of this pur- pofe, and confequently without feeUng an ' earnefl wifh to engage general co-operation in this dehrable object. In republifliing my former writings, 1 have left out all that part which relates to phyfiology. The furgical fafts contained in them, will now be found incorporated with my later publications, under the fame general head of Surgical Obfervations. I have alfo made thofe aherations and ehlargements which a gjeater fliare of experience has diftated. The fubje6ts have likewife been tranfpofed. I have put at the beginning of the book thofe cafes which fliew how much local difeafes depend upon the general ftate of the patient's health, becaufe I fhall have frequent occafion to refer to this fubje6t in the fucceeding parts of the work. I feel much gratified in finding, that, tliough a larger portion of experience has enabledX PREFACE. enabled ihc to add fome nev/ and ftriking fa(5ls to. this edition, it has not fliewn me any* thing that I ought to retra6l or ma- terially alter. This, indeed, muft be the cafe im a book containing only fafls, and opinions not incautioufly deduced from them. Several of the papers contained in ''this volume met with very general and ftrong 6bje6lion, which I confidered as the greateft compliment which could be paid to them. For'if the views which I had taken of various pra6lical fubjecls were different from thole bf'others, and were ultimately found to be corre6f, the greater was the neceffity for their publication. SURGICALVOL. I. B ftill SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. DN THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, AND TREATMENT OB LOCAL DISEASES. AN evil feems to me to have arifeii from the artificial divifion of the healing art into the medical and furgical departments. This divifion has caufed the attention of the phyfician and the furgcon to be too exclu- iively dire6ted to thofe difeafes, which cuf- tom has arbitrarily allotted to their care. The effe6ls of local diforders upon the con- ftitution have, in confequence, been too little attended to; and indeed I know of no book, to which I can refer a furgical ftudent for a fatisfa^lory accoufit of thofe febrile and nervous affections which local- difeafe produces, except that of Mr. Hunter*. The reciprocal operation of conllitutional diforders upon local difeafes has obtained * Treatife on the Blood, Inflammation, &c.■Z ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, flill lefs attention. To inveftigate more particularly fome parts of thefe fubjefts, and to fubmit them to public notice, are the propofed objects of the prefent paper. No part of the animal body can in general be very confiderably difordered, without occa- jfioning a correfpondent derangement in other parts of the fyftem. Such diforder has been confidered by Mr. Hunter as the refult of univerfal fympathy. This confent of the whole conftitution with its parts manifefts itfelf, in particular inftances, by a greater difturbance of the fun6tions of fome organs than of thofe of others j and from this circumftance difeafes have derived the appellations, by which they are commonly diftinguifhed. If the aftions of the fangui- ferous fyftem be principally difturbed, and the temperature of the body fubjeft to un- nfual variations, the difeafe is termed fever: ' if the nervous fyftem be chiefly affefted, a ftate of vigilance or of delirium may be pro- duced : convulfions and tetanus take place, when the fun6tions of the mufcuiar fyftem are more particularly deranged. Though theAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 3 the diforder of particular organs thus give a charafter and denomination to the difeafe, it is fufEciently evident, in the inftances adduced, that the whole conftitution is difturbedj while certain parts are chiefly affe6ted, perhaps from unknown circum- ftances relative to the nervous fyftem., or from a predifpofition to diforder exifting in the affected parts. It feems to be afcer- tained, that perfons of particular conftitu- tions are predifpofed to thofe febrile actions of the fanguiferous fyftem, which conftitute the inflammatory fever; that there is a pro- penfity to convulfions in children; and to tetanus in the inhabitants of warm cli- mates. It may be a fit fubjeft for enquiry, whe- ther it be pofllble for particular organs to become affefted otherwife, than through the medium of the nervous fyftem in general. Though fome inftances of fympathy are ftrange, and perhaps inexplicable, there are ftrong reafons for beheving that the inflam- matory fever, the ftate of vigilance and de- lirium, convulfions and tetanus, whicli arife B 2 in4 OliT THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, That in confequence of injuries of the limbs, are produced by irritation imparted to the brain, which, by a kind of ]-efl.e6led ope- ration, occafions a greater diforder of fome of the organs of the body than of others, and thus gives a chara6ler and deno- mination to the difeafe *. * Mr. Hunter, wlio, with that patience and Induftry for which hef was fo remarkable, colle£ied and examined all the fafts which he had obferved relative to the fub- jeft of fympathy; has divided it into continuous, contigu- ous and remote. It is the remote fympathies, according to his divifion, of which I am now fpeaking. The obfervations of X)r. Darwin on ocular fpefti'a, and indeed the confideration of the nervous fun£tioj\s in ge- neral render it highly probable that fenfatibri is not pro- duced merely by impulfes made on the nerves, but by means of aftions excited by fuch impulfes, which aflions are' continued to the fenforium. Nervous aftions, then, may take place without the ufually exciting caufes ; fuch anions may be continued through the medium of the reticular communications of nerves, '^nd thus phyfio- Ipgically we may explain the continuous and contiguous fympathies. Anions alfo produftive of fympathetic fen- fations may be fuppofed to take place through the media of ganglia or plexufes. In remote fympathies, however, we muft fuppofe the aftions which originate in an injured or difeafed part of the body to be continued to the fenforiumj- and there to excite the adions of other rieryes, &c.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 5 That the ftomach and bowels are difor- dered by injuries and difeafes of parts of the body, has been remarked by various per- fons; but the fubje6l has never been exten- fively furveyed, nor viewed with that ac- curacy of obfervation, which its high im- portance merits. It has been obferved that fprains of tendinous or. ligamentous parts produce fuddcn ficknefs j and Mr. Hunter has attributed that fliivering which is con- fequent to accidents, and attendant on fome difeafes, to the ftate of the fiomach. It is known that, in fome local injuries from accident or operations, the ftomach has ap- peared to be the part principally afte6led. BuL remarks on the afFeftions thus induced in the digeftive organs have been made only in a curfory manner; and it is my intention to examine the fubjecl rnore particularly. It alfo appears to me that the connexion of local difeafes with the ftate of the conftitu- tion in general is either not fufficiently un- derllood, or not duly regarded by the gene- rality of praftitioners; and I alfo mean to claim their particular attention to this fub- jed. I lhall in the -firft place feled a cafe B 3 to6 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, The to fhew how the ftomach and bowels, or, to fpeak yet more extenfively, the digeflive organs may be affected from local diforder. Sudden and violent local Irritation will fometimes pro- duce an equally fudden and vehement Diforder of the digeflive Organs. CASE I. , A HEALTHY gentleman, about twenty- five years of age, was induced to fubmit to an operation for the return of an adhe- rent omental hernia, rather in order to I'emove the inconvenience and apprehenfion which the diforder occafioned, than from any urgent necelTity; for any increafed ex- ertion in walking or riding produqed the defcent of a portion of inteftine behind the thickened omentuni, and obliged him to Hop, and replace it: and he frequently could not 'accomplilh the reduflion without confiderable difficulty. The application of truffes had been quite ineffeftual in obviat- ing thefe alarming inconveniencies.AND TREATMENT OF- LOCAL DISEASES. 7 The patient's diet on the day preceding the operation was fcanty, and confifted of fluid iubflances. He took on the morning of the operation fome Epfom falts and manna, which purged him twice and feemed to have emptied his bowels. A portion of the omentum was cut off, and the remainder was returned, after two veffels had been tied. The operation was followed by gene- ral diforder of the conftitution, manifefted by a full and ftrong pulfe, furred tongue, great anxiety, reftleffnefs, and total want of deep. The ftomach was particularly affe<5led, being diftended, uneafy on com- preffion, and rejefting every thing that was fwallowed. He was bled largely in the evening, and took faline medicines, but could not be prevailed on to fwallow any thing clfe, except fome toaft and water. The ficknefs had in fome degree abated on the next day. A folution of mag- nefia vitriolata in mint water was prefcribed in fmall occafional dofes, in order to re- lieve the diforder and diflenfion of the fto- pach, by procuring fome difchar^e from 5 4 the8 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, the bowels *. In the courfe of^ the day he took an ounce of the falts, "which was not rejefted by the ftomach, yet he could fcarcely be prevailed upon to take any thing elfe. The tongue was ftill covered by a thick yellow fur; the fkin was hot and dry, and the pulfe frequent. As there was no particular tendernefs about the hypogaftric region, he was not again bled. The fecond night pafled without any fleep. As the falts had produced * It is moft probably the diforder of the brain which affefts the ftomach 5 but the re-atSlion of the latter af- faftion is liable to increafe and maintain the former, by which it had itfelf been produced. The effefts that refult from the fympathy of the whole conliitution with local diforder vary greatly both in nature and degree. Some- times the brain is the part chiefly afFefted ; on thefe oc- cafions the nervous energy appears to be much im- paired J and in fome inftances of this defcription, the patient gradually finks, little fever or reaction of the con- flitution being obferved ; in other inftances, however,, there is a low delirium, with a flight degree of febrile aflion ; and in others again, the delirium is more violent, • and is accompanied with a proportional increafe of fever, fubfultus of the mufcles, and convulfions. Sometimes other parts of the body or particular organs feem to be pi'ihcipally afFe£led; indeed the variety yf effects pro- duced under the circumftances alluded to is fuch as to laffie defcription. noAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 9 That no effe6l, the fame medicine was ordered in an infafion of fenna, with the addition of fome of the tinfture, which, by being given in very fmall dofes, was retained. When, however, it feemed likely that no effe6t would refult from this medicine, a grain of calomel was given at night, and repeated on the following morning. Still the loath- ing of food continued. The third night paficd, like the former ones, without fleep, and in great anxiety. On the next morn- ing, two pills, containing five grains of the pii. colocynth. and the fame quantity of the pil. aloet. cum myrrha, were given every fourth hour. Thefe procured no flool, nor produced any fenfation which inclined the patient to believe that they would ope- rate. Again he pafled a fieeplefs night; but, towards the morning, he felt his bowels apparently filUng, to ufe his own expreflion, and a profufe dilcharge enfued, A dozen co* , pious, fetid, and black evacuations took place between five and ten o'clock, and he had feveral others in the courfe of the day ; after which his appetite returned, his tongue became clean, and a found and continued fleep fuc^eeded,lO ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIOIN, I more That the chylopoietic organs were the parts chiefly aflefted in this cafe, can fcarcely be qiieftioned.. The ficknefs, the tender- nefs of the parts in the epigaftric region, the averfion to food, and the ftate of the tongue, all indicate that the ftomach was much difordered. The infufceptibility of the bowels to the action of medicineSj v/hich would ordinarily have produced dif- charges from them, and the profufe eva- cuations which fubfequently i^elieved the patient, prove that thefe vifcera participated in the affccrion. The black colour of the difcharges fhews, I thiiik, tliat the fecre- tion of the bile was not healthy, and that the liver was affe6led v/ith the other chylopo- ietic vifcera. It may be fuppofed, that the injury done to the omentum might contribute to pro- duce the diforder of thefe organs, rather^ than of others. We do not, however, find . that fuch eifefts commonly fucceed to fimiiar pperations. The confequences in the pre- fent cafe were more fevere than might have been expefted, if it were not known, that an pperation performed on a healthy patient isA"ND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. II more apt to produce confiderable diforder, than when performed on one whofe con- ftitution has previoufly fuftained the irrita- tion of a dileafe, for which the. operation becomes necelfary. It is probable alfo that the reftleflhefs and anxiety of the patient were aggravated, ' if not principally caufed, by the ftate of the chylopoietic vifcera; fince the relief which took place in thofe parts on the renewal of fecretions into them, certainly removed the nei-vous and febrile fymptoras. That the dif- charges were the effe6t of fecretion is proved by the abfence of alim.entary matter in the bowels, in confequence of . the aftion of the purgative adminiflered on the morning of the operation, and the abftinence both before and after that period*. I could * Two inftances are recorded in Mr. Pott's Works, of the operation for the reduftion of an hernia being performed where no ftrangulation exifted. See Pott's Works, Vol. III. pp. 295, 299, edition of 1783. The operation in the cafe juft related was undertaken upon the authority of thefe cafes, wliich were both fuc- cefsful. I performed a fimilar operation on a patient, whofe life had been twice in imminent hazard from ftran- gulatioa12 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, I could relate numerous cafes in fupport of the inferences, which I have drawn from the preceding hiftory j that local irritation ading on the nervous fyflem may affect the digeftive organs in a very ferious man- ner, and thereby create great general dif- order of the fyftem, which is afterwards alleviated in proportion to the amendment that enfues in the ftate of ' thofe vifcera. Such confequences of great local irritation muft frequently occur to every one j it is therefore unneceifary to adduce more in- ftances to fupport the opinions here de- livered. With refpecl to the treatment of cafes of this defcription it may be right to add, that the primary obje6l fliould .fee.- to produce fe- cretion fi"Om the irritable organs. In the cafe gulation in a cafe of adherent epiplocele, in which a trufs did not keep up the hernia, and the operation was followed by violent peritonitis^ which could only be fubdued by fuch copious and repeated vensefeftion, as endangered the patient's life. Thefe two cafes have made fuch an impreffion on my mind, that I fhould be very aveffe in future to undertake fimilar experiments. 5 whichAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I3 which has been related, and in many others recorded in this volume^ the effect of fecre- tions occurring from the difordered organs in relieving their irritable ftate is very mani- fefl:. In many inftances opium v^^ill not pre- vent continual efforts to vomit, yet when by magnef. vitriolat. or purgatives admini- ftered in the form of pills, and clyfters, ftools are procbred, the vomiting ceafes, the ftomach retains both food and medicine, and general tran^^uillity of conftitution is as fuddenly reftored. f^Z^^i<^^ Degree of miiinued local Irritation will produce a lefs violent Diforder of the digcjline. ^ Organs. IF then vehement local irritation can produce a violent difturbance of the chylo- poietic organs, it may be expected that a lefs degree of a fimilar caufe will produce llighter effe6ts of the fame nature. Indeed, the fore- going cafe was related not merely becaufe it feemed worthy of record by itfelf, but chiefly to prepare the reader for the ob- fervations which are to follow. This14 ON THfi CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, This {lighter degree of derangement occur* in the advanced, ftages of lumbar abfcefs, difeafed joints, compound fraftures, and all kinds of local difeafe, which impart confider- able and continued irritation to the whole conftitution. We alfo find a lefs important difeafe, as for inftance, a fretful ulcer, keep up a diforder of the fyftcm in general, and of the digeftive organs in particular, which fubfides as the irritable ftate of the ulcer di- miniflies. But as praftitioners in general may not perhaps have fo attentively remarked thefe circumftances as to be familiarly ac- quainted with them, it may be ufeful to mention a very common occurrence, which cannot have efcaped obfervation. I allude to the effe6ls of the irritation of teething upon the health of children. The Brain is fometimes fo affefted as to caufe convul- fions ; the digeftive organs are almoft con- ilantly difordered. The appetite fails j the tongue is furred j the fecretions of the liver are either fufpended, diminiflied, or vitiated. The bowels are either purged or coftive, and the faeces fetid. The faecal matter is often mixed with mucous and other fecre- tionsAN-D TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 15 tions. There is alfo frequently a veiy troublefome cough. Such fymptoms gene- raliy lubfide when the local irritation ceafes, but fometimes the diforder of the digeftive organs, thus excited, continues and dif- turbs the general health of the patient. If local irritation be capable of diforder- ing the bowels, it feems natural to , conclude that it a6ls upon them through the medium of the brain. If alfo the brain and nervous fyftem fliould be difordered, without any apparent local difeafe, fimilar derangements may be expe6led to take place in the func- tions of the digeftive organs. In cafes, where fome morbific poifon has been ab- forbed, producing effefts fimilar to thofe of fyphihs, we ufually find the irritation of the conftitution which enfues to be accompa- nied with this {lighter diforder of the chylopoietic organs. Whenever, alfo, the nervous energy and general powers of the conftitution have been weakened and difordered by any violent difeafe, as fever, fmall pox, mealies, hooping cough.25 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, cough, &c. the digeflive organs are fre- quently affefted in confequence, and fuch afFeclion becomes, as will afterwards be ex- plained, the caufe of many fecondary dif- eafes. In perfons, iikewife, who have natural- ly a weak or irritable ftate of the nervous fyftem, we find the digeftive organs dif- ordered in a fimiiar manner. Improprieties in diet will alfo produce a fnnilar ftate of irritation, weaknefs, and diforder of the func- tions of the digeilive organs. This flighter diforder of the chylopoi- etic organs is, in general, manifefted by a diminution of the appetite and digeftion, flatulence, and unnatural colour and foetor of the excretions, which are generally de- ficient in quantity. The tongue is dry, whitifh, or furred, particularly at the back part 3 this fymptom is moft apparent in the morning. The fur is greateft at the back part, and extends along the middle of the tongue to the tip, the edges remaining clean. As the difeafe advances, a tendernefs is felt 1 whenAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I7 when the epigaftric region is compreiTed, and the patient breathes more by the ribs, and lefs by the diaphragm than in the healthy ftate. The urine is frequently turbid. In this general enumeration of the fymp- toms, feveral circumftances are omitted which occur occafionally, and which may, when the fubje6l fliall be better under- ftood, denote peculiarities in the difeafe, and require correfponding peculiarities in the medical treatment. I fhall here notice a few of them. The appetite is fometimes moderately good, when the digeftion is im- perfe61:; and the latter may not be defe6live, although the difeafe ftill exifts. In fome inftances, indeed, tbe appetite is inordinate. Tendernefs of the epigaftric region on pref- fure, is not always an attendant, even on advanced ftages of the difeafe. The bowels are alternately coftive, and lax even to purg- ing*. The urine is fometimes pale-co- * I have known perfons whofe bowels were ordinarily coftive, and whofe general health was much deranged by diforder of the digeftive organs, though they were un- ccnfcious of its exiftence, feel pleafed that tlieir bowels were in a comfortably lax ftate 5 yet on obferving tlie ftook, they refembled pitch in colour and appearance. VOL. I. c lourediB ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN^ loured and copious like that of hyftericaf patients. Patients affe(5i:ed in the manner above de^ fcribed commonly declare they are in good health, except that they feel difturbed by their local complaints; yet they are found, on enquiry, to have all the fymptoms, which chara61:erize a difordered ftate of the digeftive organs. The mind is alfo fre- quently irritable arid defpondent; anxiety and langour are exprefled in the countenance. The pulfe is frequent or feeble ; and flight exercife produces confiderable perfpiration and fatigue. The patients are fometimes refdefs at night, but when they fleep foundly they awaken unrefreflied, with lafTitude, and fometimes a fenfation, as if they were inca- pable of moving. Slight noifes generally caufe them to ftart, and they are, to ufe their own expreffion, very nervous. Thefe circumflances feem to me to indicate weak- nefs and irritability of the nervous and mufcuiar fyftems; which, in addition to the Hiforder of the digeftive organs, that has been defcribed, are the chief circumftances obfervable relative to the.general health of 12 - thofeAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I9 thofe patients, whofe cafes are related in the following part of this paper. By correft- ing the obvious errors in the ftate of the digeftive organs, the local difeafe, which had baffled all attempts at cure by local means, has fpeedily been removed, and the patient has acknowledged that fuch an alteration has taken place in his general health, as ex- cited his furprize. A Review of the natural Fu}idions of the digejlhe Organs, and an Enquiry into the Signs which denote them to he in a healthy or difordered State. BEFORE I proceed, I may be allowed to enter more fully into a confideration of the fymptoms which denote diforder of the di- geftive organs; in order to induce furgeons to pay that ftrift attention to them, which the importance of the fubje6l fo well de- lerves. It would indeed be impoffible for the reader to underftand, without fuch pre- fatory obfervations, my obje6l in the treat- ment of the cafes which will prefently be related, or the opinions which I have formed, relative to their mode of cure. c 2 The2€> ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, The changes which the food undergoes in the digeftive organs of the more com- pUcated animals are threefold j and dilHn6t organs are allotted to each of the three procefTes. Digeftion takes place in the flomach; chylification in the fmall intef- tines ; and a third procefs, hitherto undeno- minated, is performed in the large in- teftines. It is probable that in fome cafes,- one fet of organs may be more difordered than the others, and of courfe one of thefe procefTes may fail more than the reft. For inftance, the ftomach may digeft the food in a healthy manner, although the inteftines do not perform their fhare of the changes, which they oiight to efFe6t. The food is converted in the ftomach into, a vifcid femitranfparent fubftance called chyme; and that this change is effefted by the agency of the fuceus gaftricus, is a. point as well afcertained as any in phyfiology. In a ftate of health this converfion takes place without any appearance of that natural de- compofition which animal and vegetable matter would ordinarily undergo in a warm J andAND TREA-TMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 21 c 3 The and moift place. When, however, digeftion is imperfeft, gafeous fluids are extricated from the alimentary matter. Vegetable food becomes acid, and oils become ran- cid. Uneafy fenfations are alfo felt, and undigefted aliment may be obferved in the faeces. Diforder of the ftomach is however more readily perceived by adverting to the ftate of the tongue, which often indicates an ir- ritable and unhealthy condition of the fto- mach, when no manifeft fymptoms of indi- geftion occur. If there be no fever to dif- turb th^ fecretions in general, the change which is vifible in the tongue can be im- puted to no other caufe than local difeafe, or a participation in a diforder of the ftomacli or lungs. Local irritation or mental anxiety will caufe a white and dry tongue; but does not this effe6l arife through the medium of an affedlion of the ftomach ? For although the fecretions of the tongue muft partake of the general difturbance which prevails in fever, their efpecial diforder may be, in that cafe, alfo, not improperly attributed to ^he fliate of the ftomach.42 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, The ftate of the tongue is, in general, an infallible criterion of a difordered con- dition of the ftomach; but it does not point out the kind and degree of that diforder. In recent and confiderable affeftions, where the appetite is loft, and the digeftive powers are greatly impaired, the appearances of the tongue are by no means fo ftrikingly un- healthy as in more confirmed cafes, where neither the appetite nor digeftion appear materially deficient. It is probable that a continuance of irritation in . the ftomach may fo afFe6l the tongue, as to render un- natural fecretions habitual to the part, and that thefe exift independently of the original caufe, or may be reproduced by trivial de- grees of diforder. Nay, fometimes the cu- ticle of the tongue feems to have loft its tranfparency, and to become ^permanently white, in confequence of continued, irri- tation. After making the allowances, which fuch circumftances require, we may in general be enabled to deteft a difordered ftate of the ftomach by obfervation made on the tongue: and, as it is of confequence to afcer-ANi> TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 23 afcertain fuch diforder at an early period, when the fymptoms are probably flight, -this organ fliould be obfei-ved in the morn- ing, when it will be found much furred, particularly at the part-..next the throat. Its appearance may- vary-in diffi^rent parts of the day frorri.varieties in thQ,ft,ate of tlie ftomach, depending on the excitement which is derived from food, or- a^ftate. of irritation arifmg from too long fafting. The tongues of many perfons \yith, diforder of the lio- mach look moderately healthy 4*-'aing the day, though they have been fo m^ph fur/"ed in the morning, that it has beefn deemed neceflary to fcrape them. A difordered ftate of fecretion, either as to quantity or quahty, willjb^q. ;the natural effeft of irritation of a fecreting ovgan. This is evidently the cafe with jlifi,. tongue; and we may, with great probability},;conjeclure that the fame confequence,alfo .t^l^^es place in .-the ftomach. Since thejaipes[jOf the fto- -mach are the'immediate agei)ts. m digef- tion, that procels muil-,be difturbed in pro- portion as 'its, fecretiqiis are defipent or yitkted. c 4 If24 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, If undigefted matter pafs from the fto- mach into the inteftines, it can fcarcely be fuppofed that their powers are capable of -converting it into chyle; and it may be- come irritating to thofe organs in con- fequence of the chemical changes, which it may then undergo. When digeftion is im- perfect, animal and vegetable fubftances experience confiderable chemical changes before they leave the ftomach; and fimilar changes may continue to take place during the time they are detained in the bov/els, un- lefs counteracted by the powers of the digeftive organs; powers which feem chie.T.y to belong to the fluids which are fecreted into them. The extent of the power which the in- teftines polfefs of converting what they receive from the ftomach into chyle, or of pre- venting chemical changes, is unknown. It is probable that much undigefted matter is ab- forbed by the lafteals, when the digeftive powers fail in their fun6lions. This is apparently the cafe in diabetes, where the vegetable matter floats in the ferum of the blood, rendering it turbid, and afterwards com- binesAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 25 bines fo as to form fngar in its paffage through the kidnies. The ftrong odour, which various kinds of food impart to the urine, indicites that different fubftances are abforbed indifcriminately from- the inteftines. It is probable that a turbid Hate of the urine, and variations from the natural odour of healthy urine, may veiy frequently arife fi'om a fimilar caufe; viz. from the imperfe6t a6lion of the digeftive organs, in confequence of which, unaffimilated matter is taken up by the la6teals, and afterwards feparated from the blood in the kidneys. It may be rea- fonably conje6lured that the fame powers, by which the kidneys convert the old mate- rials of our body into that peculiar modifica- tion of animal matter, which is diffolved in the water of the urine, and which has been called by the French chemifts uree, may alfo enable it, in a healthy and vigorous ftate, to difpoie of much unaffimilated fub- ftance in the fame way. The fuither confi- deration of 'this fubjeft would, however, lead to a difcuffion foreign to the purpofe of the prefent paper: it will be fufficient to remark at prefent, that the ftate of the urine mayS5 ON THi: CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIf?, may afford affiftance in afcertaining the exifteiicc of diforder of the digeftive organs, and in vindicating its nature. It has been already mentioned, in the brief account of the fymptom?, that the urine is frequently turbid. It fhould, however, alfo be ob- ferved, that the quality of the urine greatly depends on the flate of the nervous fyilem. It is frequently, in the diforders of which I am fpeaking, pale-coloured and copious; which is probably owing to a ftate of neiv vous irritation, fuch as exifts in hyfleria. It is not improbable that diforders of the digeftive organs, by caufmg the frequent fecretion of unnatural urine, may produce irritation, and fubfequent difeafe of the kidneys, and other urinary organs. - Modern phyfiologifts feem to agree in the opinion that the fuccus gaftricus is the agent, by which digeftion is efle6led; but they are not fo unanimous as to the im.me- diate caufe of chylification. It is not im- probable that the fuccus inteftinalis is a ^principal agent, although its qualities have not yet been enquired into ; for, indeed, the invefti-AND TREATMENT.GF LOCJ-AL DISEASES. 2/ inveftigation would be attended with dif-r iiculties almoft infuperable. Since the bile and pancreatic liquor are poured into the inteftines at a fmall dif- ance from the ftomach, it is natural to con- fider thefe fluids as ufefuL in effecting the change, which the alimentary matter undergoes in the fmall inteftines, namely, its converfion into chyle. The chyme, or aliment digeftcd by the ftomach, being vifcid, the pancreatic juige has been confidered as an ufeful and necelTary. diluent, and perhaps this fluid may have other properties with which are unacquainted. The ufes of the bile have of late much <sngaged the attention of phyfiologifts, Mr Hunter obferved tjiat it did not feem to in- corporate with the chyle; and it certainly cannot do fo and retain its own nature, fmcc its colour and tafte are fo intenfe, that it would impart thefe properties to the chyle, if mixed with it in the imalleft quantity. The difficulty of conceiving that the two fluids can be agitated together by theft8 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, the periftaltic motion of the inteftines, without becoming incorporated, has led to an opinion that the bile may combine with the alimentary matter, and lofe its ori- ginal properties i but noihing of this kind is afcertained. Fourcroy thinks that the alkali and faline ingredients of the bile may combine with the chyle, and render it more fluid, while the albumen and refin may combine with the excrementitious matter. It is, indeed, evident that the bile combines either totaliy or partially with fomething feparated from the chyle, and exifts formally in it, and in a Hate of health uniformly %es it of its pecuhar colour J and therefore"* t has of late been fuppofed, that the bile may ferve to purify the chyle, by precipitating and combinmg with its feculent parts *. It has been faid in the brief and general recital that has been given of the fymp- * In the enquiry into the probable ufes of the bile, it ought to be obferved, that in many perfons, in whom that fecretion is either for a confiderable time wholly fup- prefled, very deficient, or much depraved, it does not ap* pear that the nutrition of the body is defedive. tqmsA5<D TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. Qg toms, which chara6terize diforder in the chylopoietic organs, that the ftools are of an unnatural colour and odour. Medical men entertain various opinions refpefting the colour of the fsces: to me this property feems generally to depend on the kind and quantity of the bile. All the fecretions, which are poured into the alimentary canal, except the bile, are cclourlefs or white j if, • therefore, this fluid were wanting, the re- fidue of the aliment would be of the co- lour, which might he expe61ed to refult from feme of its inidigefted parts com- bined together. When, for inftance, the fecretion of bile is flopped by the irritatiorb of teething in children, whofe diet is chiefly bread and milk, the faeces are white j when this fecretion is obftrufted ill adults, the ftools are pale like whitifh-brown paper. In cafes of difeafe, however, coloured ex- cretions may take place from the bowels. There is great reafon for afcribing the difcharges in the difeafe called melsna to a vitiated fecretion from the ftirface of the alimentary canal. I was intimately ac- quainted' ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN*- quanted with a patient, who fuffered re- peated and increafmg attacks of conftitii-' tional irritation. When the diforder was wrought up, as it were, to a crifis, he was forewarned by a fenfation, as if his ftomach was fining, of the occurrence that was about to take place. In lefs than a quarter of an hour he would vomit more than two quarts of a fluid refembling coffee grounds in colour and confiftence. Shortly afterwards very copious difcharges of a funilar darker coloured and offenhve matter, took place from the bowels: but a green vifcid bile, appearing difl:in6t and uncombined, was intermixed with this. Thefe evacuations ceafed in a day or two, and the conftitutional irritation difappeared with them. I examined the bodies of feveral perfons, who died under attacks of this nature, and found the villous coat of the alimentary canal highly inflamed, fwoln and pulpy. Bloody fpecks were obferved in various parts; and fphacelation had adually taken place in one inftance. The liver was healthy in fome cafes, and difeafed in others. I con- cludeAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL 1>ISEASES. 3I elude therefore that thefe difeafes, which were termed hsem^itcmefis and melsna, arofe from a violent diforder, and confequent difeafed fecretion of the internal coat of the bowels: and that the blood, difcharged when the affection was at its height, did not flow from any fmgle veffel, but from the various points of the difeafed farface. Indeed I think it probable, that the pro- ■ fiife difcharges, which fometimes follow the continued exhibition of purgatives, con- fift of morbid fecretlons from the bowels themfelves, and not of the refidue of alimen- tary matter detained in thofe organs. Such evacuations, either or excited by medici ritation of the chylopoietic It feems probable that the fhoo^s which refemble pitch are principally comoofed of difeafed fecretion s from the internal furfacc of the inteftines, lince they do not feem. either like the refidue of the food or dis- charges from the liver. Can we fuppofe that all the black and fetid matter which was >32 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, was difcharged from the bowels, in the fiift cafe, was poured forth folely from the liver ? The fubjeft of morbid fecretions is how-' ever particularly illuftrated by that well- known alvine difcharge, which fo much refembles yeaft in colour and conliftence that it cannot be confounded with faeces, with blood, or with a vitiated fecretion from the liver. A medical man of my acquaintance took, for fome diforder in his ftomach and bowels, an aperient medicine, which appa- rently emptied thofe organs. He ate no- thing but little bi ead in broth for his dinner, and a fmall quantity with his tea in the evening. He experienced an uneafinefs in his bowels, and an inclination to evacuate them after he had gone to bed; but he refifted this defire till four o'clock in the morning, when its urgency forced him to rife. He then difcharged, what he fuppofed to amount in quantity to a gallon, of a matter exa6lly like yeaft, unmixed with any bile or faeces. When he arofe in the morning, he had a fimilar evacuation of about a quart j and on the fucceeding day there was a folidAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 33 a folid ftool, apparently of the fame fiib- ftance, coloured of a light green from an ad - mixture of bile. He had a natural ftool the next day: his appetite returned, and the uneafy fenfations fubfided. An unhealthy colour of the fseces may further be attributed to fome degene* racy in the quality of the alimentary matter j fuch as may be fuppofed to take place when the digeftive organs fail in the performance of their offices, and different alimentary fubftances are in confequence detained in the bowels, where they may pafs through chemical decompolitions, and re* combinations. But, though I am inclined to allow the full operation of thefe caufes, the following reafons lead me to believe that the colour of the fseces generally de- pends on the kind and quantity of the bile. In the natural ftate of the digeftive or- gans, when there is no peculiarity of diet, and no medicine is taken, the bile alone colours the refidue of the food. The f^ces voided during a ftate of diforder of the di- geftive organs are fometimes partially co- voL. I. D loured i54 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN,- loured j which circumftance cannot be welt accounted for upon any other fuppofition than that of an irregular fecretion of the bile. Fluids fecreted from the inteftines do not ufually enter into combination with the faecal matter, but appear diftinftly when excreted. Thus we find mucus and jelly difcharged from the bowels, unmixed with; t-he faeces. Medicines which^ affe£l the livei- produce a very fudden change in the co- lour of the fteces. Small dofes of mercury, without any alteration of diet, fometimes. change the ftools immediately from a black- iih to a light yellow colour, which indicates a healthy but deficient fecretion of bile. Healthy bile in the human fubjefl is gene- rally of a deep yellow brown colour j the brown depending on a concentration of the yellow colour. It refembles the co- lour of wetted rhubarb for, if a fmall por- tion of either of theie fubftances be put into a large quantity of water, the water will be tinged of a bright yellow colour j this ap- pears therefore to be tlie proper colour of thefc fubilances, but it is fo concentrated in theAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 35 the mafs as to appear of a deep brown. Sometimes, indeed, we find green bile in the gall bladder, when the liver is not dif- eafed. I cannot, however, but think that the natural colour is a yellow, fo intenfe as to appear brown. Green bile is ufually ■poured out in circumftances, where there is evident diforder of the digeAive organs j and we cannot well fuppofe that there are two kinds of healthy bile. The quantity of this fluid fhould be fuch as completely to tinge the excrement of its peculiar colour. By attending, therefore, to the colour of the faeces, the kind and quantity of bile, which the liver excretes, may in general be aicer- tained. The colour of the alvine excretions in difordered ftates of the vifcera is various. Sometimes they appear to confifl of the refi- due of the food, untinged by bile. Some- times they are of a light yellow colour, which denotes a very deficient quantity of healthy biliary fecretion; they may alfo be of a deep olive, of a clay brown, and of a black- ilh brown; all which ihew a vitiated (late of the biliary fecretion. D 2 Any30 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, Any kind of brown, which dilution will not convert into yellow, I fhoiild confider as unhealthy, fmce the colour of-healthy bile is a bright yellow, which by concen- tration appears brown. Such are the circumftances which I have collefted from my own obfervation, and the reports of others, relative to the alvine excretions, in the diforders which have been defcribed, I have dwelt thus particularly upon the fubje6l of the biliary fecretion, from a belief th^X its quantity and quality can, in gene- ral, be afcertained by infpe6lion, and will therefore ferve to indicate the prefence of diforder. Whether the foregoing opinions be corre6t or not, it will, I think, be gene- rally granted that the excretions from the bowels commonly indicate the healthy or dif- ordered ftate of the digeftive organs. The effefts, which medicine or diet may ' have upon, the colour of the fseees, ought^ however, to be. confidered. When the food isAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 37 is coloured, and this colour is not al- tered by digeflion, it will, of courfe, ap- pear in the faeces; hence if it fliould be thought defu'able to know accurately the ftate of the biliaiy fecretion, it would be right to reftricl patients to a diet that is not likely to colour the faeces. The green colour of vegetables tinges the faecal rcfidue of the food. Steel alfo is known to blacken the faeces; It fhouid aifo be remarked that the expofure of the faeces to air after their expullion, will, in fome inftances, caufe a confiderable al-^ teration in their colour. In our endea- vours, therefore, to afcertain whether the' liver is performing its office rightly, by ob- ferving the colour of the fa;ces, attention lliould be paid to thefe circum(lances. I conclude this review of the opinions entertained refpecling chylification, by ob- ferving that if the fuccus inteftinalis be an agent in this function, diford-er of the inteftines is likely to affe6^ its Tecretion, and thus impede this fecond iriiportant part «f the procefs of affimiiation. Tie38 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL otHGIN, The refidue of the alimentary matter, mixed with the bile, paffes from the fmall into the large inteftines, and there under- goes a fudden change; it acquires a pecur liar fcetor, and becomes what we deno- minate faeces. This change is fo fudden, that it cannot be afcribed to fpontaneous chemical altsrations, (which would be gra-r dual) but to f®me new animal agency.- If the contents of the fmall intellines at their termination, and of the large at their com- mencement, be examined, they will be found totally different, even within a line of each otiier J the former being without fcetor, and the latter being in all refpefts what is denominated fseces. Though chemifls then might fpeak of the feculent matter of chyle as fseces, yet phyfiologifts would ra- ther ^pply that term to the change in the refidue of the food, which takes place in the large inteftines, and which feems to be effefted by the animal powers of thofe organs. The fasces quickly fuffer chemical decompofitiGn-iOUt of the body, although they often reipain in the bowels without undergoing the fame kind of change. Their chemicalAND TREATMENT OF' LOCAL DISEASES. 39 The cliemical decomporit-ion is attended with the fadden formation of ammonia; yet -if they be examined when recent, they are found to -contain acids which am-monia would neutraUze. The - inference, there- fore, naturally arifes, that this third procefs-, I mean the converfion of the refidue of the aliment into faeces, may, amongft other pur- •pofes, be defigned fo to modify that refidue, as to prevent it from undergoing thofe various chemical changes, which might be ftimulating to the containing organs, as well as injurious to the general health. In a perfe6lly healthy ftate of tlie^ di- geftive organs, probably no chemical de- compofition, even of the faeces, takes places; yet fuch changes happen; in fome degree, without apparently producing any injuri- ous confequences. To -chemical changes we may probably attribute the extrication of inflammable air, and the various and unnatural odours of the faecal matter, which are obfervable in difordered ftates of the .di^eftive vifcera.40 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, The means by which this modification of the refidue of the food, which takes • iplace in the large inteftines, is efFe6ted, are but little known. Analogy leads us to refer it to the efFe6ls of a fecretion from the lining of thofe inteftines in which it oc- curs. • Now if this fecretion deviates from the healthy ftate, in confequence of an irritated or difordered ftate of thofe or- gans, we may reafonably expect a cor- refponding derangement of the procefs, by which the refidue of the food is converted into faeces. Further Enquiry hu. *hc Nature and Effects of that Diforder of the digeftive Organs, the Symp- toms of which havs> been recited at Page 16. Having taken this general view of the fundlions of the chylopoietic vifcera, in order to facilitate the forming a judgment relative to thofe circumftancps which indi- cate their derangement, I return to fpeak more fully of that affedlion of them, whicli I have defcribed, as arifing from caufes re- cited at page 160 This fubjed, it muft be acknow-AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 4I Jknowledged, is very important, if it can be Ihewn that diforders of the digeftive organs are the caufe of a great number of otiier dil- eafes. The enquiry would then not only . lead us to difcover the fource of many dif- turbances of the confVitution, which origi- nate in thofe of the digeftive organs (for pa- tients have no fufpicion of any 4iforder ex- jfting in them), but would alfo lead to the prevention and cure of many fecandary dif- eafes of a more vexatious and fometimes oi a more fatal nature, tlian tJiofe from which they originated. If the tongue be furred at its back part in the morning, when there is no fever, it is reafonable to infer in general that the ftate of the tongue is owing to its participating in the irritation of the ftomach. Such par-- ticipation produces an alteration in the fecre- tions of the tongue 3 tliey are either deficient in quantity, or vitiated in quality. A ftate of irritation in any fecreting furface is, in- deed, likely to be attended with the fame con- fequences. It is, therefore, fiiir to infer that, when .a general dilbrder of the digeftive or- gans4'2 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, gans takes place, thofe fluids, which produce the changes that the food undergoes in them, are deficient or depraved, and confequently that digeftion and the fubfequent procefles muft be imperfe6bly performed. The liver is likely to participate in the diforder, and the biliary fecretion to be diminifhed or vi- tiated. This circumflance admits of ocular demonfVration; and I have, therefore, confi- dered it, as an evidence of a more or lefs ge- neral diforder of the digeflive organs. A very reafonable objeftion may, however, be made to confidering the derangement of the func- tions of the liver as a criterion of thofe of the ftomach and inteftines; fince the liver is independent of the latter organs, and may be the fubje6l of a diforder confined to itfelf. In fome cafes, alfo, the alimentary canal may be affefted, without difturbing the liver. Such circumftances may happen occafion- ally; but they are not ordinary occurrences, and fhould be confidered as exceptions to general rules, which do not militate againft their common operation. In general, affec- tions of the former influence the funftions of the latter i and the ftate of the biliary fe- cretionsAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 43 cretion affords a very ufeful evidence of a more or lefs general derangement of the chylopoietic vifcera, and Ihould excite our attention to inveftigate its kind and degree. I have ftated, in defcribing the fymptoms which denote diforder of the digeftive organs, that the faeces are generally deficient in quantity. This circumftance may be ac- counted for in various ways. It may be afcribed to diminifhed or unhealthy fecretion of bile, which does not precipitate the ufual proportion of feculent matter from the Chyle. Perfons whofe bowels are lax, and not ina6live in carrying downwards the fe- culent matter, void it daily in deficient quan- tities. It may be fuppofcd too that, either from the deficiency of bile, and confequent want of excitement, or from the effects of diforder, a torpid flate of the bowels may exift, which caufes them to- carry downwards the feculent matter in fmaif quantities. This circumftance may produce a greater abforp- tion of the faeces than what is natural, or an accumulation of them in the colon. 6 That44 ON THE CONSTITUTXONAL ORIGIN, That the digeftivc organs in general were afFecled in the cafes of local difeafe, which I am about to record, is moft evident; but I am aware that many varieties of diforder may be included in the general defcription of the fymptoms, which I have given. Future ob- fervations may lead to further diftinftions; but I fee no impropriety at prefent in fpeak- ing of the difordered ftate as general j fmce it is probable that no material diforder can or- dinarily take place in one of the digeftive organs, without didurbing the funftions of the others. When digeftion is imperfeftly performed, thefun6lions of the inteftinal canal will foon participate in the diforder of the ftomach. Under theie circumftances, the fecretion of bile will alfo probably become irregular. Should difeafe commence in the large inteftines, as about the re6lum, it dif- turbs the funftions of the ftomach, and fecre- tion of the liver,-and becomes augmented in its turn by its fympathy with thefe parts. Should the liver be difordered in the firfl in-, fiance, the ftomach and bowels may not im- mediately fympathize, although they will probably foon become affefted. UeelAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 4^ I feel further warranted in confidering the fymptoms, which have been recited in the former part of this paper, as arifmg from a general difturbance of the fun6lions of the di- geftive organs, from contemplating the effefts of blows on different parts of the belly, which do not feem to have injured the ftru61:ure of any fingle abdominal vifcus, but yet produce effects denoting a general diforder of thefe organs. The fymptoms have varied in feve- rity in proportion to the violence of the blow received. In the cafes which were the con- fequence of the more forcible injuries the fymptoms were, a furred tongue; great vo-^ miting, fo that the ftomach could retain nor food 3 difficulty of affefling the bov/els by me- dicine ; great fever ; and even delirium. In- deed, all thofe effe6ls were produced, which I have reprefented as arifmg from vehement local irritation of remote parts of the body. The diforder has generally terminated by a profufe difcharge of black and fetid ftools^ after which the patient has perfe6tly recover- ed. On the contrary, where the fymptoms confequent on the blow have been lefs violent, fo as not to claim fuch ffrid attention, the 4 dif-46 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL OKiGll^^ diforder has continued. Perfons who had been previoufly in perfect health, have be- come hypochondriacal, and have had all thofe fymptoms of diforder of the digeftive organs, which have been already enumerated as arifmg from a lefs degree of local irritation, with fuch confequent difeafes as originate from fuch diforder, and which will be men- tioned in the fubfequent part of this paper. In order to enquire more particularly into the nature of this diforder of the digeftive organs, I have examined the bodies of a con- fiderable number of perfons who have died of difeafed joints, lumbar abfceffes, and other great local difeafes. I knew that thefe pa- tients had their digeftive organs difordered in tlie manner that I have defcribed, and that in many of them the fecretion of bile had been fuppreffed for a great length of time, and, when it was renewed, that it was very defi- cient in quantity, and faulty in quality ; yet, on dilTeftion, no alteration was difcovered in the ftru6lure of the chylopoietic vifcera, which could be decidedly pronounced to be the cffe6t of difeafe. It naturally excites fur- prifeAND- TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASE3. 47 prife, that fuch a ftate of irritation, and im-; perfeft performance of the natural funftions of thefe parts, Ihould exift for fo long a time, as in many cafes it is known to do, without producing organic difeafe; ftill I belieye it may be fet down as a truth, (which has: been verified by every obfervation I have made,) that a ftate of irritation leads to tliofe difeafed vafcular actions, which pro- duce an alteration of ftrufture in the irritated parts. However, where the difordered ftate of the bowels liad been of longer duration, I have found the villous coat of the inteftines fwoln, pulpy, turgid with blood, and apparently inflamed, and fometimes ulcerated ; and thefe appearances have been moft manifeft in the large inteftines. Having obferved repeatedly in difiedlions of thefe cafes, that the large in- teftines were more difeafed than the fmall ones, it occurred to me, that the fa6L might be accounted for in the followino; manner: If digeftion is incomplete, the undigefted food muft be liable to chemical changes, and the produfts refulting from this caufe, are likely48 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL OHlGIN, likely to be moft ftimulating to the large iii- teftines. Indeed, in advanced ftages of this diforder, mucus and jelly tinged with blood are difcharged, and it feems probable that a kind of chronic dyfentery may be thus induced. In fome inftances, where the diforder had exifted for many years, the bowels have been difeafed throughout their fubftance; the in- ternal coat being ulcerated, and the peritoneal covering inflamed, fo that the convolutions of the inteftines were agglutinated to each other. In thefe cafes the liver, and fometimes the fpleen alfo, were much difeafed, being tuber- culated in every part. Such is the refult of the information which I have obtained by diffeftion. Accurate attention to the fubjeft, efpecially in medical cafes, may lead to important fub- divifions, which I have not yet been able to make. But when I find "that irritation of the nervous fyftem, however it may originate, deranges the chylopoietic organs, and affecls the ftomach, bowels, and liver, apparently at theAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 4-9 the fame time, I think it fair to infer, that thefe organs are equally operated on by the fame caufe. Diforders of the brain may afFe6t the chylopoietic organs; and it is well known that this influence is reciprocal. The ftomach is faid to be chiefly concerned in producing thefe effe6ls j but the caufes of the fympathetic afFeftion are probably more general. A fltof paffion has produced jaundice ; and the irri- tation of teething in children frequently fuf- pends the fecretion of bile; fo that the fl:ools are not in the leafl: degree tinged with that fluid. If the head can thus affe6t the liver, it is reafonable to infer, that the liver may reci- procally afleft the head. It is very difficult to form an opinion relative to this fubjc61:; for, in the infl:ances which have been mention- ed, the affection of the liver may take place, only becaufe it forms a part of the digeftive organs, and not from a dire6l fympathy exifl:- ing betv/een it and the head. Still, however, I do not think it unreafonable to conclude that irritation of the other chylopoietic organs may, as well as that of the ftomach, diforder the fource of fenfation. VOL. I. E To50 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, To difplay how much hepatic irritation may affe6t the fenforium and confequently tlieVhoie nervous fyftem, I infert the follovr- ing cafe; CASE n A gentleman appHed to me with a thicken- ed and tender ftate of the periofteum of his tibia. This difeafe had troubled him for more than a year, but. became at laft fo ex- tremely painful that he declared he had not flept for three months, and that his life was fo intolerable that he refolved to undergo a courfe of mercury, even though in the opinion of thofe furgeons whom he had confulted, his difeafe was not venereal. This duration of the difeafe, as it had made no greater pro- grefs, induced me to coincide in the opinion which had been given him. His tongue was much furred, his appetite was moderate, and he was not confcious that his digeftion was otherwife than good. His bowels were per- feftly regular. I defired him to take five grains of the pilul. hydrarg. every fecond night 3 but before he took them to remark the colour of the difcharges from his bowels, and to obferve whether the medicine produced 4 anyAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 5I any change of it. In a week's time he called upon me, and faid, I come to tell you the ftrangeft thing that perhaps you ever hvi^rd, which is, that I actually do not know the precife fpot where the lump on my fliin was fituatcd, and doubtlefs thefe pills which you directed are a moft wonderful compound of opium. The firftgave melleep, which I had not. had for three months. After taking a fecond, I have flept foundly all night, and feel myfelf alert in the day. Every other preparation of opium, which I have taken, failed in produc- ing fleep, and made me ill during the fucceed- ing day. After all, continued he, it cannot be the pills that have made me well, for they have had no perceptible effect on me. I lilked liim, had he, as I rcqueiled him, re- marked the colour of the alvine difcharges ? He replied, he had, and that before he took the medicine they were (to ufe the patient's own words) as black as his hat, and now they were of the colour of a ripe Seville orange. The great relief arifmg from the correftioii of the biliary fecretion was not to me fo ftrange, as the patient expefted. It is doubt- lefs fuch remarks that have imprcfled fome E 2 medical52 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, medical men with the opinion that the liver* was the root of the evil in all diforders of the'aigeftive organs. Cafes like the prefent, (and feveral fimilar ones will be found recorded in this work,) appear to me highly valuable on many ac- counts. They fhew that hepatic diforder may difturb the fenforium, either immedi« ately or intermediately, by difordering other organs concerned in digeftion; they fnew how diforders of the abdominal vifcera may be- come the caufe of various other difeafes, by difturbing the fource of fenfation and ner- vous energy; and they further fhew t|iat unirritating and undebilitating dofes of mercury have, probably by their local aftion in the bowels, a great influence in correfting the fecretion of bile, and by this mean,s of relieving hepatic irritation. Nothing in pathology is niore generally admitted, than the reciprocal operation of dif- orders of the head and of the digeftive organs on each other; yet the exceptions to this general rule deferve to be remarked in a com- prehenfive 9AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 53. prehehfive examination of the fubjefl. Some perfons have great diforder of the digeftive organs, without any apparent affection of the nervous fyftem j and even difeafes of a fatal nature may take place in the former organs, without affefting the latter. Indeed, if vvc examine any of the moft evidently fym- pathetic arfeftions, we fhall find the fame exceptions. The ftomach generally fympa- thizes with diforder of the uterus, but it does not invariably do fo. Many of the fymptoms recorded in the de- fcription of the ftate of health of thofe per- fons who are aife6fed by diforder in the digef- tive organs, denote a difturbance of the ner- vous and mufcular powers. When we ob- ferve this compound diforder we can feldom determine which were the primarily affeded organs. General nervous irritation may have preceded the diforder of the ftomach and bowels, or may have been caufed by it. The hiftory will generally Ihew, that the derange- ment of the digeilive organs is fecondary. When it arifes from local irritation, it can be produced only through the medium of E 3 the54 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, the fenforium. When it is idiopathic, it fre- quently originates in caufes which afFe6l the nervous fyftem primarily; fuch .as anxiety, too great exertion of mind or body, and im- pure air. Sedentai-y habits and irregularities of diet are caufes which may be fuppofed to a6l locally on the organs themfelves. Nervous irritability and weaknefs are not perhaps fuf- ceptible of a dire6l cure by medicine j but the diibrders of the digeftive organs are more corrigible by niedical remedies. In praftice, thefe require our chief attention ; and if their diforders be corre6led, all nervous irritation frequently ceafes, and health is r?ftored. In many inftances the nervous irritation, which has induced the difeafe, is trivial, and would foon ceafe, were it not kept up by the re-ac- tion of its fecondary fym.ptoms. Whether this diforder of the digeftive or- gans be primary or fecondary, it generally produces irritation in the brain; and thus may caufe in many inftances a6lual difeafe of that organ, as will be ftated in the conclufton of this paper. But derangement of the di- geftive organs arifes, in many cafes, from efta- bliftiedAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 5$ bliflied nervous diforder: indeed there is' often reafon to fuppofe that it is dependent on, or connected with, aftual difeafe of the brain. In fuch cafes, the corre6lion of the difordered funftions of the digeftive organs cannot be accompUHied; and even if it were pradicable, it would not cure the nervous difeafe. It is however highly neceflary and advantageous to attend to the diforder of the digeftive organs, where it is only a fymptom of nervous difeafe. The relief of the former will often mitigate, though it cannot cure the latter *. The ■* The ingenious Mr. John Bell has of Lite publiflied an opinion, that all nervous diforders depend on the circula- tion of blood in the brain. The opinion is founded on this dogma; the brain being infenfible, there can be no fuch thing as nervous irritation. Believing fimilar opinions to be prevalent in the profcfhon, I think it worth enquiring, vi'hether, if the motion of a worm in the itomacli produces temporary blindnefs or convullions, there be not feme nervous irritation ? If a man has his leg amputated on ac- count of a compound frafture, and afterwards becomes delirious and dies ; I grant that fuUnefs of the veOels of theheadwillbe found on dilTeftion; butwas notthe vafcular action caufed by preceding nervous imtation ? The fame .fuUnefs of veflels and figns of inflammation are found in thofe who die of fevers ; but do not the miafmata which E 4 caufc5^ ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, The connexion of local difeafe with general diforder has been often remarked j it has been formerly attributed to impurity of the fluids; a theory which is not irrational. Imperfe6t digeftion muft influence the qualities of the blood, and all parts of the body may be af- fefted from this fource. But in accounting for the reciprocal influence of diforders of the head and the digeftive organs on each other, the modern explanation of thefe phse- nomena, by means of fympathies, is perhaps preferable. AfflifSiing intelligence will de- ftroy the appetite and produce a white tongue in a healthy perfon j and a blow on the flomach diforders the head. Thefe phge- nomena take place independently of the blood, and can only be explained by admitting that difl:urbance of one organ immediately atfedls another. caufe them afFeft the brain, and fuddenly impair and dit turb its energy, and is not then the vafcular aftion a con- fequence ? I would alk too, praftically, does blood-rletting cure diforders in which there is a fullnefs of the veflels of the head. It muft be granted, thatinmany inftances it tem- porarily alleviates them, but in others it fails to relieve and even aggravates thein. TheAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 57 which The writings of the ancients abound with paflages, in which local difeafes are attributed to afFeftions of the abdominal vifcera, and the fame fa6l has been noticed by feveral of the moderns. The French furgeons appear to be veiy folicitous to keep the bowels in a cool and tranquil ftate; and Deflault afcribes the origin of eryfipelas to a bilious caufe. The German furgeons, Richter and Schmuck- er, attribute many local difeafes to gaftric af- fe6lions; and in Italy, Scarpa views the fub- je6t in the fame light. The Engliih pra6li- tioners feem to have been lefs attentive to this clafs of diforders ; infomuch that Fifcher, a German, who publilhed an account of the ftate of medicine in this country, exprefles his furprife that the Englifh fliould be fo little acquainted with gaftric difeafes. I know not exa6lly what ideas thefe gentlemen may annex to the terms gaftric and bilious difor- ders, fnice they do not particularly defcribe them. I have reprefented the fubje6f in the foregoing pages, as it has appeared to me on the moft attentive examination. There is alfo an excellent differtation, in58 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, which the efFe6ls and treatment of diforders of the digeftive organs are particularly de- fcribed, inferted in the eighth volume of the Memoires de la Societe 4loyale de Medicine of Paris for the year 1806, at page 310, en- titled Reflections fur leTraitment de la Manie atrabilaire compare a celui de plufieurs autres Maladies chroniques, 8c fur les Avan- tages dela Methode evacuante, par M. Halle. After defcribing the difcharges from the bowels in atrabiliary mania, he obferves, that a fimilarftate of thofe organs is found in other difeafes, namely dropfy, hypocondriafis, ac- companied with difficulty of breathing and palpitation, obflinate coughs, and a great number of very difterent difeafes j to all of which the fame treatment is applicable. That the extremely prejudicial confequences of diforders of the ftomach and bowels have been noticed at all times by perfons of obfer- vation, and particularly by thofe who are in the habit of judgingpf their flate by their ex- cretions, is lufficiendy evident. The antients fought to correft the error by purging witli hellebore, and the moderns by more compound purges, to ufe the words of M. Halle, par le melangeAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 59 The melange de piirgatifs refnieux & des mercii- riaux. I have not, however, met with any phyfiological inveftigation of the nature of thefe difeafes, nor of the rational objefts of cure. It is to promote fuch an inveftigation, that I have laid before the public the fa6ls which have come under my obfervation, and the refieiSlions to which they have given rife. In inveftigating the connexion between local difeafes and diforder of the health in general, I can perceive, that failure in the funftions and irritation of the digeftive or- gans may a6l prejudicially on tlie fyftem in general in various ways. They may produce weaknefs, for ftrength and vigour feem to arife from the converfion of our food into perfeft blood. They may produce an im- pure ftate of that fluid, and they may pro- duce great irritation of the brain, and thus influence the whole body. However, what I have to obferve refpefting the caufcs and cure of local difeafes will be moft properly introduced and bcft underftood after the cafes have been recorded, upon which the opinions have been founded.6o ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, The refult of all thefe obfervations, which I have been able to make, relative to this fubjeft, has induced me to believe that the diforder of-the digeftive organs, caufed by the various circumftances which have been re- cited, confifts in a weaknefs and irritability of the affe6ted parts, accompanied by a defi- ciency or depravity of the fluids fecreted by them, and upon the healthy qualities of which the due performance of their func- tions feems to depend. This opinion is de- duced immediately from the confideration of the fymptoms, and confirmed by all the collateral evidence, which we can collect. The dui'ation of the afFeftion, without fatal confequences, fhews that it is a diforder of functions, and not a difeafe of fi-rufture. Dif- feclions confirm the opinion. Blows which excite general irritation of the digeftive or- gans, produce alfo the fymptoms which chara6lerize the like diforder, when it arifes from nervous irritation, or is excited by in-, temperance. I doubt not but every one will, on reflexion, confider the diforders of the di- geftive organs to be of the firft importance, and will perceive the propriety of diligently enquiringAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 6l enquiring into their nature, that we may know them when they exiil, and that our at- tempts to remedy them may be conduced on rational principles. This confideration will, I truft, vindicate me for employing fo much time in an inveftigation which, per- haps, fome may confider as tedious and un- profitable. Occafional Effeds of Diforder of the digefllve Organs. IT is generally admitted, that diforders of the chylopoietic vifcera will affeft the fource of fenfation, and confequently the whole body ; but the variety of difeafes, which may refult from this caufe, has not been duly weighed and refle6ted on. It may produce in the nervous fyftem a diminution of the fmictions of the brain, or a ftate of excitation, caufing delirium; par- tial nervous inactivity and infenfibility, or the oppofite ftate of irritation and pain. It may produce in the mufcular fyftem, weak- nefs, tremors, and palfy ; or the contrai-y afFec-6z ON THE CONSTITUtTIONAL ORIGIN-, afFe6lions of fpafm and convullions. It may excite fever by difturbing the a6lions of the fanguiferous fyftem ; and caufe various local difeafes by the nervous irritation, which it produces, and by the weaknefs, which is con- fequent on nervous diforder or imperfect chy- lification. Or if local difeafes occur in a con- ftitution deranged in the mannerwhich I have defcribed, they will become peculiar in their nature and progrefs, and difficult of cure. Af- fe6\ions of all thofe parts which have a con- tinuity of furface with the ftomach; as the throat, mouth, lips, Ikin, eyes, nofe, and ears, may be originally caufed or aggravated by this complaint. I mufl obferve, before I pro- ceed to the relation of cafes, that fach a dif- order of the digeftive organs as I have de- fcribed exifted in every inftance. I do not take upon myfelf to fay that it was the primary caufe of the general derangement of the con- ftitution, with which the local difeafe appeared to be conne6ted; it might have been the confequence, as indeed has been ftated in thefe preliminary obfervations. Treatment. I fhall now- proceed to mention the plan whichAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 63 •v^hich I have purfued in the treatment of thele diforders, when they have been con- nefled with furgical difeafes: with what degree of fuccefs, the folio iving cafes will demonftrate. I do not feel altogether competent to give full directions relative to this fubjecl; becaufe I have never attended to medical cafes with that degree of ob- fervation which would lead me properly to appreciate thejefficacy of different medicines, when adminiftered either in their fmiple or compounded forms. The fubje£l is fo im- portant, that the public would be highly indebted to any praftitioner, who would point out the varieties of thefe difeafes, and the appropriate modes of cure. The method of treatment, which I have adopted, is fimple, and founded on the opinions I have formed of the nature of the difeafe, and on phyfiological views of the functions of the affected organs. Believing the difordered parts to be in a ftate of weaknefs and of irritability, my object has been, to diminifh the former and allay the latter. Beheving alfo that the fe- cretions into the fcomach and bowels, upon the healthy ftate of which the due perfor- mance54 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, mance of their funftions depends, were, in confequence of fuch diforder, either deficient in quantity or depraved in quality j I have endeavoured to excite, by means of medicine, a more copious and healthy fecretion. In conformity to thefe views of the fubje£t, ^ the patients have been recommended to be particularly attentive to their diet. The food fliould be nutritious, and eafy of digeftion : llrong plain broths, animal food of loofe tex- ture, m/ilk, eggs, and farinaceous vegetables, are the articles which appear moft advifable. But, as cuftom and inclination have fo great an effe6l in regulating the aflions of the i\o- mach, I have contented myfelf with recom- mending patients not to eat any thing, which it was probable that they could not digeft. It feems reafonable to fuppofe, that, if the food be properly digefted, it will not irritate the inteftinal canal j but that, if digeftion fails, the animal and vegetable matters will undergo chemical changes in their palTage through the long trad of inteftines, and there- by maintain a Hate of irritation in thofe organs. I have urged patients not to op- prefsAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 65" prefs the powers of the ftomach by too great a quantity of food, nor to take a fecond meal, until time has been allowed for the digeftioii of the firfl, and for the recovery of the powers of the ftomach. Whilft I have thus advised patients to eat moderately and not too frequently, I have alfo cautioned them not to let the ftomach become irritable by too long abftine'ncc; I have ordered five grains of powdered rhubarb an hour before dinner, with a view of inviting fccretions into the ftomach, and of preparing it for the office of digeftion. This gentle excitation perhaps induces it to expel any refidue of alimentary matter, and creates a kind of artificial appe- tite ; fo that perfons habitually fubje6]: to in- digeftion experience very confiderable benefit from the pra6lice. Whej-e rhubarb has dii- agreed, columbo has been fubftituted. The quantity of food fliould of courfe be proportionate to the powers of the ftomach. If it receives more than it can digeft, no nouriftiment is obtained from the fuper- fluous quantity, and the undigefted ali- ment not only a<5ls injurioufly in the bowek, VOL. I. F but66 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORlGlW, but in the blood, and in the urine, as lias been mentioned. There is alfo ano- ther view of the fubje6l. Moderation in diet not only infures the complete digeftion of the aliment, but it prevents the blood vef- fels from being overloaded and kept in a ftate of aftion exhaufting to their ftrength. When alfo im]:-ortant organs may be in a ftate of nervous irritation and diforder of function, if there be a plethoric ftate of the blood veflbls at the fame time, thofe vafcular aflions arc likely to enfue, which may produce an al- teration of their ftru6^:ure, and irremediable difcafe. The fun6tion of digeftion will not, how- ever, go on well, even where thefe circum- ftances have been attended to, if the ftomach be deprived of a ftimulus to which it has been long accuftomed. Uneafy fenfations will be experienced, denoting, if I may fo ex- pi^fs it, a difcontented ftate of this organ, and a want of the expected ftimulus. It is ovt this account injurious wholly to reftrain thofe j)atients from the ufe of wine who have been m the liabit-of taking it. A moderate quan- 8 • tityAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 67 tity of fuch a ftimulus may be allowed after dinner, to prevent uneafy fenfations- and to promote digeflion; but ftrong fer- mented liquors muft be injurious at any other period. It is wrong to ftimulate the ftomach when it has no talk to perform. Even our food muft be confidered as ex- citing a medicinal influence in diforders of the ftomacli, when that organ is irritable. A vegetable diet and abftinence from fermented liquors may tend to tranquillize it. On the contrary, when it is weak as well as irritable, that aliment which is moft readily digefted is to be preferred, and cordials are fometimes ■ beneficial. The eftefts of food and medicine can never be confidered as refulting from their operation on the ftomach Iblely, but from their conjoint influence upon the ner- vous fyftem in general. Irritability of the ftomach may arife from that of the brain, and unftimulating diet may tend to tranquil- lize the latter organ, and thereby alleviate the diforder of the former. On the contrary, a more generous diet may, by exciting the ner- vous fyftem, produce that degree of energy F 2 in68 ON TPIE CONSTITUTIONAL OftieirJ, in its aftions, which invigorates the flo- machi and^ranquillizes its diforder. It may further be obferved in fome cafes, that the kind of medicines or diet which is ferviceable t-o the ftomach, may aggravate the nervous diforder j and on the contrary, that thofe^ means which feem to tranquilhze nervous irritation tend to diminifh the powers of the ftomach. Bark and fteel are not uricomraonly given in thefe difeafes to increafe the powers of the ftomach: they ought, I tiiink, to be ad- miniftered in fmall dofes, and never when the tongue is dry ; as they feem to fupprefs thofe fecretions, ^which in many cafes arc ah'eady deficient and the increafe of which would tend to relieve irritation in the affefted organs. I mention this, opinion, hov/evei^ rather to- account to the reader for thefe medi- cines not having been prefcribed in the fubfe- quent cafes, than from any other motive j as- I do not feel perfeftly competent to decide upon their degree or kind of utility. . Vegetable diet-drinks appear to me very ufefulAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 6g ufe'ful in tranquillizing and eorreding dis- orders of the ftomach and bowels, for this is the manner in which they feem to be efficaci-^- oils in the cure of local difeafes. The veger-^ tables prefcribed in the different formulae are ,fo diffimilar, that we can fcarcely fuppofe that they a6l fpecifically upon the local difeafe, jSven Sweet-wort has obtained confiderable celebrity. When diet-drinks fail to corr,e6i: the diforders of the digeftive organs, they alfo fail to produce any amendment on local dif- eafes. Such obfervations have induced me to believe that they have the utility, which I have afcribed to them, of tranquillizing and corredting diforders of the ftomach and bowels. It is allowable to form an opinion from fuch obfervations, though I am fenlible of their invalidity as arguments to prove its truth. A regular diurnal evacuation of the bowels^ is particularly neceflary, fince the detentioi\ pf the faeces muft prove irritating to thefe. organs. Purging medicines fometimes relieve i-inpleafant fenfations j but they do not in ge- neral produce even this effe6l; and all active F 3 purges7«5 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAJ, ORIGIN, purges feem to me to increafe the diforder It is natural to fuppofe that ftrong ftimuli will aggravate the unhealthy condition of weak and irritable parts. I haveexprefTed my opinion ofthe manner in which the continued exhibition of purgative medicines, in fuch dofes as do not immedi- diately purge, relieve diforders of the digeftive organs, by producing morbid fecretions which afford eonfiderable relief' both when they occur fpontaneoufly or are thus in- duced. This plan of pra6lice is what Dr. Hamilton has fugge/ted, and the utiHty of which he has fo fuccefsfully elucidated. I am aware that laxative medicines may relieve irritation merely by augmenting the natural fecretions of the vifcera, and thus unloading their veffelsj and alfo by determining the fluids from the he:ad, when the nervous fymp- toms are aggravated by a plenitude of the vefr- fels of the brain. As I have found the le-' nient plan of treatment, (that of exciting the, periftaltic a6lion of the. bowels, fo as to inr duce them to clear out the whole of the rcr- fidue of the food i without irritating them, lbAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 'J\ lb as to produce wliat is ordinarily called purging,; particularly iuccefsful, I have rare- ly deviated from it. I am not, therefore, warranted from experience in fpeaking de- cifively refpefting the more free ufe of pur- gative medicines. It is difficult, in many cafes, to regulate the actions of the bowels either by diet or medicine. Tliey are coftive for a time, and then fits of purging come on. The former ftate mull be obviated, in order to prevent the latter. Medicines which excite a liealthy a6lion of tlie bowels in one perfon, are either inert or too active in another. -Dofes, w^hich would have no effect: in a ftate of health, become purgative in this diforder j a circumftance which Ihews that the bowels are irritable. There are forae rare in- ftances of the contrary, in which it is exceed- ingly difficult to excite tlie aftions and fecre- tions of thefe vifcera. The obje6l which I have had in view, in*all cafes, is to excite the periftaltic a6lion of the bowels, with- out irritating them, lb as to induce them to F 4 pour72 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, pour forth and evacuate their own fluids. The adminiftration of purgative medicines in very fmall dofes, at regular intervals, is in many cafes the beft mode of effecting this purpofe. In giving purgative medicines I have en ' deavoured to combine them, fo as to excite and ftrengthen at the fame time. Rhubarb, columbo, and kali vitriolat, have been given together 3 or an infufion of gentian with fenna or tin£lurc of rhubarb. When the in- fufion of gentian with fenna has been given, it has been prefcribed, in the fubfequent cafes, according to the following formula, which is in ufe at St. Bartholomew's hof- pital: R. Infuf. gentian, comp. 5j- Infuf. fennae, 5 ij. Tin£t. cardamom, comp. ^j. M. Fiat hauflus, bis quotidie, vel pro re nata, fumendus. It is fometimes neceffary to increafe the quantity of infufion of fenna. I have found inAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 73 in fome cafes, that the purgative medicines <.nd fpices diflblved in fpirit and water, have anfwered better than any thing elfe, in pro- ducing a fufficient, but not too copious dif- ' charge from the bowels. Equal parts of com- pound tincture of rhubarb and fenna is the formula to which I allude. When irrita- tion in the large inteftines has been denoted by the mixture of mucus and jelly with the fieces, and fudden and urgent calls to void them, I have advifed oily and mucilaginous medicines as aperients: as caftor oil, mixed with a large proportion of mucilage. My fole object, however, has been to regulate the ftate of the bowels j and when they have been regular without medicine, I have rarely recommended any. At the fame time, I have not been inat- tentive to the error in the biliary fecretion, which exifts in the greater number of thefe cafes. I have endeavoured to correal this error by the adminiftration of fuch fmall dofes of mercury, as do not irritate the bowels, and are not likely to afFe6t the conftitution, eveii though perfevered in for a confiderable time. IZ 11174 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, In this ftate of the digeftivc organs, calomel, in fmall quantities, fometimes proves irri- tating. I have combined it, as in Flummer's pii}, and have given one grain eveiy ot?Jcr night. Where this dofe produced uneafy fenfatlons, orafted as an aperient, fh'-e grains of the pil. hydrarg. were fubftituted in its place J and even this quantity has been dimi- nifhed in fome cafes. When it appeared njeceffary, on account of the biHai"y fecretion, and when the calomel did not irritate tlic boweis, I have ina'eafed the dofe.. The re- lief,, wliich arises from the increafe ar eor- rej5lion of the biliary fea-etion, in the .majority o£ thefe cafes, iliews how much the liver is concerned in caufing or aggravating the fymptoms in thefe difeafes. • T here are nu erou $ and undoubted pt^bo-f^ of the utility of mercury, in corre6ling and Jittgmentinf the biliary fecretion > but the mode of adminiftering it has not, perhaps, been fufficiently attended to. I have known . patients, who had voided nothing but blackifli ilools far fame montlis, diicharge fseces of a ligJit yellow colour, denoting a l^ealthy, butAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 75 but deficient fecretion of bile, upon taking fuch fmall dofes of mercury. The effeft of this change on the conftitution and fpirits has been furprifmgly great; though the flate of the ftomach did not appear to be altered. The ufe of mercury by inunction, fometimes acts beneficially, In corre6ling the biliary fecretion ; but if the conftitution be irritated, and weakened by that medicine, the a6tions of the liver are difturbed ; and the digeftive organs in general, become deranged. Mer?- cury, in my opinion, afts moft certainly and efficacioufly, when taken into the bowels, and a much fmaller quantity will fuffice, when its application is in this manner ren- dered chiefly local. Although experience has made me think very highly of the efficacy of fmall dofes of mercury, in exciting and corre6ling the bili- ary fecretion; yet it ought to be mentioned, that in fome few cafes, this medicine fails to produce its ufual efFe6ls, and that the biliary fecretion becomes healthy without its admi- piftration. Fadsy6 . ON THE CONSTITariONAL ORIGIN, Fa6ts are wanting, to enable us to afcertain, whether mercury meUorates and augments the fecretions of the other digeflive organs, as it does that of the liver. The ftomach frequently appears worfe during its employ^ ment, whilft the ftools are confiderably better i I have, in fuch cafes, difcontinued the medicine, and returned to it again if thp ftate of the liver made it neceffary. When benefit is obtained from a fmall quantity of medicine, we naturally cxpe6t an increafed _,;advantage from an augmented dofe; this is fo natural an error, that an admonition againft it appears neceffary. I have obferve^l in fome inilances, where fmall dofes of merr eury have unexpectedly afFeCled the mouth, that confiderable benefit feemed to arife front this circumflance. Yet it is wrong, in gene- ral, to augment the dpfe of the medichie, fo as to create even local irritation in the bowels by it. The various effeCls of mercury in diA orders of the digeftive organs cannot, I think, be underffood, but by confidering, not merely its local operation on thefe organs, but alfo its a6lion on the conftitution at large. Whe^ we fee the biUary fecretion corre6led by a few grainsAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES, grains of the pilul. hydrarg., as in the fecond cafe, we cannot but believe its a6lion to be local. When the medicine is given in larger dofes, it exerts an influence on the whole con- ftitution, and alters the flrate of the nervous fyftem. It thus controuls difeafes dependant on an irritable and difturbed ftate of the ner- vous funftions: this I think I fliall be able to fliew by cafes related in that part of this book which treats on difeafes induced by the abforption of morbific animal poifons; and thus mercury may relieve difordcrs of the di- geftive organs by relieving the nervous difordcr which caufcd them. But when mercury is given in ftill larger dofes, as it is for the cure of fyphilis, it never fails to irritate and weak- en the conftitution, and thus to diforjier the digeftive organs. Perfons who are falivated have, as far as I have remarked, the func- tions of the liver and digeftive organs con- ftantly difturbed by that procefs. I cannot, therefore, but think that it is wrong to ufe mercury in hepatic affe6lions to that extent, which would diforder the fun6lions of the liver, if they were previoufly healthy. In the majority of cafes the diforder has exifted for7$ ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, for a long time, and has become habitual 5 therefore it is not likely to be cured luddenly. For this reafon, we fhould adapt our treat- ment to the more rational expe6lation of effefling a gradual recoveiy than a fudden cure. The moft judicious treatment will not remedy the difeafe, if the exciting caufes continue to operate; fuch as improprieties of diet, agitation of mind, fedentary habits, 01 impure air. The following cafes will afford fufficient teftimony of the efficacy of fuch fimple treat- ment, as I have recommended. In fome in- veterate cafes, apparently depending on efta- bliflied nervous diforder, it has been ineffec- tual. Under fuch circumftances, the nervous affeflion appears to require the principal attention. When the ftate of the health required if, or the difeafe did not yield to the treatment, which I have defcribed, I have referred the cafe to the phyfician; under whofe direftion benefit has been obtained by medicines of more aftivity than thofe which I had ven* turedAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES, /ijr- tared to recommend, conjoined with tonics, and thofe medicines which are ufually termed nervous. In inveftigating the treatment of thefe dlf- orders, it is necefiary to afcertain, not only what medicine is beneficial, but alfo wte change it produces in the circumftances of the difoixler. The adminiftration of a metU- cine may in one cafe be fucceeded by a dil- charge of bile, and a fbriking relief from long- continued and diftrefsful feehngs: yet the fiime medicine may be given in many other inftances without the fame confequence. Was the change, then, in this inftance accidental ? or muft it be attributed to fome unnoticed l^uhariiy in the difeafe or conftitution ? I have generally explained to the patients the objefts which I liad in view, in correft- ing diforders of the digeftive organs, by lay- ing that there are three things which I confl- der as right and necefiary to the cur€ of dif- order. Firff, that the ftomach fhould thorough- ly digeft all the food that is put into it. The patient perceiving the necefhty of obtaining- this86 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGINj, this end, becomes attentive to his diet, and ob- ferves the efte6t which the quantity and qua- lity of his food and medicines have upon his- feelings, and the apparent powers of his fto- mach. Secondly, that the refidue of the food fliould be daily difcharged from the bowels : here too, the patient apprized of the defign, notes what kind and dofe of purgative medi- cine beft effect the intention; and whether it anfwers better if taken at once, or at intervals. Thirdly, that the fecretion of bile iliould be right, both with refpeft to quan- tity and quality. In cafes wherein the fecretion of bile has been for a long time deficient or faulty, I recommend, as I have faid, unirritat- ing and undebilitating dofes of mercury to be taken evpryfecond or third night, till tlieflools become of a rhubarb colour. This mode of exhibiting the medicine. has at leaft the ad- vantage of being innocent, and if months elapfe before the objeft is accomplillied we cannot wonder at the tardinefs of the cure,, when we confider the probable duration of the diforder, prior to our attempts to cor- re6l it. The patient is relieved in pro- portion as the end is accomplifhed, which feelinglyAND TREATMENT Of LOCAL DISEASES. 81 feelingly induces him to perfevere in fucli innocent meafures. By thus engaging the co-operation of the patient, the praclitioner will, in my opinion, derive confiderable ad- vantage in the treatment of the cafe. Whenever circumftances would permit, I have recommended the patients to take as much exercife as they could, fliort of pro- ducing fatigue; to live much in the open air i and, if polTible, not to fuffer their minds to be agitated by anxiety, or fatigued by ex- ertion. The advantages of exercife in nervous diforders, upon which thofe of the digeftive organs in general fo greatly depend, appear to me very ftriking. It were to be wifhed that we had fome index to denote the ftrength and. irritability of the nervous fyftem, ferving as the pulfe does with regard to the fanguiferous organs. Perhaps the ftrength, agility, and indefatigability of the mufcles may be regard- ed as the fuvefb evidence of energy of nervous power and bodily vigour. If this were granted, however, it would follow that many perfons, pofTeffing great nervous power, have neverthelefs great nervous irritability. Many VOL. I, G people,82 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, ' people, who are extremely irritable and hypo- condrical, and are conflantly obliged to take medicines to regulate their bowels whiift they live an inaftive life, no longer fufFer from nervous irritation, or require aperient medi- cines, when they ufe exercife to a degree that would be excefTive in ordinary conftitutipns. 'I'he interence which I draw from cafes of this defcription is, that nervous tranquillity is rcftored in confequence of the fuperfluous energy being cxhaufted by its proper chan- nels, the mufcles. When, on the contrary, the nervous fyftem is weak and irritable, exercife feems equally beneficial; but cau- tion is here requifite as to the degree in which it fliould be taken. A weak and irritable patient may not be able to walk more than half a mile without nearly fainting with fatigue on the fir ft day of the experiment J but by perfevering in the effort, he will be able to undergo confider- able mufcular exertion without wearinefs Does not this imply a confiderable in- creafe of bodily ftrength, and is not the acquifition of ftrength the chief defidera- tuni in the cure of many diforders ? The 0 nervousAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 83 nervous irritability alfo when dependant on weaknefs alone will proportionately di- minifh with its caufe. In the latter cafe, the nervous energy feems to be augment- ed in confequence of our increafnig the demand for it. I am induced to make thefe thefe obfervations, from a belief that exercife is not employed as a medical agent, to the extent that its efficacy feems to deferve. When the diforders, which have been the fubjeft of this paper, have been long continued, they do not admit of a fpeedy cure ; hence atten- tion to diet, air, exercife, and mental tran- quillity, are more decidedly beneficial than medicines. Surgeons in London meet with frequent and convincing inftances of the efficacy of pure air. Patients under the irritation of a local difeafe, who fcarcely eat or lleep in town, recover their appetite, digef- tion, and fleep, fo fuddenly on their removal into the country, as to leave no room for doubting, that the change of air has produced this beneficial alteration in their health. The whole of the plan of treatment which is here recommended is fo fimple, and apparently fo inefficient, that its power might reafonably G 2 be84 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, &C. be doubted, did not fa6ls atteft its utility. I fliould DDt have thought iir:right to have thus related it in detail, but for the purpofe of avoiding repetition in the recital of the cafes which are to follow; and aifo becaufe it feemed right to ftate as explicitly as poffible to the younger part of the profeffion what are the curative intentions in diforders of this nature *. * After I had written the above account of the treatment, which ! had found the mofl fuccefsful in the corre£\:ion of difordered ftates of the digeftive organs, I was much grati- fied by the perufal of Dr. Hamilton's publication on the EfFe£l:s of Plirgative Medicines. I tliink there is a great coincidence in the mode of treatment which I have de- fcribed, and that which is fanctioned by his more extenfive experience. He prefcribes pui'gative medicines to act as eccoprotics, to excite but not to ftimulate the bowels ; and he combines with them generally unirritating dofes of mer- cury. Dr. Hamilton's plan of treating thcfe difeafes alfo accords very much with that of M. Halle, to whofe Me- moir I have referred the reader. ' CASES.G 3 fimple ( «5 ) CASES. SECTION I. On Nervous and Mufcular Diforders. LONG before my attention was excited to diforders of the digeftive organs, I had remarked that there was a paralytic affeftion of the lower extremities, refembling that which is produced by a diforder of the me- dulla fpinalis, in confequence of difcafe of the bodies of the vertebra;. This paralytic af- fe6lion alfo appeared to me to vary with the ftate of the patient's health. Thefe obfervations led me to propofe a method of treatment, which proved fuccefs- ful in the cafes of two young ladies, who were affe6ted in this manner. The ifllies, v/hich had been ineffe6lually kept open in the back, were healed j and the ftate of the health in general v/as amended by country air, exercife, attention to diet, anl a few86 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, fimple medicines. The ufe of the limbs re- turned in proportion as the health became eftabliflied. Such were the obfervations which I had made relative to this fubje6t, when I met with the following cafes. CASE III. A young lady, whofe ftomach and bowels were difordered in the manner already defcri- bed, became gradually afFefted with weaknefs of the lower extremities, and pain in the loins. The pain became at length very fevere, and was aggravated in a manneralmoft infupport- able by the agitation of a carriage. This lady could fcarcely walk, and gave a defcrip- tion of the ftate of her limbs, fo exa6lly re- fembling that which h fometimes confequent to difeafes of the vertebrae, that I thought it right to examine the fpine. I ftruck with my finger the fpinous procefs of each lumbar vertebra, and upon touching one in particu- lar, the patient complained of great pain j but prelTure on the contiguous vertebrae alfo caufed muctfuneafmefs. Under thefe circum- ftances I placed a blifter on each fide of the fpine, and kept up a difcharge from the fur- faceAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 87 face by drefling it with favine cerate. Thefc means, with reft, relieved her fufFerings j but, as her health declined, fhe went into the countiy, where flie foon became much better. The blifters were now fuffered to heal, and Ihe ftiortly afterwards had recovered fo much, as to take long rides on a rough-going horfe. She returned from the country in good health, and was both mufcular and fat. About a year afterwards fhe was fo ill, in the fame way, that flie wiflied to have ilTues made in the back: but I would not confent to this, from knowing that the bone could not be difeafed. Of this return of pain in the back, and weaknefs in the lower extremities, Ihe again got well, upon amendment of her health in general. Since that period, now five years ago, fhe has been, fometimes, very well, at others, pale and emaciated; and thefe changes have correfponded with the natural or deranged ftate of her bowels. CASE rv. I was confulted on the cafe*of a young lady, who had been bliftered feverely for a pain at the bottom of her back, which was G 4 chiefly88 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, chiefly felt at the jun6tion of the ilium and facrum. It was fuppofed, that difeafe had taken place in the bone from fonie injury, and had affe^led the facral nerves: for flie could not ftand without fupport, fo great was the weaknefs in the front of the thighs. There was no proje6lion of the vertebrae. If the facral nerves had been affe6led, the leg ought to have fuffercd the greateft fliare of pain and weaknefs j but that was not the cafe. She had no appetite; her tongue was greatly furred j her bowels coftive j and pulfe generally no. I flrongly objecled to mak- ing iflues in this cafe; but as the patient's fufferings increafed, it v/as done. She went into the country, and died in four or five months. The bone was found, upon exa- mination, to be perfeftly healthy j but the mefenteric glands and lungs were difeafed, and it was-concluded that flie died of con-- fumption. I could not learn the ftate of the liver, nor do I know whether its appearances were particularly attended to. * CASE V. A young lady had been confined about fix months to her chamber, on account of pain inAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 89 in the loins, and weaknefs of the lower extre- mities, which prevented her from {landing or walking. The weaknefs of her limbs had been gradually increafmg for a year and a half, before it became fo bad as to make her incapable of moving about. IlTues had been kept open, during that time, on each fide of the fpine; but, as the patient received no be- nefit, my opinion was afked refpe6ling the feat of the difeafe of the bone: for it was conclud- ed, that tlie iflues had only failed from not having been made in the right place. I found, upon inquiry, that the chief feat of her pain was in the pofterior edge of the liver. Indeed, that vilcus v/as enlarged, fo as to be felt in the epigaftric region, and was fo tender as to caufe much pain on being comprefled, at any part, along the cartilages of the ribs. Her tongue was furred j her appetite deficient j digeftion bad; bowels coftive 5 and flools black, or elfe untinged with bile. I had no hefitation in advifmg, that the iffues fliould be difcon- tinued; and that attention fhould be chiefly dire6led to re6lify the diforder offhe chylopoi- ctic vifcera. Mild mercurials and aperients were given, by which, with other means, flie got90 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, got materially better in health, and was able to walk about as well as ever. The gentle- man who attended this patient, met me acci- dentally, two months afterwards, and in- formed me that fhe was quite well. I faid, that as her difeafe had been a long time in forming, it could hardly be expe6ted that fhe fliould recover fo fuddenly. He conlidered this expreffion as implying fome doubt of his accuracy, and, therefore, fent the patient to me in the morning. She came from Lambeth, in a hackney coach, and looked very well: fhe obferved; that long before her confine- ment, fhe could not have borne the agitation of a carriage j but that now, fhe did not feel it. I have been informed, by feveral intelli- gent fludents, that fimilar cafes have occur- red in the hofpital: as I was not a witnefs of thefe, I fliall not relate them. I fhall, however, mention one, which I faw, and fu- perintended myfelf j although it is, in fome meafure, imperfeft, as the patient quitted the hofpital fuddenly, without our knowing where he went to. CASEAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 91 CASE VI. Thomas Crighton, aged twenty-three, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hofpital, on account of a palfy of his limbs. About a year before, while the ufe of his limbs was yet un- impaired, he was attacked -repeatedly with violent pain in the bowels; uniformly pre- ceded by coftivenefs, and, generally, termi- nated by a copious difcharge of loofe, fetid, black ftools. The relief afforded by the diar- rhoea was fpeedy and uniform. In the courfe of fix months his lower extremities became affefted with occafional twitchings, and he found that he could not regulate their mo- tions in walking: this increafed to fuch a degree as to make him incapable of taking any exercife. He had, at the commencement of his illnefs, a confufion of vifion j and a con- ftant and violent pain in the head. The for- mer fymptom increafed fo much, that he could difcern no objeft diftin6tly ; a candle, for inftance, although held near him, ap- peared as large as the moon. The fenfation of his lower cxtremiues continued perfe6l j but the actions of the bladder were no longer under the controul of the will; the urine forae-92 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, fometimes flowing involuntarily ; and, at others, being retained for fome hours, with confiderable pain. He afterwards, began to iofe tlie ufe of his upper extremities: the left hand and arm were more affedied than the right; but there was no difl^rence in the af- feftion of the leg on the fame fide. His fpeech, alfo, became much impaired ; he hefitated and faltered confiderably, and the tones of his voice were irregular, fo that, at length, he could fcarcely make himfelf underftood. At the time.of his admiffion into the hofpital, there was an entire lofs of voluntary motion of the lower extremities, and a great diminu- tion of that of the upper. The bowels were deranged; there was conftant head-ache j the fpeech was very indiftinft ; and vifion fo im- perfe6l, that he could not read the largeft print. An iffue was made in the neck, and fome medicines were prefcribed, under the di- reftion of the phyfician. As the treatment did not prove beneficial, I was defired to examine the fpine, and found fuch a curvature andpro- jeftion of the fpinous proceifcs of the upper lum.bar and lower dorfal vertebr[?e, that I thought, the bodies of thofe bones muft beAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 93 difeafed. I was, therefore, inclined to attri- bute the paralyfis of the lower extremities to this difeafe of the fpine ; and, confequently, direfted, that iflues lliould be made on each fide of the projefting vertebrae. As this fuppofition would not account for the pa- ralytic affection of the parts above, and as the bowels were deranged, I ordered two grains of calomel with eight of rhubarb, to be taken twice a week, and fome infufion of gentian with fenna, occafionally. After ufmg thefe medicines, for about three weeks, his bowels became regular, the biliary fecretion healthy, and his appetite good. He could move his hands and arms nearly as well as ever; and his eye-fight was fo much improved that he could read a news-paper j indeed, it was nearly well. The funftions of the blad- der were completely reftored * j his fpeech became articulate; and his general health, in every refpeft, much improved. He remained in the hofpital about two months, but with * I have feen feveral cafes -which induce me to believe that the weaknefs of the fphinfter veficx, v»'hich occafions young perfons to void their urine during fleep, very fre- quently arifes from the fame caufe. veiy94 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, very little amendment in the flate of the lower extremities, when his friends fuddenly re- moved him, on account of fome difagreement with the nurfes, and I was unable to learn whither they had conveyed him. The hiftory of the preceding cafe was taken by Mr. Cruttwell, now pra6tifing as a furgeon in Bath, who had been for feveral years a moft induftrious ftudent at the hofpital, and whofe accurate obfervation and extenfive information induce me to place entire con- fidence in any ftatement of a cafe which I receive from him. To that gentleman I am, alfo, indebted for the following particulars relating to a patient, who died fome little tim.e ago in the hofpital, and whofe body was examined. The diffedion ferves ftill further to elucidate my prefent fubje6l. CASE VII. Elizabeth Griffin, twenty years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's hofpital in Auguft 1805, on account of an inability to move her lower limbs; which was fuppofed toAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 95 cafes, to originate from a dlfeafe of the fpine. On examination, however, there were no appear- ances, which indicated caries of the vertebrse. Her voice was, at times, confiderably affected: and fhe was fubje6l to occafional attacks re- fembhng, in fome degree, epileptic paroxyfms. The afteftion of the Hmbs was liable to con- iiderable variations. At times, as fhe afllircd me, fhe could walk acrofs the ward with very little difficulty ; at others, fhe could not even fland without afliffance. Her tongue was ex- tremely, and, I believe, conffantly white; her pulfe natural. Her bowels were, gene- rally, coflive, and it was neceffaiy to em- ploy adlive medicines in order to procure flools, which were always of a dark colour. A flight temporary diarrhoea fometimes hap- pened, and fhe invariably remarked, that the eafe or difficulty with which flie could walk, and the pain in her head with which flie was troubled, were in exadl conformity to the flate of the bowels, all the fymptoms being re- lieved by the diarrhoea, and returning as the bowels became again coflive. There was an appearance of irritability and languor in the eye, which I have before obferved in thefe9^ ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, Cafes, cafes, and the pupils were generally much di- lated. After the patient had continued in the hofpital about feven weeks, ihe was at- tacked with fever, and died. To this brief account of the fymptoms, I now fubjoin the dille6lion. No difeafed appearances were obferved in the brain, though it was examined with tlie moft particular attention : neither was there any difeafe of the vertebras. No difeafe, in fhort, was obferved except in the abdominal vifcera. The chief morbid appearance, in them, confifted in an ulcerated ftate of the villous coat of the iliurh near to its termina- tion in the caecum. The ulcers were numer- ous, and fituated where the mucous glands are chiefly found. The internal coat of the large inteftines, alfo, appeared inflamed. The liver was healthy in its fl:ru6i:ure. In the gall bladder about one ounce and a half of a light green ferous fluid was found, which had not in the leafl: degree the foapy, or mu- caginous feel of bile.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 97 Cafes, like thofe which have been related, are not, if I may judge from my own experi- ence, at all uncommon. They fufficiently prove, in my opinion, that local nervous dif- ordsrs and mufcular debility may arife from a general diforder of the health, in which the digeftive organs are chiefly afFe6led. This diforder, as has been ftated in the prelimi- nary obfei'vations, may, fometimes, be the caufe, and fometimes the effeft, of the ner- vous affe6lion. In either cafe, however, its correftion is of high importance in the me- dical treatment of the difeafe. In the fifth and fixth cafes, a diforder of the digeftive organs mull, I think, be allowed to be the caufe of the nervous affection, from the fud- den and complete ceflTation of the latter, when the cure of the former was accomplifliedc Decifive inftances like thefe are particularly valuable j they fhew what great nervous dif- order may be produced by that of tlie digef- tive organs, and confequently how much the latter diforder is likely to aggravate the for- mer, when it occurs even fecondarily as its effefl. I have feen a confiderable number of fuch cafes, which I caimot relate v/ith VOL. I, H preci-98 OiJ THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN', precifion, becaufe I had not fufficient oppor- tunities of obfemng the patients, to enable me to note the progrefs of the difeafe witli accuracy. Of tliefe I can only obferve, in general terms, that 1 have fe^en feveral inftances of pain, imbecillity, and wafting of the mufcles in one of the lower extremities, which were confidered as the efFeft of difeafe about the hip joint J yet the event proved that there was no organic afFe6lion of that part. The complaint was conne6led with that ftatc of conftitution which I have defcribed, and was amended as the health in general improved. I have alfo feen feveral inftances of wafting of the mufcles of one of the upper extremi- ties in children - fo much indeed were the mufcles fhrunk, that the bones and joints could be as diftinclly examined as in a Ikele- ton. The local afFe6tion in thefe cafes came on fuddenly. I lately faw a little boy, who had an attack of this kind in his left arm. feveral years ago, and on whofe cafe I was at that time confulted. The bowels had been violently difordered previous to the paralytic I a afPeftion,AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 99 afFedlioiii and were, at the time I faw him, in an extremely unhealthy ftate. I recom- mended that the chief attention fhould be paid to corre6l the diibrder of thefe organs, and that the arm fhould be fupported by a fling. The limb gradually recovered, and though it is not at prefent quite fo large and ftrong as the other, yet the difference is fo -flight, that it would not attract the attention of a common obferver. About fix months ago I faw a little boy in very fimilar cir- cumfl:ances, and in his cafe, the arm quick- ly recovered its powers of motion, as the flate of the digeftive organs became healthv. I have alfo feen cafes in children, in whom, after fome general diforder of the health, accompanied by derangement of the fl:omach and bowels, an affe£tion of the mufcles of the extremities has taken place, like that which produces the varus and valgus j I mean a piiedominance of the adlions of fome mufcles over others, producing difl:or- -tion of the limb. I have fecn this happen fometimes in one, fometimes in both the H 2 lowerloo ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL OHIGIN^ 4 cefl!arily lower extremities. I have alfo feen the arm fimilarly afFe6led. That the local fymptoms in thefe cafes, as well as in thofe which have been more fully detailed, arife from a nervous affe6lion of the brain, and not from any caufe a6ling' locally on the nerves of the affefted part, will, I believe, on due confideration be grant- ed. I fufpeft however that fome perfons may hefitate to admit fuch an opinion, from the belief that difo^rder of the brain muft ope- rate generally, and not partially, on the ner- vous fyftem. Perhaps the contemplation of the confequences of flight apopleftic effufions in the brain, may affifl: us in formingjuft no- tions on this fubjeft. Such flight efi:ufions of blood, occurring in various parts of the brain, have been known to paralyfe one leg or one arm, or the mufcles of the tongue, or of one half of the face, without affe61:ing the refl; of the nervous or mufcular fyfl:em. Another opinion which I wifli to be coiS fidered is, whether, when there is eonfider- able and continued pardyfis, there mufl: ne-AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES.' lOl ceffarily exift fome preffure or organic difeafe in the brain. That this exifts in many in- flances is undoubted j but the number of cales in which the paralytic afteftion is mere- ly nervous, and independant of vifible difeafe, is in niy opinion very confiderable. The in- flances which have been related warrant this conclufion, and fliew fuch cafes to be more frequent than is generally fuppofed. When there is organic difeafe of the brain, the cafe is very hopelefs; and probably no con- fiderable alleviation of the fymptoms will take place, by that attention to the ftate of the digeftive organs which I have recom- mendah In dubious cafes, and fuch, on the firft examination of them, the majority of thefe inftances will probably be, it feems right to try the effect of correfting dilbrder of the digeftive organs, with a view to alle- viate nervous irritation, before we proceed to thofe feverer methods, which the belief of the exiftence of organic or vafcular difeafe in the brain would induce us to inftitute. For if blood-letting and counter irritation be employed, in order to diminifh vafcular action j or if mercury be employed to fome H 3 extent102 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, extent in order to induce the abforption of depofited fubftance; thefe meafures muft aggravate that diforder of the general health, upon which, in many inftances, the nervous affeflion depends. My ol^e^l, in the recital 'of the foregoing cafes, is to point out a caufe of paralyfis in particular mufcles, which from its locality would, I fufpeft, be generally attributed to fome local diforder of the nerves of the afFe6l- ed part, and therefore be treated erroneoufly. If my opinion of the nature of thefe cafes be corredl, they can only be fuccefsfully treated by means which operate upon the conftitution in general. I have particularly recommended that our efforts fhould be di- re6led to correft any errors that may exift in the fun6lions of the primae vise, for reafons that have been ftated in the preliminary ob- fervations. Of the efficacy of fuch endeavours I have feen many more inftaiices than I have brought forward; indeed the propriety of fuch attempts feems fo obvious, that I doubt not but they will be made, and the effefl of them will, by that means, be generally demon- ftrated.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I03 {Irated. It is right however to mention, that in feme cafes to which I have attended, I have been foiled in my endeavpurs to cor- re6l, by the fimple meafures which I have related in the introdudory remarks, the dif- orders of the digeftivc organs j probably be^- caufe their derangement depended on fome cftablifhed difeafe in the brain. In other cafes, when the fun61:ions of the digeflive organs had been partially reftored, the nervous and mufcular alfeflions were mir- tigated but not cured. I have alfo met with one inftance, in which the bowels be.- came moderately corre6l in their fun6lions, without any evident amendment in the ftate of the limbs; and I have known two inftances of perfons, who \yere fuddenly feized with paralyfis of the lower extremities, apparently dependant on general nervous diforder, in which the digeflive organs fcarcely feemed »fFe6ted, In feveral of the cafes which I have related, there were nervous pains in the affected limbs. That this fymptom may arife from general H 4 cervous104 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, nervous diforder feems to me very probable j at leafl, I can affirm, that I have known fuch pains cured by corre6ling the ftate of the digeflive organs. In the cafes of tic doulou- reux, which have fallen under my obferva- tion, thefe parts have been greatly deranged; and I have cured patients of fuch complaints, by corredHng this difturbance, I wifli finally to excite the attention of Surgeons to the ftate of the bowels in te- tanus. Th!e occurrence of this diforder occa- fionally, when the wound which produced it is healing, feems to indicate that the effefts which have been produced by its irritation, continue. It has been, I think, fully fliewn, that local irritation may diforder the digeftive organs j which diforder continuing, and ag^ gravatin^ the afteftion of fenforium, may poffibly lead to the produ6lion of tetanus, at a time when the wound is no longer irri- table. In four cafes of tetanus, in which I had an opportunity of inquiring into the ftate of the bowels, the evacuations from them were not like fseces. I wifh to propofe, in jnveftigating the caufe of tetanus, as a quef- tiorijAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I05 tlon, What is the ftate of the bowels between the infliftion of the injury and the occur- rence of that dreadful malady * ? * Such cafes as I have related, with others tliat it would be foreign to my prcfent purpofe to mention, have imprefled the opinion on my mind, that diforders of the digeftive organs may originally caufe, or may fecondarily aggravate, a nervous diforder; and produce, as has been " mention- ed, in the nervous fyftem, a diminution of the fundtions of the brain •, or a ftate of excitation caufing delirium, partial nervous inactivity, and infenfibility ; or the oppo- fite ftate of irritation and pain : In the mufcular fyftem, weaknefs, tremors, and palfy, or the contrary affe£l;ions of fpafms and convulfions." Could thefe circumftances be proved, it would be fcarcely neceflary to add, that thofe painful affections of parts, to which perhaps fome pre- difpofition exifts, may be excited in a fimilar manner : fuch as gout and rheumatifm. Indeed rheumatic pains are very ufually concomitant upon that ftate of conftitution, which «xifted in the patients, whofe cafes I ajn relating. CASES.106 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL 0RI-6IN, CASES. SECTION II. On the Effecls of Diforders of the digejlive Orgaiisi attending Injuries of the Head. ISHALL next fpeak of thofe cafes, in which local diforders of the head, produced by blows, are kept up and aggravated by affec- tions of the digeftive organs. After what has been obferved refpefting the reciprocal influence of the difeafes of the brain, and of the , chylopoietic vifcera, it will readily be admitted, that an injury of the former rnay difturb the funftions of the latter. Thus, concuflion of the brain occafions vomiting as one of its immediate confequences, and will alfo be found to produce almoft conftantly, at a more remote period, that difturbance of the digeftive organs, which I have defcribed in this paper. If the difturbance be only moderate in degree, but continued, it will often re-a6l upon the head, fo as to occafion an,AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES, loj an irritable ftate of the injured parts, and impede their recovery. In many cafes of blows upon the head, a flow inflammatory affe6lion continues in the parts chiefly injured, and ultimately produces defl:ru6live difeafes. The bone fometimes be- comes difeafed, or an exoftofis grows from its internal table; the dura mater becomes thickened, or matter flowly colle6ls on its fur- face. Such local diforders produce others of a more general nature, and deftroy the pa- tient. Thefe occurrences are however, in my opinion, rare in comparilbn with tlie cafes firfl: defcribed; in which a painful ftate of the injured parts is kept up by means of dif- order exifting in the digeftive organs. The peceflity for an accurate difcrimination be- tween thefe diforders, muft ftrike us on the moft fuperficial view of the fubjeft ; for the lowering treatment, which is neceflary in the firft and rarer cafe, would be detrimental iti the fecond and more frequent ones. By at- tending to the ftate of the digeftive organs \n thefe dubious cafes, we may be enabled to form a probable opinion of the nature of the localIo8 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, local complaint; for, if there be nothing wrong in the general health to excite or maintain' it, we may reafonably concluv'.e that it was merely local; on the otlier hand, the inefficacy of evacuations in curing the local difeafe would naturally fuggeft the opinion, that it proceeds from irritation, and is dependant on a diforder of the health in general. It iliould be further obferved, that when the local difeafe is of an inflammatory nature, and likely to induce morbid alterations in the ftructure of the affefted parts, ftill it may be maintained and aggravated by dif- order of the digeftive organs. I have very frequently feen patients fuffer fo feverely as to warrant a fufpicion, that local difeafe of the moft formidable nature exiiled; in thefc the ufual methods of treatment were ineffec- tual ; and they recovered fuddenly or flowly, in proportion as the flate of the digeftive organs was correfted. I fhall relate fome examples of the difeafe under confideration, which will enable the reader to identify the eafe, when it occurs in praftice. CASEAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DI3EASES. I09 CASE VIII. A young gentleman, about ten years of a?^e, fell out of a window, fix feet high, and ftruck the back part of his head againft fome ftones. He was ftunned by the blow, but perfeftly recovered from the efFe6ls of the accident by bleeding, purging, and a low diet. He caught the fcarlet-fever about fix weeks afterwards ; and recovered from that alfo. But, whiift he was convalefcent, the pains returned in that part of the head which had been ftruck, with fo much violence, as to induce the belief that fome ferious local mifchief would enfue. After they had con- tinued without abatement for a few days, I was defired to fee him. He was lying in bed, and could fcarcely be prevailed on to lift his head from the pillow. The integuments of the occiput were fo tender, that he would hardly allow me to examine the part j I afcer- tained, however, that there was no fluid under the fcalp, nor any inequality in the bone. He dozed a good deal, and lay in a comatofe ftate, but was occafionally reftlefs. Hisno ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGllC^ His pulfe was very frequent, his (km hot and dry, and his tongue covered with a thick yel- low fur. He breathed almoft without moving the diaphragm, and complained much if the epigaftric region was compreffed. He loathed food J, his bowels were coftive, and his ftools of a blackifh colour. He was ordered to take fmall dofes of calomel at night, and draughts with rhubarb and kali vitriolatum in the morning. The tongue foon became clean, and the ftools natural j his appetite and fpirits returned, and he no longer com- plained of any uneafmefs in, the head. This cafe prefents us with a ftriking ex- ample of what I believe to be a common oc- currence J I mean, a difordered ftate of the digeftive organs taking place fubfequently to a confiderable febrile afFe6lion. Indeed, when we refle6l in how weak and irritable a ftate the brain muft be left upon the ftibfi- dence of fuch a diforder, and how much the chylopoietic vifcera muft fuffer from the im- paired and difordered energy of the brain, wc might naturally expe6l fuch a derangement of the functions of the digeftive organs to enfue.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. Ill cnfue. When fuch diforder happens in this manner, it frequently produces many local difeafes, to which the conftitution may per- haps be predifpofed; a circumftance I fhall fpeak of in a future part of this paper. Im the prefent cafe, it brought on a painful ftatc of parts recently injured, with a confiderable degree of fever. That the morbid ftate of the ftomach and bowels was the caufe of both is fairly to be inferred from their ceafmg fo im- mediately, when the diforder of the digeftive organs was correfted. A cafe of tliis kind, prefenting an example of fudden recovery, is particularly valuable, becaufe it clearly dc- monftrates the caufe and the efFe<5l in fuch difeafes. The caufe can indeed be feldom fb fuddenly removed; and tlie gradual cefTation of it under any plan of treatment leaves room for a variety of conjectures, as to the mode of cure or of recovery from thofe diforders w^hich I have confidered as effects. I could relate many cafes of fimiiar but lefs fevere fymptoms produced by the fame caufe, wliich gradually got well, in proportion as the dif- orders of the digeflive organs were corre6ted. As it does not, however, appear to me necef- faiy112 ON 'THE CONSTITtJTIONAL ORIOIN, fary to accumulate inftances to prove fo obvi- ous a fa6i) I fhall content myfelf with ad- ducing two more cafes, to exhibit fuch efFe6ls in different points of view. CASE IX. A lady fell down in frofty weather, in con- fequence of her feet flipping from under her, and the occiput ftruck againft a fmooth ftone pavement. She was ftunned by the fall, but foon recovered i nor had flie for fome weeks the fevere fymptoms, which appeared in the fequel. This circumftance ihews that there was nothing produced by the blow that ne- ceflarily caufed the fubfequent fymptoins j ^hich muft therefore be attributed to inflam- mation or, irritation taking place afterwards. When fome weeks had elapfed from the time of the accident, the parts v/hich had been ftruck became extremely painful; and the pain extended forwards over the fcalp to the right eye, the fight of which became im- perfe6l. The integuments upon which the blow had been received were extremely ten- der, and the patient became faint when they were examined even flightly. Thefe cir- cumftancesAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 113 cumflances naturally induced a belief that fome difeafe was taking place j and bleeding and purging were employed to prevent its progrefs. The fymptoms were mitigated for a time by thefe means, but they quickly returned with as much feverity as before.. After three months the patient came to Lon- don, fully perfuaded that nothing but an operation would be of permanent benefit. When I firft faw her, fhe tottered in moving from one chair to another, and replied to queftions with hefitation and effort. Her eye- fight was fo much affe6led, that flie could not read; and (lie entertained an apprehen- fion that file fliould lofe her fenfes. Her tongue was but flightly furred; her bowels were habitually coftive, and the ftools dark coloured. It was evident where the injury had been received; for the aponeurofis had been feparated from the pericranium by an effufion of blood; and, though this blood had been abforbed, the detachment of the fcalp was diftinguifhable by the touch. No inequality was perceptible in the furface of the bone. When I mentioned my fufpicion that thefe fymptoms were rather the effect VOL. I. 1 of"bf imtability of canftituti6n, dependent on ^lie ftate of the ftomach and bowels, than of ■ibc^il mlfc^ief, fhe .gave not the reail credit to ^tlie bpinion j but Taid 'fhe -was perfuaded that the bdn^-*#a5 ^^ilaWeil,' and thkt -three 'fif- fures exteitded "'^h f'diff^'ent difeftions. 'I ordered her Y6-take five grains of the pilul. hydrai^g." evei^y Tecond mght, and a dratight twice a day, containing one dunce of the 'coiri]5duhd infufion of gentian, two drams *'oY the ihfufibn of femia, and dne dram df the bompdu'nd tin6lui-e o^f cardamoms. Thefe •medicines produced a cdnTiderable purgative ■effe6l. On the fecond day there was but little -pain i-A'^he headj the ^paiJient walked abdtit the rdoni very fteadily, and had read a newf- -"paper in^'the' mdrnihg. When I aiked her bpiriion df ihis furprifihg alteration, fhe im- "puted it to the evacuations which had taken 'place 5 'btit llie was ftill perfuaded that the •■bone was injured, and ftill apprehenlive that, -without Tome operation, fhe fliould ultimately lofe her fenfes. The medicines were con- tinued in fuch quantity as to procure only one alvine 'evacuation daily. A fortnight €lapfed under this plan of treatment, during ■" 14 " -^whichAnd TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISE3AS3. I 2 and. wilich the flrools became nearly of a natural colour, and the patient's health was confider- ably amended. There were times when no ■uncafmefs was felt in the head; and, during fome nights, the pain was fo trivial as to give but little interruption to her fleep. It was, however, occafionally difturbed by pains, which were, in her opinion, as intenfe as at any former period of the complaint. Her pulfe was good, and her mufcular ftrength greatly improved. The occurrence of the pain in paroxyfras ftrongly impreffed me with the belief that it was nervous, rather than depending upon local difeafe. Under thefe circLimftances all ideas of an operation were difmifled from my mind, but it was far other- wife with refpeft to the patient. Being obliged to return into the country, fhe confidered the poffibility of a relapfe with horror 3 and was fo convinced that the bone had been injured, that file earneftly requefted it might be ex- amined, were it merely to afcertain what was the fa6t. I faw no objection to this examina- tion, but thought, on the contrary, that ad- vantage might pofTibly arife from an incifion, which would loofen the tenfion of the fcalp,tl6 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGlNj and produce a difcharge that might relieve the irritation of the part. I accordingly made an mcifion of a femicircular form, ex- tending farther back than the part which had been ftruck, and turned up a portion of the fcalp, fo as to fee the bone, covered by its peri- cranium, to the extent of a crown piece. The bone was uninjured, and, together with the pericranium, appeared perfeftly natural. The fcalp being replaced, the wound was dreffed fuperficially, without any attempt to favour the union of the parts. If they united under thefe circumftances, there would be an additional reafon for believing, that neither the bone nor the fubjacent parts were difeafed. The pain was as fevere for the two firft days and nights after this examination as 'it had been at any former period; it abated when the wound began to difcharge, and had en- tirely ceafed on the fifth day. This ftate of tranquillity continued as long as the patient remained in town, which was about three weeks after the divifion of the fcalp. The wound a.t that time had nearly healed. She has fnice had occafional returns of pain in the head when her general health has been difor- dered^AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 117 dered, but never to that degree as to induce a fufpicion that any local vafcular difeafe exilled. To exhibit the efFe6ls of the re-a£lion of diforders of the digeftive organs upon thofe of the head in another point of view, I fub- join the following cafe. 'CASE X. May 29, 1805, a labouring man, aged forty-five, fell from a confiderable height upon his head, and was immediately brought to St. Bartholomew's Hofpital. No frad.ire of the fkuU could be difcerned: and the patient feemed to labour under the effe6ls of violent concuffion of the brain. By vene- fe6lion, and other antiphlogiftic means, he foon recovered his fenfes. Eveiy thing went on very favourably for three days, when he was attacked with fliivering, naiifea, pain in the head, impatience of light, and other fymp- toms, which ufually are confidered as denot- ing infla^nmation of the membranes of the brain. He was confequently bled j and had ?L blifter applied on the head. He was fud- I 3 dcnlyIl8 .ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, denly feized in the evening with a more excruciating pain in the head, which, after lafting half an hour, was fucceeded by convuifions, fo violent that three men could fcarcely hold him. When the fit abated, he exprefied himfelf much rcliev-^ ed, and faid that he was eafier than be-, fore its accelTion, Some calomel and rhu^ barb were given to obviate a coftive ftate of his bowels. On the next morning (June 2d) he had a return of the pain and con- vuifions J and the fymptoms v/ere fo violent, that he was bled four times in the courfe of the day. This treatment, however, had no efFe6l in diminifhing the pain and other fymptoms, and another fit of convuifions took place in the evening. The purgative ope- rated on the fucceeding night, and brought away a large quantity of highly ofFenfive fecu-» lent matter of a light grcenifh-yellow colour. On the 3d of June his breath was extremely ofTenfive; his fkin hot and dry; his pulfe quick J his tongue thickly furred; and he had great tendernefs in the epigaftric region, and right hypochondrium. He was ordered to take tv^o grains of calomel immediately, ^ndAND TREATMEN'r 0§ J^9g;A;- DISEAS.E,g. 11^ aiid a falin? medicine at intervals this. pro-, duced two motions in the gourfe; of tlie, d^y. By purfuing this plan for a few days,, th?; ftate of his bowels were rendered mo^'e regu- lar, and the diicharges acquired ^ healthy- colour ; in proportion as this was effected, ihe tendernefs of the abdomen was removed, and the tongue be<:ame clean. He had no return of convulfions, the pain and ot;her fymptoms fvibfided, and in a ihort time, when^ the digeftive organs had been refto^^ed to a, natural ftate, he went out of the Hofpital per-: feftly well. Cafes of this defcription have been noted from the earlieft ages. Many paffages in the works of Galen fhew that he was well acquainted with the circumftances that have been ftated in this feftion. Bertrandi * ha? related inftances of abfceffes taking place in the liver confequent to injuries of the head. Andouille -f- relates additional cafes, and makes further obfervations on the fame * Memoires de I'Academie de Chlrurgie, torn. iii. p. 484. I Ibid. p. 506. I 4 fub-I20 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, fubjeft. Of late, Richter * has delivered fimilar opinions, and has dire6led the prac- tice which fhould be purfued, when the head is difordered by the re-action of affec- tions of the digeftive organs. Still however thefe circumftances feem to me to be ftated rather as occafional, than as occurrences which are common and naturally to be ex- pedled j and I therefore think myfelf war- ranted in fuppofmg, that they have not made a fufficient impreffion on the minds of Sur- geons, in this country at leaft-j-. I beg leave, in the conclufion of this fec- tion, to repeat what was faid in the former one, wz. that I confider the difeafe as depend- ing on nervous irritation in the parts affefted, which is either cauled, maintained, or ag- gravated by diforders of the digeftive organs. Yet as the local difeafe muft be regarded as chiefly nervous, it might, in fome rare in- ftances, exift independently of any manifeft diforder of thofe organs. I may further add, that much nervous irritation in any * Chirurg. Biblioth. b. viii. p. 538. f In Doftor Chefton's Pathological Obfervations, how- ever, cafes of this defcription are noticed, partAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 121 part generally excites vafcular a6lion. It be- comes therefore highly important to attend to the nature and cure of fuch diforder, as it might ultimately lead to the produ6lion of organic difeafe, which would deftroy the patient. CASES.123, ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN,'^ CASES. SECTION III. On undefined and imdenonunated Difeafes arfing from Dforder of the Confitution. 'T^HE next clafs of cafes, to which I fhall ^ call the reader's attention, is that of un- healthy indurations, abfcelTes, and fores. Sometimes but one local difeafe of this de- fcription exifts, but in general they break out in fucceffion in different parts of tlje body. The circumftance of their fucceffive forma- tion is, I think, a proof that they depend up- on fome error in the health in general; and I have accordingly obferved that they are feldom, if ever, unattended with diforder of the digeftive organs. The imperfe61: hiftory, which the patients generally give of their previous ftate of health, will not enable us to determine with certainty, that the diforder of the bowels was the caufe of their ill health and fubfequent local difeafes j but I can con- fidently affirm, that thofe difeafes in general be- comeAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 123 come traftabk, in proportion as the diforder of the vifcera is correftedj and that fre- quently no new local fymptoms occur, after fome attention has been paid to the ftate of the digeftive organs. The difeafes, to which I allude, have not been defcribed in books of Surgery ; and indeed it is fcarcely poflible to delineate with precifion their various ap- pearances. It would be quite impracticable to defcribe all the difeafes, which make the fubje61 of the prefent feclion; namely, un- healthy indurations, abfcefles, and fores. They may be compared, not improperly, in variety and nurqber, with the infinitely diverfified combinations and lhades of colour. Yet a brief and general defcription of them will alfift to recall them to the remembrance of tlie experienced furgeon; and to enable the inexperienced practitioner to recognize them, when they occur. Some of thefe affections are quite fuper- ficial, occupying merely the Ikin. The firft that I fliall deicribe is, I believe, well known to furgeons, as a difeafe, which is frequently, though not conltantly, cured by giving mer- cury124 ON' THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, cury to fuch an extent as flightly to afFe6l the conftitution. A fmall induration or tu- bercle takes place in the ikin, and this is followed by the fucceffive formation of others at fraall diftances from the original one. The fkin between thefe tubercles becomes thick- ened. Chord-like fubftances, which are pro- bably indurated abforbents, may fometimes be felt, extended along the thickened Ikin. The tubercles ulcerate, and form foul ulcers, which heal {lowly and break out again. Another fpecies of fuperficial or cutaneous ulcer begins generally in one point, and ex- tends in eveiy direftion. The chafm of the ulcer is formed either by a very fudden ulcera- tion, or by (loughing. A fore is left, which firft fecretes a fanious, and then an ichorous fluid. Granulatipns afterwards arife, and the fore heals. The granulations are however indurated and un found j and when the patient fiippofes that the fore is cured, it is fuddenly reproduced by a procefs fimilar to that by which it was originally occafioned. After fome time the ulcer again heals, and again breaks out, Whilft thefe procefres are going;AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I25 on in the middle, the fore enlarges in its circumference; the edges, which are thick- ened, become at times highly inflamed, and either ulcerate or (lough. The difpofition to difeafe is aggravated by fits, and there are intervals when it is apparently tranquil. When this fore has enlarged to a confiderable , extent, in the manner already defcrib^d, the central parts, .which have healed unfoundly, break out into feparate ulcers; and thus pre- fent an appearance of fcveral fores, connected with each other by indurated ikin or newly- formed fubftance. I fhall briefly mention fome of the principal circumftances relating to the lafl: fore of this defcription, which came under my care. The patient, wlio had been ill for more than two years, and had, taken a great deal of mercury, came from the country in very bad health, and with his digefl:ive organs much dis- ordered. The fore was fo painful, particu- larly at night, that he was in the habit of taking large dofes of opium to procure jeft. It - occupied the back of the hand and wrift. He had had fomewhat fimilar fores on his headl25 ON THE COT^TSTiTUtlONAl (JftlGtlSf^ head and face j but they were nearly healed, thougli difpofed to ulcerate again. By that attention to the ftate of the bowels which I have defcribed, and by dreffing the fore with an aqueous folution of opium, the greater part of it was healed in the fpace of three weeks ; and the remainder was fo much amended, and fo little painful, that he had left off his opium fhortly after the commence- ment of this treatment. As the patient's cir- cumftances made it inconvenient to him to remain in town, he went into the country, where the fore broke out again. He then applied to a perfon who fold a f :mous diet- drink ; arid before he had taken twelve bottles, the fore was perfectly healed, and has not -fince broke out. The diet-drink, he fays, had no fenfible operation; but his bowels became regular and comfortable, and his appetite -amended by taking it. Another variety of thefe fores originates in a more deeply feated difeafe. The cellular 'fubftance under the fkin becomes thickened, •and an unhealthy abfcefs follows j after the t)urfting of which^ a foul fore is formed. In conrI a'nd treatment of local biseases. 127 confequence of this procefs, the fafcia of the limb is fometimes expofed to view, and feems to have floughed : when the flough has fepa- rated, the difeafe may get well flowly. In many cafes, however, there is no expofare, nor feparation of the fafcia. Sometimes the fore - does not extend beyond the limits of the original induration, but heals flowly; while other difeafes of the faihe kind occur in fuc- ceffion in various parts of the body. In other cafes, tile ulceration of the .original fore fpreads along the contiguous parts, whilft thofe which were firfl alfecled get well j and thus the fore afiiimes an herpetic charafter. In many cafes the ulceration extends from tire whole circumference of the fore, and thus the fear and ulcerated edges have a circular or oval form; in others, the difeafe is pro- pagated in particular dire6lions, fo that the ulcerated lurface prefents the moft irregular and fmgular figures. Thefe difeafes fometimes are fmall in extent in the beginning, but enlarge confiderably before the fkin gives way; and, when this happens, it proves a kind of crifis to" the dif- <128 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, difeafe, which afterwards heals flowly. In thefe cafes it becomes the object of furgery to bring the difeafe to a crifis, vvhilfl it is yet of fmall extent j which may be efFe6led by pro- producing ulceration of the fkin by means of caujftic. Some of thefe fores are formed from difeafes beginning in the abforbent glands j in which cafe the gland, having firft been indurated, fuppurates and burfts, and ulceration enfues. When this circumftance has taken place, in an abforbent gland of the neck for inftance, another ulcer may form, in the manner above ftated, in the fkin and fubjacent parts, with- out any gland being involved in it. A third ulcer, having a difeafed gland for its caufe> rpay form in the vicinity; and thus the dif- eafe proceeds without any regularity. I once thought it a neceffary but moft dif- ficult talk for a furgeon to remark tLe varie- ties of thefe difeafes, in order to undei'fland his profeffion, and contribute to its improve- ment. But, fmce I have found that thele difeafes indicate fome diforder of the health 3 'And treatment of local diseases. 129 in general, the correction of which is the great obje6l in their cure and prevention, I have perceived that thevQ is lefs neceility for undertaking this moft arduous inveftigationj which, indeed, could never be accompliihed without very extenfive opportunities and in- defatigable diligence. It will be found in the majority of thefe peculiar difeafes, that the patient had been indifpofed for fome time before the occur- rence of the complaint, and, that afterwards the health had become more evidently de- ranged. The digeftive organs are difordered. The tongue is furred at the back part, chiefly in the morning ; and the biliary fecretion is deficient or depraved. My attention has been direfted to the corre6tion of this diforder; and the moft beneficial effe6ts have refulted from this attention. The fores have healed readily in fome inftances j and, in thofe cafes where many had previoufly formed in fuccef- fion, no new difeafe has in general taken place. In fome few inftances, new fores have formed after the medical treatment of the diforder had commenced, an,d even after it had been vol.. I. K for13© ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, 15 appli- for fome time continued. This probably arifes from the difficuhy, which is experienced, in correfting an habitual and long continued conftitutional diforder. In fome ftiil rarer cafes I have found fimilar but much milder difeafes arife, after the diforder of the digef- tive organs had been in a great degree correfted. Whilft I am writing this, there are four patients, whom I have attended in St. Bar- tholomew's hofpital, with thefe difeafes; which I mention, to lliew the younger part of the profelTion how frequent they are. The health of thefe patients has been furprifmgly amend- ed in a very fliort period, by employing the means which I have delcribed; and the fores have healed rapidly, although nothing but fimple drelTmgs have been applied to them. It is not meant by thele obfervations to de- preciate the utility of topical applications to unhealthy ulcers, but merely to fhew how much they depend on the ftateof the health in general; for fome of them, which have remain- ed uncorre£ted by a great variety of localAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 13I applications, will get well under fimple dref- lings, when the ftate of the conftitution is amended. It is not, however, to be expe6ted that this will generally happen; for local dif- eafed aftion having been excited, becomes eftablifhed, and may continue, independently of the caufe which produced them. Topical remedies will, under thefe circumftances, be employed with the greatcft advantage. Again, topical applications are of the higheft utility in general practice, becaufe an irritable fore afFe6ls the whole conftitution, and aggravates and maintains that diforder by which it might have been originally caufed. The dif- order of the digeftive organs cannot in many inftances be correfted, till the fretful ftate of the local difeafe is diminiflied. I may fur- ther mention, with relation to this fubje6l, that I have feen patients, who fcarcely ever flept from the pain of the local difeafe, whofe ftomachs were greatly difordered, and who had a diftrafling purging, which could only be controlled by opium, fleep without interruption during the night, regain their appetite, and have their bowels become tran« quil and regular, when, after various trials, K 2 a dref-ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, a dreffing has at laft been applied, which quieted the irritable ftate of the fore. It is right however to mentiorjj that the effects of fach an application are not, in^ general, permanent; but after a time the fore be- comes again fretful, and requires fome new dreffng to foothe. or control its irrita- bility. I have feen fome cafes of fuch difeafed fores as I have defcribed, in confultation Tvith other furgeons, who have become con- vinced that my opinions are well founded. Others have occurred, even in the perfons of medical men, whofe feelings co-operated to render their convi6Hon more flrong. Having thus, from general obfervation, ac- quired the opinion that the peculiarities of local difeafe depend chiefly on the ftate of the conftitution, I fliall relate fome cafes, which were treated in conformity with the principles which fuch an opinion w^ould na- turally fuggeft. I muft, however, previoufly caution the reader againft inferring, that I attribute all local difeafes to fome general errorAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I33 error in the ftate of the health. I have feen local difeafes, which could not be deduced from any general indifpofition, nor corre6led by remedies which act fimply on the coufti- tution at large. I wilh to guard againft the fufpicion of being inclined to make general alTertions; while I avow at the fame time, that my obfervations induce me believe, that the peculiarities of local difeafe generally depend upon conliitutional caufes. Reafon alfo fuggefts the fame opinion; for if fores of the fame charafter break out in fuccellion in different parts of the body, can we doubt that they arife from the ftate of the health jn general ? There appears to me a combination of ner- vous irritability and weaknefs, and to fuch a combination I am incHned to attribute the peculiarities of thefe variable and unclafTed local difeafes. Perhaps I may explain my meaning further, by adverting to what hap- pens not unfrequently in cafes of venereal and other buboes. The part and the confti- tution have been both weakened by the difeafe that has occurred; they have been further K 3 debili^134 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, debilitated by the mercury employed for its corre6lion. The difcafe fubfides, but a new difeale and a6lion commences; a trivial wound frets out into a phagedaenic fore, which is very difficult of cure. The fores, in different cafes, are nearly as various in ap^ pearance, as thofe of which I have been fpeaking. To what are we to attribute thefe diffimilar, perplexing, peculiar fores, if not to irritation occurring in weak and irritable parts ? As the peculiar difeafed actions of thefe fores originate chiefly from the weak- nefs and irritability of the parts, induced by the previous diforder which they have under- gone J foin their advanced flages they frequent- ly prefent the befl inftance, that can perhaps ^e adduced, of a peculiar local difeafe exift- ing independently of conftitutional diforder. It is true they affe61: the health in general; but it may, by attention, be kept in a mode- rately right flate, and yet the fore remains un- amended. The difeafed adions of thefe fores fometimes gradually, and fometimes fuddenly ceafe; when healthy adlions fucceeding, the fore heals. I remember a fore of this defcrip^ tion, to which almofl every variety of drefling hadAND TREATMENT OP LOCAL DISEASES, 135 had been tried without benefit. It was vtry extenfive, and had burrowed in various direc- tions beneath the Ikin. The ulceration at length became fiationary; but after nine months thf fore ftill remained as foul and fretful as it had been for a confiderable time; when in the courfe of one week it perfectly cicatrized, leaving the hollows which I have defcribed ; for it had thrown out up granu- lations to fill thefe chafms. Having thus ftated the opinions, which I have formed, relative to thefe kinds of local difeafes ; and which have been deduced from cales too numerous to record, of which I have preferved no accurate accounts ; I proceed to relate fome cafes treated in conformity to thefe opinions, which will, I truft, be fuffici- ent to exemplify and illuftrate the prefent fubje6t. CASE XI; A gentleman's fervant, between thirty and forty years of age, was fcnt to me with a bad ulcer in his cheek, fituated between the nofe and under eye-lid. The furrounding parts were inflamed, fwoln, and indurated, K 4 fo13^ ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, fo as to rife fully half an inch above their natural level. The fore was of an oval figure; meafuring about an inch and a half in length, and half an inch in breadth and depth; indeed I could fcarcely fee its bottom. The furface was covered by ad- hering matter of a greenini hue. The cuticle round the margin was thickened, and had in fome parts fcaled off. The patient had been rubbing in the mercurial ointment for this complaint. He declared that he had had no chancre for many years, but had con- tra6led a gonorrhoea about a year before his prefent diforder. His health was much dif- turbed j he had no appetite; his tongue was much furred and tremulous ; his bowels al- ternately coflive and lax; his fseces blackifh. I advifed him to take five grains of rhu- barb about an hour before dinner, and five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every fecond night, with caftor oil or fenna tea occafion- ally, fo as to procure a motion daily. The fore was drefied with fpermaceti cerate. I faw him again in three days; when he faid that he felt himfelf under the greateft obli- gations to me„ He had been entirely free from pain and diftrefsful fenfations, fince he beganAND TREATMENT GF LOCAL DISEASES. I37 began to take the medicines j although he declared, that before that time, he fhould have been thankful to any one who would have deftroyed him. I mention this, becaufe I have often remarked in thefe cafes, the fur- prifmgly great relief and comfort which have arifen from a change, produced by means apparently infignificant and inadequate. The bowels now a^led regularly, and the ftools were more copious and of a more natural colour, and to this correction of the biliary fecretion I am inclined to impute that relief, which he fo forcibly depicted. The fore had difcharged profufely; the furrounding fwelling and inflammation were much lef- fened. He purfued the fame plan of treat- ment for a month; daring which time he recovered his-appetite; his tongue became clean j his bowels regular, and the biliary fecretion natural. The fore had contra6led into a fmall compafs, but without the ap- pearance of granulations j and the furround- ing parts were not fwoln, though ftill red. His health became at this time again much difbrdered, in confequence of his catching cold, from expgfure to rain. He had pain ini^Z ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, in the bowels, with a flight purging; his ap- petite failed; his tongue was furred j and he had a fevere cough, attended with copious ex- pe6toration. The fore on the check alfo en- larged to about one half of its former fize: and the furrounding parts became tumid. I had the patient admitted into St. Bartholo- mew's Hofpital, where he took the decoftionof cafcarilla with fquills. His cough became ma- terially better in a fhort time: the ftate of his ftomach and bowels alfo greatly improved. The fore again diminiflied in fize. About a fortnight after his admiflion into the hofpital, an eruption came out over his whole body. The fpots were of a copperifli hue, but rather fmaller, and more elevated, than venereal eruptions generally are*. Some of the eruptions gradually difappeared; and, in about a fortnight, it was certain that many were entirely gone. About this time he be- gan to complain of his throat; and an ulcer, of the fize of a fhilling, formed in each tonfil. The edges of thefe fores were elevated, and * Many perfons who faw the patient did not entertain z douht but that all the fymptoms arofe from fyphilis j it was their progrefs alone which evinced the contrary. uneven.AMD TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 139 vineven, without any appearance of granu- lations J the furface was covered with yellow adhering matter. The patient now again caught cold: he was attacked with pain in the bowels, and purging, which obliged him to get up frequently in the night, and to re- main for fome time out of bed. The cough and expefloration returned: he loft his appetite; and he had a furred tongue. Dr. Roberts, whom I met at the hofpital, did me the fa- vour to prefcribe for him. In a day or two aftemards, an eryfipelatous inflammation ap- peared on the right fide of his face, oppofite to the fituation of the fore. The eye-lids were fo tumid that he could not open them : the eryfipelas fpread to the other lide of the face; and the other eye was equally clofed. The fever alfo ran veiy high, and the patient became deUrious; fo that he was obliged, for many days, to be confined by a ftrait waift- coat. Thefe fymptoms gradually abated, and he recovered, fo as to be in better health than I had ever feen liim. He was difcharged in about fix weeks, in a Itate of conva- lefcence; and attended Dr. Roberts as an put-patient, The eruption and fore tluroat ha4140 ON THE CONSTITU.TIONAL ORIGIN, had entirely difappeared; the original ulcer was firrflly healed; and the contiguous flcin had become fofit and natural, though it was ftill difcoloured. A year has fince elapfed, and he has had no return of his corn- plaints. It is, I think, fufficiently evident, in the prefent inftance, that the peculiarities of the iocal difeafes had their origin in the ftate of the conftitution, CASE m I was confulted, by a medical gentleman in my neighbourhood, on the cafe of a lady about forty years of age; who had been long fubje6l to dyfpepfia, and fevere head-aches. Her prefent and chief complaint had been of about three months duration. It began with weaknefs, and an apparent irregularity in the motions of the lower extremities, attended with confiderable pains refembling rheuma- tifm, and rigidity of the calves of the legs. Thele fymptoms increafing, fhe was unable in the courfe of a month, to move about at aliiAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 14I all; but was obliged to be lifted in and out of bed. At this time an induration of the mufcles of the calf of each leg had taken place. The indurated fubftance was about three inches in length, and between two and three in breadth. It was feverely painful at times, and the integuments covering it were occa- fionally inflamed. There was alfo fome pain and fvvelling in the ham. Leeches, fcda- tive lotions, and mercurial ointment had been applied; cicuta and tonics had been given, but without alleviating the fymptoms. I firft faw the patient about fix weeks after fhe had been obliged to keep her bed entirely; and the peculiarities of the prefent cafe led me at once to refer its origin to the ftate of the health in general. The appetite and di- geftion were impaired, the tongue was much furred, and the faeces blackifli. I merely re- commended fomentations to the indurated parts, confidering it the primary obje6l to cor- rect the morbid ftate of the digeftive organs. With this view the compound infufion of gentian with the infufion of fenna and tinc- ture of cardamoms was given, in fuch. dofes as to procure an adequate evacuation daily, 14. and142 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, and five grains of the pil. hydrarg. were taken every fecond night. Thefe fimple medicines were completely fuccefsful: after taking them a fhort time, the difcharges from the bowels were natural, and properly coloured with bile. The appetite returned; the tongue became clean* and the pains almoft immediately ceafed. No cutaneous inflammation, indicat- ing a difpofition to fuppuration, appeared again over the indurated parts, which gradu- ally recovered their natural ftate. In a fort- night the patient could go about with a ftick, and in two months could walk as well as before her complaint. She has enjoyed better health, fmce this time, than for many years before *. * The flate of the indurated mufcles, in this cafe, was fuch as would lead to the belief that fuppuration would take place in different parts of the hardnefs 5 indeed, I have feen many cafes lefs formidable in appearance termi- nate in that manner. Seeing how much the irritability of mufcles is difordered by that Hate of conftitution which I have been defcribing, I think it is allowable to conclude that most of the organic difeafes of mufcles originate from caufe. CASEAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I43 CASE XIII. A gentleman, thirty-two years of age, who had been fubje6l for feveral years to occa- fional attacks of fevere pain in the bowels, was feized, about the end of Auguft, with a violent purging, which continued for a fortnight, and was attended with fever. About a month afterwards, he felt pain in his leg at night, which gradually became con- tinued even during the day, and obliged him to confine himfelf to bed. In the beginning of Oftober a fwelling was perceived near the inner ankle, which fuppurated, and was opened on the twentieth, of the fame month. Two large tea cups full of dark brown matter were evacuated. The difcharge conti- nued profufe for fome time, and afterwards diminifhed. Four other fmall gatherings then took place in fucceffion, and, burfting, continued to difcharge j each aperture fretting^ out into a foul fore. About the beginning of February I firft faw this cafe, which was confidered as a difeafe of the bone. The five fores had apertures in them leading to fmufes, which' ■144 THE CONSTITUTIONAL 0RI(5W> which communicated with each other. A probe introduced into one of thefe, near the bottom of the tibia, could be moved upwards and downwards along the furface of the bone, which was not, however, denuded. From an upper ulcer the probe could be paffed behind the bone, and under the muC- cles of the calf; this indeed feemed to be the original feat of the abfcefs, from which the finufes proceeded to their different out- lets. The integuments were cedematous, and firm to the touch; fo that I could not dif- tin6lly feel the outline of the tibia; but I thought that the bone was not altered either in form or fize. The firmnefs with which the patient ftood upon the limb, and the want of aching pain in the bone contributed alfo to make me believe that it was not difeafed, and that the whole diforder confifted in an unhealthy abfcefs, the difcharge from which iffued from the various fmufes in the manner already defcribed. I could not but attribute fuch a difeafe to a general diforder of the health, and indeed the patient's countenance and appearance indicated a conftitution much weakened and harraffed by illnefs .His tongue wasAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I45 was furred, and the difcharges from the bow- els were irregular, deticient in quantity, and of a blackifh colour. With a view to the corre6lion of thefe fymptoms, I direfted the patient to take five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every fecond night, and the infufion of gen- tian with fenna, fo as to procure one motion daily. But little benefit was obtained by thefe meafures; and in about a fortnight after^ wards a thickening of the integuments took place over the fibula j a confiderable fwelling gradually arofe, and another abfcefs formed, which burft in about three weeks, and dif- charged a confiderable quantity of brownifh matter mixed with blood. During this time the limb was merely poulticed, and the patient could not leave his bed. His pain was extreme, and he had no reft at night. The ufe of opium was necefl'ai'y to alleviate his fufferings, and opening medicines occa- fionally to procure ftools. He took but little nourifliraent, and his health greatly de- clined. The difordered ftate of the ftomach and bowels was much aggravated by this local irritation. Indeed, the fi:uation of my pa- tient was now particularly perplexing. The VOL. I. L local145 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, local difeafe made the general health worfe 5 and the aggravation of this general diforder, which appeared to have been the caufe of the local difeafe and of its continuance, propor- tionately increafed the latter malady. The confinement to bed afforded an additional obflaeie to recovery j yet it was impoffible to remove him in his' prefent ftate, on account of the pain which motion occafioned. The leg was inf jpportably painful in a dependent pofture. As change of air and exercife feemed effential to his recovery, I was in duced to try if Mr. Baynton's excellent bandage, by fupporting the weakened vef- fels, would prevent their diftention, and the confequent pain. The fores Were dref- fed, after as much matter had been expreffed from the finufes as could be done without occafioning pain. Strips of fticking-plaifter were applied after the manner of a many- tailed bandage j. and the limb was afterwards rolled with a calico roller. The patient felt comfortable, and found his limb ftrength- ened. He was dire61:ed to wet the roller, if the parts became heated. The effect of this treatment was furprifing both to the patientAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I47 patient and myfelf. The pain, which had been conftant before preffure had been employed, ceaied from the time of dreffing till five o'clock on the following morning; but from that time it gradually increafed till noon, when the drefUngs were renewed. The caufe of this occurrence now became manifeft; for, upon opening the bandage, more than a tea- cup-full of matter was difcharged from the different fmufes. I dreffed the limb as before, cutting holes for the efcape of the matter oppofite to two of the chief fmufes. I defired the patient to put his leg to the ground, in order to afcertain the efFedt of the perpendi- cular pofition when the veflels werefupported; and he experienced no inconvenience. The feconddaypaffed, as the former, without pain $ and as the matter poured into the finufes readily efcaped, he had no uneafmefs from its deten- tion. I recommended him to fit up, and put his leg to the ground feveral times in the day, in order to accuftom it to that pofition. Aftef I had dreffed it on the third morning, the pa- tient flood up, and took two or three ileps very feebly ; but this was rather the efFea of general weaknefs than of particular infirmity L 2 iat^S ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, in the difeafed limb. I now advifed him to go a little way out of town in a carriage. The air and exercife, together with the freedom from pain, produced a very beneficial efFe6l. He began to recover his appetite, to fleep at night, and acquired fo much flrength, that he was able in a week to go about his houfe, and to refume his attention to bufniefs. The dif- charge from the fniufes was very trifling, and the fores looked much better. The patient now undertook to drefs his leg himfelf, and hired a lodging out of town, fo that I only faw him occafionally. His limb was fo much amended in the courfe of a fortnight, that it caufed no more trouble than that of daily drelTmg. But his health was not good. His countenance had the fame exprelTion of illnefs as when I firft faw him j his tongue was white and dry; his bowels coftive j and the ftools of an unhealthy colour. I there- fore recommended him to take again the fame medicines, which I had formerly ordered him. His health now improved; his tongue became moifter, and lefs furred; the bowels more re- gular j and the faeces coloured with a more healthy bile. He continued recovering till theAND TREATMENT,OF LOCAL DISEASES. I49. the middle of April, when he began to com- plain of the trouble of applying the fticking- plaifter, and ufed the calico roller alone. I did not fee him for three weeks, and then found him in a very defponding ftate. He complained of the tedioufnefs of his confine- ment, which had lafted more than half a year, and faid that he would willingly fubmjt to liave the fmufes laid open, if that would make him well. I found his leg well, excepting two orifices near the tibia j three ulcers which., formed the apertures of as many fmufes, had healed; the outline of the bone could be diftinftly felt j and there was no alteration of it in form or fize. I was unable at firft to account for this defpondency under fuch fa- vourable circumftances ; but I foon difcovered that it was the effect of hypochondi'iacifm. For his tongue was much furred and dry; and at the fame time that he left off the bandage, he had alfo difcontinued his medicines. I urged him to return to them immediately; and called on him again in ten days, when he perceived clearly the abfurdity of his late de^ fpondency, as well as its caufc. He called on me on the loth of July, with a new fwelling L 3 ' ^eaft$0 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, near the upper part of the tibia, which threats ened to form an abfcefs, fimilar to thofe which had formerly taken place. I covered the limb with the bandage of ftickipg-plaifter, as at firft. The new difeafe difappeared en- tirely ; and the old ones v/ere fo much bene- fited by the exa6t and equal preffurc, that the patient felt no difference between the found and the affe61:ed limb. The ulcers gradually healed, and his health is better than it has been for fome ycai-s: yet ftili there is an evi- dent tendency to diforder of the digeftive <brgans. CASES.-AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I CASES.. SECTION V. On more defined Difeafes, as Carbuncle and Scrofula arifingfrom Diforder of the Con/litution. IF, upon an extenfive and accurate examina- tion of the fnbje^i it were to appear, that many very peculiar and very diffimilar local difeafes originate from a common caufe, name- ly from weaknels and irritability of the fyf- tem in general, our enquiry would be further extended, and we fliould feel anxious to know whether fimilar caufes may not operate in the produ6lion of more common and more' frequent local diforders. As far as my late obfervations have enabled me to determine, that ftate of the digeftive organs, which I confider as denoting conftitutional diforder, exifts prior to the formation of a carbuncle j and is exacerbated during the progrefs of that difeafe. This opinion indeed v.dil appear ^ 4 pi'Os'152 ON THE ' CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, probable, if we confider the kind of perfons who are attacked with carbuncles, and the confiderable derangement of health, which even a trivial local difeafe of this nature occa- fions. I fhall mention but one cafe in fup- port of this opinion, though I have made iimilar remarks in feveral other inftances. * CASE xrv. I attended a gentleman, who was affli6led with carbuncles, during three fucceflive at- tacks, at the interval of about a year between each. I made an incifion through the indu- rated {kin, down to the fubjacent floughy cellular fubftance, and thus brought the local difeafe to a crilis. This treatment was fuf- iicient in the two firil: attacks; the extenfion of the difeafe was prevented j the floughs feparated, and the wound healed. The pa- tient, whofe mode of life was intemperate, had cough; difficult refpiration; fuUnefs and tendernefs of the parts fituated in the epi- gaftric region; unhealthy fecretion of bile 5 and in fhort, all thofe fymptoms which denote a very confiderable degree of difordcr of the digefliveAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 153 digeftive organs: it is probable indeed that fome organic difeafe of the chylopoietic vif- cera exifted. After he had recovered from the carbuncle, I told him that the moft im- portant difeafe ftill exifted j and urged him to be attentive to his diet, and to the direc- tions of his medical attendants. He ftill how- ever continued to live intemperately, and his diforder increafed. He was indeed nearly- dying from difeafed vifcera, when he was attacked with carbuncle for the third time. The divifion of the parts produced a tempo- rary cefTation of the difeafe; but it began again to fpread in every direction from its circumference, and he died. It will not, I believe, be doubted, that boils are a flighter degree, with fome varia- tion, of the fame difeafe, which caufes an- thrax and carbuncle; and it is almoft unne- cefTary to remark, that fome perfons are fub- je61: to a fuccciTive formation of very large and troublefome boils from the leaft irrita- tion of the fkin. I have feen many perfons thus affedled j and there has been, in every inftance, diforder of the digeftive organs, the cor-154 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, correflion of which has prevented the return of thefe vexatious local clifeafes. One gen- tleman, who had been tormented for many- years by the quick fucceffive formation of boils as large as eggs, has been free from them for fome years ; though he has had other diforders, which denote fuqh a condition of the conftitution, as it has been my obje6t to defcribe in this paper. I have remarked in many inflances that difeafes of the abforbent glands, fuch as are ufually and juftly denominated fcrofula, oc- curring in adults, have apparently originated from the diforder which I have defcribed. In feveral cafes the local difeafe was of lone duration, and had become worfe rather than better under various plans of medical treat- ment ; yet it amended regularly, and fome-r times even quickly, in proportion as the flate of the digeftive organs was corredled. I need not detail any cafes on this occafion, fmce every furgeon mull know them fami- liarly. The patients are commonly feiit to the fea-fide, or into the country; where en- larged glands fubfidcj and thofe which hav^AND TREATMEMT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I55 fuppurated and ulcerated heal; and the local difeafe recovers, in proportion as the health in general is amended. There are cafes of fcrofulous difeafes oc- curring fuddenly, and in various parts of the body at the fame time, which feem to originate in that ftate of the conftitntion which is occafioned by diforder of the digef- tive organs. I have chiefly obferved thefe cafes in children; and they have followed feme violent febrile afteftion. In two cafes which I lliall particularly mention, the fmall- pox was the antecedent difeafe. I have al- ready ftated, that v/hen the health has been conliderably difordered by fome violent dif- eafe, the digeftive organs may become fubfe- quently affefted; and that this diforder proves ^ caufe of many fecondary difeafes. CASE XV. A child of two years old had the fmall- pox, from which he did not feem to recover, but, on the contrary, fell into a very bad ftate ^f health. The abforbent glands on the ricrht fideI$6 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, fide of the neck became enlarged in fuccef- fion, fo as to form altogether a very confi- derable tumour, which extended down to the collar bone. The axillary glands then became afFe6led in the fame manner j the fwelling was unufually great, and feemed to extend under the peroral mufcle, elevating it, and forming by this means a continuation of tumour with the glands of the neck. Thefe fwellings had partially fuppurated, and had broken in two places, viz. in the neck, and about the margin of the pe6loral mufcle : but no relief followed; on the contrary, the mafs of difeafe feemed to be rapidly increafmg. The child was bowed forwards, fo that the fpine was much curved in the loins; the left leg appeared paralytic j and a fwelling was perceived in the abdomen, which I could not but afcribe to an enlargement of the external iliac glands. The child was extremely ema- ciated ; his {kin felt hot and dry; his tongue was covered with a brown fur; and the flools were black and highly offenfive. As there was no expe6lation that he could furvive this defperate ftate, thofe medicines only were prefcribed that feemed likely to cprred^ the ftat^AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES; 1 ftate of the digeftive organs; fuch as occa- fional dofes of calomel and rhubarb. A ftri6l attention to diet was alfo recommended. Under this treatment the ftools gradually became natural, and the tongue clean. The difeafe feemed to flop immediately. As the health was reftored, the fwellings rapidly fubfided; and the child became one of the healtliieft and ftouteil: of the family. CASE XVI. A female child, after having had the fmall pox, got into bad health from diforder of the digeftive organs. She was then fuddenly attacked with a fcrofulous affe6tion of the knee and elbow of the oppofite fides of the ' body. Two collcction.s of fluid had taken place beneath the fafcia of the leg and thigh. The joints were greatly enlarged, and the fwelling was apparently caufed by an increafe in the fize of the bones. Had I feen either joint, as a fmgle cafe of difeafe, I fliould have faid that it would leave the child a cripple. It was manifeft, in the prefent inftance, that thefe local difeafes v/ere the confequence of generalON THE CONSTITUTIOHAL ORIOW, general ill-health; and that the firft obje6l was to corre6l the diforder of the fyftem. The funftions of the digeftive organs, which had been deranged, were reftored to their natural ftate by employing the fame diet and medi- cines which had been fo fignally fuccefsful in the preceding cafe. By thefe means the health was re-eftabliflied, and the local dif- eafes gradually difappeared. I have heard it remarked by furgeons of great experience, that patients often recover when many fcrofulous difeafes appear at the fame time; although fome of them may be fo confiderable, that they would feem to warrant amputation had they appeared fnigly. Xhe cafes which I have related afford a moft clear "and fatisfa6lory account of the mode of recovery. General irritation and weaknefs bring on difeafes, to which perhaps a pre-difpofition may exift, in feveral parts of the bodyj thefe ceafe when their exciting caufe is removed. Of late indeed I have been equally fur- prized and rejoiced to fee fwellings of the abforrAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 15^ abforbent glands in children readily difperfed by that medical attention to corre6l errors in the functions of the digeftive organs, which I have defcribed. Some of thefe fwellings came on rapidly, and fome flowly, but thefe were fo large and fo much inflamed, that if any perfon had formerly told me they might be difperfed by fuch meafures, I fliould have thought the affertion an abfolute abfurdity from its direft contradidion to my former experience. From amongft a confiderablc number of cafes I fliall relate the following. CASE XVII. The fon of one of my friends had gradually fallen into a very bad ftate of health. The child was about fix years of age, and had been unwell for feveral months; when, in conr- clufion, two glands in the neck became gra- dually enlarged, till each had attained the fize of a large walnut. The child's tongue was much furred, his appetite very deficient, and capricious; his bowels had a coftive ten- dency j his ftools were never of a proper colour. His flefh was wafted and flabby, his 4 counte-l6o ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, countenance pale, his pulfe feeble and fre- quent; and his general demeanor languid and irritable. I told his father, that I could advife nothing as a local application better than bread and water poultice j and that the chief object of attention was the correction of that diforder under which he had long laboured, fo that his conftitution might regain its natural tranquillity and ftrength. Upon this fubje6l I promifed to fpeak to the gentle- man who had hitherto attended the child. In about two days a deep rednefs came over the moft prominent part of each gland, denoting, as I concluded, a difpofition in the internal parts to fuppurate. The child took half a grain of calomel with five of rhubarb every fecond night, and ten drops of the acid: vi- triol : dilut: three times a day. In about a week, an evident amendment was obferved in the appetite, fpirits, and colour of the excre- tions from the bowels. In a fortnight, the fpirits of the child became, to ufe the words of the parents, ungovernable; and an evi- dent amendment of the health in general took place. In a month, the child might be faid to be weU'i though he flill remained thin. -1 AfterAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. l6l After another fortnight, he difcontinued all medicine, except the occafional ufe of the powders, for at this time all veftiges of enlargement in the glands had difappeared. I do not relate this cafe as extraordinary, for I have feen feveral worfe cafes cured by the fame means ; and as I have faid, Ipme of' the fwellings have come on tardily and osiers rapidly. It is related merely, tfecaufe in the fame family another child had fuppuration of the glands 3 which left", a fore that healed flowly. ji It cannot indeed be proved that thefe cafes would have been Itrumous; it can only be faid, that to all appearance they were the fame as others which I have formerly feen fuppurate, and form fores flow in heahng, and fuch as are generally denominated fcro- fulous. CASE XVIII. A flender child about five years of age had five fwoUen glands on the right fide of the neck, and three on the left. Their magni- voL. I. M tude152 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, tude was confiderable, and the child's ap- pearance fickly; and the diforder had fo threatening an appearance, that the gentle- man who attended the family requefted the parents to take fome additional opinion on the cafe. The tongue was furred, and the bowels fo habitually coftive, that Ibmetimes a week elapfed without any alvine evacuation. As the child was feverifh, he took at firft fome faline medicines in a ftate of efFervefcence, which was afterwards changed for the .lilutcd vitriolic acid. He alfo took half a grain of calomel, every fecond night, which gradually brought about a regular fecretion of healthy bile, and in about three weeks the child might be faid to be well, for his bowels a6ted regularly when no medicine was taken, and the difcharges from them were properly tin6lured with bile. The ufe of calomel was now only recom- mended, if the appearance of the ftools va- ried from the rhubarb colour. The fwollen glands difappeared, nothing but a bread and water poultice having been applied to them. The bodily powers of the child were con- fiderably augmented, and his afpe6t became healthy. CASEAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES* 163 CASE XlXi A boy between feven and eight years of age had a lamenefs about the hip, which was fo confiderable as greatly to alarm his pa- rents. There was no tendernefs when the joint was compreffed either in front or from behind. The tongue was furred, and he had been fubject to flight paroxyms of fever, re- fembling an intermittent. I recommended half a grain of calomel with a few grains of rhubarb every other night. In a fhort time the lamenefs fo entirely difappeared, that I was no further confulted on his cafe. About eight months afterwards, however, I was defired to fee him with three confider- ably enlarged abforbent glands on one fide of his neck, and two on the other. They had for many days continued to increafe. He was at that time feverifh, and I now be- came more acquainted with the ftate of his health in general. I learned that he eat rather voracioufly, and could not be reftrain- ed from taking very highly feafoned food; that though his bowels regularly enough , M 2 evacu-i54 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, evacuated the refidue of the food, the ftools were of various, and always of faulty colours, and very offenfive; that he perfpired profufely upon the flighteft exertion. His Ikin was covered every where with fcurf and eruptions, and his hands were hard, harfh, and chapped. He took the medicines, as in the preceding cafe, for about the fame length of time, when the glandular complaint was well. He con- tinued the half grain of calomel, however, for three months, for the fecretion of bile had not even in that timq; become healthy in quantity and quality. His fkin was, how- ever, perfe6lly fmooth and free from erup- tions. His hands only retained in a flight degree their former feel. I have alfo feen inftances of fores ap- parently fcrofulous left after the fuppuration and ulceration of difeafed glands, which had continued for more than a year, heal rapidly imder the fame kind of treatment. I have however feen other inftances, in which the fores did not appear to be amended by fuch conftitutional treatment. I haveAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 165 I have alfo obferved feveral inftances of ftrtimous affeflions of the fingers in children get well in propoition as the general health has become eftabliQied by correftingdifDrders of the digeflive organs. I need not however detail them. Thefe difeafes were, in my opi- nion, ftriclly fcrofulous. The nature of the difeafe in the following cafe will not I think be doubted, and on this account I relate it. CASE XX. A child about five years of age, after hav- ing had the meafles, got into a bad ftate of health, and had feveral fcrofulous abfcefl^es form on the fore-arm. They became fores of various fizes, but in general about that of a fhilling J the furrounding fkin was thickened and of a purplifli hue. The fores were foul and without granulations. In this ftate they were when I firft faw the patient, and had continued with occafional amendment and deterioration for two years. Being confulted on the cafe, and perceiving the child appear- ed out of health, I examined his tongue, which was furred; enquired refpefting his M 3 apjfbtitCjl66 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, appetite, which was deficient, and the ftate of his bowels, which were coftive. The fame medicines were prefcribed as in the for« mer cafes. In about fix weeks the child got into remarkably good health, which it had not enjoyed from the time of its firft indif- pofition, and the fores rapidly and fo\indIy healed. My obfervations have led me to believe, that moft local difeafes are preceded by gene- ral indifpofition, of which the difordered ftate of the digeftive organs is an evidence, and may have been a caufe. The relief arifing from the corre6lion of this diforder is indeed furprifing, and the general knowledge of this fa6t I have deemed my duty to promote to the utmoft: of my power. When the appe- tite has been deficient, I have been accuftom- ed to recommend acids as medicines, when on the contrary it has been good, and the digef- tion difficult and imperfeft, I have recom- mended bitters and alkalies. I mention this to account for my giving thQ viliiolic acid in thele cafes. It is in ad- ditionA-ND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 15/ M 4 how dition to its medical properties, fo pleafant, that even fpoiled children will take it with- out agitating themfelves, and diftreffing their parents- It pleafes me to be able to give proofs of its utility ; becaufe, I think, they will be allowed to difprove that any fpecific good arifes from the adminiftration of alka- lies. Alkalies may be ufeful occafionally in dyfpeptic cafes j but that they have no fpeci- fic action in the cure of fcrofula, I have long thought from fome experiments which I made on this fubjeft at the hofpital. In cafes of fcrofulous glands, I gave foda in dofes which were gradually increafed till they afFe6led the qualities of the urine, without perceiving any benefit to accrue to the local difeafe from their ufe. The pleafure which I feel in thus en- deavouring to difprove the fpecific virtues of alkalies arifes from this circumflance:—That if I am right in my notion, that they are chiefly ufeful by their operation in the fto- mach and bowels, it fhews how much better it is to be informed of what ought to be done for the cure of difeafes, than of the means by which it may occafionally be ac~ compliflied; or in other words, it fhewsON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGINf how much fuperior the rational is to the em- pirical pra6lice of medicine. After having attempted to Ihew that many non-defcript difeafes arife apparently from the ftate of the conftitution, and that car- buncle and fcrofula are fometimes confe- quences of the fame caufe j it may be en- quired, whether, if tlie fame general diftur- bance of the health can produce fb many va- rieties of local difeafe, it may produce many others, and even every variety. Even in cancer, diforder of the digeftive organs ap- pears to be antecedent to the local difeafe, and aggravated by its exiftence; but whether this diforder be the efi'e6l or caufe of the Conftitutional diathefis cannot, I think, be at prefent determined. • CAS£S.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 169 CASES. SECTION rv. 0?} Difeafes of various Glands, arifingfrom Diforder of the Conjlitiition. T HAVE alfo obferved that difeafes of parti- cular organs feem to originate, in many inftances, from diforder of the fyftem in gene- ral. The teftis of the male fubjeft, and breaft of the female, have furniflied me with examples of this obfervation. In the cafes to which I allude, the teftes were alternately affefted, enlarging confiderably, and then fubfiding*. I have met with numerous and interefting cafes of fuch difeafes of the breaft,; however, the relation of a few will be fufficient to inform the reader of all that I know concerning this fubjecl. * The caufc which excites and maintains alternate irri- tation and dlfeafe of the teftes, generally refides in the urethra ; but there was no difeafe of that part, in the cafes which I now mention. The patients firft became un- healthy, and diforder of the teftes followed. Similar af- fections are not uncommon in pfeudo-fyphilis. 5 A lady170 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, CASE XXL A lady came to London, to fubmit to the removal of a difeafed breaft, if it fhould be judged neceffary. The difeafe had exifted for more than two years. The breaft of the af- fe6led fide was one third larger than the other; indurated in feveral parts; and fo much enlarged and hardened in one place, that this might have been taken for a diftin6t tumour on a hafty and inattentive examina- tion *. This part was fituated near the mar- gin of the pe6loral mufcle. The difeafe had refifted the various means employed with a view to difperfe it, fuch as leeches, lotions, • mercurial ointment, &c. It was occafionally painful, and caufed the patient fo much mental anxiety, that the furgeon, who attend- ed her in the country, thought it fhould he removed. The mammary gland of the op- * It may not be improper to obferve here, for the Inftruc- tlon of the younger part of the profeffion, that if a breaft containing a portion which is particularly indurated be ex- X amined with the points of the fingers placed circularly, the difeafe will feel like a feparate tumour ; but if the flat furface of the fingers be moved over it, its true nature will ^ecome manifeft. ,pofiteAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DIS^IASES. 17! pofite fide was far from being in a perfectly healthy ftate j which circumftance appeared to forbid an operation, fince the fame difeaie might take place afterwards in the oppofite breaft. The patient's general health was much impaired, her tongue was furred, her appetite deficient, her digeftion imperfe6l; the biliary fecretion was difordered, and the bowels coftive. I ordered her to take a compound calomel pill every other night, five grains of rhubarb half an hour before dinner, and the infufion of gentian with fenna, fo as to procure a fufficient eva- cuation of the bowels daily. Linen moift- ened in water was applied to the part in the evening, or when it felt painful and heated. This plan of treatment reduced the bulk of the difeafed gland by at leaft one third in the courfe of a fortnight. The patient went afterwards into the country, ftill employing the fame medicines; and was entirely free from the difeafe in three months, though fhe felt occafionally fhooting pains, which pro- bably indicated that her health was not com- pletely re-eftablifhed. CASE%J2 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, CASE XXIL A lady coniulted me on account of a con^. ilderable fwelling of the breaft, attended with much pain. It had come on fuddenly, and had' been painful about a week; but fhe thought that a lump had exilled previous to this time. The principal tumour was on the fide next the fternum, and was as large as an hen's egg; it feemed to be diftin6t» yet there was a general fwelling, with partial indura- tion of the fubftance of the gland. The tongue was furred, the bowels coftive, and the pulfe frequent; and flie was, to ufe her own ex- preffion, very nervous. I dire6led her to ufe the fame means as were mentioned in the preceding cafe. Small dofes of mercury a6t beneficially on the bowels, by inducing regu- lar and healthy fecretions; and I know no better method of adminiftering it as a difcu- tient. The general induration of the breaft and tumefa61ion of the integuments fubfided quickly under this treatment, and left the lump in the fame ftate which I fuppofed it to have been in before the attack of general fwellingAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 173 fwelling and pain. In another week this ap- parently diftinft itumoLir was flattened on its furface, diminilhed in fize, and confafed with the fubftance of the mammary gland. Its form varied each fuccefiive week ; it firft be- came oblong, and afterwards feemed to fepa- rate into two parts; but in lefs than fix weeks no trace of it could be felt. CASE XXIII. A medical man, who refides in the country, brought his daughter to town for advice. She had apparently a tumour in her left breaft, between the nipple and the axilla j in which part {he had felt a good deal of pain. The fwelling was of very confiderable fize, and the breaft fo tender, that I could not exa6lly make out whether it arofe from dif* tin6l tumour, or from a partial enlargement of the mammary gland. Want of time pre- vented the patient's father from fhewing the cafe to another furgeon. I could only give him this opinion; that in the prefent cir- cumftances no one would think of an opera- tion. I recommended the application of the lotio ammon. acetat. when the part felt heat- ed i and as the patient had diforder of the /7-„ i.LO-174 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, ilomach and bowels to a great degree, that the chief attention fhould be paid to the ftate of thefe organs. A grain of calomel was di- refted to be taken every fecond night; rhu- barb before dinner, and infuf. gentian and fenna, if neceflary. About two months afterwards, having oc- cafion to be in that part of the country where the patient refided, I called on her. Her father then • told me that the fwelling had fubfided confiderably, after his daughter's return in the country; and that of late he had not examined the complaint, as fne told him flie felt no uneafmefs from it. When I now examined the breafl:, I could not perceive any difference between it and the other. No veftige was left of a diforder, which had been of fuch a magnitude, as to occafion confiderable alarm j a circumftance that excited the greateft furprize in the mind of her father, who was a pradtitioner of much experience *. * I have alfo known cafes of induration and fuppuration of the falivary glands, apparently caufed by the fame gene- xal diforder, and cured by the fame treatment. J 4 beforeAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 175 Before I had paid attention to thofe com- plaints which arife from, or are aggravated by conftitational caufes, I could not have believed that fuch confiderable local difeafes, after refifting various topical and general means, fhould give way fo readily and com- pletely to fmall dofes of medicine. It is only by confidering the manner in which this effeft is produced, that the fabje6l can be placed in a proper point of view. An attention to the ftate of the bowels is indifpenfably neceflary, even in the com- mon praflice of furgery. A fimple cut of the finger frets into a bad phagedaenic fore, which refifts every local remedy fo long, that amputation is at laft propofed. This is the confequence of bad health, which in its turn is aggravated by the irritation of the fore. The patient has a furred tongue, with other fymptoms of difordered digeftive organs. An attention to this diforder corre6ls the painful ftate of the fore, which now heals rapidly under fimple dreffings. A patient has a diforder in the urethra, almofttjS ON THH CONSTITUTIONAL OlitoiN, almofl too trivial for furgical attention ; yet producing much inconvenience. The func- tions of the digeftive organs are impaired, and he is hypochondriacal. He confults a phyfician, under whofe care his general health is amended, and he no longer feels or thinks of the local difeafe. An eryfipelatous inflammation of the leg. is imputed to fome trivial caufe; as for in-- fiance a gnat-bite. It becomes worfe under the common remedies. The health has been long declining, and the chylopoietic vifcera are obvioufly deranged. The eryfipelas is quickly cured by medicines prefcribed for that diforder. A patient has a trivial fore on his leg which the furgeon finds a difficulty in curing by the ufual methods. The patient feels indif- pofed, and has a manifeft diforder of his di-- geftive organs. The fore begins to flough, and becomes very painful. The diforder of the ftomach and bowels is augmented y fo great is the indigeftion, that the fmall quantity of food which the patient thinks it necelTaryAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 177 neceffaiy to fwallow for fuftenance, feels weighty and uncomfortable in the ftomach; and the vegetable food becomes almoft cor- rofively acid. Opium fails to procure fleep, or even to give eafe. When the mortifica- tion has fpread fo as to occupy almoft one fourth of the integuments of the leg, feveral very copious pultaceous ftools of a greenifh brown colour are difcharged from the bowels in the courfe of the night, and the patient's feelings undergo an entire revolution. Before this, the ftools procured by medicine were watry and dark coloured. The patient now fleeps like one long harafTed by pain and watching; his ftomach is tran- quil and wilhngly receives aliment, which now produces no uneafy fenfations. The Ikin which had been hot and dry, becomes moiftened with a gentle perfpiration, and the pulfe beats with its natural frequency, and in a tranquil manner. The effefts of this favourable crifis being maintained by medi- cal treatment, the Houghs are thrown off and the fore heals with a rapidity indicative of confiderable vigour of conftitution, and fur*, tlier demonftrative of the floughing not hav- voL. r. N iner178 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIcm, ing been the efFecl of vafcular weaknefs, but of nervous irritation. I could relate numer- ous cafes of eryfipelatous inflammation ter- minating in floughing, in which the difeafe arofe from a ftmilar conftitutional caufe. A patient fuppofes that his knee is ftrained; for pain and inflammation of the joint fud- d^nly come on, witli depofition of fluid into the articular cavity i this attack is attended with fever, furred tongue, and unnatural dif- \f:harges from the bowels. Leeches, cooling waflies, and poultices j in fliort, all topical applications are unavailing. It is a cafe of rheumatic inflammation, for which a phyfi- cian is confulted. Five or fix weeks elapfe without any abatement of the difeafe, the patient being almofl: unable to fl:ir in bed. An alteration in the health fuddenly takes place ; the tongue becomes clean, the bowels regular, and biliary fecretion healthy 3 and tliere is no longer any pain in the knee. All the fluid is abforbed from the joint in two days, and the- patient walks about his chamber. Or there may a6lually have been fome local injury but the confequences are very con- 8 fiderableAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I79 liderable and violent, and quite incommen- furate to the caufe. Such occurrences can only be explained by imputing the effecls to <the llate of the health in general*. A cafe like that defcribed in the preceding fketch would, I believe, be acknowledged by every one to be dependent on the ftate of the conftitution in general; but I could bring for- ward a great number of inftances of chronic affeftions of joints, incurable by local mea- fures, which were evidently cured by correct- ing thofe errors in the ftate of the digeftivc organs, which were the caufe or efFe6l of general diforder of conftitution. In difeafes of joints, v^e find three diftin^l kinds of cafes, Firft a fcrofulous difeafe of the bones, which ultimately affects their articular furfacesj fecondly, an inflammatory afFe6lion of the joint, producing effufion of fluids into its cavity and ulceration of the cartilages and ligaments ; and in this cafe, the moft perfedt reft, and moft ftrenuous efforts by local * As operations are injuries, fo we ought not to per- form them, if it can be avoided, when the conftitution is much difordered. I could relate feveral inftances of the wounds made in operations, affuming difeafed anions from fuch a ftate of tke conftitution. N 2 meansl80 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, CASE means to put a flop to inflammation are re- quifite; and thirdly, an inflammation de- pendent on conftitutional caufes. This in- flammation is fometimes of an aftive and painful nature, and fometimes of a more in- dolent and chronic chara6lerj but whatever form it may aflume, it is lefs prone to injure the fliru^lure of the joint, and little fufceptible of cure by local meafures, whilft it yields to thofe means which tend to improve the health in general. When a difeafed joint is fo fituated as to become an objeft of examina- tion, thefe circumfl:ances will be fufficiently evident. I am induced to mention them chiefly on account of fuch variety of affec- 'tions occurring equally in the hip, as well as in the other joints, in which cafe the be- nefit accruing from different modes of treat- ment is lefs demonfl:rable to the fight and touch *. * As I know of no treatife on difeafes of the hip in which the difl:in6tion of cafes is made; and as, from what I have feen, I cannot but confider the fubjeft to be very • irnpoirtant; fo I think I fhould do WTong to forego the prefent opportunity of relating as fuccIniSly as poflible two of a confiderable number that have come.under my obfer- . vation, in order to excite attention to this fubjeil.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. l8l CASE I. A boy about twelve years old was fent from fchool to London, being fuppofed to have a lumbar abfcefs. There was a confiderable colleftion of fluid beneath the fafcia of the thigh ; but it received no impulfe when the patient coughed. The boy limped in walking as if he had a dif- eafed hip, fcarcely bearing on the afFe£ted joint. When preflure was made on the front of the orbicular ligament, it gave him acute and confiderable pain. He was kept perfe£lly quiet in bed, blood was taken by leeches re- peatedly from the integuments oppofite to the inflamed joint, and linen wet with diluted aq: ammon: acet: con- llantly applied, till preflure no longer occafioned pain. A blifter was then applied over the joint, and the cuticle being removed, the fore furface was drefl~ed with favine cerate. This drefliing produced confiderable inflammation and ul- ceration beyond the bliftered part, and caufed the furface of the flcin which had been deprived of its cuticle to mor- tify. Near a month elapfed before the fore healed. At this time no fluid was difcoverable beneath the fafcia ; no uneafinefs was felt when the joint was comprefl^ed; and the boy could not be prevented from getting up, becaufe he felt as competent to walk about, as before the occur- rence of his difeafe. He went to fchool again in the country, and after two years was put into a merchant's employ ; in which fituation, he was obliged to be con- ftantly walking about the town. He then again became lame, in the fame manner, but not to the fame degree. There was, however, no efFufion of fluid beneath the faf- cia of the thigh. A month's reft with fimilar treatment feemed to have cured this relapfe; and I then told his father that he muft change the employment of his fon : obferving, that though the joint might recover fufliciently N 3 tol82 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, to endure common exercife, wltliout injury, it was not to be expe£led that it would ever be able to fuftain violent exertions with impunity. I urged him, alfo, to let me know immediately if there was any return of lamenefs. About three months afterwards, I met thp father and his, fon in the ftreet, and obferved that the youtjj limped ia walking very much. I alked why I had not been informed immediately, as I hq,d requefted, of return of lamenefs; and further enquired, whether the boy Hill continued in the fame fituation. Being told that he did fo, I felt fo much hurt at the cruel and abfurd conduct of his father, that I declared I would no longer interfere in their concerns, nor was I afked to do fo. All that I can further relate of this cafe is, that a large abfcefs formed and broke behind the trochanter, and that I once afterwards faw the poor lad lying in St. BartholoT-. mew's hofpital with his thigh bone diflocated in confe- quence of the deftruftipn of the ligaments of the joint. CASE 11. A young lady of a delicate and fufceptible conftitutlon, who had fuffered much uneafmefs of mind on account of •fome of her friends, became fo exceffively.lame in the left hip that {he could not move a few fteps without fupport. Preffure on the front of the joint occafioned confiderable pain. Her tongue was much furred, and her bowels greatly difordered, and Ihe had fits of agitated and diffi- cult refpiration, I recommended nothing but tepid fo- mentations to the hip, and explained to her phyfician what I thought would be right to be done with regard, to the ftate of the digeftive organs. As fhe became better in health, her power of moving xbout increafed, and fhe weiit the fea-fide. After twp year?,AND,TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 1R3 N 4 CASES. years tliere ftill remained fome tendernefs, -when die hip jomt was comprelTed and fome thickening of tlie parts •which covered it. She, however, eventually got well, though no local applications of any moment were made, to the difeafed parts. I need fcarcely add, that the mean^ employed in the firft cafe, with fuch ftriking fuccefs, would have been prejudicial in the latter, whilft thofe which were ferviceable in the laft. cafe, would hav^ bee^ futile and nugatory in the former.184 ON *rHJ8 CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, CASE CASES. SECTION V. Diforders of Parts which have a Co7itinuity of Sur- face with the alimentary Canal. IHAD formerly obferved fpafmodic ftrjac- tures of the oefophagus to difappear under various modes of treatment, in a manner which I did not underftand. Mercury feem- ed to efFe6l the cure in three inftances. Many cafes have occurred to me lately, in which the irritation in the cefophagus feemed to be firft excited and afterwards maintained by diforder of the digeftive organs. It will be readily allowed, that fpafmodic ftri6lures of the cefophagus, when long continued, may caufe a thickening in the affe6led part of the tube, and thus the ftrifture^may become per- manent. One inftance will be fufficient to illuftrate and verify this view of the ,fub- jea.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 185 CASE XXIV. A lady, who had been in bad health for many years, and was fuppofed by her medi- cal attendants to have a fl:ri6lure of the oefo- phagus, became at laft incapable of fwallow- ing any food, except in very fmall quantities; jfhe was even then obliged to drink fofne fluid after each morfel, to facilitate its defcent into the ftomach. Some mucus and blood rofe into the mouth after vomiting, which very generally followed the taking of food. Under thefe circumftances, I was requefted to pafs a bougie, in order to afcertain the flate of the cefophagus; but I declined this exami- nation, on account of the diforder which exifted in the ftomach. The tongue was greatly furred j the parts in the epigaftric region very tender ; the bowels much difor- dered; the fecretion of bile either very un- healthy, or entirely wanting; every fym.ptom, in fhort, which indicates an aggravated form of diforder of the digeftive organs, exifVed in a ftriking degree. The ftomach and bow- els were brought into a better ftate by fuch medical attentions as I have already fo often defcribed; and the cefophagus partook of thisl86 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGINy this amendment: for moderately fized mor- fels of food could now be fwallowed with- out the neceflity of wafliing them down by liquids. The general health alfo improved, and Ihe became fat. But the diforder of the digeftive organs, which had been of long continuance, was not completely fubdued; fhe \yas ftill fubje6t to relapfes, and in fome o-f thefe the difficulty of deglutition again occurred *. The throat and mouth are the parts next in order; but it is unneceffary to relate addi-- tional cafes under this head: fome of the inftatices 'already recorded will be fufficient to confirm my fentiments on this fubje6V, and the propriety of the pra6tice which I have recommended. •* That difeafes of the nofe may be caufed or aggravated by irritation arifmg from the ftomach is a propofition, which will, I think, be readily granted. Indeed it feems furpri- fmg that the operation of this caufe has been * This patient has now for more than four years been free from this diforder.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 187 fo little adverted to in books of furgery; fince the phsenomena which prove the fa6l are fo well known. Are the monftrous nofes, caiifed by exceffive drinking of vinous and fpiritu- ous liquors, to be otherwife accounted for, than by irritation arifing from the ftomach ? And do not worms in children caufc a teazing fenfation in the extremity of the nofe 1 I had feen, in private praftice, feveral cafes of irritation and fwelling of the end of the 'nofe. In fome inftances accompanied with fn^all ul- cerations of the pituitary membrane. In thefe cafes, the Ikin over the nofe, which was tumid, became rough and difcoloured: the middle of the difcoloured part became found j v\ffnlft the circumference retained its morbid actions, the difeafe there fpread in a fmall degree. In thefe cafes the tongue was furred ; and there were evident indications of diforder in the Ilomach and bowels. The difeafe was check- ed, and cured, by attention to this diforder. I was ftrongly imprefled with the opinion, that if thefe cafes had been neglefled, they would have terminated in that herpetic ulce- ration, which fo often aftecls the end of the jiofe, I have alfo feen feveral inftances of thatl88 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL OrIgIN, that lierpetic ulceration in its confirmed ftatc more materially benefited by medical atten- tion to corred the diforder of the digeflive organs than by any local application : and I feel confident that it may be frequently cured by fuch endeavours. I have obfervcd, in all the cafes of that noifome and intraftable difeafe, ozsena, which have come under my care lately, that the ftomach and bowels have been difordered; and more benefit has been obtained by endea- vouring to bring thefe organs into a healthy flate, than by all the local application, which hai?been previoufly tried. I ftated to a me- dical friend my opinions refpefting one pa- tient, who came from the country, and beg- ged to know the effe6l of the treatment which I had propofed. He informed me, after fome months, that he had not been able to fucceed in correfting the vifceral diforder j and after relating the means which had been ufed, he adds, The patient was now attacked with a bilious diforder, to wliich fhe had formerly been fubjeft, and for which I gave her fix grains of calomel in a bolus, which foon relievedAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. iBg 14 nafi, relieved her. During this attack .the npfe feemed well j there was no fetor in the dif- charge, and fhe recovered her fenfe of fmel- ling." However the difeafe returned after- wards as before. I have known feveral inftances of perfons who have for a long time been fubjecl to polypi of the nofe, in which the polypi ceafed to grow after fome attention had been paid to corre6ladiforderof the digeftive organs. In farther confirmation of the opinion, that difeafes of the nofe depend much upon the ftate of the ftomach, I fhall mention the cafe of a woman, who had a difeafe of the nofe, which I expe6led would, at leaft, prove very tedious and very troublefome, but which got well fpeedily under fimple dreffings, in confequence, as appeared, from the efieft of internal medicines. CASE XXV. This patient was between thirty and forty - years of age j had a furred tongue, bowels alternately coftive and lax, and the difcharges difcoloured. An enlargement of the left alatg^O ON THE CONSTlTtfTlOMAL ORlGtN',- mifi, caufed by a great thickening of the pai'td covering and lining the cartilage,, had gradu- ally-taken place. The Ikin was difcoloured, and an ulcer, about the fize of a fixpence, had formed on the under furface of the ala. The fore was deep, with a floughing furface, and > uneven and fpreading edges. Spermaceti ce- rate was employed as a drefling ; and the ex- - ternal Ikin wslS frequently bathed with Gou~' lard's walh. She was ordered to take inter- fially five grains of rhubarb an hour before dinner, five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every fecond night, and the infufion of gentian with icnna occafionally. TheTore ceafed to fpread* the fweiling gradually fubfided, and all dif- eafed appearances were removed in the courfe "of a month. The patient alfo found her health confiderably amended. In moft cafes of deafnefs, there is probably : a. ftate of irritation, and a tendency to inflam- mation, throughout the palTages of the ear. The external meatus may be unufually fen- fibie, tlie fecretions being either fuppreffed, or difcharged in an unnatural quantity. The lining of tiie euftachian trumpet is thickened j andAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES, l^l and hence it becomes partially obftru6led. It muft be admitted that fuch a ftate of the or- gan is likely to be aggravated by a caufe, which maintains or produces irritation in the nofe. When dullnefs of hearing alfo depends on a torpid ftate of the nerves, it may be caufed by the fame circumftance, which is known to affe6l the fenfibiHty of other nerves. Indeed, I have remarked that the hearing of many perfons has confiderably varied with the ftate of their health in general; fo that I felt no furprife from the occurrence related in the following cafe. A gentleman applied to me on account of fome pfeudofyphilitic fymptoms, which I told him would gradually become well. I advifed him, at the fame time, to be particularly at- tentive to the ftate of the digeftive organs, which were generally difordered by the effe£ls of the poifon. He took five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every fecond or third night. The diforders for which he had confulted me were all removed in the courfe of two months j whenig± ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIOIN, when I received a letter from him, faying, that he thought it a duty he owed to me and to the public to inform me, that the lenient courfe of mercury, which I had recommend- ed, had cured him of a confiderable degree of habitual deafnefs. It is well known that ophthalmy frequent- ly arifes from conftitutional caufes; and in fuch cafes the digeftive organs are generally deranged. The health will be moft fpeedily reftored, and the local difeafe moft efFe6lually diminifhed, by corre61:ing the difordered flate of the abdominal vifcera. There is no ne- ceffity for enlarging upon this fubje6t; yet it may be ufeful to ftate what I have obferved refpe61:ing thofe ophtl^aimies, which take pi ace iubfequently to gonorrhoea, and which have .generally been afcribed' to a retropulfion of that diforder, or to the accidental application of the difcharge to the furface of the eye. In the worft of the cafes, which I have feen lately, there was confiderable rednefs and irri- tability of the eye, lafting nearly a fortnight. The digeftive organs were deranged in all the ■inftances, to wliich I allude and I attribute theAki) TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I9J the comparative well-doing of thefe pa- tients to the attention which was paid to their correction. In other cafes, which I had formerly been witnefs to, where evacuations by bleeding and purging, &c. were employed, the diforder was extreme- ly obftinate; nay feveral patients loft their fight. The cafes of ophthalmy conne6led with gonorrhoea appear to be of two kinds. In the worft cafe, and that which I havehappened to meet with moft rarely, there is, I think, rcafon to fuppofe that fome of the difcharge from the urethra has been accidentally ap- plied to the furface of the eye. This circum- ftance may be inferred from the copious and puriforpi difcharge which takes place from the conjunctiva which is continued for about three weeks, and from the dlfeafe not yielding to any remedies which ufually re- lieve other ophthalmies. The milder and, to me, more commonly occurring cafe, feems to be tlie refult merely of irritability of confti- tution. With relation to this fubje£t I may mention that I know a patient who has feve- voL. I. o ral194 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, ral times had difcharge from the urethra and inflamed eyes alternating with each other and both apparently arifmg from conftitui-f tional caufes. I fhall alfo add the following ftriking inftance of ophthalmy connefled with gonorrhoea, in which the inflammation of the eyes can neither be fuppofed to be the effe6l of local contamination nor of metaf- talis. CASE XXVI. A gentleman, having a gonorrhoea and being in a remote part of Scotland, felt himfelf ob- liged to go to the weft of England with the greateft expedition. He came to London by the mail coach, and during the journey his eyes became greatly inflamed, and he was much tormented with dyfury; he was indeed fo ill, upon his arrival in town, as to be unable to proceed on his journey. His eyes were ex- ceedingly red and painful, and the lids tu- mid. He had frequent and urgent defire to void his urine. The difcharge from the urethra was very copious. His tongue was much fun^ed; his bowels had a coftive ten- dency i the ftools were blackifti and oftenflve; hisANP TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I9J 0 2 ftool his pulfe frequent, and neither full nor ftrong} his fkin hot and rather dry. He faid that formerly, having a gonorrhoea, he had been affefted with ophthalmy in the fame manner. He was dire6led frequently to bathe his eyes with lukewarm decoftion of poppies; bat the chief attention was paid to the ftate of his ifomach and bowels. He took five grains of the pilul. hydrarg. every night, and other medicines to procure a fuf- ficient alvine evacuation daily. On the third day he had fevere rheumatic pains in his fhoulder. On the fourth, his knee became af- fe6led with rheumatifm, and fo much fwollen that he was incapable of moving about, though his eyes were much better, fo that he was able to fit up and bear the window (butters of his chamber to be left open, which he could not before have permitted. On the fifth day, though better, his eyes were ftill much inflamed, his dyfury troublefome, and he was unable to walk from the rheumatic affe6lion of his knee. The difcharges from the bowels had been regularly obferved, and they ftill continued of a very • wrong colour, •till the evening of this day, Vvhen he had ajg6 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, ftool properly tinftured with healthy bile. He now felt a fudden and furprizing amend- ment, which appeared equally fo to others on the following day; for I found him walking about with very little lamenefs, his eyes requiring no further attention than wearing a green fliade, and he had no dy- fury. In two days he purfued his journey, nor did he experience any relapfe. There is a chronic ophthalmy, which is, I believe, generally confidered to be venereal, probably from the difficulty of curing it, and probably from mercury being frequently beneficial to it. As cafes of this defcriptiori evince how much ophthalmies are likely to depend upon conftitutional caufes, I fhall briefly relate the following to identify the kind of difeafe to which I allude. CASE XXVII. A gentleman had for more than two years been more or lefs fubjeft to a chronic oph- thalmy. When he was. very bad, he had twice ufed mercury for its cure, and with temporary fuccefs. The laft mercurial courfe wasAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I97 was a confiderable one, as the relapfe of his diforder was attributed to the infufficiency of the former one. The ophthalmy, how- ever, returned with as much, if not with more feverity than formerly. The eye was extremely red, very irritable, and his vifion very imperfe6l. I found the patient fhut up in a clofe and dark chamber, from which he rarely ventured to ftir, left he fhould catch cold. His tongue was furred, and his biliary fecretion faulty. I directed fmall dofes of mercury eveiy fecond night, merely as pro- bilious medicines, and requefted him to pay attention that his bowels were kept clear without being what is called purged. I alfo urged him to go out into the air and ufe aftive exercife. By purfuing thcfe meafures, the ophthalmy was nearly well in about three weeks. He now either caught cold or fan- cied that he had done fo; his general health became difturbed, and his ophthalmy return- ed. It got well, however, as the difturbance of his conftitution wore of, and though he had two or three times, during a year, fome trivial returns of ophthalmy, yet they were always induced by general diforder, and rea- o 3 dily198 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, dily got well by meafures direfted to corre61: diforders of the alimentary canal. That cutaneous difeafes * are much con- nefted with the ftate of the ftomach, is gene- rally known. Hence various medicines have been recommended to corre6l diforders of that vifcus, with the view of removing the more evident, but confequent difeafe of the fkin. The account, which I have given of diforders of the digeftive organs, may lead to a more rational and lefs empirical treatment, and to the morejuft appreciation of the value * It may perhaps Ije right to advert to the diredl and fudden fympathy which exifts between the flcin and the ftomach. In affeftions of the latter organ, the Ikin is dry and cold, moift and cold, hot and dry, or moift and dry j and it fuddenly changes from the one to the other condi- tion, as the ftate of the ftomach varies. When the digef- tive organs are difordered, the irritable ftate of the fkin is manifefted by the efFe£ls pf blifl:ers and other irritating ap"- plications. A blilter produces a tormenting local difeafe, and even a Burgmidy pitch plafter caufes extenfive ery- theiria. Indeed, when the conftitution is irritable, all the modes of counter-irritation, which furgeons employ under other circumftances with fuccefs for the cure of local dif- eafes, are likely to do harm ; and thus thefe curative me- thods obtain difcredit in confequence of their ill-timed em- ployment. andAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. I99 and mode of aftion of remedies, whicli are faiidioned by experience. It is almoft fuper- fluous to relate any cafe to authenticate fo well known a fa(St j the following, however, may be found interefiing and inftraclive. A patient in St. Bartholomew's hofpital had an herpetic difeafe of the Ikin. This had healed in the middle, and fpread in the cir- cumference to fuch a degree, that it occupied nearly the whole length of the leg, and in- cluded two thirds of its circumference. The ^kin had recovered a moderately found ftate in the centre. The difeafe was propagated in the circumference by an ulceration, which threw out a projecting and firm fungus of a tawny colour, of about half an inch in breadth. A fmall groove or channel fepa- rated this fungus from the furrounding in- flamed (kin, which had not yet ulcerated. A fimilar difeafe occupied the back part of the arm; this was of an oval figure, and refem- bled, in every circumfcance, that which I have already dcfcribed upon the leg. Thefe difeafes had exifted for nearly two years, and continued to fpread in oppofition to every o 4 modp200 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, mode of treatment. Mercury had been em- ployed, even to falivation, without any marked alleviation of the local complaint. I immediately perceived that the digeftivc organs were greatly deranged: upon cor- refting this diforder, the iTcin furround- ing the difeafe became pale; and all difpo- fition to fpread ceafed. The fungus, how- ever, ftill projefted, and did not heal; it was therefore drefled with a weak folution of kali arfenicatum. This remedy feemed to fub vert the difeafed a6lions, which had produced the fungus j fo that, in lefs two months, the patient was difcharged from the hofpital perfeftly well, I have feen iimilar herpetic difeafes, of much lefs extent, fucceed to the abforption of matter from fores upon the genitals. Thefe have got well when the patient has gone into the country, and appeared again when he has returned to town. They have healed under a courfe of mercury, and broken out again when it was difcontinued; In this review of diforders, occurring in J 4 partsAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 201 parts having a continuity of furface with the digeftive organs, I have traced them from the ftomach. Another fet of difeafes may ori- ginate from the fame fource. The large in- teftines fuffer more in advanced ftages of thefe diforders than the fmaller ones; hence difor- ders of the reftum, and particularly many irritable difeafes about the orifice of that bowel, are deducible from this caufe. I fhall not, however, prolong the account by the relation of cafes; but content myfelf with alluring the reader, that the opinion has been derived from facts, and not from preconceived notions of the opeiation of fuch diforders. SEC-302 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, SECTION V. IN this Se6lion I mall mention what infor- mation I have obtained by diffeclion, rela- tive to the caufation of other difeafes by thofe of the digeftive organs. . The reciprocal fym- pathy, which exiits between the brain and the digeftive organs, is generally admitted; but the kind and the degree of the effefts arifmg from this fympathy, is not, perhaps, in general, fufficiently underftood. Thefe or- gans mutally increafe each other's diforder j till the affe6]:ion of the fenforium leads to the greatefl difturbance of the nervous fun6lions, and even thofe of the mind. All this may happen without any vifible difeafe of the brain. Dr. Kirkland particu- larly dire6led the attention of medical men to nervous apoplexy; and the obfervations, which have been made fince his time, have proved, that not only a general derangement QfAND Ti^EATMENT QP LOCAL DISEASES. 203 of tbe funiftions of the:nervous fyftem pro- ducing apoplexy, but alfo partial effects of a fimilar nature caufnig hemiplegia and para- lyfiis, may take place, without any vifible change of ftruclure in the brain. I have met with num.erous inftances of this kind; but could not determine whether the affec- tions were merely nervous, or whether they were produced, or aggravated by diforder of the digeflive organs. I only know, that the patients died affedled by apoplexy, hemi- plegia, or more local paralyfis, without any derangement in the evident flru6lure of the brain. I may alio mention, that I formerly examined the brains of three perfons who died in a comatofe ftate, in confequence of the metaflafis of rheumatifm. In thefe cafes no morbid appearance was obferved in the brain, except fome flight marks of inflamma- tion of the pia mater. It therefore appears clearly to me, that diforder and a confider- able diminution of the nervous fun6tions may take place, without any organic affe6lion of the brain. The perfect recovery of pa- tients, which fometimes happens, after fuch diforders, may alfo be confidered as additional evidence204 ON THK CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, evidence of there having been, in fuch in- ftances, no organic difeafe of the brain. There can be no doubt but that epilepfy may in hke manner take place without any- morbid alteration of the ftru6lureof the brain, or its membranes. Some of the perfons whofc heads were examined, without the difcovery of any difeafe of thofe parts, had been fubje6t to attacks like thofe of epilepfy. Dr. Henry Frafer has, of late, publillied a decifive in- ftance in proof of this faft. A patient died of epilepfy, and his brain was examined with particular attention by Mr. Cooper, without any morbid alteration of ftru6lure being dif- covered *. In general, however, morbid ap- pearances are evident in the brains of thofe perfons who die of epilepfy. Tubercles are moft frequently met with. There is, how- ever, a diforder of ftru6lure which 1 wifh briefly to mention, as I do not find that it has been noticed. . In two perfons, who died of epilepfy, I found the medullary fubftancc of each hemifphere altered from its natural * See Frafer on Epilepfy, page 39. ftru(5lure jAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEAS2S. 205 ftruclure; it had loft its natural firmnefs, and finoothnefs of furface, and appeared like thick curdled cream. Now, if diforder of the digeftive organs is capable of caufing or aggravating nervous diforder, even to the produ6tion of thofe effefts w^hich have been mentioned, when there is no alteration of ftru6ture; it muft be granted that fuch a ftate of irritation of the fenforium may lay the foundation of an excitement of the vafcular ftru6lure of the brain, and thus very frequently produce organic difeafe. When this has occurred, it will ag- gravate and eftabliih the nei*vous affection, and thus perhaps render it infufceptible of cure. Such are the general obfervations which I have made, by means of anatomical enquiry, relative to thefe fubjecls. With refpeft more efpecially to the inveftigation of my prefent objed, I have examined the bodies of fix patients, in whom difeafe moft certainly began in the abdominal vifccra, and was con- tinued in them to the conclufion of their lives.2o6 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, lives. Neverthelefs the patients feemed to die rather of nervous diforder, than of difeafe of the parts firft affefted. One of the patients died affe6led with apopleftic fymptoms, and five with hemiplegia. • In all thefe cafes tlie liver was greatly dif- eafed, and the bowels alfo exhibited difeafed appearances. In three of the cafes there was confiderable inflammation of the membranes of the brain; and a good deal of water in the ventricles. In two of them no morbid appear- ance of the brain was difcovered. I have alfo examined a child, who was fuppofed to die of hydrocephalus, accompanied by great ^diforder of the ftomach and bowels. In this cafe the bowels were inflamed, the liver foundj and the brain perfe6lly healthy in appearance; yet there had been fo great a diminution of fenfation and motion, as to leave no doubt of the exiftence of hydroce- phalus. I am aware, that great opportunities of obfervation, accurate attention to the hiftory of difeales, and anatomical exami- nation of fatal cafes, are requifite to enable us to formjuft notions relative to the prefent 4 fubje6l.AND TRE-AtMENT OF LOCAL DISI^A&ES. 207 fubje6l. I thought, however, that it might not be improper to ftatc what had been the refult of my own enquiries by diffeftion, in order to promote a more general attention to the fubject. When my attention-was firil directed to the fubje6l of fympathetic affeftioiis of other organs, caufed by diforder of thofe con- cerned in digeftion, my primary obje6l was, to endeavour to afcertain, by diffedlion, how far pulmonary difeafes originated from fuch a fource. I have, in the courfe of my en- quiries, had feveral opportunities of exa^ mining the bodies of patients who apparently died of phthifis, combined vvith difeafes of the digeftive organs. In thefe cafes both the his- tory and diffeftion tended to prove, that the chylopoietic vifcera were the feat of the greateft and moft eflabliflied difeafe, and that the pulmonary afFe6lion was a fecondary dif^- order. The liver was greatly difeafed, and the lungs were alfo befet with tubercles j yet a confiderable portion of thofe organs was found. But difleftions can never conclufively afcertain the truth of the opinions which I have2o8 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORlom, have ftatedj for the fame difpofition to difeafc exifting in the conftitution may equally affed both the pulmonary and digeftive organs. Nay, obfervations made in difleftion in general, would tend to difprove the opinions alluded to J for difeafes of the lungs are veiy com- monly met with in dead bodies, while thofe of the liver and bowels are much lefs frequent. Yet confiderable diforder of the digeftive or- gans does exift, and may continue for many years, without any organic difeafe being appa- rent : it is pofTible, therefore, that fuch dif- order may excite difeafe of the lungs, and thus produce a worfe difeafe in the latter organs, than what exifted in the former. In fhort, the opinions, which I have delivered, cannot be either afcertained or refuted by anatomical refearches alone. Accurate attention to the ftate of the digef- tive organs may determine this important fub- je61:, and lead to the prevention and cure of the fympathetic difeafes which I have men- tioned. The attention alluded to is not of that general kind, which adverts only to the quantity of the ingefta, and the periodical ex- pulfionAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 209 pulfionof the egefta, but one that moreftriftly obferves whether the vifcera are free from irritation, and whether their fecretions are healthy or otherwife. My opportunities of acquiring pra6lical information on this fubje6t muft necefTarily have been very limited ^ yet I have feen many cafes which, to me, ap- peared to prove, that pulmonary irritation fometimes proceeds from diforder of the digeftive organs. In cafes of furgical dif- eafes, accompanied by difoi'der of the digeftive organs, I have alfo occafionally obferved a cough attended with expeftoration to ceafe, upon the correction of the diforder of thofe organs. A cafe, which liappened about five years ago, ftrongly imprelfed thefe opinions on my mind. A fervant of mine told me, that his wife was dying of a confumption, which had been rapidly incrcafmg for fix months, and had baffled all attempts to relieve it. Think- ing that I could procure her fome medical afiiftance from the hofpital, I went to fee her. The cafe, however, feemed paft hope. She was extremely emaciated j her pulfe beat 140 VOL. I. p in210 ON THE COtfSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, in a minute her face was flufhed; fhe had a moft diftrefling cough; and fpit up more than a pint of mucus^ mixed with pus and ftreaked with blood, in twenty-four hours. The cir- cumftance, however, which moft difturbed her was a continual purging of black and of- fenfive matter. She told me that her bowels were firft difordered; that an unhealthy ftate of thofe organs had preceded the pulmonary afFedlion, and was indeed habitual. I thought it unnecelTary to trouble my medical friends in fo hopelefs a cafe j and ordered fome pills,; containing one grain of opium, to be taken in fuch quantity as was necelTary to flop the purging. As fhe informed me that the dif- order began in the bowels, I added to each pill half a grain of calomel. By thefe means the purging was fo much checked, that flie did not find it neceffary to take more than two pills in twenty-four hours; and when flie had taken twelve, the mercury, veiy unex- peftedly, affc6led the mouth. From that period, the ftools became of a natural co- lour and confluence; the cough and ex- peftoration ceafed; and flie was foon fuf- ^ciently recovered to go into the country ^ . fromAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES, ill from whence fhe returned apparently in good health. if it were to be afcertained, that pul- moiS^ irritation, which might of courfe pro- duce pulmonary difeafe, fometimes arifes from diforder of the digeftive organs*; it would be right to enquire farther, whether it produces fuch effects, by the nervous diforder it occa- fions, and by its operation on the health in general; or by means of a more immediate lympathy exifting between the pulmonary and digeftive organs. I do not mean to in- fmuate, by what has been faid, that pulmo- * In the fecond part of my furgical and phyfiological eflays in which I related experiments, made with a view to afcertain the funftions of the fkin, I mentioned that as it was manifeft the llcin and lungs were both engaged in the fun£tion of throwing forth carbonic acid gas, it fol- lowed, that when from viciflitudes of tlie atmofphere or weaknefs of the fanguiferous organs, the circulation and lecretion of the fkin were much diminillied the lungs would be liable to plethora, and have to perform more than their ordinary duty, which circumftances were likely to induce irritation, and perhaps confequentdifeafe>of thofe organs. Thofe experiments, as they are not of pradlical importance, I fliall not reprint. p 2 naryil2 <»I THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, nary difeafes do not arife originally and idio- pathically; but only to fuggeft that they may arife fympatheticallyj or in cronfequence of diforder of the digeftive organs. The propor- tionate number O'f cafes, in which theys^rigi- nate in this manner, can only be determined by vei-y extenfive experience. That the fto- mach and bowels are difordered, during the progrefs of phthifis, will, I conclude, be readily admitted; and that an attention to corre6l fuch diforder is requifite, muft be acknow- ledged, from what has been faid relative to the influence of fuch treatment upon various local difeafes. The actions of the heart feem to me alfo to become difordered from fympathy with the ftomach. That palpitations, and feeble or intermitting aftions of that organ arife from this caufe, is proved by their ceafmg, when the ftate of the ilomach becomes changed. The palpitations which take place after eating, in cafes where the heart is irritable, further evince the fympathy which exifts be- tween thefe organs. Surgeons are occafion- ally confulted on cafes of palpitations of the 14 heartyAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 213 Jieart, which the patients miftake for arieu- rifms 5 and I have feen many inftances, where the great degree of palpitation led to a belief, that fome organic afFe6lion exifted. This has ceafed on an amendment of the general health, apparently arifmg from an amelio- ration of the ftate of the digeftive organs, and the patients have continued in perfe6l health. I have not collected any accurate narratives of the cafes that I have feen: none at Icall which I could properly prefent to the public as a proof of the fa6l. There is nothing, however, of which I am more per- fe6lly convinced; for I have felt it to be true in my own perfon. After confiderable and unufual fatigue, I was feized with pain, and a fenfation of coldnefs in the region of the ftomach. I had no appetite, and the biliary fecretion was fupprefled. Whilfl this diforder continued, which was for many weeks, my pulfe intermitted very frequently, and I was diftreffed with hypochondriacal fenfations. Upon an alteration in the ftate of the digeftive organs, and a renewal of the biliary fecretions, which happened very fud- denly after taking five grains of the pil. P 3 hydrarg.214 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, hydrarg, my pulfe became perfe6lly regular^ and my mind tranquil. The obfervations, which I have made in furgical cafes, lead me alfo to attribute many haemorrhages, and particularly thofe from the nofe, to a fympathetic afFe6lion of the heart and arteries, excited by diforder of the digeflive organs. If fuch a ftate of the fyftem in general, as I have defcribed, and which is manifefted by circumftances denoting the digeftive organs to be in an unhealthy ftate, and the nervous fyftem to be likewife difordered, may, in fome inftances, caufe various local difeafes of parts not effential to life, the care of which cuilom has configned to the fur- geon; and may, in other inftances, produce diforders of organs effential to our exiftence, the care of which is allotted to the phy- lician; the fubje6l muft be allowed to be of the higheft importance. Of late, indeed, I have been inclined to confider thefe circum- ftances as the caufe of the complicated djfeafe? which are met with in man, fo muchAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 215 much more frequently than in animals. In man the brain is more fenfitive, and liable ! to be difordered by mental afFeftions. In man the digeftive organs are liable to be dif- ordered by ftimulating and unnatural diet. Sedentary habits and impure air co-operate to aggravate thefe diforders. The affeftions of the brain and digeftive organs mutually increafe each other j and thus a ftate of con- flitution arifes, v/hich is produ6live of the moft general and complex difeafes. But even thefe do not feem to me to be the moft calar mitous terminations of fuch caufes. The dif- order of the fehforium, excited and aggravated by the means which have been defcribcd, fre- quently affefls the mind. The operations of the intelle6l become enfeebled, perplexed and perverted; the temper and difpofition irritable, unbenevolent, and defpondingj the moral chara6ler and conduct appears evea liable to be affe6led by thefe cir.cumftances. The individual in this cafe is not the only fufferer, but the evil extends to his connec- tions and to fociety. The fubje6l, therefore, appears to me of fuch importance, that no apology need be offered for this impcrfe6t attempt p 42l6 OIT THB CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, attempt to place it under general contem-' plation *. I have endeavoured to fhevv in the intro- du6lory obfervations, that a ftate of nervous diforder and a diforder of the di- geftive organs, may reciprocally produce each other; and that when both occur, they become mutually increafed, and thus derange the conftitution in general, fo as to prove the exciting or predifponent caufes of nume- rous diflimilar and important local affeftions. I fhall, in conclufion, for the reafons men- tioned in the preface, offer the opinions which the confideration of the foregoing and iimilar cafes have imprefled on my mind. When I find in difeafes that the fun6lioiis * The ancients, who formed their judgment of the nature of diforders by obferving the excretions, denomi- nated an irritable and defponding ftate of mind. Hypo* chondriafis ; and when a more fixed and irrational de- jediion took place, they deemed it an atrabiliary diforder, and called it Melancholia. There can be no doubt of the corredtnefs of their obfervations y for if the diforder be-t gan in the nervous fyftem, it would generally produce and become aggravated by that diforder o^ the digeftive organs, from which they denominated it,. ofAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES, 21J of the digeftivc organs are impaired and diftarbed, I confider this diforder as the caufe or efFe6l of a more general derange- ment of the fyftem at large. When it feems to be the caufe, and when it can be fpeedily corrected and removed, then the relief and cure of thole local difeafes which may have taken place, is in many inftances fo fudden and furprizing, that I think it impolTible to confider the diforder of the general health and the local difeafe, in any other relation but that of caufe and effect. The cure of local difeafes by means that cannot be fuppofed to act othcrwife than by correcting errors in the functions of the digeftive organs, incline me to differ in opinion from thofe who confider the local difeafes alluded to, as the effect of impurity of the fluids, and to coincide with others, who confider them as the refult of general irritation, frequently induced by that of the abdominal vifcera. When I fee the fame local difeafes removed by the fame means, though more flowly.ftlH ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, I do not wonder at the tardinefs of the cure; and perceiving that the amendment of the local difeafe is proportionate to that of the health in general, I feel warranted in forming the fame opinion as to the mode in which the cure is effefted. When I fee local dif- eafes difappearing and rc-appearing as the conftitution in general is tranquil or difturbed, I feel confirmed in my opinion concerning their origin. If the a6lions of any part of the body be excited and increafed by accidental caufes, it may reafonably be inferred, that in a ftate of health they will be fimple and common, unlefs the ftimulant be of a peculiar nature; but if the actions be fpecific and difeafed, we may naturally conclude that the caufe of their becoming fo is conftitutional. The occurrence of fimilar local difeafes in diffeirent parts of the body, furnifhes an additional proof that the caufe of fuch difeafes is confti- tutional. It mufi: indeed be very difficult to afcer* tain the caufes of ..the peculiarities of local difeafes jAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 219 difeafes; but when I fee fuch a variety of them cured, fometimes fuddenly, by means which tend only to tranquillize and invi- gorate the conftitution, I become confirmed in the opinion that a fimilar ftate of health may lead to the produ6tion of diffimilar local difeafes. I have further obferved with refpe6l to this flibje6l, that perfons who have been out of health, but with no other diftinguifliable errors in their conftitutions than fuch as I have defcribed, I mean nervous weaknefs and irritation, with a marked diforder in the fun6lions of the digeftive organs, have been liable to a fuccefiion of diffimilar local dif- eafes. In fuch inftances, I have feen in fuc- ceffion enlargements of abforbent glands, boils, rheumatic affeftions of joints, and dyfury: yet all local difeafes have ceafed as the health became re-eftablifhed, by atten- tion to corre6t the difordered funflions of the digeftive organs. I have feen alfo in the fame patient enlargements of aforbent glands, rheumatic difeafe of a joint, and an eruptive difeafe of the fkin, which have allmo ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, all equally got well as the general health im-r proved, by fimilar medical attention. Nay, the continuance of local difeafes in fome in- fiances, after the diforder of the conftitution has been relieved or cured, does not in my opinion invalidate the foregoing conjeftures refpe61:ing their origin. Local difeafes, how- ever induced, may have become eftablifhed by habit, or continued from that ftate of difordei into which they have reduced the part that they have attacked. A local difeafe, however excited, may, as we know from experience, be of fuch a nature as that its a6lions never ceafe, and as we have not fucceeded in curing. I allude to cancer, which occurs, in conclufion, in fuch con- ^Htutions as I have endeavoured to defcribe. It has been faid that I have been hafty m drawing thefe conclulions. Yet, as may be feen in my firft publication, I mentioned, in fpeaking of diforder of the digeftive organs as exciting or aggravating nervous irritation, and thereby caufmg local difeafes, it followed that the nervous irritation might exift, and produce difeafe, without this ufually exciting caufe.AND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. ^21 caufe. I then, too, brought foi-wards in- flances of local difeafes produced by local caufes, in order to eftablifh our opinions of the independent nature of local difeafes. I further remarked, that conftitutions difpofed to local difeafed a6tions, might naturally be fuppofed to be liable at the fame time to a manifeft diforder of the neiTous fyftem and of the digeffcive organs j and from thence, as I obferved, might have arifen that connexion between local difeafe and general diforder, which I have fo continually remarked. I likewife added, that though the cafes related naturally fuggefted an opinion, that there is fome conftitutional caufe for the produftion of local difeafes, they appeared to me infuf- ficient to prove it. After having, however, drawn the opinions which I offered from a very confiderable number of cafes, and having been folicitous to ftate both fides of the queftion as fairly as I was able, that tlie reader might judge of it for himfelf, I trull no imputation of hafte can properly be attached to my condudt. In my own opinions I place very little confidence; yet it323 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, it is impoflible to avoid forming them, and I think it proper to relate them, for the reafons which have been ftated in the preface. That fuch opinions as have been deUvered in the four paragraphs preceding the laft, are deduced from a partial, though moft commonly prefenting view of the fubje6t, I now readily repeat; becaufe I have feen inftances of local difeafes, in which I could . . not trace any difturbance of the nervous fyftem, or of the digeftive organs, apparently adequate to their produ6tion. With refpe6l to fome of the ftriking cafes which I have related, wherein the fuddennefs of the cure made it, I think, evident that the local difeafe was the efFe6t of nervous diforder, induced by tliat of the digeftive organs; it may be further enquired, how is it poflible, that a fimilar caufe fhould produce fuch various effefts ? Is it becaufe a ftate of weaknefs and irritation having occurred, thofe local difeafes enfue, to which there is a predifpofition in the conftitution ? And areAND TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 22J are we to confider the general diforder of the fyftem, as the exciting or predifponent caufe of the local difeafe ? Granting it were afcertained, that local difeafes generally arife from difturbance of the conftitution at large, and confequently, (as it has been my chief obje£t to ftate,) may be moft readily and efFeclually cured by meafures which tranquillize or invigorate the conftitution, liill it would be vei*y im- probable, and contrary to common obfer- vations, to fuppofe that local difeafes might uot arife without any material conftitutional difturbance. Though I am ftrongly impreffed with the opinion, that the primary caufes of local difeafes, are, in general, fuch as I have re- prefented, yet I think it probable, that there may be adjun6l circumftances at prefent but little underflood, which by their co- operation lead to the peculiarity of fuch difeafes. In our prefent ftate of knowledo-e therefore, I think it better to confider the diHurbance of the fyftem in general, as /&i4 ON THE' CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGIN, merely the exciting caufe of local difeafes. With this view of the fubje6l, the cafes recorded ftiew how fuddenly local difeafes are frequently cured, when the exciting caufe is removed; how generally they decline in pro- portion as the exciting caufe is diminifhed: and thus they indicate how they may be prevented by a timely attention to mitigate and remove that caufe. It may not be improper further to ftate the opinions which I have formed refpecling the origin of difeafes of particular organs, and which may be confidered as local difeafes, though they are not generally alluded to when that term is employed. If we may be able to trace the origins of difeafes of the abforbent and falivary glands, of the breaft and teftes, to conftitutional caufes, why may we not reafonably expert that limilar cir- cumftances may produce difeafes of the lungs, liver, and kidney ? It feems to me improbable that fo complex a ftru6ture as the human body, ftiould be fo correctly forrtied, as that eveiy part fliould poflefs its due proportion of veflels and nerves, en- dowedANb TREATMENT OF LOCAL DISEASES. 225 dowed with an exa6t degree of natural and relative ftrengthj or in other words, that there fhould be no fuch thing as comparative weaknefs or irritability of the different organs of the body, fuch as fhould predifpofe them to difeafe. We may therefore account rationally, and in conformity to acknowledged fa6ls, for the produftion of difeafes in vital organs, by fuppofmg, that a ftate of general weaknefs and irritability being induced, the naturally weak parts fuffer in the greateft degree, and in confequence they mofl readily become the fubjefts of difeafe. But when difeafes of vital or other organs occur, it is probable that another caufe contributes to their produc- tion; that is, the fympathy which each organ has with the diforders of another. If, then, the organ thus fympathetically afFe6led be na- turally difpofed to difeafe, its ftru6lure may be irremediably fpoiled in confequence of vafcular adlions, excited through the medium of nervous irritation. If this opinion be correft, it is highly important, as the me- dical indication in this cafe is to remove VOL. I. the226 ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORIGlNj &C. the exciting caufe, and our attention becomes dire6ted to an organ in which perhaps there is but little manifeftation of diforder, or if there be, which is likely to be overlooked when the attention is fo forcibly attra6led to an apparently far greater evil *. * See the cafe beginning at page 2og»( 227 ) On aneurisms* npHE exposure of a portion of an artery, and tying it in order to ftop the current of blood into an aneurifmal fac, as propofed by Mr. Hunter, may be faid to have been a new- operation, at leaft in modern furgeiy. It is not therefore furprizing that errors were at firft committed in the mode of performing it. The haemorrhages which took place after the operation in the firft cafes in which it was performed, arofe from the ulceration of the artery that had been tied. The vefiel in tliefe cafes was laid bare and detached in fome de- gree from its furrounding connexions, and the middle o*f the detached portion was tied by a fmgle ligature. An artery thu^ circum- Ilanced muft neceffarily inflame; which it would do in different modes and degrees, ac- cordingly as the fbate of the conftitution, or of the part was more or lefs healthy j and this inflammation produced the ulceration of the veffel. 0^2 TheON ANEURISMS. 228 The occurrence of haemorrhage led fome furgeons to adopt a pra6lice which cannot but be confidered as injurious. They ap- pHed a fecond ligature above the other, leav- ing it loofe, but ready to be drawn tight if the firft fhould not anfwer. The fecond ligature, however, muft not only keep a certain portion of the artery detached from the furrounding parts, but muft alfo give ad- ditional irritation to the inflamed vefTeK and on both thefe accounts it is more likely to make the inflammation end in fuppuration or ulceration. The mode of performing the operation for the aneurifm, which Mr. Hunter's judg- ment and experience taught him to adopt, was to expofe and difturb the artery as little as poffible, and after having tied it to bring the furrounding parts into conta6l with it again. Though an experienced and flcilful operator may accomplifli this object with ,very little difturbance of the artery from its natural fituation and connexions; yet I can- not but fufpecl that furgeons in general may not be fo fuccefsful, efpecially in cafes where, fromON ANEURISMS. 229 horn the deep fituation of the veffel, the far- rounding it with a ligature depends more on feeUng than on fight *. Alfo, though when the artery is found and the conflitution healthy, ulceration may not enfue, even though the artery is in fome degree feparated from its furrounding connexions, and tied by a fingle ligaturej yet it is furely proper to guard againft thofe circumftances which tend to produce its ulceration. As large arteries do not ulcerate when they are tied upon the furface of a ftump after amputation, it occurred to me that it would be right to tie them, in cafes of aneurifm, a.S nearly as - poffible in the fame manner and under the fame circumftances. The large veffels on the furface of the ftump continue to poflefs all their natural furrounding connexions, * It can neither be confidered as a compliment to Mr. Home, nor an affront to any other furgeon, to fuppofe that no one can perform the operation for an aneurifm after Mr- Hunter's method better than he does. Yet in a feries of cafes publiflied in the Second Volume of th» Tranfadlions of a Society for the Promotion of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, hsemorrhage from ulcerar tion of the artery appears to have been a frequent occur- rence. 0^3 whilft33© ON ANEURISMS, whilft they are left in a lax Hate, in cpnfe- quence of their divifion. To accomplifh this obje6l in cafes of aneurifm, I propofe that the operation fhould be performed in tlie following manner: — The operator fhould divide the immediate coverings of the artery, till he has fairly expofed its furface. When he can touch the bare vefTel, he will not, I believe, find any difficulty in feparating from it, by means of his finger and thumb, or the blunt edge of an aneurifmal needle, the cel- lular fubftance that connects it to the con- tiguous parts. This part of the operation is not painful and fhould be performed flowly." The firm fides of the veffel enables the furgeon clearly to diftinguifii its furface, and by keeping the finger in exa6l conta6f with it^ a pafiage may be made completely round the artery. Care fliould be taken not to eleVate he artery more than can be poffibly avoided, becaufc the artery would be ftretched in its longitudinal direftion by fo doing j and care fhould alfo be taken not to injure the contiguous veins or nerves. When the . 2 operatorON ANEURISMS. S^l operator has thus gently infinuated his finger between tlie veffel and its furrounding con- nexions, fo that an inch of its furface is every where expofed, two ligatures may be put under it, one of which is to be carried up- wards, and the other downwards, as far as the artery is detached, and then tied as firmly as poflible. The artery (hould then be di- vided by a probe-pointed biftoury in the interfpace between the two ligatures, but- nearer to the lower ligature than to the up^ per one. In my opinion, large arteries fhould always be tied with moderately thick ligatures, be- caufe we may then draw the noole as tightly as polTible, without apprehenfion of cutting or tearing the coats of the velTel, or of break- ing the ligature. The latter occurrence would in many cafes prove a very embar- rafling circumftance, and it might be very injurious on account of the jerk communi- cated to the artery to a confiderable diftance. Alfo, when an artery is tied with a thick ligature, the compreffion made by it is not fo great as to produce a Ipeedy mortification ai>d reparation of the end of the velfel, io f thatON ANEURISMS. that the ligature remains, in general, a fort-» night before it is detached, and therefore, time is allowed for the confolidation of the fides of the veffel prior to its reparation *. When * Doflor Jones, whofe numerous and accurate experl-r ments have thrown much light upon the natural means by which haemorrhages are fupprefled, thinks- that the liga- tures fhould be round and firm ; becaufe fuch cords arc mofl likely to cut the internal coats of the artery. I am folicitous that they fhould be ftrong and moderately large j becaufe as far as I have remarked, large ligatures remain longeft on the arteries before they are detached; and in examining the (lumps of patients who have died after amputation, I have frequently feen the fides of the artery unclofed, even though the ligatures have fallen off from them. Though ligatures when applied to the principal arteries of amputated limbs are fcarcely ever known to flip or be- come projefted from their fituation, yet it has been ap- prehended that fuch an occurrence might take place in cafes of aneurifm, from the greater determination of blood into the arteries of the limb in fuch cafes. To ob- viate fuch an efFe£t, Mr. Henry Cline fuggefted the fol- lowing method of fecuring the ligature in its fituation. His fuggeftion was adopted by Mr. Cooper, who thus de-. fcribea the operation in which it was inftituted: « An incifion being made on the middle of the inner part of the thigh, and tlie femoral artery expofed, the ar- tery was feparated from the vein and nei-ve and all the furrounding parts, to the extent of an inch, and an eyed •nrobe armed with a double ligature, (each cord of whichON ANEURISMS. 233^ When an artery is thus tied in cafes of an- eurifm it pofTeflcs its natural furrounding connexions and fupport, and is left loofe, in confequence of its divifion. It appears, in- deed, in moft refpe6ls fimilarly circumftanced to an artery tied upon thd furface of a ftump, and as I never knew haemorrhage from ulcera- tion of the veffel take place after the opera- tion for aneurifm, when it was accomplifhed in this manner, I cannot but continue to pra6lice and recommend this method of fe- curing the artery. That the operation for the aneurifm will fucceed when only a lingle ligature is employed has been proved by ex- perience; but as haemorrhages, independent of ulceration of the artery, fo frequently arife from an inflammatory a6lion of the veflels, was armed with a needle,) was conveyed under "the artery and the probe cut away. The hgature neareft the groin was firft tyed; the other was feparated an inch from the firft and tied alfo j then the needles were pafled through the coats of the artery, clofe to each ligature, and between them ; the thread they carried was tyed into the knot of the ligatures which had been already fecured around the veflel : and thus a barrier was formed in the artery, beyond which the ligature could not pafs." See the firft number of the Eighth Volume of the Medical ;md Phyfical Journal, - every834 ON ANEURISMS. every thing tending to produce a tranquil flate of the wounded parts cannot but deferve to be put in pra6i:ice, and the relaxation of the artery by its divifion, muft, I think, con,- tribute to this elfed. The cafes of aneurifms which I am about to recite, are not however intended to illuf- trate any mode of ^condu6ling the operation, but merely to fhew the powers which nature polTeffes of carrying on the circulation, and maintaining the limb in its priftine ftate of vigour and ftrength, even though fo large an artery as the external iliac may have been tied, and thereby rendered impervious. CASE I. Feb. 1796.—James Lindfey, aged thirty-^ four, about a year ago perceived a fwelling beneath the calf of his right leg; and foon afterwards, whilft walking, he fuddenly felt, he faid, " as if he had been ftruck on the part " by a cannon ball," the pain being fo great that he could not move for feveral minutes. The pain, however, gradually abated; but the fwelling of the leg had continued to increafe fmcQON ANEURISMS. 235 fincc that time. The whole calf was now lifted up by a quantity of blood effufed be- neath it. The mufcles appeared thin, and were fo extremely tenfe as to occafion great pain, accompanied with conliderable crylipe- las of the whole leg 3 io that a fpeedy ulcer- ation and floughing, or fudden rupture of the diftended part, was hourly to be dreaded. Under thefe circumftances, tying the artery above the aneurifm, was the only means of relieving the patient from his prefent fuffer- ing, and of preferving him from fudden death. But what was particularly difcou- raging, both to the patient and furgcon, was the difcovery of another aneurifm, fituated in the femoral artery of the oppohte limb. No preternatural pulfation, however, could be felt in any other part of his body.—The operation was performed by Sir Charles Blicke in the following manner :—An incifion about three inches in length was made through the inte- guments of the middle of the thigh, fo as to expofe the inner edge of the fartorius mufcle and the fafcia covering the artery, which was divided to the extent of fomewhat more than an inch. The artery was feparated from its con-ON ANEURISMS. councctjons for one inch of its length. Two ligatures were put under it, and'firmly tied, and the, artery was^ divided in the interval between them. The lips of the wound were then brought together by flips of ilicking- plafler. This patient's limb was for fome time much colder than the other, and nearly three days elapfed before it had regained its natural degree, of warmth j but the tenfion, pain, and eryfipelatous inflammation quickly fubfided. The divided integuments united above and below the ligatures, but not be- tween them; and there was alfo a large difcharge from the v/ound: which circum-. fiance was probably owing to the flate of the patient's conflitution, which was much reduced in point of flrength. This man, however, did not complain of the leaft throbbing, tenfion, or pain in the wounded part'; and this entire exemption from the fufFerings of other patients, I could not but attribute to the divifion of the arr tery. The upper ligature came away on the tenth, and the lower on the fifteenth day; after which the wound healed gradually, tiiough very flpwly. AboutON ANEURISMS. 237 About five weeks after this operation, the aneurifm in the oppofite thigh was almoft ready to burft; the tumour having acquired a pyramidal form, and the ikin covering the apex having yielded fo much as to form a kind of procefs from the tumour. Indeed the in- teguments at this part were fo thin, that we every hour expected them to give way. The aneurifm was fituated fo high, as to make it probable that the difeafe extended above the place where the arteria profunda is fent off. The patient had hitherto refufed to fubmit to the operation ; but on refle6ling that if the tumour fhould burfl in the night, he muft perifh unlefs the bleeding vefTel could be im- mediately fecured, he confentcd to let me tie the artery in the groin, whilfl we had day- light and proper affifcance. The tumour ap- proached fo near to the groin, as to prevent us from compreihng the artery againft the bone; for, in attempting this, the comprefs occupied the place where the incifion ought to be made, and our endeavours to make a compreffion flill higher were ineffe6lual; they weakened, but did not interrupt the pulfation of the tumour. As the artery was -13 fo238 ON ANEURISMS. fo imperfectly comprefled, haemorrhage took place during the operation, which, though not dangerous to the patient, proved extremely embarraffing to the furgcon; for in attempt- ing to lay bare the fafcia of the thigh, I di- vided, by the very firft incilion, fo many fmall arteries fupplying the inguinal glands, and alfo fo many veins, that the blood which was poured forth, completely filled the fpace made by the incifion, and overflowed the fides of the wound. The application of the fponge, the ufual refource on thefe occa- lions, was of no avail; for the wound was inftantly filled again, fo that the whole ope- ration was to be done upon parts covered with blood, where the only guide in its per- formance was the feeling. I did indeed fee fome expofed inguinal glands, and found that I had divided two of them in trying to get at the fafcia of the thigh. As foon as I could diftin6lly feel this part, I made a frnall open- ing through it, and introducing my finger, I divided it upwards as far as Poupart's liga- ment, and downwards as low as the aneurif- mal fac would allow me. The pulfation of the artery now ferved as my guide. Laying afide.ON ANEURISMS. 239 afide, therefore, all furgical inftruments, I made way with my finger in a perpendicular dire6lion, till I could touch its coats, and then, with my finger and thumb, feparated it from its connexions, fo as to be able to grafp it alone between them. I then pafied two ligatures under it by means of an eyed probe, and drawing one of them upwards, and the other downwards, as far as the fpace would permit, I tied them firmly. The upper li- gature was about half an inch from the os pu- bis, and the lower one the fame diftance from the arteria profunda, which veffel I had dif- tinftly felt before I tied the ligatures. There are, perhaps, few fituations of aneu- rifm where the artery can be tied fo fepa- rately and diftindly as here; the pulfation di- refts the furgeon to the precife fituation of the veflel; and if he only keeps fufficiently clofe to its fides when he paflTes the ligature round, neitlier the vein nor the nerve can be included. I did not divide the artery between the two ligatures; it was fuggefted that it were better not toldoso; and I knew that I could ob- tain all the advantages of a relaxed ftate of the veflTel,OM ANEtlRISMS* 440 veflel, by merely bending the thigh upon the pelvis. The patient did not, after the opera-* tion,fufFerany kind of pain from the wounded parts; which, I think, fhews,that the artery did no* inflame much in confequence of the li- gature. The fuppiiration was moderate, and every thing relative to the wound went on as well as could be cxpe6i:ed. The limb, and par- ticularly the foot, was colder than that of the oppofite fide; but in about three days, it gra- dually acquired its natural temperature; and it all along retained a perfeft Jftate of fenfibi- lity, which I confidered as a proof that it was fufficiently nom-ifhed. To prevent the heat from being carried off fafter than it was ge- nerated, the limb was wrapped in flannel; but I avoided the application of any artificial warmth, left its ftimulus fhould prove inju- rious, by exciting a6lion When the powers of life in the part might have been confider- ably diminiilied. The blood in the aneurifmal fac did not appear to have coagulated before the opera- tion ; for the bulk of the tumour could be greatly leffened by prefFure, whenever the patientON aneurisms; 241 patient would allow the attempt to be made, ib that I conclude the limb had received a confiderable quantity of blood through the femoral artery, until that veffel was tied. The tumour diminiflied greatly after the operation and the blood contained in it became coagu- lated. This reduction of the fwelling, I think, was owing to a confiderable part of the blood pafiing onwards through the feme-- ral artery: and I regretted afterwards, that, at the time of the operation, I had not en- deavoured to prefs all the blood from the aneurifmal fac j which experiment would have fhewn how far it was fluid or coagulated. Every thing, with refpe61: both to the ftate of the limb, and the patient's general health, went on well till the fifteenth day, when the upper ligature feparated, and the blood guihed in a full ftream from the open extremity of the veffel. This foitunately happened during the attendance of the furgeons at the hofpital, and the bleeding was ftopped by preflurc until their arrival. The ftream of blood which flowed upon any remiflion or wrong application of thepreflure, . VOL. r. R vvas24^ ON ANEURISMS, I guity was fo large, that we did not dare to remove the patient even from the bed on wliich he lay. Mr. Ramfden undertook, in this fitua- tion, to prevent the further efcape of blood from the vefTel, whilft I proceeded to tie the artery above Poupart's ligament. Accord- ingly, I firft made an incifion, about three inches in length, through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direftion of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurofis of the ex- ternal oblique mufcle, which I next divided from its conne61:ion with Poupart's ligament, in the dire6lion of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and tranfverfalis mufcles being thus expofed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the prote6lion of the peri- tonaeum, and then divided them. Next, with my hand, I pufhed the peritonaeum and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the external iliac artery with my finger and thumb, fo that I was thus enabled to com- mand the flow of blood from the wound. It now only remained that I fhould pafs a liga- ture round the artery, and tie it; but this required caution, on account of the conti-ON ANEURISMS. 243 guhy of the vein to the artery. I could not fee the vefTels ; but I made a reparation be- tween them with my fingers. Having, how- ever, only a common needle with which to pafs the ligature, I feveral times withdi^w the point, from the apprehenfion of wound- ing the vein *. After having tied the artery about an inch and a half above Poupart's ligament, I divided that part, and thus laid the new and the former wound into one. I traced as well as I could with my finger, the continuation of the artery, from the place where the ligature was now made, to that wlierc it was formerly applied. I wilh- ed to have divided the artery, and to have * It would be, I think, an ufeful addition to our furgical inftruments for fuch purpofes, to have needlf^s made with handles of pure, and confequently flexible, filver, and with fteel points that have edges juft fharp enough to pafs through the cellular fubftance; but neither fo pointed nor fo ftiarp, as to endanger the wounding any parts of confe- quence that may be contiguous to thofe round which they are pafled. When the points of thefe inftiniments were once pafled underneath the veflel, the furgeon could bend their handles fo as to accommodate them to the fpace they have to turn in, and thus avoid an inconvenience which, I be- lieve, mod furgeons muft have experienced ; I mean, the great difficulty of turning a common needle in a deep and narrow wound. R 2 fufFered244 ON ANEURISMS. fufFered it to retra6l behind the peritonaeum: but I found it fo attached to the furrounding parts, as to render fuch divifion difficult, and perhaps not advifa:ble. The lips of the wound were brought toge- ther with fticking-plafter, and one future only was made, oppofite to the natural htua- tion of Poupart's ligament. The peritonseum was prefTed back into its place, and the pro- tufion of it reftrained by bringing together the integuments with ftraps of fticking- plafter. No perceptible alteration occurred in the ftate of the limb after this fecond operation; but the patient's health was confiderably re- duced, by his having fuffered from the com- plaint nearly twelve months, by having un- dergone three operations, and by the lofs of a confiderable quantity of blood. No adhe- fion took place between the divided parts j the edges of the wound were open and floughy; the wound was painful, difcharged a great deal of pus, and was fo extremely tender, that he could not bear it to be touched.ON ANEURISMS. ^4-5 touched. Sill no greater mifchief appeared till the fifth day after the operation, when a h^-norrhage of arterial blood took place in fuch quantity, that there was no doubt but that it arofe from the principal artery; though the ligature with which it was tied ftill re- mained firm. The patient's health was now fo impaired, and his weaknefs fo great, that an attempt at tying the arteiy ftill higher up, would have appeared like torturing him with- out any hopes of ultimate fuccefs. The wound was therefore cleanfed and drefled; fome compreffes were applied upon it, and bound down by the fpica bandage. By this treatment the liasmorrhage was ftopped; and the attendants were ordered to make a preflurc on the bandage if any frefh bleeding fliould occur. The comprefles were renewed for three fucceeding days ; and thougli occafion- ally the wound bled, yet it was not profufely, or in fuch quantity as to deftroy the patient: his ftrength, however, gradually declined; a troublefome cough occafioned extreme pain in the wound, and in the courfe of the eighth day after the laft operation, he died. R 3 D{f-ON ANEURISMS. 246 DiJfeBion. No marks of difeafe were diTcoverable in the aorta, or in the internal iUac artery. The external iliac was covered by a great number of lymphatic glands, which prevented it from being readily diftinguifhed; yet, when fepa- rated from thefe, it did not appear difeafed. For nearly two inches above the part which was tied, the lymphatic glands covering the arteiy were confiderably enlarged, having no doubt become additionally fwollen from,- the irritation excited by the ligature. The external furface of one of them next the wound, had ulcerated; and the ulceration penetrated through the gland, and commu- nicated with the artery, as was afterwards mad:^ evident by flitting open that veflel. It was through this aperture that the blood had efcaped 3 for the ligature ftill remained firm upon that part of the artery which it had in- clofed. From this ligature to the place where the veflel had formerly been tied, the artery was fo clofely connefted with the furround- ing fubftance, that difle6tion was required to feparate them. The parts of the artery from whichON ANEURISMS. 247 which the former ligatures had feparated, were about half an inch afunder, and the ca- nal of the veffel appeared perfeftly open. — The whole of the vefTels from the bifurcation of the aorta, to the aperture in the tendon of the triceps mufcle, were now removed, and carefully diffefted; and after being fluffed, and hai'dened by fpirits, they were cut open to fhew the flate of them internally. A coagulum of blood, about two inches long, was found above the part where the lafl li- gature was made. ''At what time this coagu- lum had been formed, is perhaps difficult to afcertain; it did not feem to have taken place after death, for above it the artery contained no blood; and if it had occurred immediately after the operation, it is probable that it would have prevented the haemorrhage. I have al- ready remarked, that the man did not bleed for fometime previous to his death j in which inter- val, perhaps, this coagulum had been formed.— The ulcerated opening from the artery through the difeafed gland, admitted the pafTage of a moderate-fized bougie. \The ligature, which flill firmly inclofed the artery, had brought its fides in contaft, fo as to render it probable that they would have united. All the other R 4 parts248 ON ANEURISMS. parts of the femoral artery were quite open, fo that a large bougie could be paffed from the lower end of it, through the aneurifmal fac, to the place where the ligature now remained. About half an inch of the artery was want- ing, which had been, as it were, cut out by the ligatures in the firft operation. The fides of the arteries below the part which was tied were thicker than natural, and their internal furface was rough, and of a yellowifli white colour. The arteria profunda was filled with coagulated blood, and had become reduced to lefs than the natural fize. The fides of the artery of the oppofite limb had firmly united at the part where it had been tied. No coa- gulum was found in it, and it had not di- minifhed in fize in any remarkable degree above the part which was clofed. It may be enquired in this cafe,, why the artery did not heal, but upon the feparation of the ligature remained widely open. That the ligature was tightly applied is, I think, evident from its supprefling all haemorj-hage ^ till its feparation on the 15th day. I am inclined to attribute the want of union in the artery to its unhealthy ftate, which opi- nionON ANEURISMS. 249 n'lon is confirmed by the diffe^lion, which , fliewed that even the lower orifice of the ar- tery had not healed, whilft the arteiy in the other limb which was tied much further from the aneurifm, and where the veffel was more likely to be found and healthy, had be- come firmly united. The event of this cafe would induce me to tie the artery as remote- ly from the feat of aneurifm as could with propriety be done. In this firft operation of tying the external iliac artery, I was urged to perform it by the Impulfeof the moment, for the death of the pa- tient would otherwife have been inevitable. In this cafe I thought, I diflurbed the perito- nseum too much, and tied the artery higher than was neceffary. As the limb, however, did not appear to fuffer materially, I felt it a duty to perform a fimilar operation in the following cafe. The vefTcl was tied lower down, fo that it was brought into view at the time of the operation. It was tied with two ligatures and divided in the interval 3 it afterwards firmly united at each extremity, and the ligatures came away at the ufual 12 time:ON ANEURISMS. time : neither did there appear any deficiency in the nutrition of the limb. Thefe circum'- ftances afford reafonable expe6lations of fuc- cefs in future operations of this kind, yet in theprefent inftance the operation appeared to have been too long delayed, and the patient to have died from an event which was not forefeen, but which might perhaps have been prevented. CASE II. Wrungel, a German, by trade a fugar-baker, of a fickly afpeft and flender make, about 5 feet 7 inches high, and near 40 years of age, was admitted into St. Bar- tholomew's hofpital, on account of an aneu- rifm in the femoral artery, clofe to Poupart's ligament. This he imputed to a drain about three weeks before. The tumor at the time of admiffion was of the fize of a * fmall orange, and the blood cpntained in it was fluid \ for it could be entirely exprefled from the anearifmal fac. At a confultation on the treatment of this cafe, I faid that I did not think a furgeon warranted in tying the external iliac artery, till he was in fome mea- gre compelled to it by the progrefs of the difeafe. tON ANEURISMS. 251- difeafe, for the following reafons. ift. An aneurifm, in proportion to its increafe and duration, obftrufts the paiTage of the blood through the natural and principal channels, and obliges it to circulate by other courfes, which are enlarged according to the exigency of the cafe. It feems'highly probable, that in proportion to the fize of the artery which is tied, and the magnitude of the part to be nourifhed after that operation, fo will be the degree of previous enlargement in thefe collateral channels, which is neceffaiy to en- fure itsfuccefs. On this account the "opera- tion fhould be delayed longer in an inguinal aneurifm than in any other. 2dly. The operation of tying the external iliac artery muft, in the prefent ftate of our knowledge, be confidered as very ferious in its nature, and uncertain in its event. I had then only once tied this velTel when a man would otherwife have bled to death from the femoral arteiy 3 and though the limb was nouriflied, the artery ulcerated. The operation was done a fecond time in London, and the limb mor- tified J but no fair pra6lical inference can, I am25* ON ANEURISMS. am told, be drawn from the latter cafe, as tlie operation was poftponed till mortification wa^ as it were impending. 3dly. There is fome chance in aneurifms of a cure fpontaneoufly occurring from the dofure of the artery above by the coagulation of the blood. To cite thofe inftances only which have come within my own knowledge, and which it feems right to mention, as it increafes the flock of fa6ls before the public; I have known fuch a fpontaneous cure take place tsvice in the popliteal arteiy, once in the arteria profunda femoris, and once in the axillary artery. For thefe reafons it was agreed to poftpone the operation in the cafe of the prefent patient till circumftances fhould appear to demand its performance *. * There was about twelve months ago a foldler in the York hofpital, who had an aneurifm of the femoral artery, but the external tumor had fo much overlapped Poupart's ligament, and interpofed itfelf between the integuments and the fafcia of the external oblique mufcle, as to render an operation very difficult, if not impoffible. In this cafe the integuments mortifying, occafioned a fimultaneous coagulation of the blood in tlie artery, for though the coa- gula came out, yet there was no frefti hremorrhage, and the patient recovered. OurON ANEURISMt. 253 Our poor patient therefore lay in the hof- pital during two months, in wliich time his difeafe gradually increafed, and his health de- clined. Towards the latter part of the time he fuffered a great deal of pain in the front of his thigh, which deprived him of reft, and the whole limb was largely oedema- tous. Thefe fymptoms would naturally arife from the prefTure wliich the aneurifin muft make on tlie anterior nerves and abforbents of the tliigh. The tumor had advanced to- w^ards the furface, and the Ikin had become {lightly inflamed, yet the protruding part of the tumour was not of greater extent tliau when he was firft admitted into the hofpital, and no judgment could be formed of that part which was more deeply fituated, on ac- count of the general fwelling of tlie thigh. The blood could even now be exprefled from the prominent part of the tumour, and I felt anxious, left the obftruction tothe circulation in the main artery fliould not have been fuf- ficient to have obliged the blood to circulate by other channels. It deferves to be re- marked, that the aneurifm may extend con- fiderably beneath the fafcia of the thigh, caufmg\ ON ANEURISMS. caufing pain and oedema by its prellure, and yet that part which advances towards the fur- face may be of no great magnitude. The patient's fufferings increafed confider- ably during the week preceding the ope- ration, fo that he declared his prefent ftate was almoft infupportable, and foUcited that fomething might be done to change it either, for the better or the worfe. He never, how- ever, was able to explain the caufe of this un- common degree of anxiety and inquietude. The operation was undertaken on Saturday the 24th of (36\ober.' An incifion of three inches in length was made through the in- teguments of the abdomen, beginning a little above Pouparf s ligament, and being conti- nued upwards j it was more than half an inch on the outfide of the upper part of the abdominal ring, to avoid the epigaflric artery. The aponeurolis of the external oblique muf- cle being thus expofed, was next divided in the dijeftion of the external wound. The lower part of the internal oblique mufcle was thus uncovered, and the finger being intro- ducedON ANEURISMS. 255 duced below the inferior margin of it and of the tranfverfahs mufcle, they were divided by the crooked biftoury for about one inch and a half. I now introduced my finger beneath the bag of the peritonaeum, and car- ried it* upwards by the fide of the pfoas mufcle, fo as to touch the artery about an inch above Poupart's ligament. I took care to diftarb the peritonaeum as little as pofTible, detaching it to no greater extent than would ferve to admit my two fingers to touch the veffel. The pulfations of the ar- tery made it clearly diftinguifhable from the contiguous parts, but I could not get my finger round it with the facility which I cx- pefted. This was the only circumfl:ance which caufed any delay in the performance of the operation. After ineffectual trials to pafs my finger beneath the artery, I was obliged to make a flight incifion on either fide of it, in the fame manner as is necefiary when it is taken up in the thigh, where the fafcia which binds it down in its fituation is ftrong. After this I found no difficulty in pafling my forefinger beneath the artery, which I drew gently down, fo as to fee it behind the bag25^ ON ANEURISMS. bag of the peritonaeum. By means of an eyed probe two ligatures were conveyed round the veffel; one of thefe was carried upwards as far as the artery had been de- tached, and the other downwards: they were firmly tied, and the veflel was divided in the fpace between them. Nothing further remained than to clofe the external wound, which was done by one future, and fome ilrips of fticking-plafter. The threads of the upper ligature were left out of the wound above the future which clofed its edges, and thofe of the lower beneath. A few remarks on this operation may be permitted. To divide the parietes of the abdo- men, pufli afide the peritonaeum, and tie the external iliac artery by the fide of the pfoas mulcle, is an operation more formidable in found, and on its firft propofition, than it is in reality. It is performed almoft without fhedding blood, fo that the principal circum- flances of it are very evident. When I for- merly performed this operation, I was urged to it by immediate neceffity: I tied tlie artery much higher than iAhe prefent cafe, dif- turbedON ANEURISMS. 257 « turbed the peritonseum in a greater degree, and, contrary to my own principles, I did not divide the artery. In the prefent cafe, having time to deliberate upon the fteps of the operation, I detached merely fo much of the peritonaeum as enabled me to reach the artery, as far as I conveniently could above Poupart's ligament; but not fo far as to make it difficult to afcertain that I furrounded the artery only with my finger, without injuring any of the adjacent parts, nor fo far but that I could draw down and diftinguifh the artery which I included in the ligature. The re- membrance of the Iwelling in the external iliac glands, and of the ulceration of the ar- tci"y in the former cafe, led to this difference of condu6l. The poor man was greatly exhaufted by the operation, and his leg which had been chilled by expofure during the operation, continued very cold for a long time after- wards. It was wrapped up in flannels, to prevent the diffipation of its own heat; but I would not apply any artificial warmth to reftore its temperatu* left it fhould a6l as a ftimulant. VOL. I. s He258 ON ANEURISMS. He could not compofe himfelf after tlic operation, nor did he deep during the night, fo that on the following day his ftate was very unpromifmg. His pulfe beat 160 in a minute, his tongue was covered by a dark brown furj he looked agitated, and a purg- ing took place, which was not reflrained till the following night by a cordial and opiate mixture. Refpe6ling his pulfe, it is proper to mention that it beat 120 moft days in the w^eek preceding the operation. His thigh was as warm as that of the found fide, his leg cooler than the oppofite one, and his foot many degrees colder. He had how- ever perfe6l fenfation in his toes, and powder of moving them. The leg and foot were rubbed with oil three or four times a day, in order to prevent any ftagnation in the veins„, and to diminifh perfpiration. It was well covered as before by flannels. On Monday, the 2d day {OS:. 26.) the pulfe . was lefs frequent: he had flepta gooddeal du- ring the night, and feemed ftupified by the opi- um J but was on the w^le fo little better, that I concluded he would gradually fmk in con- fequenceON aneurisms; 259 fequerice of the fhock of the operation. The temperature of the limb was a little increafed. The man however took bread and milk and other food in moderate quantities, w;henever it was offered to him: the purging having ceafed, the quantity of the opiate was di- minifhed. He rather improved in the even- ing, and refted well during the night; fo that on (061. 27.) the third day after that of the operation, every circumftance wore a favour- able afpeft. His pulfe did not exceed 100, and was moderately firm and full j his appe- tite had increafed: the temperature of the limb was a good deal augmented, fo that his foot was fcarcely colder than that of the found fide j and the cedema of the limb was confiderably diminiflied. I now drefl^ed his wound, in which he had not complained of pain, nor of any tendernefs, wlien the fur- rounding parts were compreffed. The in- cifion appeared but as a line, except at the neighbourhood of the ligatures, where it was a little open, and from whence there ifi'ued a moderate quantity of as healthy pus as I had ever feen. The furrounding parts were perfectly natural botJpkin appearance and fen- s 2 fation.25o ON ANEURISMS. fation. On the fourth day (061. 28.) he was ftill better: his pulfe 90 j his appetite good; his fleep found j and his hmb leffening in fize, and increafing in warmth. The flu- dents at the hofpital had dreffed the wound before my arrival, and reported that the dif- charge was tinged with blood. On the fifth day (Oa. 29.), he was ftill better, his pulfe being but 80 when I counted it. The wound and contiguous parts looked remarkably well, but a bloody fanies was difcharged, which I felt unable to account for. On the fixth day (061. 30.) the ftate of "his health and limb continued as well, if not improving. The bloody difcharge however had increafed in quantity, infomuch that it ran through the coverings of the wound and foiled the bedj it had alfo become foetid. From the firft occurrence of this bloody dif- charge I felt confiderable uneafinefs refpeft- ing it. I could not believe that a healthy wound would fecrete fuch a fanies, and I felt ♦ apprehenfive left the wound ftiould fpread from261 ON ANEURISMS. from difeafe. Nothing however took place to confirm this idea. It feemed probable alfo that if the aneurifmal fac were not entire, fome of the blood being expofed to the air might tinge the difcharge from the wound^ and grow putrid. I frequently preffed on the tumour, but could prefs no blood from the wound. In this ftate of uncertainty it was, however, pleafing to obferve, that the patient's health continued in every refpe6l better than could reafonably have been ex- pected. The circumftances of the cafe remained very much the fame during the feventh and eighth days after the operation. On the morning of the ninth, (Nov. 2.) when I came to the hofpital, I met Sir Charles jBlicke, who told me that the poor German was dying; intelligence which equally fur- prifed aYid fliocked me. He was indeed in a dreadful ftate, appear- ing like a man far advanced in typhus fever. His pulfe was 150 ; his tongue centered with a brown fur j his intelled wavering, and the s 3 action262 ON ANEURISMS. aftion of his mufcles tremulous. On exa-r inining the wound, with a view to difcqver the caufe of this great and fudden alteration, and prefling on the tumour beneath Poupart's ligament, I forced out a great quantity of blood, rendered fluid and highly foetid by putrefa6tion, infomuch that it inflantly black- ened the probe with which it accidentally came in conta6l. The caufe and circumftances of the bloody (difcharge were now made clear j the furface pf the expofed coagulated blood of the aneu- rifm had at firft tinted the difcharge from the •wound, and then had, by gradual dilTolution, been more plentifully commixed with it, and given it a degree of putridity. Till, however, the whole mafs had become putrid, and had been converted in confequence into a fluid, it could not be forced out from beneath Poupart's ligament when preffure was made on the •tumour; nor did it till that period excite in- flammation in the furrounding parts by its acrimony, or derange the conftitution by its abforption. AfterONT ANEURISMS. 263 After entirely expreffing the putrid blood I wafhed out the cyft with warm water, till it returned untinged. The relief which was by thefe means afforded to the poor man was very ftriking and confiderable. His pulfe became moderate, his intelle6l clear ; he had fome refrefliing fleep, and again took food in moderate quantities. On the following day, when the integuments beneath Poupart's liga- ment were comprefTed, a confiderable quan- tity of foetid difcharge and air were forced out. It was not however at all tinged with blood, and appeared to me to be merely the fecretion from the cyft which had contained the blood. I direfted that this difcharge Ihould be prefled out, the cavity fyringed, and a poultice applied three times a day; but finding a confiderable quantity of fetid fluid ftill lodged in the cyft, I thought it right to make an opening into it beneath Poupart's ligament, to afford it a more ready exit. No abatement in the quantity, or alteration in the quality of the difcharge, was however re- marked j it feemed to be fuch as a floughing fbre commonly furniflies. This fever came on on the evening of the s 4 eighth264 ON ANEURISMS. eighth day (Nov. i.) after that of the opera- tion J and I, am convinced it would have fpeedilydeftroyed the patient, had not the caufe been dete6led and removed. The powers of his conftitution raUied again j his pulfe was firm, and often not more than 100 j he took fufficient food, a^d flept moderately well. 1 Butt he part, as has been faid, did not go on well, and feemed to prevent any increafe qf ftrength. For a week I was not without hopes that fome favourable change might happen, but afterwards I loft all fucli expec- tations, as his already much reduced powers were ftill further declining; neverthelefs, he held out more than another week, when he died on November 16, the twenty-third day after the operation. A few days before Iiis death both ligatures came away with the dreffings. DiJfeBion. A very flight adhefion had taken place be- tween the figmoid flexure of the colon and that part of the peritonaeum which was oppo- flte to the wound, but there was no other appearance of that membrane, or of the bowels.ON ANEURISMS. 265 bowels, having fuffered any inflammation in confequence of the operation. The perito- naeum was feparated from the loins, and from the pofterior half of the left fide of the dia- phragm, by a confiderable colle6lion of blood, which extended downwards to Poupart's liga- ment, and communicated under that Hgament by a fmall aperture with the aneurifmal fac. This opening was fituated in the direftionof that crevice which is found between the inter- nal iliac and pfoas mufcles. The only rational explanation that can be given of the forma- tion of this colle6lion is, that the blood had burft its way from the aneurifmal fac in the vacancy between the mufcles juft mentioned; after which it would readily and extenfively feparate the peritoneum in the manner de- fcribed. I am inclined to attribute to this circumftance the undefinable difturbance of health which the poor patient fuffered during the week preceding the operation. It may, perhaps, excite furprife that this colle6lion did not become putrid. No particular account can be given of the aneurifmal fac beneath Poupart's ligament, fmceON ANEURISMS, a66 fmce it and the contiguous parts had floughed in confequence of the irritation of the putrid blood. A fmall aperture had been made by this floughing in the front of the orbicular ligament of the hip joint, and a fmall extent of the thigh bone was, by the fame caufe, deprived of its periofteum. A bougie was paffed from the lower end of the femoral artery into the fac. The extremities of the external iliac artery, • which had been divided in the operation^ ^ were united together by a firm new-formed fubftance; the fides of each extremity were perfectly clofed, and a fmall plug of coagu-. lated blood was found in each. Having thus given as brief an account as I am able of the circumftances of this cafe, as they appeared to m^, I cannot conclude without mentioning the obfervations of others, particularly as they may affifl in fuggefting rules of condu6l for future ope-, rations on fimilar cafes. It has been faid tlaat the irritation of the aneurifmal bag was prp-ON ANEURISMS. ' zSy 7 blood probably a fpontaneous occurrence, and not the efFe6t of the acrimony of the putiid blood. But the fuddennefs of this attack, the manifeft exiftence of a caufe fufhcient to produce it, and the total abfence of fuch an occurrence in all other cafes of aneurifin, render this fuppofition highly improbable. It has alfo been imagined that part of tlie difcharged blood might have returned from the lower end of the artery. This latter opinion is very improbable, lince, after the complete removal of the blood, none re- turned by that channel: and in the firft cafe which I have related, none returned by the inferior part of the artery, though the area -of it was flill of its natural dimenfions, and unobftru6led. This latter obfervation had tended to diminifh my confidence in the powers of the communicating channels, and made me wifh to defer the performance of the operation as long as poflible. It feems evi- dent that in the prefent inllance it was too long delayed. It would be defirable in future to perform the operation before an extenfive difFufion ofON ANEURUiMS. 268 blood had taken place; indeed, could the adequatenefs of the collateral arteries for the fupply of the limb be eftablifhed, it would be proper to operate at an early period of the difeafe. It deferves to be confidered whether, in cafes, where it is probable the blood is become difFu- fed, it might not be right at the time of the ope- ration to open the aneurifmal bag, and j-emove the blood. I fliould, however, be inclined to poftpone this attempt; for, perhaps, no necef- fity might exift, as putrefa6lion might not take place. A few days will determine the degree of life of the limb, and would make a wound lefs likely to ulcerate or flough. Should figns of the putrefa6lion of the blood enfue, or the probability of fuch an occurrence become evident, I fhould think it neceffary to make a fmall opening into the aneurifmal bag for the removal of the contained blood. This being done, if no blood came from the lower orifice of the artery, there would be no ne- ceffity for tying it. CASEON ANEURISMS. CASE III. Jane Field, aged 40, who had been in the habit of drinking to excefs, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hofpital, with a very large femoral aneurifm, reaching as high as Pou- part's ligament. The whole limb was cede- matous, but in no very confiderable degree. She was quite incapable of ufmg the leaft ex- ercife, or of fitting upright i and, even in bed, fhe fuffered continual pain, which was much aggravated during the puliation of the aneu- rifm. The pain was fo violent as to preclude fleep. She had no appetite j her pulfe was feeble and frequent, generally exceeding 100; but her tongue was not furred; and her bowels were regular. < On Saturday, nth Oaober, 1806, the operation was performed in the fame manner as in the laft cafe. An incifion, about three inches in length, was made through the inte- guments of the abdomen, in the diredion of the artery, beginning juft above Poupart's li- gament. Having divided the Ikin and aponeu- rofis of the external oblique mufcle, I in- troduced276 ON ANEURISMSi , X changing ' troduced my finger between the margin of' the internal oblique and tranfverfe mufcles and the peritonaeum. I then divided their lower edges upwards, in the direction of the external wound, to the extent of an inch and a halfj with a probe-pointed biftoury. Hav- ing thus made room for the admiflion of my finger, I put it down upon the artery, felt its pulfations, and gently infmuated it beneath theveffel j and then, with the aneurifinal needle, pafTed under it two moderately thick ligatures, cariying them upwards and downwards, as far as the detachment of the artery permitted, and tying them as firmly as I could. I next divided the artery in the interval, but much nearer to the lower ligature than to the upper one. The wound was afterwards clofed, in the middle by a ligature, and in other parts by fticking-plafter. Upon removing the pa- tient to bed, fhe complained of great pain in the wound, and in her head j and was very reftlefs and ungovernable, ^he wifhed for fomething to procure fleep, and I gave her twenty-five drops of laudanum. This, in- ftead of having the defired effeft, made her much more reftlefs j (he was continuallyON ANEURISMS. 2/1 changing her pofition in bed, and complain- ing of violent headach. At night fhe be- came more tranquil. The one foot was much colder than the other; but the limbs at the knees were nearly of an equal tem- perature. Sunday, 12th, I vifited her early in the morning, and found that flie had been mode- rately quiet during the night j that flie had fuffered much pain in her foot, but none in the wound. The pain in the limb fhe de- fcribed as having firll attacked the thigh, next the leg, and afterwards the foot, which laft pain had now ceafed. The foot was warmer than it was the preceding evening, and in a (late of perfpiration : it was four degrees of heat lower, by Fahrenheit's fcale, than that of the healthy Umb. The fuper- ficial veins of the leg were filled with blood. Her pulfe was 96. She had no appetite. I left her witli ^ promife to vifit her again at night, recommending her to lie quiet, and take fome fimple nourifliment. About noon, one of the dreffers, obferving that her fkin was hot, and the tongue dry, gave her fome faline■&y2 ON ANEURISMS. •faline medicine, with a fmall quantity of antl- -monial wine, which occafioned vomiting, and fuch continued naufea, that fhe refufed all kinds of food. The limb, at night, con- -tinued in the fame ftate as in the morning. She was free from pain ; her pulfe 120. As Ihe was without an evacuation, I gave her a pill, containing two and a half grains of fil. aloet. e myrrh, with the fame quantity of extra6t of colocynth, ordering it to be re- peated in the morning, if necelTary. Monday, 13th. The foot was nearly of the fame temperature with the other. She had had two ftools, and felt much more comfortable. Still,however, fhe had an averfion to all kinds of nourifliment. Her pulfe was 150 and i'6o, at different times of the day. I may here mention, that every fubfequent day, fhe had one or more ftools, without having re- courfe to opening medicine j and whenever fhe was more irritable or difturbed than ufual, fhe had a tendency to purging. In the evening of this day, I inquired if Ihe had a wifh for any particular kind of nourifh- ment; and, at her fuggeftion, gave her half I a pintON ANEURISMS. 273 a pint of porter, with fome ginger and toaft- ed bread. This feemed to agree with her ftomach, as fhe flept the whole night, and awoke much refrelhed the next morning. Her tongue was then clean j flie took fome tea and muffin for breakfaft, and broth and bread, in moderate quantities, in the courfe of the day. Half a pint of porter was allow- ed her at dinner and fupper. Her pulfe this day (Tucfday) was 95. The foot warmer than the other. The wound was drefled for thefirfttimej it appeared well clofed, and difcharged but little. Wednefday, pulfe about the fame number ; had flept during the night, but not fo foundly as on the preceding one. The wound and contiguous parts were tender; there was a confiderable difcharge, which was fetid; the lower ligature came off the artery. The artery, as I have mentioned, was divided very near to the lower ligature; and it is probable, that, in the reftlefihefs of the patient fubfequent to the operation, the motions of the limb had drawn the artery from out of the ligature Thurfday, * I have never made ufe of the expedient fuggefted by Mr. Henry Cline, for fecuring ligatures upon arteries VOL. I. T fince274 ANEURISMS. Thurfday, I'he wound very tender, and the fkin had inflamed very much j pulfe 84. Friday; The difcharge from the wound lefs in quantity, and more puriform j pulfe the fame in number, but very feeble. Saturday, The patient had been feized in the middle of the night with fevere headach and fliivering, and in the morning fhe could cat no breakfaft. Her tongue was rather dry, and flightly covered with a brown furj fince I never felt its necefTity ; and becaufe I have always thought it right to tie a large artery with fo thick a liga- ture, that it would have been unfuitable to the praflice which he has recommended. One advantage arifing from tying a large artery with a thick ligature is, that it may be drawn as tight as poffible, without apprenhenfion of cutting the velTel, or of its fpeedily coming off from it. Should I, in any future inftance, think it right to oppofe any mecha- nical obftacle to the ligature's coming off" the veflel which it encircles, I. ftiould do it in tlie following ni^nner. Having tied a large knot at one end of a fmall thread, I would pafs It, by means of a common fev/ing needle, through the middle of the artery, in front of the ligature which encircles it I would then form a fecond tliick knot on the thread, clofe upon the furface of tlie veflel. Thefe two knots would, I think, prefent a confiderable obftacle to the flipping of the circular ligature from off the end of the artery. pulfeON ANEURISMS. 275 pulfe 95, and feeble. Half a pint of wine was allowed her in fago, in addition to the porter; and fhe took the infiis. menth, vitriol.^ of the hofpital, with fome tin6lure of gentian. Sunday, She was much better; tongue moift and clean, and her appetite much im- proved. She difliked the bitternefs of the medicine, peppermint-water was therefore fubftituted for the common mint-water, and the tincture of gentian was omitted; pulfe 82; Ikincool. Monday, In the fame ftate as yefterday; granulations appeared in the wound below the ligature, which clofed it in the middle. This part of the wound is now about an inch in breadth, and a third more in length. The wound above the ligature about one fourth of an inch acrofs j and the new flefh, by which it is united, of a tawny colour, and flabby texture. The furface of the Ikin, to a confiderable extent from the wound, red and excoriated. T 2 Tuefday,^70 ON ANEURISMS. Tuefday, She had a return of headach, with lofs of appetite j her pulfe 96. There flowed froni the wound a confiderable difcharge, of an ofFenfive fmell, and feemingly irritating to the Ikin over which it paffed. She com- plained of having had a reftlefs night j and obferved that, in general, fhe found herfelf well or ill, as the preceding night had paffed comfortably or otherwife. Thinking it pro- bable that the irritable ftate of the wound might contribute, in a great meafure, to pre- vent her from flceping, I dreffed it with an aqueous folution of opium, and fmeared the excoriated Ikin with lard, to prevent the acri- monious difcharge from affefting it. All appearance of granulations in the wound had vaniflied. I ordered her fifteen drops of laudanum in her night draught j and, inflead of the infus. menth. vitnol. I gave her docoB. cinchon. with 5j of tinSt. card. comp. every four hours. Wednefday, She had a comfortable night, with much fleep; her pulfe 80. The wound greatly amended. The difcharge puriform, iefs fetid, and fmaller in quantity. The new flefhON ANEURISMS. 277 flefh above the ligature florid ; and granu- lations appeared again on the fides of the wound, below the ligature. The fame treat- ment was continued. Thurfday, She had not refted fo well, and complained of headach. The wound, how- ever, was rather better than on the preceding day. I cut out the ligature which clofed the wound in the middle, thinking it might tend to keep up irritation. She attributed the pain in her head to the opium flie had takens C;? afcertain this point, I ordered the dofe to be increafed to twenty-five drops, Friday, She had llept well, and was free from headach; her pulfe under 80. This day, the ligature, from the upper part of the artery, came away with the dreflings. The excoriated Ikin had healed j the rednefs was inconfiderable. The wound, in every part, had a healing appearance. It fecms unne- cefiary to detail particularly the fubfequent part of the cafe. She was kept in bed to the end of the third week» when flie was allowed to fit up, that her bed might be made. I T 3 thought278 ON ANEURISMS^ thought this caution requifite, from knowing that Hgatures are detached from arteries be- fore the fides of the veffel are united. I alfo confined her to bed during the whole of the fourth week; but advifed her to move the limb about frequently. The wouild healed like a healthy wound; and was nearly clofed in a month after the operation. During the third week, when the wound no longer proved a fource of irritation, her pulfe did not exceed 75 ftrokes in a minute; it was generally. lower, and once I found it to be only 68. At the expiration of the month;^ fhe got up daily, and walked about the ward; although, on her admiffion into the hofpital, flae was incapable of walking at all. There was not the leaft oedema of the limb, Its circumference, at the calf, was but one third of an inch lefs than the oppofite fide. Having walked many times the length of the ward, fhe became tired, and thought that the limb which had been operated on, felt more far. tigued than the other. The aneurifmaltumour remains at this time of a confiderable fize. It is certainly more than one third lefs than at the time of the operation. I have related theON ANEURISMS. the cafe thus particularly, in order that the reader may judge of it for himfelf. To me it appears, from this and the former cafes, that, in an advanced ftate of femoral aneu- - rifm, the artery may be tied above Poupart's ligament, with as little detriment to the circulation of the limb, as in otiier cafes of aneurifm, where the operation is at- attended with very conftant fuccefs. The fymptoms immediately fubfequent to the operation, appear to me to have arifen entire- ly from the irritable and weak ftate of the patient. She had pain in the head from the operation; and fo Ihe had afterwards, when- ever her health was difordered by irritation. Her pulfe, prior to her taking the medicine which acted as an emetic, was 96; but the fubfequent day it was 150 or 160, This appears to be the refult of the ftate of the ftomach, for that becoming tranquil, the pulfe was again reduced to 95 or 96. In a conftitution fo weak and irritable, a wound was not likely to heal kindly; and all the fublequent circumftances of the cafe are fatif. faftorily explained, as the effects of an irri- table wound, adling upon an irritable confti- T 4 tutioaaSo ON ANEURISMS, • tntion. Upon the wound becoming healthy^ at the expiration of a fortnight, all variations of the conftitution ceafed. I cannot, there- fore, but confider the perplexing circum- ilances that fucceeded the operation, as the cfFe6l of the patient's peculiarity of conftitu- tion, and not as arifing from the operation itfelf, or from the ftate of the limb conte- quent to fuch an operation. A fimilar ope- ration has lately been performed by Mr. Frere, of Birmingham, with fuccefs.'* The patient being healthy; the wound healed without difficulty. Mr. Tpmlinfon, of Birmingham alfo, per- formed a fimilar operation with equal fuc- cefs, fo that it feems proved that the external iliac artery may be tied, in the cafe of a femoral aneurifm, with as little detriment to the limb, as occurs from tying the femoral artery in a cafe of popliteal aneurifm. I lately faw the woman who was the fubje6t of the laft cafe which I have related, and there is no diftin- guifliable difference in the fize or ftrength of the two extremities. CASEtON ANEURISMS. 13 that CASE IV. J. Peterfon, a Swedifh failor, about forty years of age, was admitted into St. Bar- tliolomew's hofpital, on account of an aneu- rifm of the femoral artery, juft below the groin. He was a thin man, but had ftrong mufcles. He had a languid appearance j and his pulfe was fmall and feeble; his appetite, according to his report, moderate, and bowels regular; his tongue, however, was much furred. As the upper and moft prominent part of the aneurifmal tumour was afcending above Poupart's ligament, fo as to make it probable, that if it increafed it might over- lap the ligament, and render the operation difficult, delay was inadmiflible, and th^ ope- ration was performed on Saturday, 25th Fe* bruaiy, 1809. It was accomplifhed as in the preceding cafe. I put my finger behind the peritonaeum, and clearly diftinguifhed the cylindrical form, and firmnefs of the artery; but I could not perceive its pulfation. I preffed on the vefTel, and the beating of the aneurifm ceafed j I remitted the preffure, and it was renewed. Having thus afcertained28.2 ON ANEURISMS. that I had my finger upon the artery I tried to feparate it, fo as get my finger round it; but I could not fucceed. I then tried with the point of the aneurifin needle, carrying it clofe to the ^rtery from without, towards the cavity of the pelvis ^ but the veffel yielded fo confiderably, that I did not accomphfli it. I tried in a contrary direction, and though the artery receded from its fituation, as I think, fully half an inch; yet by perfeve- ranee I accomplifhed my purpofe, I then paffed another aneurifmal needle, thread- ed with a double ligature, through the track that I had made, and tied each ligature firmly. I have related thefe circumftances, that the reader may know why the artery was not tkd as it was in the preceding cafe. I could not bring the artery into view. I might have done fo lower down nearer to Poupart's ligament; but the ap- prehenfion of producing any communica- tion between the air and the blood of the aneurifmal bag, which might occafion its putrefaction, made me tie the artery at fome diflance above the ligament. The recefilon of the artery in this cafe, before the prefigure madeON ANEURISMS, 15 and made by the aneurifmal needle, was fo con- fiderable as to exCite my furprife. The patient lay upon his fide with his thigh' bent upon the pelvis, and for the firft three days after the operation without pain, or any apparent difturbance of his conftitu- tion. He was fed with bread and tea, and bread and broth, and his bowels were regular. The wound feemed clofed by adhefion, ex- cept at its lower part, where the ligatures came out. On the fourth night, he was feized with violent and diftrelling .pain in the epigaftric region, and on the left fide of his cheft j he had not the leaft fleep, and felt very anxious, and difturbed. His pulfe beat the next day 130 in a minute j his fkiii was hot and dry, his face flullied, and his tongue covered with a dry brown crufl. Two grains of calomel were given to him, and eftervelcing faline draughts were taken every four hours. The calomel produced a purging ftool during the night, which had not a drop of bile in it. The following day his pulfe exceeded 100 only by a few ftrokes, his Ikin felt temperate, his tongue was moill,284 ©"N ANEURrsMS. and not fo brown or incrufted. His pain, alfo, was much diminifhed, though the epi- gaftric region was flill. tender. His fahne draughts were continued, and he was directed to take five grains of the pilul. hydrarg. each night. The next day he was ftill better, his pulfe 90, his Ikin moift, and his tongue cleaner i he took food without difguft, though not with much appetite. As he had no evacuation from his bowels, a little open- ing ele6\uary was given him, and the faline draughts were changed for the infus. menth. vitriol, with a little tin6t. cardam. He had a ftool in the night, which was of a light ochre colour; that is, a light brown, which dilution would not convert into a yellow. He continued the fame medicines till the tenth day after the operation, with an evi- dent amendment in his health ; though the alvine difcharges which wc contrived to pro- cure daily, were flill of the colour above, defcribed, though fomewhat deeper. On the tenth day, after obferving his tongue and pulfe, &c. thofe who faw him,, ioined with me in opinion, that he was in betterON ANEURISMS. 2S5 better health than when he was admitted into the hofpital. During this conftitutional difturbance, the upper part of the wound became open, and the difcharge was ofFenfive and irrita- ting, and excoriated the Ikin over which it flowed. I therefore greazed it with frefli lard at each drefling, to prevent as much as poflible the difcharge from acting upon it. Some fweUing of the parts on that fide of the wound next the ilium alfo took place. Still there was nothing very materially wrong, and the ftate of the wound gradually amended as the patient's health became tranquil. On the tenth day, the ligatures came away, and then the patient firft complained of a pain on the infide of his thigh, juft above his knee. On the nth day he repeated his com- plaints, and faid that the pain difturbed him, and prevented his fleeping during the night. I knew not to what to attribute it; I thought it might indicate fome irritation of the286 ON ANEURISMS. the anterior ci,'ural nerve; however as the patient remained pretty well, I gave no di- re6lions refpe6ling it. On the 12th day, when I vifited the pa- tient, I was fhocked at his appearance. His countenance expreffed great anxiety and de- fpondency ; andhispulfe was more than 120. His tongue was covered with a brown fur. He had miffed his regular evacuation from the bowels. Being clear that the calomel had been of effential fervice before, I gave him two grains of that medicine, and ordered again the effervefcing draughts. On the 13th day, he was no better; but more languid. The calomel had produced two copious loofe Jftools, fcarcely tinted with an ochre colour. • I requefted Dr. Roberts to fee him, who direfted him to take a grain of opium at night; ordered him fago and wine for food ; and the infufion of ca&- carilla with tin6l. of columbo. Fourteenth day, he neither feemed better nor worfe 3 he had ilept four hours in tlic nightON ANEURISMS. 287 night. A flight blufh of the (kin appeared on the infide of- the thigh, fuch as indicates inflammation of the abforbing vefTels. Fo- mentations and poultice were directed to this part. Dr. R. 'alfo ordered half a grain of calomel, with five of cicuta, to be taken night and morning. Fifteenth day, He was confiderably better, though his leg continued painful j the pain however was diminished. He was directed to continue the fame medicines j and to infure a good night, if one grain of opium failed to give him reft, h^was allowed to take ano- ther after four hours. Sixteenth day, Not quite fo well. Pie had had no evacuation for the laft twenty-four hours. He took a little opening electuary. Seventeenth day. He had a ftool during the night, and was better. His thigh was cedematous but not painful. The pain was defcending towards his ancle. Dr. Roberts wifhed him to take the blue pill in preference to the calomel. Five grains were therefore given each night. Eigh-2j58' OIT ANEURISMS. Eighteenth day, He was better, and con- tinued gradually to improve till the twenty- fourth day, when he declared he felt quite wfeU, and had had fix hours comfortable fleep. The colour of the ftools had been gradually improving, and on that day, when fuch a marked amendment took place, the ftool might be faid to be nearly properly tinftured with bile, and of a proper confiftence. During this time an abfcefs had formed on the infide of the thigh, a'little above the knee^ where the abforbents of the limb began to in- flame, and the matter had been difchai'ged by a pun6lure made with a lancet. Swelling in the ham likewife took place, and was ap- parently caufed by the irritation of the ab- forbents in that part, but no ma,tter formed in it, and the leg alfo became cedematous. The wound made by the operation had heal- ed firmly and all tumefaftion about it had fubfided. As the patient's bowels afted re- gularly, no medicines were now given him. After about a week had elapfed, he was feized as before with pain in the epigaftric region.OM ANEURISMS. 289 region, rheumatifm in the right fhoulder, and inability to move the right arm. His countenance again exprefled defpondency and difturbance j his pulfe was frequent and his ikin hot; the abfcefs alfo was painful and dif- -charged copioufly, and became diltended with matter, fo that it feemed neceffary to enlarge the aperture, which had nearly healed. His tongue was much furred, and his ftools had no bile in them. He again took calomel at firft, and after- wards the pilul: ^drarg: and the fecretion of bile was gradualr^ renewed and incrc^fed, as in the preceding inftances, which produced a proportionate amendment in his general health. His limb alfo was fo much improved as to enable him to walk about the ward, and to go out occafionally into the air. Believing that living in a better air would greatly contribute to the reftoration of his health, he was foon afterwards difcharsed from the hofpital; looking as well as he did on his admiffion, and capable of walking with but little infirmity. He was advifed to take the pilul: hydrarg: every fecond night, till the VOL. I, u fecre-^gO. ON ANEU55.ISM5, fecretion of bile was right, and to take them afterwards whenever he perceived it to be deficient or faulty. He was alfo enjoined to keep his bowels Tegular in other refpefls. , The cafes which I have related and refer->.- red to fhew that the current of blood through the external Uiac artery may be flopped, without occafioning any material, or even evident diminution of the powers of the limb. It alfo appears to me that this oper- ation does not difturb the conftitution, in a greater degree, than a fimi^one performed upon arteries of lefs magnitude. It is true, that confiderable diforder of the conftitution took place in the cafes which I have related, but it feemed to have arifen from the pecu- liarities of the ftate of health of the patients, and not as a neceffary confequence of the operation. In the laft cafe, every thing went on favourably till a diforder of the digeftive organs occurred. To fuch diforder, it can- not be doubted that there v^^^s a, ftrong pre- difpofition; and of which, the operation by its effefts on the mind as well as the body, confinement in an hpfpital, and great altera- tion.ON ANEURISMS, Zgi tion of diet may be confidered as the exciting caufes, I think it pi-obable that the ftate of the conftitution might have greatly contri- buted to produce the general irritation of the abforbents of the limb, which was firft ob- ferved on the day when the ligatures came away. I cannot doubt but that the inflam- mation of thefe velTels did, as indeed it gene- rally does, greatly difhirb the conftitution and aggravate its difordered ftate. Thefe con- jeftures appear to me to be verifid by the laft occurrence which I have related. When the wound vi^as h^^aled, and the limb fo well as that it probably could impart no irrita- tion to the general fyftem, from leaving off the mercurial medicine, diforder of the digeftive organs recurred and produced the effe6ls which I have defcribed. That the femoral aneurifm, when it occurs near to the groin, may, like other aneurilms, fometimes be cured by the pro- cefies of nature, is proved by experience; yet this is not likely to be the common event of fuch cafes. I knew two in- ftances of patients dying of haemorrhage fromON ANEURISMS. from fuch aneurifms. The fufFerings both of body and mind, in thefe cafes, were Ihocking. The patients were unable to move, and the diftenfion of the integuments, and prefTure on the nerves occafioned great pain and irritation. The patients alfo lay apprehen- five and uncertain of the hour when their fuf- ferings might be terminated by a fearful and fatal haemorrhage. I think myfelf therefore fortunate that I was firft, as it were, com- pelled to perform an operation, which I truft, may be found to diminifh the fufFerings, and preferve the lives of thofe afflicted with this difeafe. Strahati and Prenon, Printers-Street, London.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS DISEASES RESEMBLING SYPHILIS; AND OK DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY Ot EDINBURGH, AND OF THE MEDICAL SOCIETIES OF PARIS, PHILADELPHIA, &C. ASSISTANT SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAt, AND TEACHER OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY. LONDON.- PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, AND ORME, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1810.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 0)1 the Origin^ Sy7nptoms, and Treatment of Difeafes produced by the Abforptio7i of morbific Animal Matter, and which in Appearance frequently refem- ble Syphilis. SECT. I. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS, SINCE the publication of Mr. Hunter's accurate obfervations on the Venereal Difealc, it has been generally admitted that certain modifications of animal matter, being applied to a fufceptible furface of the body, will in many inftances excite an ulcerative difeafe, in which the difeafed part fecretes mat- ter precifely fnnilar to that which had excited it. Thefe kinds of infeftious matter Mr. Hun- ter called morbid animal poifons, in order to diftinguilhthem from thofepoifSns with which fome animals are furnifhed for piirpofes con- nected with their ceconomy. Mr. Hunter fur- ther fhewed that the animal matter of one per- VOL. II. B forx^ On diseases fon might induce difeafe in another', even' though the perfon from whom the matter was derived had no difeafe*. As Mr. Hunter's opi- nions have been confirmed by the fubfequent experience of other pra6litioners, and appear to have obtained pretty general affent and as fome of the cafes which I mean to bring for- ward feem fiill further to confirm and illuftrate thefe opinions, it does not appear neceffary for me at prefent to enlarge on thefe fubje6ls. Infectious matter may be the effe6t of dif- eafe in one perfon and the caule of it in ano- ther, and yet it would appear a folecifm were we to call' the infeftious matter itfelf dif- eafed or morbid* Befides, as fome kinds of animal matter, which are not the produ6ls of difeafe, are neverthelefs capable of exciting •it, I have, in the firft edition of this book, called all kinds of infe6lious animal matter, morbific animal poifons, which term there appears no reafon to change. It cannot, I think, on due confideration of the fubje6l, be denied, that many fores are in- * See his cafes of difeafes induced by the tranfplanta" tlon of teeth, and the fucking of children, in his work on the Venereal Difeafe. duced.feESEMBLING SrPHILlS. - 3 duced on the genitals, by fexual intercouife, tvhich are not the efFecls of the Venereal poifon, and that many of them infecl the conftitu- tion, and produce fecondary fym.ptoms relem- bling thofe of that diforder. It may be aiked, however, if thefe difeafes be not vene* real, what are they ? As they are ail the confequence of fexual intercourfe. they may, in one fehfe of the word, be faid to be vene- real. To avoid ambiguity, therefore, I lhall in thefe pages denominate that difeafe which broke out at the fiege of Naples, and which Mr. Hunter has defcribed as the venereal difeafe, by the name given to it by nofological writers, that is. Syphilis; and I fhall call thofe difeafes, which differ from it in their progrefs and mode of becoming well, though they ftrikingly refemble it in appear- ance, by a name importing thefe circum- ftances, that is, Pfeudo-Syphilitic Diieafes. To prepare the mind of the reader to take an impartial furvey of thefe fubje6ts, I think it will be ufeful to make a few pfelimiriary obfervations relative to the probable origih of pfcudo-fyphilitic difeafes. B 2 Celfus4 ON DISEASES Celfus defcribes eight fpecies of fores with which the genitals were affefted in confequence of fexual3 intercourfej and as this was long before Syphilis was known, it follows that there muft be other caufes producing them. Some of the fores defcribed by Celfus are not unfrequently met with at prefent, and they are not fyphilitic. Sores alfo frequently form upon the genitals of females in confequence of that irritation which accompanies difeafed fecretions from the vagina. Sores, for inftance, very fre- quently fucceed to gonorrhaea in the lower clafs of females, who pay little attention to cleanlinefs, and do not abftain from fexual intercourfe. Sores frequently break out on the prepuce and glans of the male, in confe- quence of the irritation which gonorrhaea or other difeafes of the urethra produce in thefe parts. Thefe fores generally heal without the ufe of mercury, frequently without inducing any conftitutional difeafe : and when they do infe6t the conftitution, the difeafe occa- ijpned by them is not fyphilitic. I merely mention thefe circumftances at prefent, tofhew that it is poflible for ulcers to form which mayRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. $ may not be fyphilitic, and yet the difcharges from them may prove morbific, and produce difeafe in others. Even difcharges from the genitals of one perfon, where no ulcers exift, are capable of exciting ulcers in another. I am aware that no argument can be grounded upon the ob- fervation of this fa6l in common cafes, where the parties have been promifcuous in their mtercourfe with others, and their veracity cannot be relied on. But I have known both gonorrhaea and ulcers occafioned by connexion with perfons who had no fyphilitic difeafe, where the veracity of the parties might be relied on, and where no promifcuous intercourfe could be fufpefted. The cafes of fuppofed gonorrhaea arifing from fexual intercourfe with perfons who apparently have no difeafe are fo very common as to need no exemplification. I think, however, it will be proper to adduce fome inftances, in which ulcers have taken place in confequence of the application of irritating matter which was not of a fyphilitic nature, becaufe cafes which can be cited in proof of this fa6l muft be rare B 3 occur-6 0J^^ DISEASE*. o^ciijrrenpcs, and not likely to be mc;t; with qxcept, in the extenfive prance of- a large city. CASE I. A gentleman was conne6led with a female who was kept, by another gentleman, and de- rived from fuch connexion feveral very irri- table and:foul fores, which broke out on the prepuce, but which, however, had not thefy- philitic c.hara6ters. As neither, the woman nor, her keeper had any difeafe, he had no wifh to take mercury, nor had I, being confulted on his cafe, any dehre to recommend it to himi The forps did not heal untilibetween.two and three months, though a variety of local appli- cations were employed. He at. length, how- ever, became .perfe6tly w^^ell, and I cautioned him not to.be again connected with the fame woman. But his inclination got the better of his prudence, and another crop of fores, equally irritable, foul, and tedious, took place In confequejace of a fecond conne61:ion. Thefe fores v/ere treated in the fame manner as be- fore and: flowly healed; After fome lapfe of time, he again erred in the fame manner j and again received: the fame- punifhmenti HeRESEMBLlNa SYPHILIS. 7 He had no conftitutionai difeafe from thefe fores. CASE IL A gentleman had been my'patient with fl:ri6tures in the urethra, which were nearly, though not perfeftly well. A large bougie could be pafTed with facility, but it gave fome pain on paffing thofe parts of the urethra where the ftri6lures had been, and there ftill exifted a very trivial difcharge from that canal. Under thefe circumftances he con- nected himfelf with a female, who, there was good reafon to believe, had had no com- munication with any other perfon. She, however, had in confequence of this con- ne6lion, four fores which formed upon the under furface of the labia pudendi, two on each fide. Thefe fores were veiy irritable,' and became larger than a fixpence, and of an oval form. They threw forth exuberant flefli of a livid hue, were very tender, and had a great deal of inflammation furrounding them. Various dreflings were employed without amending them, and after a month had elapfed I was induced to recommend from B 4 loto 16S ON DISEASES loto 15 grains of the pil. hydrarg. to be taken daily. After another fortnight, as no amendment was perceived, and the mouth was not afFefted by the medicine, the patient rubbedin 2 drachms, by meafure, of mercurial ointment evei*y fecond night. A fecond fort- night elapfed without any amendment in the fores, though the mouth was (lightly affe^led. At this time, the uneafmefs of the patient and her friend induced me to defire they would confult another furgeon, who thought the fores fyphilitic, and wiflied that the quantity of mercury fhould be increafed, fo as more decidedly to affe6t the mouth. In confe^ quence of this confultation, the patient rub- bed in the fame quantity of mercurial oint- ment every night, and difcontinued the inter-r nal ufe of the medicine.. At the conclufion of another fortnight, the mercuiy fuddenly af- feaed the gums, and produced a degree of ptyalifm which prevented its further ufe. Still the fores were not amended, and on the abate^- ment of the ptyalifm, I again had recourfe to local means without refumingthe ufe of mer- cury, the inefficacy of which had been fully proved. The fores now healed rapidly under theRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 9 the local ufe of a folution of cupr. vitriolat. Wherever mercury has been ufed, it muft be difficult to decide whether cafes are or are not fyphilitic. I think it very clear, however, that the cafe juft defcribed was not of that nature ; and, as to the fores healing fuddenly, it is a veiy common occurrence when no mercury is ufed. For fores which are not ajffe6ted by a local application in their inci- pient ftate, will fometimes heal rapidly if the fame application be made to them in an ad- vanced ftate, when the a6tivity of the difeafe is abated, or its nature changed by its con- tinuance. Though no conftitutional a{Fe<5i:ion fuc- ceeded to the fores induced in the foregoing cafes, yet that the fyftem is liable to be con- taminated by abforption from ulcers of this defcription will clearly appear from the cafes related in the fubfequent part of this paper: and at prefent, to corroborate this fa6t by the teftimony of another, I fliall relate a cafe which was communicated to me by an emi- jient and accurate furgeon in this town. CASE«N DISEASES CASE III. A gentleman lately married complained to his furgeon of a running from the urethra, which fo.ftrikingly refembled a venereal go- norrhaea that the latter could not but afcribc it to infe6lion. He had afterwards a fwelling of the prepuce, and fores on that part, which confirmed the furgeon in his opinion, and pro- duced a kind of diffention between his pa- tient and him, the one affirming that the difeafe was venereal, the other that it could not pollibly be fo, as his wife had no difeafe, and he had had connexion with no other wo- man. The effeil of this litigation was, that the furgeon would not urge the taking of mer- cuiy, nor would the patient require the ad- miniftration of that medicine, though a bubo, forethroat, and eruptions fucceeded,' which could not be diftinguiflied from fimilar com- plaints of a fyphilitic nature, but all of which fpontaneoufly got well. The narrative of the following cafe was lately fent to me by Mr. Watfon of Stour- port. It is an inftance of the nurfe being in- 4. fededRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. li fecled from the child, and fimilar inftances in this refpect are not unfrequently met with. Yet it contains fome interefting circumftances which are explanatory of my prefent fubje6V, and I therefore take the liberty of inferting it in this place. CASE IV. Mrs. F., after fuckling a nurfe child about four months, perceived a fmall ulcer on the breaft near the nipple, which fhe believed fhe caught from the child, as it had a bad nofe and fore lips. At this time the ulcer was about the fize of an almond, and of the fliape of one. As it did not heal from fimple dreffings, the furface of the fore was rubbed with argent, nitrat. and a wafh of calomel in lime water was afterwards applied. Under this treatment the ulcer healed, and a gland in the axilla, which had enlarged, fubfided. This happened about three weeks after the patient had firit confulted me. Two months afterwards, the patient had a fevere febrile attack, accom- panied with fore throat, of which flie foon recovered. To this, fucceeded a copper- coloured eruption which came out on all parts1-3 ON DISEASES parts of the body. No medicine was given at firfl, but as the patient became mieafy, fome compound calomel pills, with fmall dofes of nitric acid were directed. She took aboii t 12 pills and fmall dofes of the nitric acid for the fame length of time, when they were dif- continued. In about two months all the eruptions had difappeared, except fome white blifters, which had lately formed about the labia pudendi, and which gave her pain, when (lie walked. This complaint was removed in a few days by a folution of fulphat of zinc. About a week afterwards, her hufband fhew- ed me a fore on the penis, covered by a black fcab. It was about the fize of a fixpence, the furrounding fkin was much inflamed, but the bafe of the fore was neither hard nor thickened. In a few days, a fecond fore ap- peared in the courfe of the abforbents between the firft and the groin. The inguinal glands now became enlarged, and one of them fup- purated. In about three weeks from the firfl appearance of the fore on the penis, the patient was attacked with feverifh fymptoms, which were followed by an eruption, different from that which his wife had been affe6led with, butRESEMBLING SVPHILIS. I3 but very fimilar to the erythema papulatum fyphiliticum, reprefeiited by Do6tor Willan. The fores on the penis fpread rapidly for fome days, but did not penetrate deeper tlian the Ikin, and after being twice touched with ar- gent, nitrat. they fopn healed with the ufe of calomel in lime water. The abfcefs in the groin was opened by a lancet, and the wound ulcerated confiderably, but afterwards healed by the fame means, tliat had been ferviceable to the other fores. This patient never took any mercuiy, ex- cept once, when fome calomel was given with other aperients, as a purge. It may be rationally fuppofed that the dif- charges from fuch fores as I have defcribed, as well as the difcharges from fccreting fur- faces not in a ftate of ulceration, may prove morbific and excite local difeafes, or if ab- forbed may contaminate the conftitution. Cafes v/hich render thefe opinions probable, are fo frequent, that every furgeon muft, I think, have remarked them. In confequence, however, of his preconceived opinions, he mightt4 ON DISEASES might diftruft the veracity of his patients, .iand treat the difeafe as if it were fyphiUtic, and the confequences of fuch conduct will be difplayed in the fubfequent part of this paper. After thefe preliminary obfervations, which are defigned to fnew how fores on the geni- tals may arife from fexual intercourfe at pre- fent, as they did even in the time of Celfus; I may further remark that from the time of the breaking out of the lues venerea, it is pi^obable luch fores -continued to occur, and were con- founded with the fores induced by that difeafe: thus we may account for the opinions de- livered by old authors, of even fyphilis getting well fpontaneoufly, or by the adminiftration of medicines of acknowledged inefficacy^ ■Every furgeon muft have feen cafes of fyphilis -getting progreffively worfe, till corre6ted by mercury, and regularly yielding to the efFeft .of that medicine, and being permanently cured by one adequate mercurial courfe j fo that his obiervations will induce him to ad- mit the accuracy and juftnefs of the defcrip- tion of that difeafe which Mr. Hunter has given.RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 2^ given, in a great number of inftances. Fur- ther, when from the infenfibility of the conftitution to the operation of mercury it has been difficult to excite its fpecific efFe6l:, how numerous are the cafes of chancres, dicers in the throat, and nodes, that have remained ftationary and unvarying under a long ufe of mercury, and yet have yielded and become perfectly well, v/hen by more energetic meafures the conftitution has -at length been affe6led by this medicine. To identify what I confider as true fyphilis, and to excite the reader's attention to that difeafe, fo that he may contraft it with thofe which make the fubjeft of the prefent publication, I I'hall here infert a cafe which was related in the firft edition of my furgical and phyfiolo- gical eflays, to fliew the efficacy of mercurial fumigations in affecling the conftitution, when other modes of adminiftering mercury had failed to produce its fpecific eSecl CASE * It is not my intention to republifh the cafes in proof of this fa£f, becaufe I thhik that tlie pref^t one is fuf- ficient to evince its truth. It feems, however, riaht to mention, that my opinions on this fubjedl are unaltered, andl6 I ON DISEASES CASE V. A young man had a chancre by the fide of the frasnum preputii, which had all the charac-v ters of true fyphilis. It was of a circular form, with a thickened edge and bafe j there were no granulations, and matter adhered to the fur- face.. For this, he took mercurial pills in large quantities, which never affeded his mouth, though occafionally they produced griping pains, and made him feel very unwell. He was obliged at this time to travel pretty con- flantly, fo that he could not conveniently rub in mercurial ointment. When the mercury was taken in fuch quantities as to make him feel ill, and to diforder his bowels, the fore and to repeat, that I have found mercurial fumigations employed in the manner recommended by the Chevalier Lajonette, a phyfician in Paris in I77<5> to be, in the ma- jority of inflances, a more powerful and innocent means of producing a mercurial affection of the conflitution than^ in un£lion or the internal ufe of mercury, and equally cer- tain of radically curing the difeafe for which it has been thus adminiftered. The fumigating powder which I have ufed inftead of Lalonette's is calomel walhed in water, containing a fmall quantity of ammonia. 5 lookedRJZSEMBLINC SYPHILIS. VOL. II. c form looked red on the furface, and feemed dif- jxjfed to lic-al, but v/hcn he diminifhed the quantity of the medicine the fore afTumed its former difeafal characters. After the chancre had continued for two months, a fmali bubo formed, fu})purated and burft. By perfevering in the internal uCc of mer- cury to the greatcft extent that he could do, the chancre healed and the bubo got well about the fame time. This happened four months after the occurrence of the chancre, and fix weeks after the breaking of the bubo. As at laft having got the chancre to heal by pufhing the ufe of mercuiy to an extent that made him feel very uncomfortable, and much indifpofed, he left off the medicine fooner than he ought to have done. In two months more, his former occupations ceafmg, he re- turned to London, where he afterwards re- mained. Shortly after his return, which was in September 1788, one of his tonfils feemed a little enlarged, indurated, and ten- der, lb as to occafion a difficulty in degluti- tion. In the coui fe of a week it ulcerated, and the ulcer acquired by degrees all the characters of fyphilis. It was o^ an ovalON DISEASES farm, excavated, without granulations, and with matter adhering'to its lurface. The fame circumftances took pla ce m the oppo - fite tonfil and an exa6lly fimilar fore formed in it. As the hiftory as well as the appearances of the primary chancre left no doubt of its nature, and as the fecondary fymptoms were equally unequivocal, he immediately begari a mercurial courfe: being healthy, and his- bowels not eafily difturbed, he took, on an average, from two to three grains of calcined quickfilver, ar calomel joined with opium, every day for three months; and alfo ufed mercurial ointment during the fame period, beginning with two drachms, and gra- dually increafmg it to an ounce daily: befides which, he had for a fliort time taken a folu- tion of hydrargyrus muriatus. Yet all this fcarcely produced any forenefs of his gums, or caufed any vifible amendment in the ulcers of his throat J the only effeft it had being that of preventing them from becoming worfe. His bowels indeed were occafionally difturbed by the medicines, but were cafily quieted by opium. To rub in the quantity of mercurial ointment ^fed towards the latter pait of the com-fCjRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I9 coLirfe, the patient fpeiit nearly an hour and half every night and morning j but as he be- came weaker, he perfpired confiderably in confequence of this exercife, which tended to fruftrate his endeavours, by preventing, or at leaft greatly cUminifhing, the abforption of the medicine. No ground being gained by purfuing this plan, Sir Charles Blicke recommended mer- curial fumigation according to Lalonette's method, which he had occafionally employed with fuccefs, and which would not only re- lieve the patient from the fatigue of rubbing in the ointment, but prevent any farther ir- ritation of his bowels, by fuperfeding the in- ternal ufe of mercury. The patient was ac- cordingly expofed, for half an hour each night, to the fumes produced from half an ounce of the powder j by which means, in lefs than a fortnight, his conftitution and mouth became properly affected by the mer- cury J the ulcers healed foon afterwards; and in about a month he was permitted to dif- continue the remedy. c 2 laI to ON DISEASES In tilis cafe the difeafe in all its circurrt-* ftances precifely agreedwit h the defcription of fyphilis given by Mr. Hunter. It was un- changeable in its chara6lers; it regularly and progreffively got worfe when no mercury was employed, it v/as ftationary when oppofed by that medicine, and it was permanently cured by an adequate mercurial affeftion of the conftitution. Having been educated in the old fchool, tinder profelTors who prided themfelves in pofleffing the Ta6lus and Vifus eruditus, I ' Ivas anxious to obtain that happy difcrimi- nation of colour that fhould enable me to pronounce from the copperifh tint of an eruption that it was undoubtedly venereal, ' But my endeavours were ineffectual; and . much was I gratified by the publication of Mr. Hunter's book, which farniflied me with a clue to guide me through the labyrinth in which I had been bewildered. All my ob- fen-ations, while a ftudent, correlponded with Mr. H.'s, and when I experienced as well as^ witnefled the perplexities of pra6lice in thefe difeafes, I faw nothing contrary to his de- 8 fcriptioii21 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. fcriptioii. I faw cafes of true fyphilitic dif- eafe, which had been regular in their progrefs and increafe, when no mercury was ufed, re- gularly and permanently cured by that medi- cine. I alfo faw difeafes refembling the venereal, which were, neither regular in their progrefs nor cure. Each year additional fa6ts prefented thcmfelves to eftablifh thefe opinions, and none appeared to contradict them. The following cafe in particular, of a medical ftudent of the hofpital, made a ilrong imprelTion upon my mind. CASE VI. This gentleman thought that he had in- fe6led a flight cut on his hand (which was fituated in front and juft below the little finger) with the difcharge from a bubo in the groin that he had opened. The wound fretted out into a fore about the lize of a fixpence, whicli he fhewed me, and which I affirmed had not the thickened edge and bafe, and other charafters of a venereal chancre. I therefore recommended him to try the effect of local means, and not to ufe jnercuiy, 3 InON DISEASES In about a month tlie fore, which had fpread a little, became again contra6led in its dimenfionSj and aflumed a healing appear- ance. At this time pain was felt extending up the arm, and fuddeijly a. confiderable tumour arofe over the abforbing veflels, which proceed along the inner edge of the biceps mufcle. This tumour became nearly as big as a fmall orange. As the original fore feemed now difpofed to heal, and as there was no furrounding induration, I could not believe it fyphilitic, and therefore recom- mended him flill to abftain from mercury, and apply leeches, and linen moiftened in the aq: litharg : acet: comp :, to th& tumour formed over .the inflamed abforbents. Under this treatment the tumour was dif- cuffed, and the fore at the fame time healed. About three weeks afterwards the patient called on me, and faid that there were vene- real ulcers in his throat; and in each tonfil there was an ulcer deeply excavated, with ir- regular edges, and with a furface covered by adhering matter; ulcers, in fliort, which every furgeon, who depends on his figlit as hisRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. his guide, would have pronounced to be fy- pliilitic. Shortly after alfoj fome copper-co- loured eruptions appeared on his face and breaft. He fhewed his difcafcs to feveral fuj'geons, on whofe opinion he relied, who, without hefitation, affirmed that they were fyphilitic, and that the mercurial courfe had been improperly delayed. Wliilft the patient was looking out for lodgings, in order that he might go through the mercurial procefs, a circumfcribed thick- ening and elevation of the pericranium cover- ing the frontal bone appeared ; it was of the circumference of a half-crown piece; and was, in fliort, what every furgcon, who is guided only by his fight and touch, would, without hefitation, have called a true corona' veneris. I now told the patient that I was ftilf more inclined to believe his difeafe was not jyphilitic, from the fudden and fimultaueous occnri'ence of this node with the fore throat, ^c. Other furgeons thought diltcrently; and I believe this very fenfible and amiable young man imagined tliat his health would become a facrilice if he sny longer attended to my' c opinion.24 ON DISEASES opinion. He was preparing to fubmit to a mercurial courfe, when very important con- cerns called him inftantly into the country. He went with great relu6tance, taking with him mercurial ointment, &;c.: and after a fort- night I received a letter from him, faying that he found his complaints benefited by his journey, that bufmefs had prevented him. from beginning the ufe of mercury for a few daysi.that he now found it was unnecefTary, for his fymptoms had almoft difappeared, and fhortly afterwards he became well. At the time, and ever fi'nce, I confidered this cafe as meriting publication, as being a ^o^fe .unequivocal infl^nce of a difeafe occur- ring,.- which could not from appearance be .difcinguilhed by furgeons of the greateft experience from fyphilis, and \^ich, how- ever, was undoubtedly of a different nature ; and I believe that there is no one, who would not have decided on this cafe, as thofe did who declared it .to be fyphilitic, unlefs they -had had an opportunity of watching its pro- grefs very attentively. This cafe probably made me more fcrupulous than 1 fhouid other-RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 2$ othervvife have been in admitting difeafes to be fyphilitic, till their unabating progrefs efta- blifbed their nature beyond the poilibility of doubt J and from this hefitation in deciding T have been enabled to prove, that a great number of cafes, in which mercury would have been employed, have got well without the ufe of that medicine. In the courfe of pra£lice, I frequently met with cafes of a nature fimilar to the fore- going. In thefe, I had opportunities of trac- ing conftitutional fymptoms from the pri- mary fores which'had caufed them, acircum- ilancc which cannot frequently be done in hofpitai pra6lice. I faw that the primary fores had not the character of fyphilis, not- withftanding the fecondary fymptoms often ftrongly refembled thofe of that difeafe. As, however, I did not meet with other furgeons who thought as Mr. Hunter did on this fub- jecf, and as my obfervations fo ftriftly coin- cided with his, I thought it right in the firll volume of my Surgical Obfervations, pub- liflicd 1804, to excite the public attention to thefe cafes by laying before it the follov/ing ElTiiy,ON DISEASES Eflay, but previoufly I enquired of tlie bcft furgeons in London, whether conftitutional fymptoms of fyphiUs do ever fpontaneoufly amend ? To this enquiry no one decidedly replied in the affirmative, whilft all without hefitation agreed that they were generally, if not conftantly, progreffive, unlefs checked by the operation of mercury. In confequence of this opinion, fo concurrent with Mr. Hun- ter's defcription of the difeafe, I was induced to publifli the following cafes and remarks,RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. SECTION II. Oa 'Pfeudo-fypJAUtic Difeafcs becoming well fponta* ncoiijly. J^/Jr. Hunter, in his excellent Treatife on the Venereal Difeafe, has related feveral cafes fuppofed to be fyphilitic, and Ibme of which were certainly not fo, as they got well without mercury ; but in the greater number the employment of this medicine rendered their nature doubtfid. Mr. Hunter nlfo, who was as cautious in drawing conclu- fions as he was accurate in making obferva- tions, exprefles himfelf in ra?.ny inftances fo diffidently on the fubjecj, as, in my opinion, not fufficiently to imprefs the minds of his readers with tlie certainty, importance, and frequency of fuch fa61:s. He concludes his obfervations by intimating " that undefcribed difeafes, refembling the venereal, are veiy numerous, and that what he has faid is rather to be confidered as hints for others to profe- cute this inquiry further, than as a complete account of the fubjeft." As it has occurred to me very frequently to meet \^dth fuch cafes, ;28 ON DISEASES cafes, and as the neceffity for difcrimlnating them from fyphilitic difeafes appears to me of the higheft importance, I fliall profecute the fabje6l by relating fome unequivocal cafe's of difeafes ffcrikingly refembling fyphilis, but vv^hich, however, were diforders of a different nature, provided it be admitted that fyphilis does not fpontaneoufly get well without tliq aid of medicine. The neceffity for, difcrimination between thefe difeafes will appear ujpon a flight con- fideration of the fubje6l. If ^ furgeon, who does not fee that extent of practice which occurs in a metropolis, adminifters mercury in one of the difeafes refembling fyphilis, he finds perhaps that the fymptoms yield flowly; and even after a confiderable and debilitating courfe of that medicine they may recur. They are then counterafted by a ftill more fevere ufe of mercuiy, till they perhaps fpon- taneoufly ceafe, which may not happen till the patient's conftitution is fo enfeebled, that if it do not fall into other ftates of difeafe it very flowly regains the ftandard of health. Such cafes would induce the furgeon to confide^ theRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 2$ the venereal difeafe as peculiarly difficult of «ure, and liable to recur on the remiffion of even a fevere courfe of mercury. The con- fequence of this opinion is, that he employs mercury to an unneceiTaiy and injurious de- gree in his general pra6lice. I do not mean, however, by thefe remarks to imply, that, in my opinion, fyphilitic dif- eafes are equally fufceptible of cure in every inftance by mercury j nor am I an advocate for what has been termed an alterative courfe of this medicine. Cafes v>4iich frequently occur have convinced me that it requires a very confiderable mercurial efieft to cure fyphilis in fome inftances j and that this efFe6l muft be continued for a confiderable time in order to infure a cure. Mr. Hun> ter probably wifhed the fubje6l of difeafcs refembling fyphilis to be profecuted, in hopes that fome diftinftive chara6lers might be difcovered as peculiar to them j but the following cafes fliew that thefe difeafes enfue from primary infe6led fores of very diffimilar appearances, and fometimes arife without any primary fore having been obferved. Whilft30 ON DISEASES Whilft, then, the primary fymptoms are thus variable, and fuch as may perhaps in the greater number of cafes be diftinguiflied from thofe of fyphiUs, the fecondary or conftitu- tional fymptoms often fo ftrikingly re- femble thofe of that difeafe, as not to be difcriminated from them by fight, though in general they may be by their progrefs. I have kept no particular account of the numerous cafes wliich I have met with, but the five following inftances happened in my own private praftice within a few months, and the circumftances of them aj^e ftill frefh in' my memory. The cafes are drawn up from narratives which I requefted the pa-, tients themfelves to make out of their own difeafes. CASE VII. A gentleman had a fore on the lower part of the prepuce near the froenum, which was much irritated by travelling from the country. When he eame to town there was a good deal of furrounding inflammation, and a thickening adjoining the edges of the fore whichRESEMBLTOG SYPHILIS. 3^' wliich were irregular, and feemingly difpofed to fpread. An appearance' of granulations had taken place on the furface of the nicer, which was at this time as large as a fliilling. I gave him the pilulas hydrargyri, whilft I tried by local means to quiet the irritation of the fore, and of the furrounding parts. As the fore appeared to heal flowly, and feem- ingly in proportion to the quantity of mer- cury taken, the patient rubbed in at the fame time fome mercurial ointment, and continued to do fo till after the fore was well, which was in about a month. In three weeks after he liad left off thcfe medicines, this patient ap- plied to me on account of an ulceration on the velum pendulum palati, and on the fur- face of one tonfd ; and foon afterwards ulcers took place on the edges of the tongue, and on tlie infide of the lips and cheeks. Copper- coloured fpots alfo came out on his arms and legs, and all over his body. They were very numerous, but none appeared on liis face. By waiting and watching the progrefs of the difeafe, I found that fomc of the ulcers amended fpontaneoufly, aod that the palate got well, i, t;he;-cfore exhorte4 jii.cg. tp refrain 4? i^m32 ON DISEASES from mercurial medicine, and he went into the country. A medical gentleman, whom the patient confulted, was very anxious to try fomething to cure this difeafe, when his patient was feized with a fevere febrile com- plaint, during the continuance of which all thefe doubtful fymptoms difappeared, and there has not been .any return of difeafe fmce that time." CASE VIIL A gentleman had a fmall fore on the pre- puce, at a little diftance behind the corona glandis, which did not appear like a venereal chancre, and therefore no mercury was ufed. After about a fortnight, during which time it could fcarcely be faid to be better or worfe, it fuddenly became confiderably indurated in its circumference^ and the furrounding parts became inflamed. The hardnefs was fo con- fiderable that it relembled one of thofe indu- rated chancres which fo frequently occur; and in confequence of this ftriking refem- blance; another furgeon, v/hom the patient confulted at this time, infilled on his con- fining himfelf to his chamber, and ufmg mer- cuiy attentively. ^ n^^- .TheRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 33 The quietude of the patient, with fome little attention in regard to local applications, foon removed the inflammation and hardnefs, and the patient, who was controlled by no- thing but his fears, difcontinued his medicine after thrice ufmg fome mercurial ointment, and returned to his former mode of life. About a month afterwards, he called on me with an ulcer in each tonfil, one of which was deeply excavated, with irregular edges, and covered by adhering matter. Shortly af- terwards, copper-coloured fpots appeared on his body, but thefe difeafes all difappeared yi about a month, without uling mercury. CASE IX. A gentleman applied to me with a very irri- table fore, or rather excoriation, extending it- felf over the left half of the corona glandis. It was unlike a fyphilitic fore, as may be fup- pofed from this defcription, yet, as the pa- tient was young' and healthy, I advifed him to take fome of the pilulae hydrargyri to guard againft the polTible confequences of ab- forption, and to bathe the parts afFe(5ted with VOL. II. D the34 ON DISEASES the aq. litharg. acet. comp. c. opio, and to ap- ply folded linen moiftened with the wafh round the penis. The prepuce foon became Iwoln and inflamed, fothat he was unable tore- tra6t it, and the attempt gave him great pain. He was therefore directed to cleanfe the part by inje6ling frequently the deco6lion of white poppy heads of a lukewarm temperature. After a week he tried a very weak folution of yitriolated zinc, aiid other metalhe falts, but they all increafed his pain, and he was obliged to veturn to the ufs of the anodyne waflio When he had perfevered in tliis courfe three weeks without any evident amendment, he confulted another furgeofi, v/ho recommended the difcontinuance of the mercurial medicine,- and in lieu of it, the free vife of the bark. This medicine he took for a week without any. amendment J he then tried the nitrous acid for ten days,, and afterwards took eiQuta. In about two months he was able to retra£l tjie forelkin, and then tke folution of vitrio-- lated &inc appeared to leflen the irritability, aiidiRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 3^ and contribute to the Ikinning of the fore, which was merely on the furface, not having been attended with any lofs of fubftance. A/terwards tlie penis being fubje6led to fome accidental irritation, the fame kind of forenefs fpread over the other half of the corona glandis j but this difeafe was not ac- companied with fo much: tendernefs as the former one, and got well in lefs than a month. As foon as it was well, the patient had an ulceration of the velum pendulum palati, round which the cuticle aflumed a whitifh colour; the ulceration fpread acrofs the palate, but it was evident that the part firll affected got better, whilft the ulcer be- came worfe in the parts laft affected. Two or three ulcers took place upon each edge of the tongue, and fome on the infide of the lips. At the fame time many copper-coloured fpots appeared on the face, breaft, arms, and lower_extremities j they came out in fuccef. fion, were of an oval fhape, about the fize of a fixpence, and had a ftrikingly fyphilitic afped. B 2 Believing3^ ON DISEASES Believing that the primary fympt6ms of this difeafe were not fyphilitic, and obferving that fome part of the ulcer on the palate heal- ed, and that fome of the fores on the tongue and lips got better, whilft new ones broke out, I recommended the patient to ufe no mercury. He went into the country, where all thefe maladies gradually difappeared, and in about a month he was perfe6tly well. CASE X. A perfon, whofe irregular habits of life gave reafon to fufpe6l the exiftence of fyphilis in the conftitution, had ulceration of the ton- fils, not fuperficial, but deep. Thefe were accompanied with copper-coloured fpots on the face and breaft, and eruptions on the head amidft the hair, accompanied with a great deal of fcurf. Thefe' got well by anointing the head with ung.hydrarg.nitrat. mixed with fimple ointment, which made me doubt whether the other difeafes were really fyphilitic, and caufed me to delay the ufe of mercuiy. The complaints did not amend, nor did they get materially worfe. There was attending thefe difeafes a good deal of generalRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 37 general indispofition; the appetite failed, and no fleep took place till the morning. At this time a tendernefs and thickening of the periofteum of the tibia took place. Though other medicines did not appear to be of any fervice I ftill was averfe to the ufe of mercury. Tired of delay, the patient con- fulted another furgeon, who declared the dif- eafe to be veneral, and defired that mercurial ointment might be ufed. The patient ac- cordingly rubbed in two or three nights with- out feeling any efleft from the medicine, and then fet off on a party of pleafure to Brigh- ton, where all the difeafes gradually difap- peared without any further ufe of mercury. CASE XL A gentleman had an enlargement of a gland in the groin, probably from the abforption of fome infectious matter, though he was not confcious of having had any fore. A fecond and a third gland became enlarged, the inte- guments became thitkened and inflamed, and a very large bubo formed. It fuppurated and burft in three places. The general tumefac- D 3 tionON DISEASES tion fubfided, but by no means difperfed, and finufcs^ remained where the abceffes had been. About this time I faw the patient, which was two months after the firft appear-* ance of thedifeafe. Shortly after this, he had an ulceration, which fpread over the velum pendulum pa- lati, and except that it was more fuper- ficial, much refembled a fyphilitic ulceration. It continued fo long without amendment, that I began to think it was fyphilitic. Bark was jiow given plentifully, and the ulcer evidently amended. The patient went afterwards to the fea-fide, where the bubo gradually dif- perfed : many months however elapfed before it entirely difappeared. The ulcerations of the velum pendulum palati alfo healed (lowly; and ulcers, which afterwards appeared in the back part of the pharynx, got well likewife without mercury. Thefe cafes are not related as being rare or curious, ■ but becaufe they all occurred to me within the fpace of a few months, and becaufe fufficient time has elapfed fmce theirRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 39 iheir occurrence to fhew that there is no probabiUtythat there will be any recurrence of thefe or fimilar fymptoms. It mull be allowed that they are inconteftable inftances of -difeafes getting well without mercury, which could not be diftinguilhed by mei-e infpeftion from fimilar difeafes truly fyphilitic. For though mercuiy was employ- ed in fom.e of the cafes, it was ufed at fuch a time, or in fuch quantity, that it cannot in the leaft influence our decifion as to this point. For inftance, in the firft cafe though mercury was employed for the cure of the primary ulcer, and did apparently contribute to it; yet the fecondary fymptoms got well without mercury, which, according to the opi- nions new prevailing among furgeons, is a proof that neither was fyphilitic. It may in-r: deed be fuppofed that the fyphilitic poifon may be modified by certain conftitutions, and its effe6ls fpontaneoufly difappear; and fome may queftion if the fecondaiy fymptoms were the confequences of the fores or abforption to which I attribute them. What I have written ^s, I believe, in confoiTnity to prevailing opi- P 4 nions,40 ON DISEASES nions, and I forbear to enter into uncertain difcuffions. Thefe inftances, however, though not fe- lefted for the purpofe, fliew that the primary infedled fores which are capable of producing fecondary fymptoms, ftrikingly rcfemb- ling thofe of fyphiUs, do not themfelves pofTefs any uniform chara6lers. In the firft cafe the ulcer had no uncommon appearance; it was of the fize of a fliilling, with fretful edges, and every where covered with granu- lations. In the fecond there were no appa- rent granulations, and a great degree of indu- ration fuddenly furrounded it, giving it a ftriking refemblance to the indurated vene- real chancre. In the third, the fore furface was extremely irritable; but though the dif- eafe exifted for a long time, the ulcerative proccfs did not eat into the part j and at the conclufion of the cafe there was no lofs of fubftance. In the fourth and fifth cafes, the abforption of the matter, which caufed the fecondary fymptoms, either took place with- out any breach of furface, or the primary foresRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 4I fores were too infigniticant to excite atten- tion. I lately attended a gentleman who had an ulcerated throat, and eruptions on the head, which broke out between the fecond and third month after the appearance of a fore on the prepuce, which fore healed in a few days with no other treatment than bathing it with a folution of acetated lead, and applying to it a piece of lint moiftened with that liquor. This circumilancc made him difregard the primary fore, but he was affiired by a furgeon, whom he confulted, that the fecondary fymptoms were fyphilitic j they however got well without mercury. It is probable, that the morbific poifons which producepfeudo-fyphihs may be abforbed without any evident ulcer, or from a trivial ulcer, which may heal fpontaneoufly, much more frequently than the fyphilitic poifon j and if the confequent conftitutional fymptoms are confidered as the effefts of the latter difeafe and treated as luch, I need not fay what confufion mull be produced in the mind of the furgeon who purfues this condufl, and how bewildered his opinions muft be repe6l- 5 ing XON DISEA'S^ 42 ing venereal difeafes. Jf, for inftance, in the eleventh cafe, a furgeon had confi- dered the fecondary fymptoms as fyphi^ litic, and eraployed mercury fuccefsftilly for their cure, he would fet this down as a cafe of syphilitic bubo occurring without a previous 'chancre, and be inclined in his general pra6lice to ufe mercury in all cafes of buboes without chancre, left conftitu- tional difeafes fhouM enfue. There, how- ever, does not appear any thing that fhould exempt the glands of the groin from en-r largement, and difeafes to which other abforb- ent glands are fubje£l, whilft they are particu- larly liable to irritation and confequent difeafe from diforders of the urethra and other parts, to which they are connected by means of their velTels. The ufe of mercury as a fpecific, there- fore, in enlargement of thefe glands, unlefs they have, been preceded by a chancre, muft, I think, be confidered as improper. I havp met with many fimilar cafes fince thofe nve that have been related, and of which, from their fudden and almoft fimul- taneous occurrence, 1 was induced to take a Wi"ittci>RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. Jf-J written account: within thefe two months, I have feen two cafes of eruptions and three of fore throats. The eruptions took place par- ticularly about the hands and feet: in one cafe, the patient has been falivated for them j the difeafe, however, recurred, and afterwards got well without the ufe of mercury. In the other, there were warts and fores on the pre-» puce, and buboes in the groin, which fuppu* rated and burft : the eruptions fo ftrikingly refembled thofe of fyphilis, that all the me- dical men, who accidentally faw the patient, exclaimed that they were fo, with a confi- dence proportioned to their profeflional fkill and accuracy of obfervation. Indeed in this cafe, and in others, I have been almoft im- pelled to ufe mercuiy, in confequence of the opinion and wiflies of the patient and thofe of his friends. The hiftory however of this difeafe did "not accord with that of fyphilis; the warts had preceded the fores j fome fores healed, and others broke out; and at laft, fome of the eruptions began to get well, and the reft gradually difappeared. The third patient had a fore throat for which he had been falivated; it afterwards recurred wheaON DISEASES 44 when it got well without mercury. The fourth and,fifth had ulcers in the throat and on the lips and tongue: they all got well with- out mercury. One of the patients who had the fore throat had been falivated, but the difeafe recurred. In the other two I forbore to ufe mercury, and I have reafon to fay they will do well without it. In one of the latter cafes there were ulcers on the tongue and the infide of the lips. If, then, the occurrence of fuch cafes be frequent, and the necelfity of difcriminating them from thofe of fypliilis be of great im- portance, we may folicitoufly enquire by what circumftances we are to diftinguifh be- tween difeafes fo fimilar in appearance, but fo different in their nature. Mr. Hunter feemed to wifh the profecution of this fubje6l, probably from the expe6tation that fome cha- rafters appropriate to thefe difeafes might be dete6led : I have not, however^ been able to difcover any; the fi61:itious difeafe in appear- ance fo exa6lly refembles fyphilis that no ob- fervation, however acute, feems to be capable of deciding upon its nature. Although the ul^ cers45 RfiSBMBLINO SYPHILIS. cers in thefe ambiguous cafes generally fpread tnore extenfively along the furface of tlie part which they affe6l, yet this does not conftantly happen, as is fliewn in the eighth cafe In this cale, however, the induration which furrounded the chancre occurred fud- denly, and went away as rapidly. The pro- grefs therefore, of the two difeafes was very diffimilar *. It muft alfo be remarked, that 4 * On the fubjeft of induration furrounding chancres I think it may be ufeful to relate the following cafe, and to mention that I have known fimilar ones in a lefs degree : A ftudent in fiirgery fhewed me an indurated chancre, for the cure of which he had ufed a great quantity of mercury, which had afFe£ted his mouth for a long time, ihough not feverely. The fore io exaflly refembled a bad indurated veneral chancre tliat I did not hefitate to recom- mend him to remain at home, and rub in fo as to produce a flight falivation. But as no amendment was perceived after a fortnight's confinement, and under a confiderable affection of the mouth, I was induced to enquire more (Iridtly into the local treatment of the fore, which I found he was conftantly irritating by various ftimulating applica- ■ tions. He alfo affirmed that the hardnefs had feveral times gone away and returned again. By bathing the part with milk and water, and dreffing it only night and morning ■ with mild falve, the hardnefs quickly abated, and though he defifted from the mercurial courfe it foon became per- fectly well. true45 ON DISEASES true fyphilltic fpots and ulcers fometimes af- fnme the appearance of other difeafes, and do not poflefs their ordinary charafteriftics. Since, then, our fenfes fail us in our en- deavours to difcriminate between thefe two difeafes, and fince the moft important circum- ftance is to diftinguifh whether the difeafe be fyphilis or not, we may enquire whether there are any circumftances in the progrefs of thefe different, difeafes which will ferve us in diftinguifliing one from the otlier. It appears to me that there are > and thefe cafes are publilhed not merely to fliew tlie fre- quency of fuch occurrences, and the neceflity for difcrmination, but to engage a more ge- neral attention to the means by which fuch diftinftion may be made. A very fimple fa6t has enabled me in moft cafes to diftinguifli between the two difeafes; yet, fimple as it is, if it be generally true it is very important; and if it were univerfally true, it would be of the higheft confequence. The fact alluded to is, that the conftitutionai fymptoms of lyphilis arc generally progrefiive, and never difappear unlefs medicine be employed. It may i beRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 47 be added too, they are as generally relieved under an adequate efFe6l of mercury on the conftitution. An attention to fuch plain and fimple circumftances has been of great life in direftmg the medical treatment wliich I have purfued, and I am induced to folicit the public attention to them, that others may de- termine the value of fuch renwks, I have alked the opinion of feveral fur- geons of great pra6lice and abilties refpefting this queftion; Whether conftitutional fymp- Jtoms of fyphilis do ever fpontaneoufly amend? and no one has decidedly replied in the affir- mative, wliilft all, without hefitation, agreed that they were generally progrelTive till checked by the efte6l of mercury. It feemed iifelefs to feek further information j for what furgeon is there at prefent, if he fees difeafes- that cannot be diftinguijflied by the fight from • fyphilis, and hears that they arofe in confe- quence of a chancre, that would fufpend his judgment, and forbear to adminifter mercuiy ? If I have lived in the habit of fo frequently dete6ling tl>e impofing appearances of the fe- condary effeds of thefe difeafes, it is becaufe I . I have48 ON DISEASES I have been upon the watch, and becaufe they have occurred in patients in whom I have feen the primary fores, the appearance and progrefs of which have excited my fufpicion as to their nature. I have ftated the rule as general, but not univerfal j for I could myfelf relate cafes of difeafes, in which, from the great abatement, and even difappearance of fymptoms, I have concluded the difeafe was not fyphilitic j yet, from the duration of the diforder, or from the fubfequent aggravation of its fymptoms, the patient has dehred, and I have recommended the ufe of mercury, and the difeafe has been fuccesfuUy treated as fyphi- tic without its real nature being afcertained. The rule which has been mentioned relates | to the conftitutional fymptoms of the vene- | real difeafe, for the primary ones, chancres, j do fometimes heal fpontaneoufly, generally 1 however, though not conftantly, leaving a ! thickening or induration of the afFe6led part, i They may alfo be induced to. heal by topical means, without mercury, with fimilar events. Some enlargements of glands in the groin will alfo in like manner fubfide. ItRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 49 It may be fairly fiippofed that if fome chancres heal fpontaneoufly, conftitutional difeafes arifmg from the fame caufe, may, in like manner, fometimes get well with- out mercm'y. The queftion can only be folved by experience. Delay will I am fure frequently enable a furgeon to decide, that the difeafe is not fyphilis j but there are cafes in which no amendment takes place, and the furgeon is as it were forced, from the pro- grefs of the difeafe, to employ mercury, though doubtful of its nature. In recommending prudent delay and atten- tive obfervation, I hope and believe that I am not recommending any thing likely to be of dangerous confequences. The venereal dif- eafe is generally foon checked by the ufe of mercury; and in conftitutions where much medicine is required to counteract its efFe6ls, that medicine may be given with freedom. By delay and obfervation we perhaps may perceive that eruptions and fore throats, which could not from appearance be difiiin- guiflied from venereal, fpontaneoufly amend : that fome eruptions fcale and become well, VOL. II. E and59 ON DISEASES and the probability will of courfe be that the reft will do fo likewife: or that an ulcer mends in one part though it may fpread in another, when the natural inference is, that the difeafed a6tions in the fore will gradu- ally ceafe, and health return fpontaneoufly and that what has occurred in one part of an ulcer will fucceffively take place in the others. In recommending -delay it cannot, I fup- pofe, be thought that I would advife any one to wait till an ulcer deftroyed the velum pen- dulum palati, or did material injury to any important part. There are cafes where the progrefs of the difeafe obliges the furgeon to ufemercury, even though he may befufpicious that it is not fyphilitic. The efFe6l of ex- citing a mercurial affe6lion of the conftitu- tion, where we feel ourfelves under the ne- ceffity of employing that medicine, in dif- eafes refembling fyphilis is, as far as my obfervation enables me to determine, very various. It fometimes cures them very fud- denly, and veiy differently from the gradual amendment which it produces in truly fyphi- liticRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 5I iitic difeafes. Sometimes, however, thefe difeafes yield more flowly to its operation, and are cured permanently. Sometimes the difeafes recur in the fame parts after a fe- vere courfe of mercury; fometimes mercury merely checks the difeafe, and can fcarcely be faid to cure it; in which cafe it feems impor- tant to fupport the ftrength of the conftitu- tion, and to keep up that mercurial effe6l which controls the difeafe, and can bs borne without material derangement of the confti- tution for a great length of time. Some- times alfo the ufe of mercury aggravates thefe difeafes. Again, in fome conftitutions, fypliilitic difeafe may affume unufual charafters, and be very difficult of cure. It muft then be fcarcely poffible to difcriminate between thefe anomalous cafes of fyphilis and thofe of dif- eafes refembling it, unlefs fome new diftinc - tions are difcovered. But I fupprefs any further obfervation oii the fubjcct, having accompliflied the inten- tion of this paper, which was to depi6l a ^- 2 kind52 ON DISEASES kind of cafes which very frequently occurs in this metropolis, and which is, I believe, too commonly treated as fyphilitic, but which may be diftinguifhed not to be fo by a little prudent delay and attentive obfervation. The frequent cafes of fuch diforders which I have recently met with has fuggefted the idea that they are increafmg of late j nor is it impro- bable, fmce they are like fyphilis, propagated by promifcuous intercourie from fecretions, or fores not fo readily curable by mercury as thofe that are fyphilitic, and fome of which are not from their nature fo proliibitory of that intercourfe. It is now years fmce this paper was drawn out as a fubje6l for difcuffion at a me- dical fociety; and, after fuch an interval, the chance of any of the difordprs which are defcribed in it returning is diminiflied almoft to nothing. I have fmce met with confider- able numbers of fimilar difeafes^ which give confirmation to the opinion that they are fre- quent occurrences. In fome later cafes, when the difeafe has been long protrafted, and the patient very anxious to get rid of it, I haveRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 53 have given a little calomel for that purpofe, but not fo as to invaHdate the opinion that the dileafe was not fyphihtic. Having waited, for inftance, -four months from tlie occur- rence of a fore throat with eruptions, and being afTured by the progrefs of the dif- orders that they were not fypliiUtic, I have directed that the compound calomel pills * fliould be taken in fuch dofes as to control the difeafe without weakening the conftitu- tion, which generally difpofes the fores in the throat to heal, but i have taken care to remit the ufe of even this fmall quantity of mer- cury if it feemed to heal the fores too fpeedily j for it feems to me better to let the difeafe exhauft itfclf than fuddcnly to cure it, as in the latter cafe it is very Ukcly to return. In confirmation of this opinion I may men- tion, that, about five years ago, a gentleman applied to me to undergo a falivation for the cure of a fore throat, for which he had been falivated three times, once in each fucceeding f The pill, as prefcribed In the pharmacopeia of St. Bartholomew's Hofpital, contains i grain of calomel, i grain of the precipitated fulphur of antimony, and 2 grains of powdered gum guaiacum. E 3 year^4 ON DISEASES year. I need fcarcely fay that it was one of tliofe ulcerated throats which have been de- fcribed. All medicine was abftained from ; and in between three and four months the fores fpontaneoufly became well, and have never fmce recurred. The whole of this paper has been written upon the prefumption that difeafes which fpontaneoufly get well are not fyphilitic, which is, I believe, the general opinion. It may, perhaps, be queftioned by fome, whether the difeafes here recorded may not be modifications of the venereal difeafe. The pra^ical rules of condu(5l will not, how- ever, be altered even if fuch a fuppofition were verified, fo that it does not feem necelfary to difcufs this point: it may however be right to remark, that there are cafes which would induce the belief that ulcerated fore throats, eruptions, and nodes on the bones, fimilar to thofe defcribed it this paper, piay occur from a general difturbance of the conftitution, without the abforption of any infe6lious matter. The objeft of this paper being fimply tq excite attention to fuch cafes as are recorded inRESEMBLING SYPHILI^. 55 in it, I did not think it neceffaiy to enlarge much upon a circumftance which, however, is a ftrong evidence of the neceffity of difcri- minating between fuch difeafes and true, fyphihs. The circumftance to which I al- lude is, that though a courfe of mercury may at the time remove all the fymptoms for which it has been employed, yet it will not cure the conftitutional difeafe; for the fymp- toms will recur when the medicine has been difcontinued after repeated and fevere courfes of mercury, as will be fully (hewn, by cafes which I Ihall afterwards relate. Having written the forgoing account, I intended here to conclude, having, in my own opinion, aecompliflied my purpofe, which was to profecute in fome degree the fubje6l which Mr. Hunter deemed worthy of jnveftigation, and to depi6l the cjrcumftances of difeafes which I believe very frequently occur, and which are often confounded with (cafes of fyphilis, to the detriment of patients, and the difcredit of our profelfion. But having requefted the opinions of two of my pnedical friends on the foregoing paper, one 4 ofON DISEASES of them faid, that he thought the pubhcation of it would be injurious, as it might induce the younger furgeons to abftain from the ufe of mercury, to the prejudice of their pa- tients; the other gentleman faid, that he thought more explicit defcriptions fhould' be given of the cafes in which mercury fhould be withheld or employed. In confequence of thefe opinions, I am induced to take a clofer comparative view of the difeafes that are, and .of thofe that are not, fyphilitic, I undertake the talk reluftantly, becaufe the brevity with which I muft fpeak of thefe fubjefts may render my opinions liable to mif- apprehenfion, and becaufe I do not feel com- petent to its proper performance. Yet, by this means, I think I fhall do away the ob- jedlion of one of my medical friends; for I believe that I am myfelf more likely to err in recommending the too free than the too fparing adminiftration of mercury in difeafes of this nature. Any furgeon who has ob- ferved the ruinous confequences of repeated mercurial courfes in fome conftitutions would prpbably err in the fame manner j and hfs 2 diflikeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 57 diflike to diforder the conftitution by mercury would probably lead him even to ufe it more freely than might be abfolutely neceffary : this he would do in cafes clearly fyphilitic, in order to prevent the polTibility of the re- currence of difeafe, and a repetition of a mer- curial courfe. In doubtful cafes, which are cured by exciting the mercurial a6lion in the conftitution, he would adopt a fimilar mode of treatment, in order to fupprefs the difeafe for fo long a time as to make it lefs likely to recur; or if any fubfequent difeafe ftiould take place, to render it highly probable that this was not fyphilitic, fince it had broken out after fuch a courfe of mercury as muft be confidered to be adequate to the cure of al- moft any difeafe of that nature. By under- taking this talk I ftiall perhaps comply with the wifhes of my other friends, in ftating more explicitly the circumftances which fhould in- duce a furgeon immediately to ufe or ab- ftain from the adm in i ft ration of mercury, and, at the fame time, contribute my mite of obfervation to thofe already oftered on this ftill obfcure fubjed of venereal difeafes. The5^9 ON DISEASES The moft clearly marked fyphilitic chan* crfe has been occellently defcribed by Mr, Hunter. The ftriking characters of ths difeafe are, an ulcerating inflammation with- out any reparation, attended with indura- tion of the furrounding parts. The defcrip- tion is, a fore of a fomewhat circular foum, cx-cavated, without granulations, with mat- ter adhering to the furface, and with a thickenc4 bafe and edge. There is another fpecies of chancre in which the difpofition to ulcerate is lefs than iifual, and the difpofition to indurate i? greater j fo that the ulcerated furface may Aeal, and leave an indurated knob or tu- bercle in t;he affe6led part. There are befides fome chancres in which the difeafed a6lion feems to be very inert; in thefe the ulcer is fuperficial, the thickening of the furrounding parts flight, and, after fome time, the ulcerated furface acquires a ftate of health, and cicatrizes, without producing any perceptible granulations. I conclude that: the truly fyphilitic chancre fometimes af- fumes59 RESEMBLING BYPKILIS. the fumes the appearances juft defcribed, bccaufc I have repeatedly coiifidered the conftitu- tional fymptoms whicli fucceeded to fuch fores as truly fyphilitic, yet I may have been deceived, for reafons which I fliall after- >vards explain. But it is impoffiblc to depict by words the various fores, fome of which are of a very irritable nature, that are produced by sexual intercourfe, and through the medium of which the conftitution becomes contami- nated ; neither is it pofTible to know from /ocal circumftanccs whether they be fyphi- litic or othcrwife. It is from their effects uj)on the conftitution alone, that we can judge whether they were fyphilitic or not. Many we know are not fo, fmce they do not produce the conftitutional effects of fyphilis. The fubjecl can alone be decided by future experience derived from watchful obferva- pLon made by unbiaffed men. Mr. Hunter thought that fyphilitic poifon might pro- duce a fore which might be modified by the difeafed propenfities of the conftitution and6o ON DISEASES the part, and thus lofe its diftinctivc cha- rafters. Influenced by this belief, he fpeaks but briefly on the lubjeft of chancres. I have alfo feen cafes of confliitutional difeafe, which I confldered as fyphiUs originating from pri- mary fores which had not the ufual chara6ler of fyphihs : the more, however, that I fee of the fubjeft, the more I am inchned to doubt the corre6lnefs of my opinions on this point, and of this I am certain, that the greater number of the confl:itutional difeafes originating from fores, which have ngt the fyphilitic chara6lcr, difl^er materially in their progrefs and mode of getting well from thofe which are the confequences of true fyphilis, and that they require a proportionate peculiarity of treatment. However, if, according to the opinion of Mr. Hunter, theaftion of a fyphiUtic chancre may be fometimes fo modified by the difeafed propenfities of the confl:itution, or part, as to form an ulcer fcarcely cognizable as a fyphiliticRESEMBLING-SYPHILIS. 6't fyphilitic one, it follows, as a general rule of conduft in praftice, that furgeons are not to confide in their powers of difcrimination, but in all cafes of ulcers arifing from impure intercourfe, to act as if the fore was fyphilitic, to give fufficient mercury (lightly to affe6l the conftitution, in order to guard againft the confequences of abforption, and, by local and other general means, to cure as quickly as: poffible the local difeafe, and thus remove the fouixre of contamination, and the ne- celTity for the continuance of medicine. The quantity of mercury neceffary for the cure of a fyphilitic chancre will never, I believe, be found to be fo confiderable as materially to difturb the conftitution. We may therefore^ without hefitation, employ it in almoft all cafes of primary ulcers, and be guided as to its continuance or cefTation, its increafe or diminution, by the effefts which it produces in the fore or conftitution. Mercury in small dofes inclines other fores, to heal, as well as thofe which arc fyphilitic; it may therefore ad beneficially when the difeafe is not fyphihs, and by contributing to the healing of the fore remove the fource of con- taminationON DISEASES famination and the neceffity for the continu- ance of medicine. It is furely an object of im- portance to get the local difeafe well as foon as poffible, and topical applications often greatly contribute to this defirable event j yet they fhould not be of a very irritating nature, for fuch means frequently aggravate the difeafe, as may be feen in fome of the cafes which are related; nor fliould our ap- plications be of an aftringent nature, fmce by checking difcharge, they incline the difeafe to become indurated, and it requires a longer continuance of mercury to remove a fmall induration than to heal a large fore. Thisi obfervation applies equally to fores of a fyphi- litic nature and to others. Whilft there re- mains an induration, we can never be fure that it may not ulcerate again, upon leaving off the ufe of mercury, nor can we be alTured that it may not contaminate the constitu- tion. Indeed, in the fyphihtic chancre, it feems beft to ufe none but the fmipleft drefs- ings J for when it heals by the effect of mer- cury on the conftitution, we are affured of the, adequatenefs of the quantity which is employed to the intended purpofe, and we c haveRESEMBLING SVJ'HlLlS. 65 have reafon to believe, that the conftitutional mercurial affection which has fubverted the local actions of thedifeafe, will have prevented its contamination by any matter that may have been imbibed from it. If then we may, for the reafons above ftated, employ mercury without hefitation in primary infected fores, being governed with refpect to the degree and duration of its ufe by its effefts, we ought, as has been fhewn in the preceding part of this chapter, to purfue the reverfe con- duct with refpeft to conftitutional fymp- toms. Here we are required to hefitate, that we may learn the nature of the difeafe pre- vious to attempting its cure. It has ap- peared to me, that a longer and more ac- tive operation of mercury on the fy ft em is neceftary for the permanent cure of con- ftitutional fymptoms in true fyphilis, than' for that of the primary chancre. Here, if we ufe miercury unhefitatingly, we may em- ploy it to an injurious degree, where it is not wanted, and we generally fail in pre- venting a recurrence of fymptoms. Thefe are, I believe, the general rules of pra6lice adopted by the beft furgeons, and they appeaf t5>64 ON DISEASES to me, in the prefent ftate of our know- ledge of thefe difeafes, to be judicious. One advantage refults from this plan of conduct, which is, that if conftitutional fymptoms follow from a fore treated in a manner that ought to have prevented contamination of the habit had the fore been fyphilitic, our fuf- picions are excited, and by attentive obfer- vation we may perhaps difcover that the fymtoms are of another nature. In cafes of anomalous^ fores it may be en- quired, if in thofe, where the event renders it probable that they were of a fyphilitic na- ture, the difeafe deviates materially from its common chara6ters, that of an ulcerative procefs without reparation, and extending in every dire6lion. Do thefe fores enlarge by floughing, or produce granulation or fungus ? do they fpread otherwife than nearly equally in their whole circumference ? does the ulceration extend in them only in parti- cular direftions ? do they heal in one part and fpread in another ? or do they fuddenly amend and become worfe without an ade- quate mercurial influence to produce fuch changesRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. Thofc infe(5lecl fores which are not fyphi- litic have fuch peculiarities, as have been fhewn in the firft part of this paper, and as they are fo very various, it becomes necef- fary to diftinguifh them from thofe which are fyphiUtic, by accurately noting the pro- grefs of anomalous cafes of the latter difeafe. It is extremely difficult to form any corre6t opinions on this fubje6l on account of its in- tricacy, and the almoft impolTibility of ab- ftaining from the ufe of mercury; but it is a fubje6t highly deferving enquiry, and which never can be fairly invcftigated till it be known that the fecondaiy fymptoms arifing from fores may not be fyphilitic, though their appearances cannot be diftinguifhed from fuch difeafes by fight alone. With refpe6l to fores that are not fyphilitic the difficulties of inveftigation are greatly multiplied. If a defcription cannot be given of fyphilitic fores, it feems almoft abfurd to fay any thing of thofe multiform fores produced by infeftious matter, the qualities of which, it is probable, may be varioufly modified, VOL. II. r and6(S ON DISEASES and the efFe6ls of which appear equally liable to modification from pecuHarities of conftitu- tion. Yet in this • inti icate fubjed there are certain fa6ts which can be diftin6lly obferyed, a^d deferve attention. Some of thefe fores fpread by ulceration, and fome by floughing,. of vyhich inftances are related in the firft fec- tion of this paper. Even Celfns has defcribed feveral fpecies of fores which, as Dr. Adams has obferved, we are acquainted with in the prefent day. I have never feen that phage- daenic ulcer, which fuddenly floughs, affetSh the conftitution; neither do I believe that furgeons in general have remarked it; thofe vyho. regard all thefe fores as fyphilitic attribute the abfence of fecondary fymptoms to the chancre having been, removed by the Hough- ing of the furrounding parts. Yet in the cafe related by Mr. Flinch in Mr, Hunter's Treatife on. the. Venereal Difeafe, fecondaiy fymptoms did occur from a fore of this kind, and got well without mercury. It may there-, fore, perhaps, be doubted whether this difeafe be not an ag^^ivated form of the fore wliich; floughs more flowly, and from which the con?. ftitution fRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 5/ llitution is much more frequently affefted. Though Dr. Adams has reftrifted the term Phagedaena to one kind of deftruftive fore, yet I feel more inclined to leave it as a generic term for all thefe deftru6live fores, and to divide them into fpecies according to their peculiar chara6lers. Then w^e may defcribe them as ulcerating phagedaenic fores, and fores which fpread by flough- ing. Again, the ulcerating or floughing procefs may extend not in all but in particular direftions, and the Houghs may take place from the edges or from the whole furface. As Dr. Adams has treated thefe fubje6ts at large, I refer the reader to his book i but I will take upon me to defcribe fome fpecies of fores which frequently occur, and are treated generally as fyphilitic. but which I am convinced are not fo. The fo res, in one fpecies alluded to, generally break out in fucceffion, and fometimes after confiderable intervals of timej which circum- ftance, if remarked, would render it improba- ble that they arofe from infeftion of the ulce- rated part, fmce fuch fores would prfl)bably F 2 b^.00 ON DISEASES be contemporary. The ulcer is at firft in- flamed, and fpreads ordinarily to'the fize of the finger nail: its circumference is thickened; it throws out new flefh, which rifcs above the furrounding fkin > fometimes there is an appearance of feveral little cells or fpaces in the interftices of the granulations, if they may be called fo, owing to the whole ulcer not producing new flcfli in an equal degree. The edges of the fore generally retain their difeafed flate after the middle has become healthy j from this caufe, the healing of the fore is retarded. Thefe fores are flow in healing under any mode of treatment, and they generally get well in the fame fuccef- flon as they broke out. They fometimes form in a circle round the orifice of the prepuce, and caufe a contra6lion in that part after they have healed. I do not mean to fay that all fores occupying this fltu- ation are not fyphilitic, but merely to ftate, that fometimes after a gonorrhaea of the pre- puce, either originally occurring there, or having happened by a metaftafis of difeafe from the urethra, fores do break out in this fituation at a remote period from the receptionRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 69 of the infe6lion, which are not fyphilitic. The fores which J am endeavouring to de- fcribe, feem to be the confequence of an irri- tated ftate of the prepuce, from which there is fonietimes a flight general difcharge, like that which takes place when the gonorrhsea fhifts its fituation from the mouth of the urethra, and becomes the gonorrhsea of the prepuce. The glands in the groin fometimes fvvell from irritation m thefe cafes, and gene- rally fubfide again, though I have known them fuppurate: but I never faw any fecon- dary fymptoms fucceed to this fpecies of ulcer. In the earlier part of my pra6lice, in con- formity to general rules, I ufed to give mer- cury in thefe ulcers to fecure the conftitution againft infe6lion, whilft I tried to heal the fores as fpeedily as I could by topical appli- cations. Slightly deflroying the furface with the argentum nitratum every fecond day, and drelTing with the folution of zincum vitriola- tum, were the local means which feemed to be moft fuccefsful. An attention to the hif- tory of the difeafe, and frequent applications for advice from perfons who had been fe- F 3 verdy7° ON DISEASES verely and unavailingly falivated for the cure of this fpecies of fore, foon embol- dened me to abftain from the ufe of mercury, and I have never found, though I have met v/ith a confiderable number of inflances, that I have in this refpeft a6led wrong. I fhall mention the circumfl-ances of a cafe which occurred to me no long time ago. A gentleman had a flight irritation in the urethra, and after a few days, found the prepuce a little fwoUen, with a fmall difcharge from beneath it. This was checked by a weak folution of zincum vitriolatum i and afterwards three fores, fuch as I have defcribed, broke out in fucceffion, for which he ufed mercury fo as to affeft his mouth. The fores flowly healed, but two new ones made their appearance, and the mer- curial courfe was perfevered in. Thefe fores alfo healed ilowiy, and a running came on from the urethra, no new fores having appeared. The mercury was left offj, the gentleman came to town, and was much dif- trelled to find that three other fores, exactly likeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. like the former ones, now broke out, but the difcharge from the urethra had ceafed. At this period he appUed to me, and gave me the foregoing narrative of his difordcr, with an affurance that he had expofed himfelf to no new rifk of infe6lion. I employed only local means for their cure, being fatisfied by the hiftory as well as the appearance of the fores that they were not fyphilitic. Near a month elapfcd before any confiderable amend- ment took place, when a fwelling appeared in the groin, and the fores healed fuddenly in a few days. Leaches and Goulard's wafli were employed to difperfe the bubo, but in vain : it fuppura'ted, and formed a very un- healthy abcefs. There was a great deal df furrounding eryfipelatous inflammatioh, tl>e cuticle feparated from the furface of the bubo, the Ikin became livid, and gave dif- charge to the matter by a partly floughing and partly ulcerating procefs. This, how- ever, proved the crifis of the complaint: the abfcefs having thus broken filled up, and healed in the courfe of about three weeks, fmce which the patient has had no return of F 4 , difeafe.7* ON DISEASES difeafe. This gentleman was liable, to have fores^ break out fpontaneoufly on the pre- puce : they got well readily by bathing tliem with a weak folution of zincum vitriolatum; and I believe that pcrfons who have naturally an irritable ftate of the prepuce are moft ob- noxious to fuch afFe6tions. We muft not, however, impute the occurrence of thefe pe- culiar fores to mere irritability, but to fome ipecific contagion. The difcharge from the urethra in fuch cafes is not conliderable, nor attended with much inflammation or chordee, nor does it increafe in violence; it may therefore be eafily diftinguiflied from common gonorrhaea and its varieties. Sometimes, in a common gonorrhaea, the difeafe fliifts its ground and attacks the fore- Ikin, and fores form about the orifice of this , part. Thefe are of a different nature from the fores which I have been defcribing: their ' furface is generally glofly, not producing ex- liberant new flefli, and their colour is un- healthy.RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 75 healthy. They generally get well as the dif- cafe returns to its original fituation in the urethra. I merely mention thefe circum- flances to induce attention, and to prevent furgeons from confounding the fores which I have been defcribing with any other fimi- larly fituated, but dilferent in their nature. I wifh alfo to excite attention, to another fpecies of fores which I have frequently met with, and which differ confiderably in their progrefs from thofe truly fyphilitic. The firft appearances of the fores are various, but in their progrefs a thickening in the furrounding parts takes place, whiJft the centre is foft and lefs difeafed than the cir- cumference. I have feen the furrounding parts much elevated, and an opening leading into a cavity in the middle. I have feen them, on the contrary, heal with a flat furface and acquire a circular hardnefs, the middle being quite foft, and the area of the circle gradually increafe. I have known fores heal apparently well and fmoothly, and after- wards the edge has acquired a circular hard- nefs like a ring of fome firm fubftance. In.74 ON DISEASES In all thefe fores I have given mercury in dofes fhort of producing a tendernefs of the gums, and the difeafe has gradually but flov^ly got well. In the greater number of cafes no conftitutional afFe6lion has enfued. In fome, however, it has, but it has got well without mercury, or with fuch fmall dofes as v^ould certainly not have cured fyphiUs. So that thefe obfervations concur with the hiftory of the difeafe, in inducing me to believe that fores of this defcription are not fyphilitic. Under this head of fores which occur on the genitals, and which are not fyphilitic, I may mention one fpecies that I have feveral times feen on the fide of the penis, which is herpetic, affefting new parts whilft thofe firft arfefted get well; fo that the fore may exifl a long time, and be very troublefome, though its fituations may have varied confiderably* I have alfo feen a circle of fmall fores, like what takes place in tinea, occur on the out- fide of the prepuce in confequence of fome acrimonious fecretions being applied to it in Z fexualRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 75 fexual intercoiirfe. Some difeafes, whatever may be their primary nature, do, after a time, extend themfelves between the integuments and the fubjaccnt parts. I have known many difeales which burrow in this manner treat- ed as fyphihtic, and, as the event of the cafes has proved, improperly. Indeed, the progrefs of fuch difeafes is fo different from that of fyphilis, that it is natural to difciedit their being fo. Difeafes which proceed in this manner feem to be of an irritable nature, and to afiect moll: thofe parts which have leaft powers of life, which appears to be the caufe of their pecuhar mode of extending them- felves. To corroborate this remark, that fores which burrow are not likely to be fyphilitic, I may mention the cafe of a gentleman of the medical profeffion, who had a fore of this defcription, wliich began on the dorfum penis, near to the pubes, for which he rub- bed in two months, and had his conftitution confiderably affcfted; neverthelels, the fore fpread and burrowed under the integuments of the pubes, and the mercury was left off. The7^ ON DISEASES The difeafe became comraiinicated to a confiderable diftri6l of the integuments of the bottom of the belly, and to thofe of the fcrotum. The afFe6led parts fometimes ulcerated, and fometimes healed. A great Variety of local and general remedies were tried without benefit. No mercury was ufed except in very trivial quantity. The cavities beneath the fkin were in fome parts laid open, at different periods of the difeafe j but without much advantage. 'After two years and a half the difeafe became well, when nothing but fimple drefTmgs were applied, and when he took nothing but deco6lion of farfaparilla and fmall dofes of rhubarb. ' I have in the foregoing pages endeavoured to reprefcnt briefly the circumftances of the primary ulcers of difeafes which are, and of thofe which are not, fyphilitic, and to ftate the o-eneral rules for the adminiftration of mercury j and^ at the fame time, I have de- fcribed fome fores which have not, as far as I know, been diilinguifhed, and which, in my opinion, are not fyphilitic, though they are generally treated as fuch. To take a fimilar compa*RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 77 comparative view of conftitutional difeafes Jtrifing from thefe various fores w^ould render this paper too prolix. I hope it will be feen that I do not prefume, nor do I fee caufe, to deviate from the eftablifhed rules of prac- tice founded on the general experience of furgeons. It would indeed, in my opinion, be prefumptuous in an individual to form general rules drawn from his fcanty expe- rience J I may be allowed, however, to re- mark, that individuals of the profefTion are likely to err by inferences drawn from their own pra<51:ice; and it appears to me that fome profeflional men at prefent are inclined to believe all fores arifmg from impure con- nexion to be fyphilitic, whilfl others may be too fcrupulous in expelling all fyphilitic fores to poffefs their common characters. The truth probably in this, as in other cafes, lies between the extremes. Much, however^ it muft be acknowledged, remains to be af- certained, and I think that thofe furgeons would do elTential fervice to fcience, who would give an accurate account of the ir- regularities of the venereal difeafe. But fuch an account never can be given by one, who efleems7^ ON DISEASES cfteems all difeafes fyphilitic, which refemble them in appearance. The foregoing cafes will, I think, at leaft prove this to be fa6l; and it was a principal incitement to their publication, that if this faS: were gene- rally admitted, it might excite that fcrupu- lous attention and impartial obfervation of fyphilitic difeafes, which would probably lead to accurate diftin6fions, and the removal of that obfcurity with which they have hitherto been furrounded. I have fapprelTed many obfervations of my own on this fub- je6l, from a belief that it is better to fay nothing than to offer opinions not fully confirmed by facls. The idea that fyphilis ts a moft variable and Proteus-like difeafe, has probably arifen from thofe irregular difeafes which I have defcribed in the firft feftion of this paper having been confounded with it. The opinion is however prejudicial, as it checks attentive obfei^vation by declaring its inutihty. If it fhould* be in our power, as I fliould hope it may, by direfting our attention to the hiftory rather than to the appearances of thefe difeafes, to diftinguifli- fyphilis from other complaints, then we may alfoRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 79 alfo be able to defcribe the irregularities of this difeafe, and to inform others when it alTumes deceptive charafters, and purfues an unufual track, what difguife it puts on, and what courfes it follows. / VOL. 11.;ON DISEASE» SECTION in. On the c677jlitiitional Origin of Pfeudo-Syphi-^ litic Difeafes. JN order further to elucidate the nature of pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes, I publifhed fome cafes in which they originated fpontaneoufly, or without there being any reafonable ground for fuppofing that morbific animal matter had been imbibed to contaminate the conftitution. The cafes in- cluded in this fe6lion were firft publifhed, amongft others which were defigned to fhew the importance of corre6ting diforders of the digestive organs in attempting to cure local difeafes. A diforder of thofe organs con- ftantly exists in thefe cafes; and produces, or at leaft aggravates and'protra61:s a ftate of weakness and irritability of conftitution; to which the origin of the difeafe muft un- doubtedly be referred. ♦ CASE XII. A gentleman refiding in the countiy, who had been many years married, and whofe moralRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 81 moral character prevented any fufpicion of his having expofed himfelf to venereal infec- tion, had an ulcer in the right tonfil, poffefling every chara6ter of a truly fyphilitic fore. The figure of the ulceration was oval; it had ex- tended itself deeply, and prefented a furface covered with adhering matter, and without the least appearance of granulations. It had continued three months without amendment, although various medicines had been employ- ed during that period. Thefe circumftances imprelTed the minds of the medical attendants with an opinion, that the difeafe was fyphi- litic. On me they had a contrary effect. I thought that a fyphilitic ulcer would have become materially worfe in that time, as mer- cury had not been ufed to arrest its progi'efs. Finding that the patient had a furred tongue, and diforder of the digestive organs, I recom- mended, as the first obje6t of attention, the corre6lion of that derangement of the fto- mach, from which the fore-throat had pro- bably originated. The patient went to the fea-fide, where his throat was alternately better and worfe; but the dimenfions of the ulcer were not enlarged. Three months VOL. II. G elapfed82 ON DISEASES elapfed before I faw the patient a fecond time; when I told him that my argument againft the complaint being fyphilitic was greatly ftrengthened. It was manifeft that the diforder, to which I hail imputed the fore, ftill exifted. Being unwilling however that the refponfibility fhould reft entirely uponmyfelf, I advifed him toconfult another furgeon, who, judging of the nature of the fore from its appearance, (which indeed was ftrikingly chara6lerift:ical of fyphilitic difeafe,) recommended a courfe of mercury. The patient underwent, in confequence of this advice, a regular mercurial courfe 3 during which the fore got well. Between two and three months aftei^wards another fore formed in the palate, which had the characters of a fyphilitic ulcer, in a ftill more ftriking de • gree, if poflible, than the former. It was fituated just where the foft palate pro- ceeds from the bone. It was of a circular figure, and fo deep as to expofe the bone. The circumference of the ulcer was tumid and inflamed J its edges were not fmooth, but had a tendency to ulcerate. There was no appearance of granulations, and tlie dif- chargeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 83 charge adhered to the furface of the ulcer. The patient now applied to me again ; when I repeated my original opinion, that thefe fores depended on the ftate of the health in general. He confulted another furgeon, who recommended the ufe of the Lifbon Diet- Drink, with the application of the oxymel aeruginis to the part; under which treatment the ulcer healed; and no other complaint has fmce occurred, though two years have elapfed. CASE XIII. A gentleman, who was habitually fubjeft in a great degree to diforder of the digeftive organs, had an excoriation of the prepuce, which had continued about three weeks, when copper-coloured eruptions came out all over his body, fo ftrikingly fimilar to thofe which are venereal, that fome of his medical attendants recommended the imme- diate ufe of mercury. It was however agreed to delay the mercurial courfe for a little time; and to give the patient half a grain of calomel, with three grains of hemlock night and morning, and a folution of magnefia vitfiolata G 2 in84 ON DISEASES in mint-water, fo as to keep the bowels freely open. The fpots began to die away almost immediately, and foon difappeared altogether. The patient then mentioned that he had feveral times had the fame kind of eruption, which had difappeared in like man- ner upon taking fome opening medicines. In calling the reader's atttention to those difeafes of the bones which refemble fyphi- litic affections, I fhall not pretend to relate any cafe in detail; for furgeons can feldom trace the progrefs of thefe difeafes for them- felves, but are obliged to rely on the doubtful hiftory given by their patients. I fhall en- deavour to fketch the principal parts of the fubject, referring to particular cafes, merely to shew that the picture is not drawn from fancy, but is copied from nature. I have been frequently confulted on account of fuppofed venereal affeftions of the bones j where the periofteum has been thickened and tender, and the bone enlarged, and the con- comitant pains have been fo much aggravated at night as to deprive the patient of reft. The hiftoryRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. §5 liiftory of the cafe has removed all fufpicion of a venereal origin ; while general indifpo- fition, a furred tongue, lofs of appetite, and other attendant fymptoms, have clearly indi- cated great diforder of the chylopoietic vifcera. By attending to the ftate of the digeftive or- gans in thefe cafes, the patient's health is amended ; the general rheumatic pains aredi- minifhed; fleep is procured j and the difeafe has receded almoft entirely. After fome time has elapfed, the bone may again fwell, the fwelling may again be checked, and return no more. Perhaps fimilar difeafes may take place in other bones, at times very remote from the firft occurrence of the diforder. If mercury be not employed, there are decifive circumftances in the hiftory of the cafe, which prove that it is not fyphilitic. Some- times fuppuration takes place, and expofes the bone : this occafionally proves a kind of crifis to the difeafe at that part. But the circum- ftances of thefe affections are fo variable as to preclude a complete enumeration of their fymptoms. I fhall briefly mention the cafes of two pa- G 3 tients,•85 ON DISEASES ried 5 tients, by whom I was confulted about the fame time, in order to identify the difeafes to which I allude. Both thefe gentlemen had been married for many years; and there was not the least reafon to fuppofe that any mor- bific poifon had been imbibed. They be- came generally indifpofed, had reftlefs nights, pain in the head, and about the flioulders; and a painful thickening of the periofteum of the tibia, with enlargement of the bone, took place. The' chylopoietic vifcera were difordered in both thefe cafes. One gentle- man had ufed mercury repeatedly to a con- jfiderable extent, which produced a temporaiy alleviation of his difeafe ; but his fufferings feemed to be augmented upon the ceflation of the mercurial excitement. The other patient never ufed any mercury. They both experi- enced a confiderable mitigation of pain from thofe medicines, which correded the ftate of the chylopoietic organs. Their difeafes were checked, and never became again fo bad as before attention had been paid to the state of the vifcera. Both thefe patients were better or worfe as the ftate of the bowels va-87 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. ried; and they both • gradually, but flowly, recovered. Similar difeafes are fo common, that I be- lieve every furgeon of experience will admit that affeftions of the bones, with wandering pains, often occur from general diforder of the health. I have never feen thefe cafes unac- companied by diforder of the chylopoietic organs; and I have always found them most benefited by whatever has tended to rectify the funclions of thefe organs. There was no reafon, in any of the cafes alluded to, to fufpe6t the abforption of poifon. I will add another, to corroborate this ftate- ment. A gentleman, who had been married about eight years, and had no venereal difeafe during that period, was feized with a violent fever: Shortly after his recovery, a thicken- ing of the periofteum on the parietal bone took place. The fcalp was alfo much fvvollen, fo as to threaten fuppuration. He was at this time in ill health, and had great derangement of the digeftive organs. By attention to this Utter diforder, the fwelling fubfided, and no G zj. trace88 ON DISEASES trace of it remained. The patient afterwards went into the country, where his health was ftill more amended. In about twelve months he had feveral tumours of the fame kind in different parts of the cranium j one alone threatened to fuppurate : for thefe he under- went a mercurial courfe, which relieved them, fo as to induce him to perfevere in it to an extent, which almoft conftantly cures venereal difeafe. His health, during the latter part of the mercurial courfe, being much difordered by the medicine, his difeafes became pro- portionally aggravated j he therefore defifted from the ufe of mercury ; at which time his complaints were but little better than at their commencement. Thefe difeafes, however, gradually got well in the fpace of little more than a year ; ftill the patient continued in a bad ftate of health, the fymptoms of which were a furred tongue, indigeftion, and faulty biliary fecretion. I add another cafe, which came under the obfervation of Dr. Baillie. A ftudent of me- dicine, who attended the lefturesin Windmill- ftreet, was,obferved to look very much out of healthRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 89 health ; and, on enquhy, it was found that he had nodes upon his Ihins, which fo exa6lly refembled thofe that are venereal, that no doubt was entertained of their being of that nature. It was therefore earneftly recom- mended to him not to delay the mercurial courfe, which feemed requifite for the cure. He was very relu6lant to comply with this advice, and declared upon his honour that he had fimilar fwellings before he had had any fexual conne6lion. This declaration made this propofal to be laid afide; and the nodes got well by a ftrong deco6lion of farfaparilla. without a fmgle grain of mercury being em- ployed. Now, if this account be accurate, it fliews that difeafes like fyphilis can arife from diforder of the health, even without any fexual intercourfe. All furgeons of experience will, I believe, admit that difeafes refembling fyphilis occur from diforder of the health in general. In all the cafes wliieh I have inftanced, there was not the leaft reafon to fuppofe that any mor- bific poifon had been imbibed to produce the difeafes which exifted. I wifli much to have this96 ON DISEASES this point afcertained or refuted by the general experience of- furgeons. The cafes, which would tend toeflablifliit, muftbeof rareoecur- rence. Moft of the inftances, to which I have alluded, occurred in men who had been long married, and on whofe veracity I could rely. Thereisalfo,in my opinion, fufEcient intrinfic evidence in each cafe to prove that the difeafe was not venereal. It was this kind of cafes which I had in view in my laft publication, ill difcuffing the qileftion whether thofe dif- eafes, which may be denominated pfeudo-fy- philitic, arife from fome modification of the venereal poifon, or from a peculiarity of con- ftitution in the patients, who are expofed to the aftion of truly fyphilitic virus. I have there faid, that " it deferves to be obferved that difeafes refembling fyphilis do occur, without any reafon to fuppofe that any mor- bific poifon has been admitted into the fyftem.' I have been induced to dwell upon this fub- ]&d:, which may perhaps be confidered more fpeculative than ufeful, becjtufe if the opi- nion were verified, it would explain the oc- currence of pfeudo-fyphiUtic difeafes in a very linking and fatisfactoiy manner. If local 4 difeafesRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 91 difeafes refembling fyphilis may take place in the throat, Win, and bones, from a certain ftate of weaknefs, and irritability of conftitu- tion, then various modifications of animal matter being abforbed may fo diforder the ge- neral health as to induce fach a ftate of weak- ness and irritation, as is likely to produce thofe fymptoms, andfuch fymptoms are rather to be regarded asarifing from the propenfities of the conftitution, than from the peculiar properties of the matter which has been im- bibed. It is fhewn in my former publication, that the poifon which produces pfeudo-fyphi- litic fymptoms is fometimes abforbed without an evident breach of furface in the fkin j fometimes from a trivial fore which foon heals} whilft, in other cafes, it produces local fores of various and diffimilar characters. \ON DISEASES SECTION IV. On the Eff'eSls of Mercury in Pfeudo-Syphi'Utic JDifeafes. TTaving thus by the publication of the cafes related in the two preceding fec- tions, endeavoured to excite a general invef- tigation of a fubjeft which I think eveiy one will admit to be highly important, I proceed to relate fome additional cafes of difeafes which I confider as pfeudo-fyphilitic, and in which mercury was employed for their cure, in order to lliew the effefts refulting from its ufe. I was neceffarily precluded from bringing forward fuch cafes in my firft attempt to elucidate this fubjeft, becaufe my obje6l at that time was merely to fliew, that difeafes, which could not by fight be diftinguilhied from fyphilis, yet differed from it in the primary fores from which they originated, and alfo in their progrefs; for they got well without the adminiftration of mercury, and generally recurred after the fevereft courfe of that medicine. The lat- terRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 95 ter fa<5l will, indeed, be more ftrikingly ma- nifefted by the fucceeding cafes. I was alfo prevented from relating cafes of this defcrip- tioii, becaufe the adminiftration of mercury, may be fuppofed to render the nature of the fubfequent fymptoms ambiguous ; fince they may be confidered as the efFe6l of that dif- order of the conftitution, which the poifon and the antidote have conjointly produced. As the tide of public opinion feemed at that time to run ftrongly againft me, I men- tioned, that any experienced furgeon, who regarded the cafes in queftion as anomalous cafes of fyphilis, would do a moft effential fervicc to fociety, if he would lay down practical rules for the treatment of fuch dif- eafes. As no one has undertaken this tafk, I fliall endeavour to accomplifli it; for I think, that the cafes which I (hall relate will at leaft fliew what mercury will do, and what it will not do, in thefe difeafes. An attempt to eftablifli rules for the treatment of thefe difeafes appears to me of great importance; becaufe difcordance of opinion is both dif- 5 creditable94 ON DISEASES creditable to the profeffion, and injurious to patients. ■ Before, however, I relate the fa6i;s from which I mean to deduce the pra6lical rules of treating thefe difeafes, I wifh briefly to recapitulate the reafons which induce me to think that they are not fyphilitic / and alfo to advert to the arguments which I have heard brought forward, by thofe who entertain a contrary opinion. I wifli, alfo, to confider the effe6ls likely to be pro- duced on the conftitution at large, by the abforption of morbific animal poifons; and to difcufs the probable effefts of mercury, adminiftered in different degrees; becaufe I think it neceilary, that alb thefe circum- ftances fhould be borne in mind, whilft the reader perufes the cafes, in order that he may form a proper judgment of the nature and treatment of thefe perplexing difeafes. I concur, then, with Mr. Hunter in opinion, that thefe difeafes are the effects of kinds of animal poifon different from that whichRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 95 which produces fyphiUs, firfV, becaufe thcj may be contracted from parties who have no fyphiUtic difeafe j and that I perceive how they may be contra6led at prefent, as they were in Rome, during the time of Celfus Secondly, becaufe I fee fuch difeafes occur- ring in perfons whofe conftitution is difor- dered, but where there is no reafon to fup- pofe that any poifon has been imbibed-f-. Thirdly, becaufe thefe difeafes differ from fyphilis, in often getting .well without mer- cury, and in recurring after the fevereft courfes of that medicine t- Yet i wifli, as a comment on the latter claufc, to obferve, that though it may be regarded as a general rule, it is not abfolutely without exceptions. We have fometimes recourfe to the ufe of mercury, on account of the deftruclive pro- grefs of difeafes, which we have the ftrongeft reafons to beheve, are not fyphilitic; and mercury fometimes cures thefe diieafes, with- out relapfe. It is indeed not improbable, ■•> * See the cafes related in the preliminary remarks, f See the cafes rehited in the 3d feftion. i See the cafes related in the ad feftion. thatON DISEASES 96 that the alteration, which mercury produces in the ftatc of the conftitution, may occa- fionally cure a diforder which is not fyphi- litic. Formerly, when I met with a cafe in which the conftitutional fymptoms were re- gularly progreffive till mercury was em- ployed i if they yielded, and were cured by an adequate courfe of this medicine, I con- cluded that the difeafe was fyphilitic, and I regarded, therefore, any deviations which I might have obferved in the progrefs of the primary fore, as the efFe6l of fome peculiarity in the patient's conftitution. Of late, how- ever, I have thought this inference to be erroneous. I (hall next advert to the arguments of thofe who think differently. Firft, it is faid, that the fpontaneous cure of thefe dif- eafes is no proof that they are not fyphilitic. Secondly, the peculiarity of the difeafe is ac- counted for by peculiarity of the patient's conftitution, whith may not only contribute to modify the difeafe, but alfo to prevent its ordinary cure by mercury; becaufe the conftitution may be incapable of bearing at onceRESEMBLING SYPHILIS* 97 once, fo much mercury, as is neceffary for its cure. Cases, however, ftand in dire6t oppofition to thefe opinions. For thele difeafes may be contra6led by perfons of very healthy conftitutions; and I have known patients, who have contra6led pfeudo-fyphi- Utic difeafes, contra6t alfo real fyphilis, both a fliort time before and after the pfeudo- fyphilitic afFe£lion. Further, in many per- fons, who are the fubjecls of pfeudo-fyphi- litic difeafes, the difeafe recurs, without the intervention of any new exciting caufe, even though a mercurial courfe has been fub- niitted to, greater in degree and longer in duration than is necefl'ary for the cure of true fyphilis, even though the mercury has alfo acled on the patient's conftitution, in the moft regular and complete manner. It is indeed, 'highly probable, and accordant to general obfervation, that thefe difeafes will be greater and more obilinate in weak and irritable conftitutions, than in thofe that are healthy, and this circumftance has probably given rife to the, preceding fup- pofitions. VOL. ii» I wifh98 ON DISEASES I wifli alfo to confider the probable cfFe6ls which would be produced on the conftitu- tion from the admifTion of morbific animal matter into the circulation. Such infec- tious matter is likely to produce irritability or weaknefs of the nervous fyftem, and con- fequent general diforder. The nervous dif- order is likely, more efpecially, to difturb the funflions of the digeftive organs, and by their rc-a6lion to become prolonged and aggravated. In almoft every cafe of pfeudo- fyphilis a diforder of the digeftive organs is manifeft, and in many, moft evident be- nefit is derived from correcting this,, as far as. we are able. It is probable, that the diforder of the nervous fyftem, and conftitution in general, will be more ti-anfient in fome conftitutions than in others j and is likely to be prolonged by every thing that induces debility, and. irritability. Indeed, if we have no fpccific remedy, or means of countera6ling the ef- fects which the poifon has produced j the rational indications of treatment would be to tranquillize and ftrengthen the fyftem, inRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 99 in the expeftaticn, that the efFefls refult- ing from the a6lion of the poifon, will gradually fubfide. Analogy would lead us to expeft, that the diforder of the nervous fyftem, induced by the operation of the poifon, would, as it declined, become inter- mittent, and recur in paroxyfms. I have premifed thele obfervations, that the reader may bear them in his mind, during the perufal of the cafes, alTuring him at the fame time, that they are the refult of pra(51:i- cal remarks. I wifh, alfo, to explain my ideas refpec- ting the operation of mercury. Firft, fmall dofes of that medicine do not feem to afFe6l the confiitution in general, but merely to a6l upon the digeftive organs j yet, by this operation they are often produ6live of the moft important benefit, as has been fhewn by cafes recorded in the firft volume of thefe obfervations. As in difeafes produced by the abforption of morbific poifons, the digeftive organs are difordered, in corifequence of nervous irritation, and in fome patients, in a moft remarkable degree, owing probably H 2 to.I06 ON DISEASES I to a pre-dirpofition to difoirder in them, to an attention to keep thefe organs in as cor- re6tly natural a ftate as poffible, is an objeft of primary importance. Secondly, mercury exhibited in larger dofes, exerts an influence on theconftitution in general, though fcarcely perceptible by its effe6l upon the pulfe or fecretions but by afFe6ling the nervous fyftem, in a peculiar manner, and by in- ducing a fpecific ftate of conftitution, it coun- terafts that morbid- irritation which has be- fore prevailed, and is the efFe6t of the poi- fon. Thus mercury relieves many other diforders, as w^ell as thofe which are fyphi- litic. The dofe which is neceffary to pro- duce fuch effe6ts, muft vary in different perfons. - Such a Ilate of mercurial excite- ment, or a£tion, as is neceffary to produce thefe effe6ls, may alfo be kept up without inducing debility; — on the contrary, pa- tients frequently become ftronger and more healthy under its influence, becaufe it con- trolls the irritation attendant on difeafe. Thirdly, a greater mercurial effe6t upon the ' conftitution produces an acceleration of the pulfe, renders the conftitution in general irritableRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. irritable and weak, and produces a more evident and confiderable diforder of particu- lar org^ans. Such an affe6lion cures com- pletely and radically fyphilitic difeafes whilft others, which had been checked and cured by a flight mercurial afFe6lion, often increafe and break out again, under that which is greater in degree. This violent a61:ion of mercury never fails to weaken and diforder the conftitution in general; and thus, with its powers impaired, and its functions de- ranged, it has ftill to endure the continuance of the difeafe. The cafes, which I fliall now bring for- ward, are felefled, becaufe I think they Ihew as great a variety of circumftances incidental to thefe difeafe?, as could be dif- played in an equal number of examples. I could have crowded the book with inftances, tending more direftly to illuftrate and con- firm the opinions delivered in it. My objed has, however, been, not to rcprefent the fubje6l as more clear than it will appear \Yi pra6lice. CASEON DISE/iSES 10% CASE XIV. A medical ftudent, had, without any pre- vious chancre, an indolent bubo, which had increafed in the courfe of two months, to the fize of a fmall egg, at which time I firft faw him. After about three weeks, it inflamed and fuppurated. The inflammation was of an unhealthy nature, and the bubo ulcerated, forming a foul ulcer, about three inches and a half in length, and two and a haif in breadth. During this procefs, he was much difordered in his health, and he confined himfelf to his bed. Lint, moiftened with a watery folution of opium, was applied to the fore; it was covered by a dreffing of fpermaceti cerate, and linen moiftened in fome wafh was applied over .all, to regulate the temperature of the part. Under this treatment the fore granulated, cicatrized, and had contrafted into a fmall compafs, when the patient's health again became dif- ordered, and an ulcer formed, on the upper furface of the velum pendulum palati. He fnuffled in fpeaking, and blew from one iioftril thick mucus, fome matter, and occafionally blood. Pain extended in the courfeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 103 courfe of the euflachian trumpet towards the ear. His diforder was io troublefome at night as to preclude lleep, and his fituation was altogether fo uncomfortable as to induce him to have rccourfe to mercury. He ac- cordingly rubbed in two drachms of mercurial ointment, for ten fucceflive nights. In this time the mercury produced a flight efFe6l upon the gums, and relieved him fo much, that he determined, notwithftaRding my re- monflrances, to difcontinue it, feeling hira- felf perfe6lly well. In about fix weeks fub- fcquent to this, he had a painful affe6lion of the upper part of the tibia, attended with a coUeftion of fluid under the fafcia. He was feverifli at night, and had but little lleep; his ftomach and bowels were, during the whole of the diforder, afFe6led in the manner I have de- fcribed in the firft paper j he had no appetite, and when he was moft indifpofed, his tongue was extremely furred. He again ufed mercury, but after having rubbed in about fix times he difcontinued it, as he found himfelf worfe, which he attributed to the ufe of the mer- M 4 cury-^04 ON DISEASES cury. The diforder of his leg did not in- creafe, but after fome little time diminifhed; ftill, however, it prevehted him from walk- ing about, and he had occafionally fits of pain in it, which, after continuing for a few days, abated, fo as to leave him com- paratively eafy. Thus his leg continued, from about February to June, when he took lodgings in the country. He had, about a month after the affe6lion of his leg, a fimilar attack in the elbow, the progrefs of which wsis alfo fimilar. His health was improved by his relidence in the country, and he was foon able to walk about, which contributed to his recovery. He for a few days, took a little hydrarg: muriat: in deco6t: farfae, but left it off by my defire, as I was convinced that his difeafe was not fyphilis j and as the fymptoms were declining fpontaneoufly. He was once or twice induced to befmear the fkin with mercurial ointment; but ex- cepting this, he ufed no mercury, and by the autumn of the year, all local difeafe had "left him. His health, however, was not corre6tly right, his tongue remaining furred, and his bowels irregular. He paffed 8 throughRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I05 through the winter without any relapfe. In about a year afterwards he had fome rheu- matic complaints, from which he foon re- covered, and has continued well fince, except that he has been fubject to occafional returns of rheumatifm *. CASE XV. A gentleman about thirty years of age, of a healtliy robuft habit, had a fore behind the corona glandis, which I faw on the third or fourth-day after its appearance. It was then nearly as large as the nail of the finger, and fo deep as to defcend to the liga- mentous fubftance of the corpus caverno- fum penis. It was indurated in its circum- * The chief circumftances, wliich feem to me to deferve attention in tlils cafe, are, that probably infeflloiis matter was abforbed, without any evident breach of furface or primary fore ; that the conftitutional fymp- toms were at firft fuddenly cured by a fmall quantity of mercury ; that afterwards the ufe of mercury rather aggravated them, in confequence of which it was dif- continued; that the diforder of the conflitution after- wards gradually fubfidcd ; and that the whole of the mercury employed feems quite infufficient for the cure ©f fyphi|is. ference.io6 ON DISEASES fercnce, and there was no appearance of any new growth from its furface. This ulcer appeared to me to have been too rapid in its progrefs to be fyphihtic ; however, as it had moll of the chara6ters of fores of that nature, I recommended the patient to take fifteen grains of the pilul: hydrargyr. daily, to bathe with milk and water, to be very gentle in the application of mild dreffings, and to keep the penis furrounded by fome linen, moift^ ened with a cooling lotion. After a fort- night had elapfcd, an enlargement of tlie glands in the right groin took place; and as the fore had not fpread, I recommended him to rub two drachms, by meafure, of mer- curial ointment, into the right thigh every night, wifliing to produce an evident mer- curial affeftion of the conftitution, with a view to difcover what effe61: it would have on the fore. In about a week, the confti- tution was affected by the mercury, and the gums were flightly tender and fwollen j the fore was, however, rendered worfe; it be- came enlarged, aiid inflammation took place round it. The inunftion was therefore omitted, but the pills were continued. As thqRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. lOf- the mercurial irritation fubfided, the fore became tranquil, and the bubo ftationary. In about five er fix weeks from the begin- ning, granulations appeared, and the fore began to heal, fo that by the feventh week it was quite well. In healing, that edge which was next the body got well firft, while the other rather fpread, fo as to en- croach a little on the back edge of the corona glandis. The bubo gradually fubfided. When the fore was healed, (the patient ftill continuing the mercurial pills,) he was feized with difficulty of fwallowing, and uneafy fenfations on the upper part of the foft palate, caufing him to fnufiie in fpeaking, and to blow his nofe frequently. I advifed him to defift wholly from the ufe of mercury, that thcfe conftitutional fymptoms might go on unchecked by that medicine, obferving at the fame time, that if they were fyphilitic, and required the ufe of mercuiy, it might be ufed with more freedom, and perhaps effeft, in confequence of this fufpenfion. The difordcr rapidly increafed, and it was much worfe in the night, when the fenfations were fo difturbing, that the patient could obtaiixio5 ON DISEASES obtain no reft. The pain extended to the car, and matter and blood were fometimes blown from the nofe. The health of the patient was much d'fordered; and, as he faid that no courfe of mercury could harafs and weaken him fo much as the continuance of this difeafe, it was agreed in confultation, that he fhould begin a mercurial courfe, and that the dif- eafe fhould be treated aS^ fyphilitic! The patient confined himfelf to his chamber, and rubbed in two drachms, by meafure, of mercurial ointment every night. In the courfe of a week the difeafe was much miti- gated; in a fortnight, at which time the gams were fwollen and tender, it was well. The mercuiy was continued (fo as to keep the gums as fore as they could be, without producing that ftate of difeafe which would have obliged us to defift from the ufe of it) for three weeks more, when a new occur- rence took place. The left tonfil became fomewhat enlarged, and an ulcer was formed upon its furface. This, another furgeon who was confuUedj attributed to mercurial irritation.Resembling syphilis. io^ irritation, wliilft I, on the contraiy, felt alTured that it was the effe6l of the difeafe breaking out anew under the full effect of mercury. As the courfe of mercury was deemed perfectly adequate to the cure of fyphilis, it was now difcontinued. The ulcer however continued to fpread, nor did it ceafe till it had entirely deftroyed the ton- fil, when it healed. About three weeks af- terwards, and fix weeks after the difufe of mercury, a fimilar ulcer formed on the oppo- fite tonfil, which purfued exa6lly the fame courfe, and ended in the fame manner. After about three weeks more an ulcer ap- peared to have formed upon the upper fur- face of the velum pendulum palati, in a fitu- ation correfponding to the firft, but on the oppofite fide. It was attended with the fame difficulty of deglutition, alteration in the voice, occafional difcharge of pus and blood from the nofe, and tormenting pain, extending to the euftachian trumpet. It feemed in vain to ufe mercury, and I felt great apprehenfion that this ulcer might de- flroy the foft palate. It fortunately hap- pened otlierwife; for (after continuing for aboutno «N DISKASES about a fortniglit to fpread, fo that its edge could be diftin6lly feen on the margin of the velum palati, and left fide of the uvula), it healed, leaving no greater imperfe6lion than what was produced by ' an adhefion of the left fide of the uvula to the foft palate, which took place during the healing of the ulcer. After this complaint was well, va- rious eruptions appeared on different parts of the body, many took place on the head, forming fores which were flov/ in healing, and many fores, which were formed in like manner on the trunk of the body, became herpetic, healing in one part and fpreading in another. An inflammation and indura- tion of the coverings of the loVver part of the right tibia alfo took place, which fub- fided, fo as to leave but little appearance of any diforder having exifted. During these occurrences the patient took the decoft. farfae. and Lifbon diet-drink, nitric acid, cicuta and bitters, and was as attentive as poflible to keep his bowels regular, which was difficult, as his digeftive organs were throughout the whole of the complaint dif- ordered. He had alfo lived a good deal in 6 theRESEMBLlNa SYPHILIS. . llf the coujitry, and made occafional excurfions to the fea-fide, and ufed the tepid falt-water bath. Upon his return from one of thele, about fix months after the difcontinuance of mercury, he felt himfelf i'o perfectly well, that he indulged himfelf in dining with his friends, and undertook a journey into the country on bufmefs. The exertion attend- ing this undertaking feemed to have operated in re-inducing difeafe, for he was foon laid up with a rheumatic affeftion of the right foot, and one of the teftes became enlarged to a confiderable degree, but it was indolent. Nodes alfo appeared on the middle of either tibia, which regularly increafed. The en- largement of the teftis fubfided, when the other became affe6l:ed in the fame manner. For between two and three months after the patient's return to town he confulted various furgeons, who knew nothing of the hiftory of his cafe, and they fo uniformly concurred in affirming it to be fyphilitic, that the pa^ tient was even anxious to ule mercury again. As the nodes did not abate as the other fymptoms had, and as they did not yield to the application of leeches, evaporating lo- tionsJTIft ON DISEASES tions, or bandages, I thought an alterative courfe of mercury at this period even advif- able, to fee if it would control! this local affe6tion. The nodes were not like venereal nodes. They were elevated and bony, and there was a fmall quantity of fluid beneath the periofteum. I would have divided the periofteum at firft, but I was reftrained by the apprehenfion of the wounds becoming lores, and of exfoliation taking place and aug- menting the patient's already distrefsful fitu- ation. He now rubbed in fmall quantities of mercurial ointment, without confining him- felf. This courfe was attended with manifest benefit J infomuch as to imprefs his mind with an opinion that a more liberal ufe of mer- cury would now cure him. In this opi- nion he was confirmed by fome furgeons whom he had confultcd, and he therefore reiolved to flay at home, and rub in every night till his conftitution was afFe6led by mer- cury. By the accomplifhment of this obje6l, however, he was made materially worfe. His pains were tormenting, the nodes inflamed,, and threatened to ulcerate. The mercury was left off, and I divided the perioftcum to the extent^ RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. II3 extent of an inch and a half on the furface of one node, and let out fome ferum mixed with pus. The knife in paffing down garted againft different portions of bone, which were heaped up to a confiderable height above the level of the tibia. The node was no longer painful. The wound healed, and pain oc- curred again in a flight degree and gradually increafed. The fame treatment was purfued with refpe6l to the node on the other fhin, and the confequences were the fame. After the wounds had healed the pain gradually re- turned, and in about a month he found himfelf nearly in the fame flate as before his confinement. Under thefe circumftances he again began to take diet drink, with fome mild mercurial pills, which never perceptibly affefted his conflitution, and under the ufe of which he became mufcular and fat, and by this treatment the pains left him, and in the courfe of three months he was well*. X. CASE • The principal circumftances worthy of remark in this cafe are, that the primary fore though refembling fyphilis in many refpe£ls differed in others. It was- aggravated by the free ufe of mercury, and it healed on one fide VOL. n. i vhiJftON DISEASES 114 CASE XVI. A gentleman between twenty and thirty years of age, refiding in the country, had an ulcer in the prepuce, which, to ufe the words of his furgeon, had more the appear|- ance of excoriation than chancre ; it was fuc- ceeded by a bubo and ulcerated throat. Fbir each of thefe difeafes he ufed mercury fo freely as to convince fome of his medical' at- tendants that the difeafe could not be fy- philitic; his furgeon faid enough to cure twenty fyphilitic patients. The ulcers in his whilft it fpread on the other. The conftitutional fymp- toms were fpeedily cured by a flight mercurial afFeftion, but they broke out again under a fevere courfe of mer- cury. Many conftitutional fymptoms got well without the ufe of mercury, and when at laft it was employed again on account of the ftubborn nature of the nodes, thefe difeafes yielded to a flight, and were aggravated by a fevere courfe of mercury. The difeafe laftly yielded to an alterative courfe of mercury, fo flight as not mani- feftly to affect the conflitution, and during which, tlie patient got mufcular, fat, and healthy. The fubje£): of this cafe was a remarkably healthy man, and had before contracted fyphilitic difeafes, which were regular in in their progrefs and cure. Mercury alfo affefted his conftitution in the mode which is confidered moft de- firable for the cure of fyphilis. throat1 RESEMBLHiIG SYPHILIS. US throat were fometimes better and fometimes worse, both during the continuance and after the ceflation of the mercurial courfe. After about a year and a half from the commence- ment of the difeafe I firft faw the patient, and informed his furgeon, that in my opi- nion pfcudo-fyphilitic difeafes generally gave way to an alterative courfe of medicine, con- joined to deco6lion of farfaparilla. About nine months afterwards the patient came again to town j his throat was not ulcerated, but his nofe was greatly difcafed. Some affection of that part had taken place when I firft faw him, which had encreafed to fuch a degree, that he was almoft conftantly blowing from his nofe tough mucus and pus, mixed with blood. The (kin covering the the offa nafi was alfo very red, fo as to threaten the giving way of the arch of nofe. He was much emaciated and feeble, and had a chlorotic appearance. Under thefe circumftances, I defired him to drink a pint of deco6lion of farfaparilla daily, to keep his bowels ftriftly regular, and to take I 2 fiveIl6 ON DISEASES 11 toms five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: every night, defiring to fee him at the expiration of a week. After that time, when he called on me, he faid he could perceive no difference whatever in his difeafe. Thinking that pei'haps in ano- ther week the mercurial efFe6l would be in- creafed, fo as to afFe6t the conftitution and controll the difeafe, I made no alteration in the quantity of the medicine; but when at the expiration of that time, I found the difeafe undiminifhed, I recommended him to take five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: night and morning. After the expiration of another week, when he called upon-me, he faid that the difeafe of his nofe feemed gone, though when he blew it fome purulent difchargc flill took place. The mercury had no effefl upon his gums, and he looked more healthy and felt Wronger than he had done before he began the mercurial courfe. Finding the diforder fo completely fubdued by this quantity of mer- cuiy, and wifhing above all other confidera- tions, that the patient fhould acquire fome mufcular flrength and vigour of conflitu- tion, I advifed to take but one pill daily for the future, and to obferve whether the fymp-RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. liy I 3 vated toms fubfided or increafed under its ufe. In one week more there was no difcharge from his nofe,even when the air was forcibly driven through it. And after three weeks had elapfed, or at the end of fix weeks, he had be- come fo mufcular, fat, and heahhy looking^ as to produce the greateft aftonifhment in all who had feen him before, and faw him after that fhort interval of time. This furprizing recovery mufh be afcribed to the youth and ftrength of his conftitution relieved from diforder. I mention it parti- cularly, to fliev/ tkat the quantity of mercury that controlled the difeafe did not weaken the conftitution. When the patient returned into the country, I recommended the con- tinuance of the pills every other night for fome time, to prevent any relapfe >, but I was informed that he foon left them off, and has fmce had no diforder *. CASE * When a difeafe rcfembling fyphilis attacks the nof- trils, we are almoft compelled to ufe mercury, fince we cannot fee the charafter, extent, and progrefs of the ulcer; yet extenfive experience demonftrates in a man* ner horrible to obferve, how many fuch difeafes purfue a njoft deAruflive courfc uncontrouled, nay, often aggra-ON DISEASES CASE XVII. A gentleman had a trivial fore upon the prepuce, and being engage, to marry in the courfe of a few months, he underwent what was confidered as a more than adequate courfe of mercury, for the cure of the difeafe. After he had married, however, his throat ulcerated. His furgeon hefitated in pro- nuncing it to be fyphilitic, and its progrefs contra-indicated that fuppofition, for one fore healed and another broke out, or ulcera- tion again enfued in the fame place. One of the teftes afterwards became confiderably en- larged without pain, and fores broke out upon the fcrotum, which was much thickened, and in the perinaeum. Six or more months paffed during the progrefs of the difeafe to this ftate, when I was firft confulted on the cafe. It was in the fpring of the year, and we agreed vated by the moft powerful efre£ls of mercury. The .cafes above recited, I therefore deem worthy attention, as they fhew that difeafes refembling fyphilis may occur , in the nofe as well as elfewhere ; and that our praftice llrould ,be regulated by the fame principles in treating thefcj as in other fymptoms of venereal difeafes, that119 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. tliat he fhould fpend the fummer at the fea- fide. During this fummer the fores on the fcrotum healed, and it regained its natural ftate. The fwelling of the teftis fubfided. His throat occafionally ulcerated and healed but a kind of difeafe feemed to fpread along the alveolary procefs from behind, for the teeth loofened and came out, and in feme parts the gums ulcerated. This happened on the left fide of the mouth, and it ad- vanced as far forwards as the firft fmall grinder, which ftill remained firm. In November he remarked, that whenever his ftomach and bowels were difordcred, his com- plaints were aggravated ; and by the means which were fuggefted for regulating thofe organs, he pafled through the winter with- out any increafe of diforder. In the fuc- eeeding fummer fores broke out again on the perinseum, and by the fide of the rectum, which healed under dreffings of red prseci- pitate ointment. He had alfo a flight en- largement of the teftis, which fbon got well, in the fucceeding autumn the difeafe in the alveolary procelTes feemed to trouble him, and there was a flight difcharge from the I 4 nofeON DISEASES 120 noffe. I had recommended him to abftain from the ufe of mercury, while his difor- ders were ftationary ; but fearing that there might be an increafe of difeafe in this part, I advifed him to to take the com- pound decoftion of farfaparilla and one of Plummer's pills night and morning. Under this treatment he foon recovered, without any perceptible effeft of mercury on his con- ftitution, and has remained well fmce. Though I feel pretty confident, for the rea- fons flated in the preliminary obfervations, as well as thofe contained in the third fe6lion, that many difeafes which refemble fyphilis, do not originate from that poifon, I am by no means equally certain, that none of the cafes which I am now promifcuoufly re- lating, might not have arifen from that fource. Such an afTertion would be to de- ny the poffibility of the effedls of fyphihtic poifon being modified by the difeafed pro- penfities of the conftitution. It would be alfo to affirm that there is only one kind of fyphilitic chancre, and one kind of conftitu- tional fyphilitic difeafe, which is far from beingRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. Ill being my intention. I merely ftate, that when the primary fores differ materially from the ordinary chara6lers and progrefs of fyphilitic chancres, that they may fairly be fufpecled to be of a different nature j and that in ge- neral the conftitutional fymptoms will be found equally to deviate from the progrefs of fyphilis, and confequently to require a dif- ferent mode of treatment. I proceed to relate fome cafes of this defcription, and to give an account of the conftitutional fymptoms fubfequent to thefe kinds of fores, in a few cafes, that the reader may judge of them for himfelf. CASE XVIII. On burrowing Sores. A gentleman forty years of age, who had lived very freely, in the month of July 1806; contra6led a fore between the prepuce and glans penis, near the frasnum, which he be- lieved to have originated from fome acrimony in the fecretions. This probably was the opinion of his furgeon, as he merely recom- mended cleanlinefs, and a poultice, until the fpreading of the fore induced him to ufe mercury.122 ON DISEASES ' mercury. A confiderable fwelling of the prepuce was occafioned by the irritabihty of the fore, which continued to fpread by ul- ceration forwards, fo as to extend over the whole of the lower half of the glans, to within the eighth of an inch of the urethra, and backwards between the integuments and lower half of the body of the penis for more than half way to the fcrotum. It did not prevent him from denuding the glans, and cleanfing away the difcharge in fome degree, but the extent of the fore backwards could not be feen. It had continued to fpread gradually for more than two months, al- ^ though the mouth was affe6led by the ufe of a great deal of mercury. His conftitution was rnuch enfeebled, in a great meafure owing to the mercury he had ufed. In this ilate he came to London, and confulted me. Fearing that the fore might continue to fpread if the mercury was laid alide, I de- ifired him to rub in every fecond night, fo as ftill to keep his conftitution under the influ- ence of that medicine, while I endeavoured to corre6t the fore by local means. Various wafhes were tried, for inftance, weak folu- tionsRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 123 tions of fulphate of zinc, and nitrate of filver, calomel, and muriate of mercury in lime -water. In lefs than a month the fore was nearly healed, except in that part which co- vered the urethra about half-way below the penis } and here the ulceration feemed kept up by the efcape of fomc urine from the canal, and he had at this time a frequent propen- lity to void his urine. It appeared probable, that the urethi-a had not been in a found ftate prior to his contra61:ing this complaint, and that it had derived additional irritation from the proximity of the fore to the mouth of the canal, as well as from that part where its ulceration had occalioned. an opening. ' At this time an indolent enlargement of the right teftis took place, and fo large, a hydro- cele was formed,. that I was miich inclined to punclure it, to . relieve him from the in- convenience occafioned by its weight. The patient, however, was anxious^ to return into the country,' where he' was directed to con- tinue the fame, mild mercurial courfe.. ' In January, 1807, he r'etin-ned;to town, and dur- ing the interval, the. hydrocele. difappeared, though fome enlargement of' the teftis ftill conti-124 ON DISEASES continued. The aperture of the urethra had inflamed and ulcerated, leaving an exter- nal fore. The other part of the penis which had been ulcerated, continued firmly- healed. His health, however, was much difordered. He had a rheumatic fwelling of the finger, and a node upon one Ihin, with rheumatic pains in various parts of his body. Finding conftitational fymptoms ap- parently originating from a fore, for which from its commencement mercury had been ufed unremittingly, I advifed him to dif- continue rubbing in, and he went to Bath in purfuance of the recommendations of fome * of his friends. I previoufly, however, intro- duced a bougie, and found feveral ftridures in the urethra, which had probably exifted before he had contracted the other com- plaint. As a bougie of a moderate fize pafled through the urethra, I merely advifed local warm bathing. During a month's refidence at Bath, he fuffered much from pains in the tibia, but the nodes had not increafed during that period. An ulcer larger lhan the furface of a Ihilling, with thick- ened inflamed and fpreading edges, deep in theRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 12$ the middle, and without granulations, had formed near the outer angle of the orbit of the eye. Some fores of the fame nature, but lefs in degree, took place alfo on the anns. Wifhing to know if thefe fymptoms were truly fyphilitic, I determined to try if they would get well without mercury. A poultice of bread and water was applied to the fore on the face at night, and a dreffing of hmple cerate in the day. The edges of it were oc- cafionally touched with argent, nitrat. to controul their fretful difpofition, and under this treatment the ulcer healed. The pa- tient was anxious to return into the country; and as I thought his health might be better than in town, he returned to his own houfe with an injun6lion not to ufe mercury if it could be avoided, and there his pains in a meafurc fubfided. After fome time, how- ever, the nodes on the fhin became more prominent, though lefs painful. The nof- trils alfo became veiy much afFe6led by the difeafe. He blew from them pus in a fluid form, and concrete lumps refembling (to his own words) '* the internal parts of the noftrils, but this" he continues, "gradually >vQnt126 ON DISEASES went ofF, leaving the noftrils as clear as be- fore. My general health now improved, and encoaraged by this circumftance, I was induced to make a journey to London in the month of June, where I lived more freely than before and took frefli cold. Upon my; return home, I had a recurrence of the pain and fwelling in my fhin bones, and the' pain of the legs to fo great a degree, that it was efleemed prudent to confult a phyficianp who rccomm.ended nitrous acid, two mer- curial and an opiate pill at night. Milk diet was alfo recommended, which confti- tuted my principal food. The acid was continued a fortnight, the pills about a month, but little relief from pain was expe-. rienced. The nodes gradually lefTened, but' the pains were unabated, and occupied my knees and ancles as well as fhins j they continued during the night, and remitted in the morning." On the weather becoming very cold, he was recommended to pafs the winter in fome warmer place than the fitua- tioti in which he refided. He came to town and confulted Dr. Baillie as well as me. He was advifed to take the decoftion of farfa- I parillaRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 12/ parilla, with a fmall quantity of hydrarg: mu- riat: and to controul the night pains with extraft of henbane. This plan anfwered very well, and he returned into the country, where he faid his ftomach was fo much nau- feated by the medicine, that he was obliged to leave it off. He came to town again in the beginning of January, 1808, in a very emaciated and crippled ftate, owing to rheu- matifm. His nights were pafled in great pain, and this terminated in profufe perfpiration in the morning, fo that he feldom rofe till paft noon on the following day. He was fcarcely able to walk, and dreaded the leaft expofure to air, which confiderably aggra- vated his pains. Some fores had again bro- ken out upon his face, and one of the largeft was fituatcd on the front of the ear, extend- ing over the tragus, the difcharge from which generally filled the concha, and this obflruc- tion together with the irritation, made him very deaf. I had often expreffed to the pa- tient my conviftion that an alterative and undebilitating mercurial courfe would tem- porarily cure his difeafc, but wiflied to fee him when that medicine was employed, that I, might128 ON DISEASES I might obferve its effects. He now took a pint of deco6lion of farfap: daily, and five gi-ains of the pih hydrarg: every night, and in about a fortnight he was fo much reco- vered that he was able to ride out, which he did as often as the weather permitted. At the end of the third week, he went into the countiy, a fhort diftance from town, to fpcnd a week, from whence he rode at the expiration of that time, eighteen miles with- out flopping. His rheumatic pains had nearly left him, and the fores on his face were healed. In fhort the cefTation of the difeafe was as flriking and as rapid aj in almofl any cafe, that I had feen, but he was not reflored to pcrfe6l health. Though comparatively mufcular and flrong, he did not acquire that flrength which he had pof- fefTed prior to the occurrence of the difeafe, nor did he look healthy. He continued in town, taking the fame medicine a fort- night longer, during which time he com- mitted, in confequence of the liberty he had acquired, fome little irregularities, fuch as fitting up late, and eating and drinking too much. The effefl of this alterative courfeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. tig CGurfe of mercury, which did not produce any evident mercurial aftion in the confti- tution, and under which the patient ac- quired a furprizing degree of ftrength an4 and apparent health, fully equalled and even, furpaffed my expeftation. Inferring the pro- bability of a relapfe, and that half the dofe of the medicine was not likely to be in any degree prejudicial to theconftitution, I recom- mended him to return into the country, and^ to continue the fame medicines, taking the mercurial pill every fecond night only. The patient, however, did not profecute the plan laid down, and his health has continued greatly difordered ever fiace this period. He has been fubje6l to various lociii difeafes, but their nature was fuch, that I believe no un- prejudiced perfon could confider them as fyphilitic. He has had fevere rheumatifm, but it never produced a local attack on a bone, fo as to refemble a fyphilitic node. He has had gout to which he had formerly been fubje6l. He had a great degree of inflammation and induration of botlihis legs. He had violent VOL. II. painON DISEASES pain about the firft joint of the great toe, and matter feemed to have formed beneath the periofteum, for, upon the abcefs breaking, tlie bone was denuded. He has a rednefs, thickening, and tendency to ulceration, of the integuments of the alae nafi. The patient had formerly lived very freely; and the alteration in his ordinary modes of life, with the efie6l of mercury on his con- flitution when employed freely, at firft, for the cure of the primary fore, feem conjointly to have produced this deplorable ^ derangement of his conftitution. Under thefe circumftances, he fbmetimes took the compound calomel pill in the dofc of one grain of calomel each night, and it generally appeared to be of fervice to him. Sometimes he took no mercury. His local difeafes did not ieem to be much afFe61:ed either by tlie ufe of mercury in this degree, or. by its difcontinuance. When once, without my knowledge, he took the compound calomel pill more freely, itRESEMBLING SYPttlLIS. I3I it evidently was injurious both to his health in general, and to his local difeafes* CASE XIX. A gentleman had a fore between the pre- puce and corona glandis, which was treated as a lyphilitic chancre. After a time it be- gan to fpread in the cellular fubftance, between the integuments and body of the penis towards the pubes* In proportion as the fore became worfe, the quantity of the mercury adminiftered for its cure was in- creafed; fo that he had gone through a very confiderable courfe of mercury, which had made his mouth very fore, and had greatly impaired his ftrength. The fore, however^ was not amended, but when I firft faw him was extending itfelf ftill nearer to the pubes and more round the penis. I directed him to clean away the difcharge by fre- quently injecting a warm deco6lion of poppy heads, and to keep a bread and water poultice round the penis. After fomc time the fkin of the dorfum penis ulcerated, and gave an outlet to the difcharge in this di- K 2 reclion-132. DISEASES reaion. The degree of difeafe which tooJt place feemed to have been prejudicial to the front of the prepuce, for it became very cede- matous, and the ulceration fpread rapidly forwards fo as to divide it, leaving the glans and body of the penis projecting above the feparated and tumid fides of the prepuce. The fore gradually got well without any ether medical treatment than what appeared neceffary tp regulate the anions of the bowels. He took indeed occafionally fome decoction of farfapaiulla and fome nitric acid. The patient had na fubfequent con- ftitutional difeafe. Refpecting thefe fores, which I have called burrowing fores, I may obferve, that only a few of them begin to burrow in the firft inftance. It is generally an after procefs, ,and may be confidered in the greater number of cafes as tlie effect of a new a6lion taking place in the fore. It is, however, fo dif- cordant to the progrefs of true fyphilis, that 1. cannot believe it to be an elFed of that d]£- eafe. If we have any doubt Ve muft look, to the conftitutional fymptoms which fuc- ceedRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I 33 <reed to them, and thefe we find to partake more of the nature of pfeudo-fyphilis than of true fyphiUs. Some burrowing fores do not Co affect the conflitution as to produce fecondary difeafes, whilfl others do. I have recorded a fpccimen of each, and think it unnecefTary to cite more; tliough I could bring fonvard a confiderable number,. The fecondary fymptoms in the firfl cafe were very obflinate, and thofe furgeons, who are incUned to beUeve all thefe difeafes fyphi- litic, may probably think the fymptoms in this inftance were fo. To me, however, it appears that the moft potent mercurial courfe was inadequate to the cure of the primary fymptoms, and would have been fo to thofe of a fecondary nature, while the latter were readily controulable by an alterative courfe, and in fome inftances got well fpon^ taneoufly. It is alfo my'opinion, that their continuance depended much upon the dif- ordered flate of the conflitution produced by former irregularities of living, by the irri- tation of difeafe, and the debilitating efFe6ts of the too free ufe of mercury for the cure of the primary fore. I could produce many 3 inflancci»54 ON DISEASES inftanccs in which the fecondary fymp- toms were more flight and more clearly pfeudo-fyphilitic, than in the one which has been related. The prefent cafe I brought forward, becaufe it made a ftronger impref* fion on my mind, than thofe which wer€ lefs vexations, and becaufe I do not wifh to reprefent the fubje6l of the fecondary difeafes in pfeudo-fyphilis, as lefs obftinate and feverc than they will often be found to he, CASE XX. On Jloiighing Sores^ A gentleman about thirty years of age applied to me on account of a floughing fore about the fize of a Ihilling on the dorfum penis. I defirpd him to drefs it with a watery folutjon pf opium, covered with fper- maceti cerate fpread on linen, and to furround the penis with linen kept conftantly wet with •yvater. His bowels were obftinately coftive, his tpngup much furred, and he had fo much fever and head-ache, that the ufe of mercury feemed to be prohibited by the difordered ilate of liis ppnf^itution. The fore fpread fo as'35 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. as nearly to encircle the penis, and to occupy its whole length. Various dreflings were employed until the furface of the fore was no longer iloughy, but the edges were thick- ened and very fretful. Thefe were touched every day with argent: nitrat: which feemed to countera6l their fretful ftate: they after- wards became healthy, and the ibre healed in the fpace of two months from its com- mencement. Before the fore healed, fymp- toms of conftitutional diforder appeared. The throat became fore, but did not ulcerate in any material degree. Spots came out on the Ikin and bread. He had afterwards a rheumatic affection of the knee and foot. All thele fymptoms difappeared fucc^ffively without the ufe of mercury, to which mcdi-s cine he had fo ftrong an averfion, that it would have been difficult to perfuade him to take it : he foon recovered from the effect of his diforder, and felt as wel;! as before he had contracted it. The medicines which were taken in this cafe, were farfaparilla, nitric acid, bark, and aperients. Secondary fymptoms do not fucceed to every floughing fore, and theie fymptoms occafionally appixjach 4 mor§13^ ON DISEASES more to the nature of fyphilis than in the preceding cafej yet I have known no in- ftance in which, either from the irregularity of the progrefs of the fymptoms, and their infufceptibiUty of cure by the powerful action of mercury, they could not be dif- tin(5lly recognifed as pfeudo-fyphilitic. ' CASE XXI. A gentleman had a floughing fore, which . fpread round the prepuce, without extend- ing backwards to the integuments covering the body of the penis, yet its breadth was fo confiderable as to involve the whole of the prepuce, which it eventually deftroyed. The furgeon who firft faw the patient had given him mercury, but, doubting the propriety of its continuance, I was confulted, and imme- diately oppofed its further ufe. Fumigations with cinnabar were found to be more effi- cacious than any other applications which were tried to this fore; thefe quickly arrelted the floughing procefs, but an ulcerative one continued ,till the prepuce was eaten away. After two months from the ccm- mencementRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 137 mencement of the fore, when it was nearly healed, the conftitution of the patient be- came much difturbed, and fecondary fymp toms appeared, Thefe were fpots and blotches of rather a livid .afpe6l, the latter of which in many parts of the body fpread out into extenfive fores which had a Hough- ing appearance. One on the outfide of one foot and ancle was as large as the palm of the hand. The original fore was alfo irritated by the difturbance of the conflitution, and began to ulcerate again very rapidly, info- much that the glans penis, and a confiderable part of the corpora cavernofa, were de- flroyed. Neither fumigations nor any other of a great variety of applications appeared to retard the deftruftive progrefs of this fore, and mercury was employed. The patient was ordered to rub in two drachms by meafure of mercurial ointment every night for five weeks, when his gums became tender and fwollen, and his conftitution confiderably influenced by the mercury, yet no material alteration took place in the difeafe. The un- availing efi?e6l of mercury being proved, the patient went into the countjy, where all thefc138 ON DISEASES thefe complaints gradually difappeared. His health, however, was Hill difordered, and new fymptoms came on. His nofe became {lightly affe6\ed, and he had pains in his bones. He now removed to the fea-fide, and after continuing there for a confidcrable time, he v^rotc to me, faying, that ulceration had taken place in his nofe, which had de- ftroyed the feptum narium, and that the in- teguments, covering a kind of node on one fhin, had formed into a foul and fretful fore. ' I now recommended an alterative mercurial eourfe. He took five grains ofpil: hydrarg: • at night, and a pint of the deco6l: farfaj ■ daily, and in the eourfe of four or five weeks he was apparently well, having ac- quired health and ftrength at the fame time. In a fecond letter he exprefTed his great fur- prize at his amendment, and wifhed for my further directions. I then defired he would take the pil: hydrarg: every feeond night, if the ftate of the biliary fecretion required it; but as that was not the cafe he took no more of that medicine, and has fmce ixmained perfeftly well, CASEHESEMBLmo SYPHILIS. CASE XXII. A gentleman had a very irritable fore oil the prepuce, juft behind the corona glandis, which was covered with flough ; this having been thrown off was fucceeded by another Hough, and the fore fpread laterally to the right and left j but it neither extended back* wards fo as to affeft the fkin covering the body of the penis, nor forwards fo as to touch the glans; neither did it cat deeply into the part fo as to afFe6l the corpus caver- nofum. I tried various dreffings, but none feemed to do much good. I touched the furface of the fore with argentum nitratum, but that did harm. I therefore was obliged to foothe this fore, fince I could not corre6l it, A falve made of fpermaceti cerate, with as much aq; litharg: acet: and tiniSt: opii as could be incorporated with it, feemed to anfwer beft ; and the parts were kept cool by en- veloping them in linen moiftened with the deco6tion of poppies. The moft perfe6l quietude was enjoined, and the part laid up- on a pillow with the extremity rather railed above a horizontal line. I had given the patient fome pilulae hydrargyri in the firft in- ftance,140 ON DISEASES ftance, but his conflitution v/as 10 deranged by the irritation of the fore that it would have been abfurd to perfevere in the ufe of mercury. The fore continued to flough, and to extend in a circular dire6lion nearly all round the prepuce, the lower part of which became extremely fwoln. This took up nearly two months : about five weeks after the commencement of the difeafe, a fpot ap- peared more than an inch from the corner of the mouth. It was foon covered over with a fcab, which rofe far above the furface. It had increafed to the fize of a fixpence, when I thought right to drefs it, that I might diftin-. guifh the furface of the fore. I found that the ulcer was very deep, but I could not fee the furface for a very vifcid difcharge, which adhered to it like mucus. Poultices and va- rious dreffings were employed, but the ap- pearance of the fore was unchanged, and jt gradually became of the fize of a fliilling. At length a kind of fungus fhot from that edge of the fore fartheft from the mouth. A fimilar fpot had made its appearance on the ear, and was alfo increafnig. The aftivity in the difeafe of the prepuce had gradually de- ^ clined.6 third RESEMBLING SVI'IIILlS. 14^ dined, 'and I began again to try fome medi- cated applications:—the fore ieemed much benefited by touching it daily with argentuni nitratum; but when this was omitted the lloughy appearance of the fore again took place, and it increafed in dimenfions. It wa5 now agreed at a confultation that this patient fhould ufe mercury, and he rubbed in twa drachms, by meafure, every night for fix weeks. As the mercury took cfFeft it feemed to operate beneficially on the fpot on the ear, which gradually died away; and on the fore of the penis, which aifo gradually acquired a healthy appearance, and the parts became found, except at one part where the prepuce was not quite deftroyed, and which (till retained an unhealthy appeai*ance. The mercury, how- ever, did not affecl the fore on the cheek the fungus which I mentioned feemed to in- creafe, and, after a time, (kin formed over it fa that the fore healed in an unhealthy man- ner at the edge farthefl from the mouth. But it ftill fpread in the other dire6lion till it reached the angle of the mouth, and it after- wards extended itfelf along each lip. On the upper lip it had fpread to the extent of one14% OVt DlSEASfiS third of an inch, and ftill retained the fame difeafed appearance which eharafterized it at the beginning. It? was deep, and its furface could not well be feen on account of a vifcid jnatter which adhered to it. It was now agreed in confultation to leave off mercury, left the irritated ftate of the mouth ftiould increafe the deftruclion which the ulcer was committing on the lips. The fore now no longer fpread j it very flowly loft its difeafed ftate, and healed. This alfo happened in the remaining difeafed part of the fore on the prepuce. CASE xxilr. Of Sores which become indurated in their Cir-* cumferencc. A medical man contrafled a fore on the prepuce, which, while it was healing, became indurated in its circumference, and when healed, it became faft and apparently healthy in tlie middle. The patient had taken and rubbed in mercury from the commencement pf the complaint i in fliort he treated it ftriclly as fyphilitic. When it alTumed the appear-RESEMBLINO SYPHILIS. I4;J. appearance and characler which I have delciibed, he fliewed it to me» I adviied him to continue the mercury, in fach fmall quantity as not to afte6l his health, until the induration fubfided, left from want of this precaution it fliould fret into a fore. Under this plan of treatment, however, conftitu- tional fymptoms occurred. The throat became ulcerated, and numerous fmall fpots came out all over the body. His health was alfo much difordered, and he could only take fuch fmall quantities of m.ercury, as could have no influence on true fyphilis. He took at the fame time the decoct: farfae. All the fymptoms gradually difappeai'ed, and he got perfectly well in the courfe of a few months, CASE XXIV. A gentleman who had jaft left London on a vifit to fome friends in the country, per- ceived a fore on the prepuce, which he imdertook to manage for himfelf. He drefled it fimply, and took from ten to fifteen grains of the pil: hydrarg : daily. After a month he came to town with the fore much enlarged, having difeaf(id indurated edges, but with a 9 healthy144 ON DISEASES healthy furface. As his mouth was afFe6led I defired him to continue the mercury in lefs quantity, fo as not materially to difturb his conftitution. The fore healed under this treatment, in the courfe of another month, but it exhibited the appearances which cha- ra6lerize thofe ulcers of which I am now fpeaking. It was foft in the middle, but had a circular hard rim, of the extent of a (hil- ling. At this time his health was much difordered, and his throat ulcerated. Deep and foul ulcers alfo took place in his cheeks Oppofite to the grinding teeth, and fome fores appeared on his tongue. His gums were fpongy, and loofened from his teeth, like thofe of a perfon having fcurvy. I now recommended him entirely to difcontinue the rnercury, and to take the nitric acid, which he did, in the dofe of from 60 to 90 drops daily. Under this treatment, both the conftitutional fymptoms, and the remaining induration of the primary fore got well in the courfe of fix weeks. Nearly a year after- wards, he had a fevere and intraftable ophr- thalmy, attended with nervous fymptoms, and diforder of his conftitution. After a time.RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 145 tinie, fpots again appeared on his Ikin, and he then applied again to me. By taking decotStion of farfaparilla daily, and five grains of pil: hydrarg: every fecond night, at the fame time paying attention to keeping his bowels regular, his health was reftored, and all thefe complaints totally difappeared in about five weeks. Thefe circumftances occurred in the Ipring of the year, and in the autumn the pituitary membrane of his nofe began to ulcerate, and it continued to do fo more or lefs during the whole winter, and even fome difcharge continued for the fpace of a year. The ulceration deftroyed a great part of the cartilaginous part of the feptum narium, fo that the alas nafi being lefs fupported funk a little, and made the termination of the bones apparent beneath the fkin. The de- formity was, however, too trivial to attra6l the notice of an indifferent or inattentive fpeflator. For this difeafe the alterative plan of treatment which had been fo fuccefsful on the former oc- cafion was again inftituted, though with little advantage. At firft, when the patient's appre- voL. IT. L henfionsON DISEASES henfions were confiderable, as the alterative courfe of mercury failed to do good, the dofe was increafed even fo as to affe6l the mouth, but the difeafe was fo evidently ag- gravated by it, that the medicine was for a time left off and with manifeft advantage. In the autumn of the fucceeding year a new difeafe occurred. A large deep ulcer formed in the throat, which had all the chara6lers of fyphilis. It, however, very faddenly ac- quired its largeft dimenfions, being about an inch in length and half an inch in breadth. It was fituated obliquely between the top of the tonlil and the front of the velum pa- lati. It was very deep. As fo little fuccefs had attended the alterative courfe of mercury in the ulcerative difeafe of the nofe, and as the progrefs of the prefent ulcer could be noted, no mercury was employed, and in about a month this ulcer was well, and the patient has not fmce had any relapfe; and, from the length of time which has fmce elapfed, it is highly probable that he never will have any. I have already faid, that fores which indurate in their circumference do not in 2 everyRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I47 every inftance produce conftitutional fymp- toms. Apprized of their nature I generally order for the patients that dofe of mercury, which may be taken without afFe6ling the conftitution, as a difcutient of the hardnefs, and I have known nearly fix months elapfe before it has been completely difperfed. This kind of partial induration is fo different from the progrefs of true fyphilis, that I think it muff be readily granted not to be of tliat nature. It muft however be alfo re- membered, that fores which indurate in all parts are not always fyphilitic. As I have already related two inftances 1 think it un- neceffary to add more. Having thus endeavoured to reprefent the conftitutional effe6ts refulting from fores, ' which differ materially in their chara£bers and progrefs from fyphilitic chancres, I wifli to fubjoin another cafe, though I am doubtful whether the difeafe originated from infe6lion, or was the produdt of conftitu- tional diforder. I think it defervcs to be recorded on account of its duration. 12 InON DISEASfiS 111 the year 1793, a gentleman agecf tweiity-fix, who had been married two years, had a paralytic afFe6lion of the whole of the left fide, from which he gradually but not completely recovered in about nine months, the latter of which he fpent in the country, and he attributed much benefit to the country air. About four months from the commencement of the paralyfis, h^ had an indolent enlargement of the teftis as big as a large fift, which did not fubfide, but in 1796 fuppurated, broke, and very flowly got well. In 1797, he had an ulcerated fore throat, for which he went through a very regular and fevere courfe of mercury. He was confined from July to November, and the mouth was in a greater or lefs degree aff^e6led during the greater part of that time. The throat foon got well. The year 1798 he Ipent in the country, and regained his health and fVrength in a very confiderable degree. In 1802, a node appeared about the. middle of the right fhin, which was removed by a blifter kept open for fome time. He had at the fame time a pimple on the nofe which formed a fcabby ulcer, but flowly got well ! fromRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. J49 from the application of a folution of the hydrarg: rauriat: He had fubfcquently feveral eruptions, forming fcabs upon the trunk of the body and arms which did not ulcerate, and got well without medicine. In 1804, there was a thickening about the os calcis and ten do achillis, which threatened to fuppurate. In J 805, I firfl: faw the patient ^ his tongue was furred, the fecretion of bile irregular, with a great degree of nervous irritation. He was alfo fubjeft to rheumatic pains which particularly alfefted his knee. I recom- mended a ftrift attention to the flate of the bowels, and foothing applications, with preffure to the heel. Under this treatment the heel gradually got well and the fpots dif- appeared. In the fpring of 1806 fome nodes appeared on different parts of the Ikull, when I told the patient to profecute thz fame plan of treatment, and if they got better to difregard them, but if worfe, to let me fee them. In the autumn of this year, he called upon me with the nodes on his head confiderably augmented; one on the right fide of the forehead was as big as a large walnut, and threatening to break, and two L 3 . on150 ON DISEASES on the left parietal bone, but of lefs fize^ had broken and healed. There was alfo a very confiderable node near the top of the left tibia, which had been opened by cauftic, and had left a foul ulcer. I then recom- mended the deco6l: farfae with a compound calomel pill, night and morning. This plan was continued from November to the end of May, when the deco6lipn was left off, though the pill was continued in a fmaller dofe for fome time longer. Under this courfe, which never produced the flighteft mercurial efFe6l on the conftitution, all thefe complaints got well, and the patient became healthy and fat, and, as he fays, better than he has b^en from the commencement of his dif- orders which is fourteen years ago. This cafe appears to me to be veiy fimilar to that related at page 87. In neither dq I believe that the fymptoms were the efFe61:s of poifon imbibed, but on the con- trary, of a difordered ftate of health. Whilft I was attending this patient, his wife's throat ulcerated to a confiderable degree,RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. IJI degree. Both tonfils were ulcerated, and the ulcer continued from one along the edge of the velum palati to the extremity of the uvula. The ulcers were hollowed, covered by vifcid matter, and furrounded by inflam- mation. I fhould without hefitation have pronounced thefe fores fyphiUtic had they fucceeded to a chancre. Another furgeon had no doubt of their nature. The patient's bowels were difordered, and fhe felt generally unwell. I directed her to take forae decoc- tion of farfaparilla, and fmall dofes of rhu- barb, whilft I attentively watched the pro- grefs of the ulcer. In the courfe of a week it was fo decidedly amended, that I had no doubt of its not being fyphilitic. Where it ran down the fide of the uvula, it had granulated, and was in a great meafure healed. As the difcharges from the bowels were blackifh, I dire6led five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: to be taken every night for a fortnight, wliich gradually correfted the biliary fecretion, and in that time the ulcers were perfectly healed. Tlie patient took the pills every fecond night for another fortnight when the bowels L 4 beinjrf 152- ON DISEASES being in all refpecls right, and the conftitu^ tion in general relieved from all diforder, they were difcontinued. About fix months afterwards, this patient being in the country, thought flie had caught a qold in her head, as flie had frequent occa- lion to, blow her nofe, and as fhe fnuffled in fpeaking j this complaint gradually increafed, and after a fortnight had elapfed, (lie perceived a difficulty of deglutition, which alarmed her, becaufe it reminded her of her former indifpofition. She was at this time alfo very unwell, and felt in the fame manner as when her throat had ulcerated. Thefe fymptoms gradually increafmg, after another fortnight fhe came to town. There was no doubt but in this fecond attack ulceration had taken place in the upper furface of the velum pa- lati, for the ulcer had eaten through the foft palate at a fmall diftance from the teimina- ticn of the bone, there prefcnting a circular aperture, about as large in circumference as a pea. This complaint was made perfe6lly well in three weeks, by the fame treatment as was inftituted in the former. The health inRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I53 in general, and the digeftive organs parti- cularly, were difordered in the fecond attack a? they were in the former one, and both were fet right by the meafures that were purfued. I have known many ulcerated throats, which could not, by inlpeftion, be dif- tinguiflied from fyphiUtic difeafes, and which were even fuppofcd to be fo on account of the difficulty of cuiing them, arife from an irritable ftate of the ftomach, and they have readily got well by the treatment above defcribed. The foregoing cafe might have been one of this defer:ption. Might it not, however, have arifen from contagion, and have been caught from her huibandr I have recorded it chiefly on this account; for I am de- firous of mentioning, that I have feen feveral inftances of pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes commu- nicated from hufbands to wives, where there were no fores, nor apparently any morbid dis- charges from the genitals. If this fuppofition be true, it would probably be confidered as a very curious faft, and I mention it to excite I general154 'ON DISEASES general obfervation, by which alone it can be confirmed or confuted. I fhall briefly relate another cafe, fuggefting the fame opinion. A gentleman had been my patient on account of a chancre, for which he regu- larly took mercury fo as flightly to affecl his mouth. He had afterwards an ulcerated throat, which got well without the ufe of any medicine. Shortly afterwards he mar- ried a very healthy woman, who in about three months became very unwell, and had pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes, for which a mer- curial courfe was inftituted without benefit. As I had attended the hufband, I vv^as once confulted on her cafe. She had then a deep and foul ulcer between the ala nafi and upper lip. Her difeafes after- wards got flowly well under a plan of treatment calculated to reftore her general Jiealth. I am aware that the cafes which I have related by no means reprefent all that deferves to be difplayed, in order to convey to the 2 readerRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 1 reader that extenfive knowledge of the fub* je6l which a furgeon living in this metropolis may and ought to poffefs. For example, I have not related any cafe to fhew that the primary fores, in many inftances, are fubjeft to paroxyfms of dif- order; that they will amend and feem in- clined to heal, and when, from their appear- - ance, the greatcft hopes are entertained, on a fudden, a renovation of diforder takes plice > and more parts become difeafed or deflroyed. This circumftance happens whether mer- cury be employed or not, and under an equal operation of mercury on the patient's conftitution. Alfo in fyphilitic and pfeudo- fyphilitic affeftions, fometimes difeafes occur which are the efFe6l of derangenient of the conftitution at large, fuch as unhealthy ab- celTes and fores ; and whilft mercury, if em- ployed, a6ls beneficially on the fymptoms for which it was adminiftered, it oftenjhas a prejudicial effe6l on thefe acceffory difeafes. I have now lying before me the written re- cords of many cafes- fimilar to the foregoing, eachON DISEASES each of which exhibits fomc interefting variety obfervable in thefe difeafes. I forbear, however, to adduce more inftances, from a conviction that recorded cafes will never make a forcible impr^fTion on the minds of pra6litioners, and that they merely ferve to induce attention to the occurrences which are met with in practice, fo as to lead each perfon by obferving circumftances to which he had perhaps before been too little attentive to acquire pra6lical information and knqwr ledge from his pwp expedience.resemBlIKc syfttiLis. 157 SECTION V. On the 'treatment of Pfeudo-Syphilitic Difeafes. ri^HE impropriety of putting patients undef a full mercurial courfe, fuch as is nccef- fary for the cure of fyphilis, without taking into conlideration the nature of the pri- maiy fore, or watching, even for a fliort time, the progrefs of the conftitutional fymp- toms, muft I think, be to every one fuifi- ciently evident. If the conftitutional fymp- toms proceed in the manner detailed in the lecond feftion, and get well fpontaneoufly, it would be abfurd to ufe mercury; but if they areprogreffive, and threaten to deftroy parts of importance, even though we may have great reafon to believe that they are not truly fy- philitic, an alterative courfe of mercury, with the addition of decoftion of farfaparilla, feems to be, in general, the mofl efficacious means, of efFe6ting a temporary cure. In the fecond fe6tion, I ftated, that after having waited till I was affured that the con- ftitutional158 ON DISEASES ftitutional fymptoms were not truly fyphi- litic, and confequently, did not require for their cure a ftrong mercurial courfe, I ge- nerally gave the compound calomel pill with a view to fliorten the duration of thofe fymp- toms. This pradlice has been faid to be ridiculous. I only wifh to ftiew that in general, it is the mofl: fuccefsful that can be purfued. The cafes which have been related atteft, that an alterative courfe of mercury will cure difeafes which a potent one will aggravate j and that neither courfe can be confidered only as producing the tempo- rary efFe6l of curing the prefent fymptoms without eradicating the conftitutional difeafe. In proof of this point, I could adduce the moft abundant and clearefb evidence. I take the liberty to mention, that fome emi- nent furgeons of this metropolis, who con- cur with me in opinion refpefting the nature of thefe difeafes, are averfe to em- ploying mercury for their cure; and as fuch fentiments and practice may become very general amongft thofe who clearly perceive that the moft powerful mercurial courfes will not radically cure thefe difeafes, and MRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I59 and that they will get well without that medicine, I feel it neceflary to difcufs the fubjeft a little more at large. I have found a compound calomel pill or five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: taken every fecond night, fufhcient in many cafes to heal fores more rapidly than I wifhed, while in others, the fame pill taken every night has been infufficient, and the difeafe has been controlled and cured when the pill was taken night and morning. The dofe which has been moft fucccfsful, has been one that has not perceptibly affe6led the mouth nor weakened the conftitution 5 duiing its ufe, on the contrary, patients have ac- quired mufcular ftrength and increafe of bulk. The conftitutional fymptoms in thefe cafes frequently occur when the patient's health is much difordcred, and it may be feared that any courfe of mercury, however trivial, may increafe the weaknefs and irri- tabihty of the conflitution. However, it will be found, on the contrary, that an alterative courfet66 oH CiseaseS courfe of mercury, by controlling the difejirey will produce a diminution of irritability, and increafe the ftrength of the patient. All per- fons who are not familiarly acquainted with the facl are extremely furprifcd at the won- derful acquifition of bodily ftrength and vij gour obtained by the patient during the ufe of a medicine which they have always conli- dered as likely to debilitate, The difficulty is to afcertain the pr'ecife dofe that ihall cure the local difeafes, without apparently pro- ducing any mercurial effeft on the confti-- tution in general. This dofe muft necelTarily be various, as the fufceptibility of being acted on by mercury varies greatly in different perfons. Refpealng doubtful cafes, and of this de- fcription muft many be, which are prefented to the notice of a furgeon who has had no op- portunity of obferving the chara6lers of the primary fore, &c. I wifh to alk the follow- ing queftion. If a difeafe that may be fuf- pefted to be fyphilitic gets well, when the patient takes only five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: each night, (taking alfo the decoc-Resembling syphilis. tion of farfaparilla in the day) without the mercury apparently difturbing his conftitu- tion, butj on the contrary, contributing to the increafe of his ftrength, oiight fuch a difeafe to be regarded as fyphihtic, and requiring a perfevering courfc of mercury for its cure ? Were I to anfwer this queftion agreeably to the di6lates of my own experience, I fhould reply in the negative, becaufe I have feen many fuch inftances, wherein it was evident that the difeafe was of the kind which I have termed pfeudo-fyphiiitic. Within thefe few months three cafes have come under my obfervation, in which the throat was deeply and very badly ulcerated, and the general health greatly impaired; and yet all the pa- tients got well in about a month by fuch a courfe of medicine as I have defcribed, increaf- ing in health as the local difeafe amended, and without any mercurial effe6l on their conftitution being manifefl. This is a point of pra6lical condu6l, much deferving of confideration, and requiring to be eftablifhed. It would appear wrong to ufe more force for cffedling a purpofe than is requifite. In fyphilis the cure of the difeafes VOL. II. M forl62 ON DISEASES for which mercury is adminiftered is a proof of the fufficiency of the mercurial courfe. Syphilitic fymptoras will not, however, as far as my experience enables me to determine, give way to fo trivial a quantity of mercury. Therefore the mode of cure of thefe difeafes may ferve as a teft of their nature, and as a guide for our condu61: on a recurrence of fymptomSi in cafes where no other evidence can be obtained. Were this queftion determined, were it decided, that truly fyphilitic fymptoms would not yield to an alterative courfe of mercury, which produced no apparently mercurial efFe6l on the patient's conftitution, but under which it acquired a natural degree both of tranquillity and ftrength, another enquiry would yet .remain. Are we war- ranted in continuing or augmenting the mercurial courfe, in order to prevent a re- turn of the fame or fimilar fymptoms ? Were my own experience to direft me in my reply to this queftion alfo, I fliould again anfwer in the negative j, becaufe I have frequently, in fuch dubious,cafes, put patients under a full mercurial courfe, in order to prove, that ifRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 165 any relapfe fhould occur, the difeafe could not be fyphilitic, or curable by fuch a courfe of mercury. The cafes to which I allude were thofe of officers and perfons of ftrong conftitutions, in which it feemed neceffary to eftablifh this fadl, with a view to the fubfe- quent treatment of any fymptoms that might occpr. Yet in thefe cafes new fymptoms were manifefted. I have alfo been frequently con- fulted with refpeft to the degree to which a mer- curial courfe fliould be carried, and the time it {hould be continued, that had been inftituted for the cure of pfeudo-fyphilitic fymptoms, which had been miftaken for thofe of true fyphilis; and I have recommended that it fhould be con- tinued to that degree and for that duration, that fhould render a repetition of it unnecef- fary, by proving it to be unavailing, fhould a recurrence of fymptoms enfue. Yet in thefc cafes alfo, either the fame fymptoms returned or fimilar difeafes took place, and in moil inflances thefe returning fymptoms h^ve got well without the ufe of mercury. The cafes alio, which I have detailed, fhew how unavailing the moft potent courfes of mer- cury are, in efFe6ling the radical cure of thefe M 2 diforders.I 164 ON DISEASES diforders. It feems therefore better to defiil: from the ufe of medicine, when the local dif- cafes are well J and, fhould they recur, to cure them again by an alterative courfe of mer- cury, which appears, from its effects, to be not only innocent, but even falutary. In fome cafes which I have attended, after having cured the local fymptoms by an alterative courfe of mercury, with the addition of the deco6lion of farfaparilla, without producing the flighteft ap]!)arent mercurial effe6l on the patient's conftitution, I have recommended the con- tinuance of half this innocent quantity of mercury for a confiderable time, in order to prevent a relapfe, and in many inftances, this plan of treatment has feemed to fuc- cced, whilft in others it has failed. In fome cafes of pfeudo-fyphilis, one fet of fymptoms will difappear without the ufc of mercury,yet new fymptoms occurring, they will be progrefiivc and deftrudlive fo as to require- mercury for their cure. The reverfe of this alfo happens: one fet of fymptoms feemed to require, and to have been cured by an alterative courfe of mercury ; yet others, fubfequently arifmg, may difappear without its admi- niftration.RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 165 niflration. Even an innocent and alterative courfe of mercury fhould not, in my opi- nion, be haftily reforted to. The objed which we are to keep in view, throughout the whole treatment of the difeafe, is to tranquillize and invigorate the conftitution, and only to check or cure deftru6live or very diflrefling fymptoms by an adequate quantity of mercury. Though an altera- tive courfe of mercury is fo generally bene- ficial, yet in fome inftances it aggravates thefe difeafes. There are perfons of fo peculiar a conflitulion, that the fmalleftdofes of mercury cannot be given without producing irritation and diforder. Mercury alfo may fail to be beneficial, when adminiflered at one period of thefe difeafes, and yet have the moft de- lirable efte6l at another. It may for inftance fail to do good at an early period of the dif- eafe, when it is in a ftate of confiderabic activity, and yet may countera6l and fubdue it, when its vigour is on the decline. The cafes furnifh examples of thefe fafls. Though in general the decoftion of farfa- parilla appears to be the beft medicine that pan be given in a4dition to alterative dofes M 3 ofON DISEASES i66 of mercury; yet, when the conftltution of the patient is weak, it is ufeful to give me- dicines of a tonic and cordial kind. This practice is peculiarly proper, when it re- quires a more powerful operation of mer- cury than I have in general defcribed, to control and cure urgent fymptoms *. Such is the refult of the obfervations I have made on the treatment of thefe moft * It may be thought by fome, that I have relied too much in the treatment of the foregoing difeafes, upon the internal adminiftration of mercury, and have not fufHciently tried its effefts by inunction. I therefore think it right to ex- plain, that it feems to me immaterial, whether a mild oxyd of mercury, fuch as fhould be contained in mercurial oint- ment, and quickfilver pills, is abforbed from the fkin or the alimentary canal. I generally find that as much of the quickfilver pill can be taken internally as is neceffary to produce the degree of mercurial afFeftion of the fyftem, which is requifite for the cure of pfeudo-fyphilitic fymp- toms, without in the leaft difordering the fundlions of the digeftive organs •, but on the contrary, with evident benefit by exciting and maintaining the natural and healthy adlions of thofe organs. It is right, however, to add, that the pilul: hydrarg: which I have alw^ays employed, has been procured from the Apothecaries' Hall; and that when it has been ob- tained from other places, its elFefts have by no means correfponded to what I have reprefented of them, eitlier in this, or the preceding volume. vexa-RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 167 vexatious difeafes ;—difeafes which muft, I believe, perplex all furgeons, whatever opi- nions they may entertain refpecling them, and whatever conduct they may purfue with a view to their cure. They, who believe them all to be fyphilitic, and regard mer- cury as the only remedy, mull be perplexed by difcerning its inefficacy. They who abftain from it muft be perplexed by obferv- ing the 'pertinacious nature of the difeafe, and the frequent recurrence of new and dif- trefling lymptoms. They who fleer a middle courfe, as I have done, will not avoid diffi- culties. Without any particular invefliga- tion of the nature of venereal difeafes, two different modes of treatment leem to have been adopted by the profefTion. One party has ufed mercury liberally for evident reafons. It feemed neceffary for the cure of fyphilis, and it has been fuccefsful in cafes of that difeafe. Believing all venereal difeafes to be of that nature, and further incited by fre- quent recurrence of fymptoms, one party of profeffional men has ufed mercury, as I believe, in a moft injurious degree: whilfl others, from witnefTmg the beneficial effects of an alterative courfe of mercury in pfeudo- M 4 fyphiliticON DISEASES fyphiliticdifeafeSjliaveconfidered fuch acourfe to be all that was neceffary in every inftance. No improvement in pra6lice could poffibly take place, whilft former opinions prevailed j whilft furgeons regarded every conftitutional difeafe that had the appearance of fyphiUs to be.really of that nature, and treated it accord- ingly. This was done, whatever might have l^een the chara6i:ers and. progrefs of the pri- mary fore from which it originated; and even when it was preceded by no fore, it was confidered as an inftance of fyphilis long lurking in the conftitution. Even Mr. Hun- ter, who fo accurately obferved difeafes, and fo clearly diftinguifhed, that there were many difeafes refembling fyphilis which were Xiot of* that nature, muft have been exceed- ingly perplexed in his opinions and pra6tice. As he believed chancres might be modified "by the difeafed propenfities of the conftitu- tion, when he met with ulcers in the throat, eruption?, and nodes confequent to fuch cliancres, which, not even his accurate ob- fervation could, I will venture to affirm, in many cafes diftinguiih, from thofe of fyphilis, he muft, I think, have deemed it right to treat " " theii^169 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. them as if they were fyphilitic. The cafes, to which I now allude, are recorded in the fecond feftion. But in thefe cafes, the fymptoms will recur in general after the fevereft courfc of mer- cury. That he met with fuch cafes, anci was perplexed by them, may be inferred from his opinions, he having accounted for fuch failures by faying, that mercury will cure the difeafe, when in an aftive flate, but will not cure the difpofition to difeafed aftions, which certain parts may have af- fumed. I believe, however, it will be found that mercury cures both the a6lions and dif- pofitions to act in true fyphilis, and that the perplexing cafes were of a different nature to that difeafe. How far the difeafed adlions incited by fyphilitic poifon admit of confi- derable modifications from peculiarity of con* ftitution in the primary fores or chancres, we have, I believe, yet to learn. There are, however, good reaions for fuppofing that when a poifon is abforbed without inducing a fore, and when that fore is of a nature very difCordant to thofe of fyphilis, that the con- ftitutional fymptoms will be found equally to differ170 ON DISEASES differ from thofe of fyphilis in their nacure, and require a different mode of treatment. Having been inftru6led by Mr. Hunter to believe, that there were difeafes refembHng the venereal difeafe, which were different in their origin and progrefs, having perceived nothing to contradi6f, but on the contrary, every thing to confirm that propofition, I have in this publication, avowed my opinion of their exiflence to a far greater extent than Mr. Hunter'fvippofed. Knowing how much opinions influence our judgment and con- du6l refpe6lin^ fa6ls which come under our obfervation, I nave even wiihed that thefe opi- nions, if they be corre6t, might becomiC general and confirmed. Being confcious that they have not been haflily adopted j and that in furvey- ing the fa6ls upon which they are founded, I have endeavoured to keep my mind as unpreju- diced as poilible, I fliould think myfelf guilty of a culpable timidity, were I not to avow them. If the'opinions be corre6t, it muft indeed be acknowledged, that cafes of true fyphilis are much lefs frequent now than formerly, and for this I have endeavoured to aflign a reafon in the fecond fe61:ion. Well aware howRESEMBUNG SYPHILIS. 17! how liable an individual is to err, in form- ing general conclufions from his own limited experience, and confcious that the opinions which I entertained refpefting thefe difeafes were different from thofe of a great number of eminent furgeons, I at firft publifhed my obfervations on the fubje6l in portions ; and the fame apprehenfion as to the pof- fibility of error has now induced me to re- publifh them in a lefs methodical manner than I could have wifhed. I thought this mode would fhew better the rife and progrefs of thofe opinions which I cannot but enter- tain ; inafmuch, as they appear legitimately to be deduced from faa:s. Hid I publifhed &11 I knew and thought, relative to thefe fubjefts under another title, had I called the book additional obfervations on venereal difeafes, or on progreffive and remittent fyphilis, it might have been better received, becaufe it might have been more accordant to the notions of others. Yet in whatever way I might have reprefented the fubje6t the the difference would only have been in the manner of difplaying it; there would have been none in the matter to which it related, as that confifts of actual occurrences in practice.4 defign ( ^72 ) On Difcafes of the Urethra; particularly of that part J which is furroimded by the p-rojiate Gland, SECTION I. jg^VERY furgeon will, I believe, adcnow- ledge that an obfcurity hangs over the fubje^l; of flri6lures of the urethra, which pre- vents us from perceiving the caufe of many circumftances, which occur in daily pra6licel Contra(5f ions *oi this canal are fometimes rea- dily enlarged to their natural diameter by th introduction of common bougies, and the cure thus elFe6ted is permanent. In other cafes it is difficult to procure even a temporary enlargement of the contrafted part j and the ftrifture returns, when the means by which it was relieved are difcontinued. This variety in the event of different cafes may, in fome inftances, depend on the kind and duration of the difeafe in the ftri6tures thcmfelves j yet, in many others, I am convinced that it is pwing to other circumftanceSj which it is myDISEASES OF THE URETHRA, &C. I73 defign to confider in the prefent paper. Be- fore my obfervation had been directed to thefe circumftances, I was much puzzled to account for the difcordance in the refult of cafes apparently fimilar. I was equally unable to underftand fome occurrences, like thofe which arc reprefented in the follow- ing cafe. CASE 1. A gentleman, whofe life was made un- comfortable by a very frequfent and very urgent propenfity to void his urine, applied to me for advice. Two ftri6lures were dif- covered in the further part of the urethra, which did not oppofe the pafiage of a bougie as large as a goofe-quill. Some difficulty was experienced when tlie bougie entered that part of the urethra, which pafTes through the proftate gland j and the patient complained of pain, which was confiderably increafed at the orifice of the bladder. The inftrument, how- ever, entered the bladder, though with diffi- culty J and it feemed to be grafped by the fphinder. The proftate was enlarged to t\7ice its natural fize j which circumftance feemed to174 ON DISEASES to me, to explain the caufe of the flight im- pediment which occurred to the paffage of the inflrument through it. The urethra was unufually long in this patient; and though bougies had been frequently introduced, I fufpeft that they had never been pafled into the bladder. The patient was of this opinion, from the peculiar fenfations which he expe- rienced, and which he had never felt before. He called upon me four days afterwards, faid that he was much relieved, and requefted to have the operation repeated. The fame bougie which had been ufed before now paffed with much greater facility. The patient ftill felt peculiar fenfations, though much diminiflied in degree, as the inftrument went through the proftate. It entered the bladder without dif- ficulty, and without appearing to be grafped. I now introduced a larger bougie, v/hich went through the ll:ri6lures with lefs difficulty than the fmaller one had done on its firft intro- du6lion. This produced the fame uneafy fen- fation on entering (the proftate; it was re- tarded for a moment at the orifice of the bladder, and was flightly grafped at its en- trance. All the fymptoms were ftill more re- 2 lieved'l OF THE URETHRA, &C. I75 lieved by this fecond introdu6lion. The fame operation was repeated a few times ; at firft every fourth day, and afterwards once a week, till a bougie of the largeft fize could be paffed without occafioning any uneafmefs. The pa- tient, during the latter part of the time, did not require to void his urine more frequently than is common. He was relieved from a great trouble ; and though many years have elapfed, he has not experienced fimiiar in- convenience. Such cafes as the preceding induced me to fufpe6l that a fl:ri6lure might exift in the ori- fice of the bladder. The following cafe gave me new, and, as I think, juft ideas relative to this fubjeft. Whether the opinions be cor- re6l or not, the cafes, it mult be admitted, deferve attention. CASE II. A gentleman, more than feventy years of age, had experienced for about fix years a difficulty in voiding his urine, which gradu- ally increafed, till the ilream became veryfmall. This was attended with a frequent propen- fityi^S ON DISEASES fity to difcharge the urine, which difturbed him every fecond or third hour during the night. At laft a complete retention took J)lace when he was in the country; and a furgeon attempted to introduce a fmall ca- theter, which however was prevented, by a ftriflure, from paffing farther than fix inches. The patient immediately came to London^ when I direfted him to take fome caftor oil, and to bathe the perinaeum and adjacent parts frequently with warm water. After fome time 'the urine flowed again, and he was relieved from the prefent urgent fymptoms. In two- days I examined the urethra, and found a ftric- ture at fix inches, through which I could not pafs even a very fmall bougie. I touched this with the argentum nitratum ; but the appli- cation did not produce any alteration in the circumftances of the difeafe. On the third day the bougie paffed on to a ftridlure, at feven inches, which was alfo touched with cauftic; and the fame treatment was repeated with another ftrifture, at the diftance of half an inch from this. The bougie now palTed through all the flri6lures, and entered the proftate, when'I was obliged to withdraw it imme-OF THE UkETHUA, &C. I77 immediately, from a fudden attack of pain and faintnefs. No enlargement of the proftate Was difcovered by an examination per anum; nor was it tender when comprelGTed. I told the patient that I confidered it very defirable to introduce a tubular inftrument into the bladder, but that the minutenefs of the ftrcam of urine rendered it doubtful whether this could be accompliftied. I requefl-ed him to call in another furgeon, that the attempt might be made by us conjointly. A flexible varnifhed catheter, containing a ftrong wire, was readily paffed -into the proftate, but could not be made to enter the bladder. The at- tempt was not long perfevered in, from an ap- prehenfion of doing injury, if the inftrument were not guided in the right track. No blood flowed upon withdrawing the catheter. A flight retention of urine followed this at- tempt ; but, after a few days, the patient was in the fame ftate as before. On examining the urethra four days afterwards, I found that the fm.alleft bougie would not pafs farther than fix inches ; fo that the contradfion of the firft ftri6ture had been re-excited by the irritation occafioned by our late attempt. As the appli- .cation of the argentum nitratum had fo fud- voL. II. N denlyON DISJEASES denly and completely relieved this ftn6lure hi the firft inftance, I now repeated this appli- cation, although I knew that the ftrifture was merely fpafmodic. In the courfe of a few days a fmall bougie was introduced into the proflate, and afterwards a larger one. I now vviflied to afcertain whether I could pafs the bougie into the bladder, or learn, by means of that inftrument, the caufe of the obftru6tion. As the patient found that he could void his urine moft eafily when lying on the left fide, it feemed probable that the orifice of the ure- thra might be found in that dire6lion. I therefore depreffed the point of the inftru- ment, and, carried the other extremity towards the right groin, when mofl unexpectedly it went forwai'ds into the bladder. When the- bougie was withdrawn,' a confiderable quan- tity of clotted blood and mucus, with fome matter, oozed out of tlie urethra; and the pa- tient afterwards voided in a large fcream about eight ounces of turbid and fcetid uiine mixed with mucus ; after which he felt as if his bladder were completely emptied. From this time he had no occafion to void his urines more frequently than is natural, and he ex- pelled it in as large a ftream, and with as much179 OF THE URETHRA, ScC. much facility, as he had ever done at any period of his Ufe. The bougie was for fome time introduced every third day, and after- wards once a week. It paffed eafily not only through the urethra, but into the bladder, when guided in the dire6lion which has been mentioned. At firft the point was foiled with blood and matter, but afterwards thefe ap- pearances were no longer obfervable, whidi led me to conclude that the circumference of the ulcerated orifice of the bladder had com- pletely healed. Two years afterwards this gentleman experienced a recurrence of his former complaints; a fmall bougie only could now be introduced into the bladder. A larger bougie was paffed through the ure- thra on the next attempt j but was not carried forwards into the bladder, from an apprehenfion of irritating the prollate. After a few days the larger bougie was introduced into the bladder and met with a little refift- ance at its orifice. From this time it paffed with the fame facility as when I difcontinued my former attendance, and the patient found himfelf equally well. Two years have now elapfed, without any neceffity for repeating thefe operations. N 2 InON DISEASES i8o In this cafe a difeafe took place in thd proftate gland, without producing any evi^ dent enlargement or tendernefs of its fub- ftance, though it had proceeded to a ftate of ulceration. The difeafe feeras to have ope- rated on the continuous parts in two direc-^ tions J backwards upon the bladder, rendering that organ irritable j and forwards upon the urethra, caufing ftriftures, which were in fome degree organic, though chiefly of a fpaf- modic nature. It muft be allowed, however, that the obftruclion of the aperture into the bladder by the difcharges from the ulcerated furface contributed in a great degree to main- tain the irritability of the organ, by impeding the difcharge of the urine. This difeafe v/as alfo of a nature that admitted of relief, and the paffage of a bougie feemed to effe6l its cure. It had, however, a tendency to recur, and the ufe of the bougie lefTened the irri- tability of the part, and arrefted the progrefs of the difeafe. The circumftances of this cafe do not indeed unfold the caufe and precife nature of the diforder, which, however, will in my opinion be elucidated by thofe which follow. TheyOF THE URETHRA, ScC. l8l They induced me to fuppofe that thofe in- ftances, which I had formerly met with, and which appeared fo uninteUigible, were of a fimilar nature ; and they made me par- ticularly attentive to the ftate of the urethra, where it pafTcs through the proftate gland, as I faw the pofTibility of this canal being difeafed, without the proftate being mate- rially implicated in the diforder. The fol- lowing cafe occurred foon afterwards. CASE III. A gentleman, between fifty and fixty years of age, had for twenty years been fubje6t to occafional fits of dyfury. I was defired to fee him in one of thefe, which had been very fevere and long continued. He was obliged to void the urine at leaft every hour. The calls Were fudden and urgent, and the pain continued for a confiderable time after the urine had been difcharged. He had fome fever, which fuch irritation would naturally produce. A moderate-iized bougie ftopped at two ftri6lures, but pafTed through them without much difficulty : when it entered the proftate, the patient complained of burning N 3 painI 1S2 ON DISEASES pain J of a ftrong irritation to make water; and grew fo faint that I had merely time, by a gentle prelTure, to ' afcertain that the bougie would pafs into the bladder: when I withdrew it, the point was covered with blood. The patient was dire6led to bathe the perinasum with warm water frequently, if the dyfury was urgent. He was much relieved by the introdudion of the bougie, and did not want afterwards to void his urine oftener than every fecond or third hour. The calls were lefs urgent, and the fubfequent uneafi- nefs lefs in feverity and duration. After two days, a bougie of the fame fize was intro- duced to the extent of eight inches, and with- drawn ; no blood adhered to its furface. A fmallcr bougie, much curved, vs^as now pafled into the bladder; the patient complained of the Jfame uneafy fenfation as before, when it entered the proftate ; but he did not grow faint. The point was bloody for three quar- ters of an inch, but lefs fo than on its firft introdu6lion. More relief was experienced this time. The urine was now voided only every fourth hour. Two days afterwards the bougie was again introduced into the bladderV \ OF THE URETHRA, &C. I 83 bladder, confiderably curved, and with the point carried along the upper furface of the urethra, where it pafTes throtigh the proftatc gland. The point was foiled with a yellowifli fluid, flightly tinged with blood. As tlie patient was getting much better, the ope- ration was not repeated till after four days, and then after the interval of a week j at which time the blood and the yellow fluid had entirely difappeared. The urine was not voided more frequently than natural, nor was its expulfion attended or fiicceeded by any painful fenfation. The ftriftures in this cafe felt firm, and not eafily dila- table : I thought it neceflary to relieve them, left they fliould contribute to re-induce the irritation in the proftate j but the patient felt hirafclf fo well, that he was averfe to any thing which might renew his former fufferings, and he has had no fymptoms of dyfuiy hnce that pei-iod. The proftate in this patient was not enlarged nor tender. Conclufions fmiilar to thofe, which were deduced from the former cafe, may be more fairly drawn from this j viz. that a difeafe may occur in the membrane of the urethra N 4 where184 ON pISEASES where it pafles through the proftate, and that it may render the bladder irritable, and produce ftri6lures in the urethra j for in this cafe there was no mechanical obflruftion to the expulfion of the urine to produce irrita-r tion in the bladder. It alfo appears, that the difeafe admitted of relief by the introdu6lion of a bougie, I have lately met with another cafe in a younger man, who is between twenty and thirty years of age, and who was afHi6led with fimilar fits of dyfury, the caufe of which could not be afcertained, I paiTed a bougie for him a few times^ but found no ftrifture in the urethra. The fame painful fenfations were produced in the proftate, as in the pre- ceding cafes. The bougie did not appear at the time to relieve the dyfury; but the com- plaint gradually ceafed, and the patient left town. He iias been much better fmce this time, and attributes his relief to the paflage pf the bougie* ' CASEOF THE URETHRA, &C. l^S The CASE IV. A gentleman, about fixty years of age, was afFefted with dyfury, which increafed with violence, thousrh various means were em- ployed during two years for his relief. He voided his urine every fecond hour, or oftener, with great pain and fevere irritation j which continued for fome time after its expulfion. He had fuch a fenfation of heat and uneafi- nefs in the perina^um, that he could not bear to bring his thighs together; and he was obliged to ufe a cufliion, with a vacancy in the middle, when he fat down. He could not ride in a carriage, or even walk out, al- though his general health was good. A moderate lized bougie halted a little at two ftrictyres, and when it arrived at the proftate produced a violent burning fenfation, a vehe- ment propenfity to void the urine, and extreme pain at about two inches from the orifice of the urethra; which part was always particu- larly painful during the time of voiding the urine, and after its expulfion. On withdraw- ing t|ie bougie, which had entered the bladder, its point was found to be covered with blood.ON DISEASES i85 The proftate being examined, felt rather broader than ufual, but was not tender. The patient was reUeved by the introduftion of the bougie, which was repeated on the third day: it went more freely through the ftri£tures, and the fenfations, caufed by its pallage through the^ proftate, were diminifhed. The point of the bougie was bloody. I afcertained that the blood eame from that part of the urethra which is fituated in the proftate, by introducing a large bougie to the diftance of eight inches, and then withdrawing it: the |)oint was not in the leaft foiled with blood. The fecond introduction of the bougie, pro- duced confiderablc relief. The urine was re- tained longer, the uneafy fenfation in the pe- rinceum was dirainiftied, and the patient could walk or fit down more comfortably. The bougie was ufed every third or fourth day for three weeks; and then once a week for a month longer, its fize being gradually in- creafed. The appearance of blood on the point gradually ceafed : it was afterwards foiled with a purulent and then with a mu- cous fluid, which appearances alfo gradu- ally ceafed. The water was now voided onlyOF THE URETHRA, &C . 187 only at intervals of four hours, the fubfe- quent pain being either trivial or entirely wanting; the uneafmefs in the perinseum was fo inconfiderable, that the patient could walk for feveral liours, and fit down without pain. The feminal difcharges had been attended with extreme pain, fo great as almoft to pro- duce fainting, before the ftate of the proftate had been relieved: they afterwards took place without any unufual fenfation. Thefe cafes fliew that the urethra may be- come irritable and difeafed, where it palfes through the proftate gland, without any ma- terial diforder of the contiguous parts. They induced me to pay particular attention to the ftate of that part of the urethra ; which at- tention will, in my opinion, be found of great confequence in direfting our treatment of thefe diforders. As it would render this pa- per extremely voluminous to detail the par- ticular cafes which I have met with, I fliall merely relate the obfervations which I have made, and the inferences which I have drawn from them; that the profelfion in general may inveftigate the fubjeft, and determine how far thefe obfervations and opinions are corred. Firft3ON DISEASES Firft, then, it has appeared to me that a, ftate of inflammation and irritation may take place in the remote part of the urethra to a greater or lefs extent. It may produce in the proftate that peculiar fenfibiUty of the part which I have defcribed > and in the peringeum it may caufe contra6lions of different parts of the canal. Either of thefe affections may be more permanent than the other, evei,i where each part has been equally affe6led in the be-; ginning. This if ate of inflammation and irri- tation is frequently produced by gonorrhc^a, though it may occur from other caufes. If a bougie be introduced injudicioufly, when this difbrder jSril occurs in a gonorrhoea, numerous fpafmodic ftricfures* are met with; the patient becomes alarmed by the difficulty of paffing the inflrument, and by the name of ftri^lures, and confults a more experienced furgeon, who diro6f s local warm bathing, and the application of leeches to the perinaeum, * I have ufed the term fpafmodic ftriftures in the in- difcriminate manner in which it is generally employed, though I am aware that it is obje£i;ionable : a ftricture from fpafm is not a ftrifture ; and a flrifture may be irritable or fpafmodical, or oth^rwife. ThqttlE URETHRA, &C. 1^9 The difofder is cured; the patient expe6ls that ftriftures remain; a full-fized bougie is intro- duced to fatisfy him, which pafles without the leaft difficuhy. I am unable to determine^ whether in fuch cafes the urethra is affe6led in the firft inftance in that part which paffes through the proftate, as I never made any ex- amination under thefc circumftances, though I think it very probable that it is fo. Wheri a gleet becomes unufually protrafted, it is frequently owing to the effects of this difol"- der in the remote part of the urethra, main- taining a degree of irritation in the front. Under thefe circumftances, it is allowable to introduce a bougie, when ftriftures will fre- quently be found in the perinseum; and in many cafes, the patients whom I have attended have experienced thofe fenfations, which arc charadleriftic of tendernefs in the membrane of the urethra, where it paffes through the proftate. If, therefore, we look to the origin of thofe cafes, which we are called upon to attend in their advanced ftages, we might ex- pe6l to find the diforder of the urethra various ^ with refpeft to the kind and extent of the difeafe. That it will be found fo in pra6lice 9 I doON DISEASES I do not hefitate to affirm, from the obferva- tions which I have ah'eady made relative to this fubje6t. In fbme cafes, ftri6lures in that part of the canal, which is fubjeft to fuch con- tra6lions, will be the fole difeafe. In others, an uneafmefs, and fuch fenfations as I have defcribed, will be complained of as the bougie pafles through the laft inch of the urethra, which is contained in the proftate gland. In fome cafes alfo, the ftriclures will be the lefs degree of the difeafe, and the irritation in the proftate the greater ; and in fome cafes it will be found that nothing is difcoverable which can fairly be denominated a ftriclure, and yet the tendernefs which I have defcribed exifts in a moft painful degree. A fludent of the hofpital who had a flight gleet, but of long continuance, having alfo ibme pain and irritation after voiding his urine, though without any frequent defire to void it, palTed a bougie, which arrived at the proftatic part of the urethra without im- pediment, or caufmg him to feel any parti- cular uneafmefs but when it glided on through the proftate, it occafioned, he faid, a a biu'n-OF THE URETHRA, &C. I9I a burning pain and irritation, fo peculiar, as not to admit of defcription, and fo fevere, that he could not have believed it, but on the evidence of his own fenfes. My obfervations have alfo led me to believe, ^ that the inflammation of the teftis, v^hich is fo frequent an attendant on gonorrhoea, is excited by inflammation of this part of the urethra, and not by a fympathy between that gland and the urethra in general. In deducing thefe difeafes from the inflam- mation which gonorrhcea excites, I mean only to trace them from a very common origin. The fame diforders frequently take place without having been preceded by that complaint. An attention to the circum- ftances, wliich have been mentioned, feems to me to explain the contradiftory eventsj which happen, when a fimilar plan of treat- ment is, purfued for the cure of difeafes of the urethra. When frri6lures are the fole difeafe, they are often readily, and gene- rally permanently, cured. When an irri- tation, fuch as I have defcribed, exifts in the proftate,ON DISEASES 1^2 proftate, it is difficult to enlarge the con* tracted portions of the canal; and, when that is acompliflied, the ftriftures recur, as a caiife of irritation to the urethra ilill continues. In fome cafes, the enlargement of the ftri6lures fails to mitigate the dyfury, and in others it is augmented by the meafures which have been employed to cure the ftridures, when the ftate of irritation at the neck of the blad- der has been unadverted to. Many patients have applied to me under thefe circumftanceSj after having been under the care of other fur- geons. They have ftated, that Imall bougies only could be palTed in the firft-milance, and that though the largeft could now be intro^ duced, the complaint was no better; nay, fome have thought themfelves materially vvorfe. A bougie has paffed in thefe cafes eight inches, ' without meeting any confiderable obftructioUj or exciting much fenfation; but, after this point, it caufed a moft acute and burning pain, with vehement defire to make water. Some have enquired if I was withdrawing the bougie, whilft it was flowly proceeding, ant' fome have complained of great pain in the front of the urctha. • Similar cafes have oc- curred >OF THE URETHRA, kc '93 curred in my own pra6lice. I have relieved ftriftures, without materially benefitting my patients j of late years, I may venture to fay, without making them worfe; becaufe I have been cautious not to hurt the canal, where it paiTes through the proftate. ' Some cafes of diforders of the urinary organs are made worfe by the attempt to cure ftriftures : and I think I deliver an important admonition, to the younger part of the pro- felTion, when I caution them to beware, in their attempts to cure ftriftures, that they do not irritate nor injure the laft inch of that canal, where there are no ftri6lures, but in which confiderable diforder may neverthelefs cxift. In fome cafes of difeafed urethra, which I have not unfrequently met with, ftriftures are found, through which a fmall bougie paffes with difficulty; and it produces thofe fenfa- tions, in paffing through the proftate, which J have defcribed, as peculiar to that part of the canal when in a difeafed ftate. The patient, however, experiences relief from the VOL. II. o intro-ON DISEASES introduclion of the bougie j and if it be pafTed again on the third day, it will meet with no obftruftion from the ftri6lures, and caufe lefs uneafmefs in paffing through the proftate. I have then taken a bougie of a larger fize, fuch as it would have been impoflible to in- troduce in the firft inftance, and this has paffed through the flri6lures to the diftance of eight inches; but I have forborne to carry it any farther, left I fliould irritate the urethra near the neck of the bladder. It appears therefore to me, that you may relieve or ag- gravate ftri6lures in fuch cafes in proportion as you diminifli or augment the morbid fenfi- bility of the remote part of the urethra j and an attention to the ft ate of this part is on this account of the greateft importance. Having thus adverted to the probable origin of the difeafe, which I am endeavouring to defcribe, and its connexion with ftri6lures, I proceed to obferve, that fuch a ftate of mor- bid fenfibility in that portion of the urethra, which pafles through the proftate, may per- haps exift as a fymptom of an irritable blad- der. If the lining of the bladder be in- flamedOF THE URETHRA, &C. I95 flamed and irritable, it is probable that the diforder will extend into the urethra for fome fmall diftance. In the fourth cafe, I believe that the difeafe in queftion was com- plicated with an irritable ftate of the bladder; but wli:ether it was to be confidered as an adjunfl circumftance, or in the relation of caufe or effeft, cannot be determined. The irritability of the bladder was diminiflied, but not cured, by the treatment which leffened this difeafe. In one gentleman, who appa- rently died of an irritable bladder, and who complained of the fenfations, which I have defcribed, in an acute degree, on the bougie pafTmg through the proftate, the difeafed parts were examined, but very trivial morbid appearances were difcovered. The lining of the bladder was not perfe6lly natural, and was inflamed j yet the difeafed appearances were not ftrikingj and in the urethra the deviation from the healthy ftru6lure was ftill lefs obfervable. It is not improbable, however, that fuch a morbid fenfibility of the proftatic urethra may arife from an irritable bladder. Perhaps, o 2 alfoI pro- 19^ ■ ON DISEASES alfo, it may occafionally arife from the irrita- tion of the laft flrifture. Many patients with ftriclures, who complained much of the fen- fations at the neck of the bladder, at' the commencement of the treatment of their complaint, have afferted, that they felt no unufual fenfations when the bougie pafTed through the proftate, after the ftri6i:ures had been cured. Yet, though I would admit that a tendernefs of the canal of the urethra in the proftate may fometimes arife from its proximity and continuity with the lining of the bladder, or with the laft ftri6ture, I think it more frequently exifts as an original and independent difeafc. It has been ftiewn, that it may render the bladder irritable, and excite contra61:ions in the urethra. Some cafes have been adduced, which fhew that this ftate may exift, and yet the bladder may not be conftantly irritable, but that it may be afFefted by fits. I have alfo met with a cafe where .this fcnfibility exifted in an extreme degree, and yet it feemed to have very little influeace on the bladder. I have likewife* known this irritable ftate of the urethra com- plicated with enlargement of the proftate.OF THE URETHRA, &C. r'lp/ I proceed, in the next place, to relate what I have obferved refpefting the treatment of the difeafe, which I have been defcribing. The three firft cafes fhew, in a ftriking man- ner, the advantage derived from the intro- duftion of bougies; and I have feen many fimilar ones, though I Icarcely think fo de- monftrative of the utility of this mode of treatment. I know fome patients with oc- cafional attacks of dysury, and who have this tendernefs of the remote part of the ure- thra, in whom the paflage of a bougie, toge- ther with warm bathing of the perineeum and adjacent parts, very fpeedily relieves a difeafe, which had proved very tedious and diftreffing, before thefe meafures were adopted. If a bougie be introduced, for the firft time, in a cafe of this defcription, fevere pain is felt, and faintnefs is occafioned: if this operation be repeated three days afterwards, the pain per- Iiaps is much lefs fevere, and it may dimi- nifh at each fucceeding introduction of the inftrument. Should this be found to be the •cafe, furely nothing need be farther faid in commendation of this mode of treatment. The morbid fenfibility of parts is dimi- o 3 nifhed198 ON DISEASES ^ nlfhed by it. This happened in the three firft cafes in a remarkable degree, and I have known it take place in many others. Nor is there any thing in this event that fhould excite furprife: every furgeon is familiar with the fame circumftance, with relation to ftric-. lures in the urethra. The firft introduftions of a bougie are very painful; the fubfequent ones become to be even difres^arded. Still, however, I think it may be ufeful to dwell a little on this fubje61:, and to confider the pro- bable caufes of thefe eftefts, as it may tend to ellabliih rules for our condu6l in practice. It appears to me, that wc diminifn the morbid as well as the natural fenfibilityof parts by doing them a degree of violence, fhort of that which produces a kind of re-action in them, by which their fenfibility is heightened. This is, in- deed, the confideration which guides my pra6lice in thefe and in many other .cafes. If, even in flriflures of the urethra, the fen- fibility of the canal becomes increafed by the intro^uftion of bougies, or, in other words, if inflammation is excited, furely it is wrong to profecute fuch mcafures at this junfture. If the morbid fenfibiUty be diminifhed, we may199 OF THE URETHRA, kc. may life more freedom in the profecutioii of our meafurcs. In pafTmg the bougie, in the cafes now under confideration, it ought at firft, I think, to be fo fmall as not at all to diftend the irritable urethra. I have always curved it confiderably, and kept the point in contact with the upper furface of the urethra, as it paffes through the gland. I recom- mend warm bathing to the perinajum, with a view to obviate or diminifli irritation. If I find, on the fecond introdu6lion of the bougie, the fcnhbility of the parts diminiflied, it induces me afterwards to proceed more freely ; but at all times with a caution excited and regulated by the confideration which I have mentioned. Now, though fuch con- du6t has been fuccefsful in many inftances, I am concerned to ftate, that it has failed in fome others j and, when I clearly afcertain that I am not likely to fucceed, I ceafe to make farther attempts by the introdu6lion of bougies, and purfue only general methods, fuch as warm bathing, bleeding by Jeeches, ' &c. When there are flriflures, which it is right to enlarge, and when the irritation of the proftatic part of the urethra is not reheved 04 by200 ON DISEASES by the meafures which have been fuggefted, I pafs the bougie through the laft ftrifture, without carrying it on, fo as to irritate the tender part of the urethra, which Hes behind it. A knowledge of the nature of difeafes cannot but be defirable, even though it does not enable us to cure them all. If ftri6lures are removed, and dyfury remains, I believe it is common to confider it as arifnig from an irritable bladder: now, though this may be generally true, there are many exceptions. I do not find that attention is paid to that de- fcription of cafes, which makes the fubjecl of the prefent paper: I was unacquainted with them till I met with the cafes which I firft mentioned : the knowledge which I have thus obtained, has enabled me to afford relief in many cafes, and has prevented me fxom ervof in others.not OF THE URETHRA, &C, SECTION II. On the conflitutional Origin and treatment of Difcafes of the Urethra. ttaving in the preceding fe6lion, pointed out one caufe which renders ftriftures and other difeafes of the uretlrra difficult of cure, in this, I fhall advert to another; I mean a ftate of irritabiUty and diforder of that canal, produced or maintained by conflitu- tional caufes. To explain my ideas on this fubjeft, I wifh, in the firft place to excite the attention of the profeffion to the confli- tutional origin of diforders of the urinary organs. That they are very liable to be dif- ordered by the flate of the health in general, is very apparent. Indigeflion becomes a caufe of foul and unhealthy urine, in confe- quence of much unaffimilated matter being conveyed into the blood with the chyle. Nervous irritation affefts the kidney and im- pairs its fundions, fo that whilfl under its influence, fcarcely any thing but water is fe- parated by that organ from the blood. The ri?rvous irritation at the fame time operates onON DISEASES on the bladder, and creates a frequent' and fometimes urgent defire to void this unfli- mulating urine. Many perfons during the day, or until they have dined, are greatly in- commoded by this circumftance; whilft on the contrary, after dinner, nervous irritation ceafmg, and the urine becoming in confe- quence loaded with falts and animal matter, the bladder will retain the acrid urine, even in a large quantity, for a great number of hours. In other cafes, nervous irritation takes place, and limpid urine is frequently voided after dinner ; which I merely mention, be- caufe it may tend to throw light on the caufe and nature of the nervous irritation If the kidneys and bladder can thus be operated upon by nervous irritation, it is reafonable to fuppofe, that the ufethra will participate * The qualities of the urine are fometimes the only circumftances by which we can difcover that there is ge- neral irritation of the nervous fyftem ; they alfo denote imperfedl digeftion; they may further indicate the ftate of the blood; and for all tliefe reafons they deferve par- ticular attention and inveftigation, " inOF THE URETHRA, &C. 203 in the affe(St;on; and I am convinced by- numerous obfervations, that many difeafes of the urethra, in both fexes, originate from a continuance of this kind of conftitutional dy- fury. The cafes of fuch difeafes occurring in females who have paffed the middle period of life, will probably be confidered as affording the moft unequivocal proofs of the corre6lnefs of thefe opinions. Under fuch circumftances, I have known in different inflances, flric- tures in the urethra, induration and tender- nefs of the whole tube, and even ulceration of its orifice to enfue. Though I have feen relief obtained in cafes of this defcription by bougies and local remedies, yet I beUeve the treatment of fuch difeafes ought to be conftitutional, and that fuch treatment will fucceed in curing the difeafe without local remedies. I know one inftancein which the dyfury had been very fevere, and two con- fiderable ftri6lures had formed in the urethra; there was alfo a thickening accompanied with whitcnefs and hardnefs of the mem- brane of the vagina, caufmg a contradion in the orifice of that canal; yet all dyfury ceafed, and no inconvenience was experienced upon, I the204 ON DISEASES tlie patient's acquiring better health ; which change was efFejfted partly by medicine, and partly by removal into the country. Wo- men will fuffer a great deal from thefe dif- orders before they reveal their diftrefs j and when from the urgency of the fymptoms, and the belief that they have a ftone in the blad<^er, they are willing to fubmit to exami- nation, the diforder may be fpeedily and completely relieved and cured by means which have the efFe6l of tranquillizing ner- vous irritation. It may be ufeful to relate a cafe in proof of this affertion, CASE V. A lady, between thirty and forty years of age, who had long fuffered very confiderably from dyfury, agreed to permit an examina- tion to be made of the nature of a difeafe, which, from the /everity of its effe6ls, flie could but believe to be of a very ferious and alarming nature. On enquiry, I found, that though fhc voided her urine frequently, and with great painOF THE URETHRA, 2cC. 205 pain, yet it flowed freely, and that fhe did not fuffer that extreme and continued pain afterwards, which is generally the confe- quence of the ftone. I found alfo, by enquiry, that her bowels were not in a proper ftate, and her tongue was much furr'd. Suppofnig that a ftate of nervous irritation might be caufed or aggra- vated by diforder of the digeftive organs, I objefted to making any examination of the ftate of the urethra, &c. till the fun6lions of thofe organs were put right by medicine, becaufe I was aware that nothing but a con- vi6lion of the indifpenfable necelfity of exa- mination would have induced her to fub- mit to it. In a very fhort time, the ftate of the primae viae being corre61ed, and her health in general amended, all dyfury com- pletely ceafed. Dyfury of this defcription is liable to oc- cur in paroxyfms. I have known it alternate with diforders of the bowels, anid v/ith rheu- matic affeftion, which I think, Ihews that there is a common conftitutional origin, pro-206 ON DISEASES ducliig fuch various complaints; and I repeat, that I have known fuch dyfury lead to actual difeafe of the affe6led organs. It is very common for men, who have been mar- ried many years, and who perhaps never had gonorrhosa, (or if they had in their youth, it is probable that it had left no diforder in the canal of the urethra,) to gradually acquire, as they advance in life, difeafes of the urinary organs. Surely, then, the origin of fuch difeafes muft be regarded as fpontaneous, and likely to be induced and maintained by whatever occafions irritation in the affected organs. There is, however, no period of life exempt from this kind of dyfury. Children are fre- quently much afFe6tcd by it, and at that age when the bodily powers are generally in the greateft vigour, if they become difordered, dyfury occurs in common with other difeafes. I have mentioned in the firft part of thefe obfervations, in fpeaking of the conftitutional origin of local difeafes, that I have known dyfury of this defcription. I fub-OF THE URETHRA, ScC, ioj 1 fubjoin another ftriking cafe of confti- tutional dyfury, occuning in a child, CASE VI. A child, about two years of age, became affefted with dyfury, for the relief of which, various means were tried without benefit: on the contrary, the fymptoms increafed, and ftrikingly refembled thofe occafioned by a ftone in the bladder. The calls to void the urine were frequent and urgent, and the pain afterwards very fevere. There was an elongation and ftri^ture of the orifice of the prepuce, which induced a furgeon who at- tended the child, to divide that part, as he thought it might contribute to the difficulty experienced in expelling the urine. Under thefe circumftances, the child was examined by a furgeon of great profeffional eminence, who had no doubt that the fymptoms were caufed by a ftone, which he thought he felt; yet recomipended that no operation fhould be attempted till it had increafed in fize. The child continued to fufFer in the fame manner for two years, when I was defired to examineON DISEASES examine him. I could not, however, difcovei* ajiy ftone, and upon enquiry, I found that the child complained of confidei'able pains in his loins, and that his digeflive organs were greatly difordered in the manner that I have defcribed in the firft volume of thefe obfervations. Unirritating and undebili- tating dofes of the pilul: hydrarg: were given every fecond night, and fl:ri6l attention was paid to keep the bowels clear, without in- ducing what is ordinarily called purging. The effe61: of this treatment was furprifmg, all the fymptoms were immediately relieved, and they completely ceafed in a month, at which time the fun61:ions and fecretions of the digeftive organs appeared to be fo cor- re6lly healthy, that all medicine was difcon- tinued. After fome months, a flight relapfe of dyfury took place, which immediately ceafed, upon refuming for a fliort time the fame plan of treatment; and the boy has fince remained perfeftly well, though feveral years have elapfed. If, then, irritation of the urinary organs, ■ even to a degree produ6live of local difeafes inOF THE URETHRA, &C, 2og in them may occur from conftitutional caufes, and more apparently from a diforder of the digeftive organs, I need not then urge the propriety of our endeavouring to keep the latter organs, as nearly as pollible, in a ftatc of health, whilft we are endeavouring to relieve the difeafes of the former by local meafures. Of the beneficial efFefts of fuch condu6l, I could relate many inftances, but it does not feem neceflary to detail cafes in proof of fo felf-evldent a propofition. I have explained in the firft volume, my ideas of the mode by which relieving diforders of the digeftive or- gans, relieves and cures local difeafes j and in. local difeafes of the pelvic vifcera another rea- fon may be fuggefled for the benefit which is obtained. It has been obferved, that in difor- ders of the digeftive organs, the lower part of the inteftinal canal is frequently moft affe61:ed. Irritation in the reftum muft affect the plexus of nerves, from which not only that inteftine, but the pelvic vifcera in common derive their energies ; and thus it may lead to a fimilar participation of difeafe. VOL. 11^ON DISEASES SECTION III. , Onfome EffeBs of Difeafes of the Urethra. T SHALL take the prefent opportunity of ex- citing the attention of the profeffioa to fome efFefts of diforders of the urethra, which have not hitherto received in my opinion a fufficient fhare of attention. If a violent ,afFe6tion of this canal can produce a corref- ponding degree of inflammation of the teftis, as it frequently does in gonorrhoea, it may reafonably be expe6led, that a lefs degree of diforder in the urethra may produce a milder irritation of the teftis, which may terminate in a flow difeafe of that gland. Indeed it has appeared to me that there are two circum- ftances cauflng irritation and confequent dif- eafe of the- teflrisi one is, diforder of the- urethra j and the other, that derangement of the conftitution at large, which I have de- scribed in the firft part of thefe obfervations. I need not point aut how inefficacious any local treatment of an irritated or difeafed gland mufl: be, whilfl: we leave the caufes whichOF THE URETHRA, &C. ifl I which produced it ftill to operate in full force for its continuance. I proceed to re- late a» few cafes, in wliich irritation origi- nating in the urethra firft caufed, and fub- fequently maintained, difeafe of the teftis. CASE. A gentleman who had been confined with a chronic difeafe of the left teftis, which had proved very refra6lory and irreducible by various means employed for its cure, applied to me when the gland was four times its na- tural fize, and very hard. I recommended the application of three or four leeches once a week, a bread and water poultice at night, and aq: ammon: acetat: during the day. This treatment was purfued for fix weeks with very little benefit. I then changed the poultice to one made of linfeed, over which mercurial ointment was fpread. The oint- ment was alfo rubbed upon the fcrotum in the morning, and a foft rag applied over it. The patient Ukewife took a compound calomel pill every night. ThisON DISEASES 212 This treatment was alfo perfevered in for about fix weeks, but with no manlfeft advan- tage. I then put two fetons * through the fcrotum, and continued the poultice at night and a dreffing of fpermaceti cerate during the day. Under this treatment the teftis diminiftied very confiderably in fize, but at the end of two months, the fetons had gra- dually come out, in confequence of the ul- ceration which they occafioned. Shortly afterwards, the teftis became painful, and it enlarged to its former dimenfions, fo that no advantage was obtained from all thefe endeavours to reduce the difeafe. I had fre- quently enquired of this patient refpe6ling the ftate of his urethra, and been as often told that he was not confcious of any diforder exifting in that canal. Now, however, on repeating my enquiries, he faid, that he had , * Setons may be conveniently made and worn in the Icrotum. I firft employexl them in conformity to thofe general principles which regulate our condu(3; in the treatment of local difeafes ; and I have known feveral in- ftances of difeafed teftis, which refifted various local modes of cure, and even confiderable courfes of mercury yield, and get well when fetons were employed. jj remarkedOF THE URETHRA, &C. 2J^ remarked the ftream of urine to be fmall, and that the calls to void it were more ur- gent than formerly. On pafling a bougie, I found two ftri6lures confiderably contracted and a tender ftate of the urethra where it pafles through the proftate. Thefe dif- eafes being relieved, all irritation in the teftis •ceafed, and the enlargement rapidly fubfided; fo that in two months it was fcarcely larger than the other, and ail difeafe had ceafed. This happened without any other local ap- plication than a poultice at night, and fup- port by a bandage. Even the poultice at night was foon difcontinued. This patient has had no return of difeafe of the teftis, and many years have elapfed fmce the occurrences which I have been relating, ^ The following cafe was drawn up by a medical man, of confiderable information and talents, who was himfelf the fubjedl of it, and who was convinced with refpeft to his own cafe, of the truth of thofe opinions which I am now offering to the public. CASE314- ON DISEASES CASE. setat. thirty, about four years fince had an uiieafy fenfation in both tefticles, which, however, occurred fo feldom, and was fo trifling, that he paid little atten- tion to iti about a twelvemonth after, he found the left tefticle harder than natural, but not enlarged ; for fome time previous to this, he had been obhged to void his urine very early in the morning from great irri- tation to do fo J but not too frequently du- ring the day j and occafionally had a tight- nefs and fenfe of conftriftion in the peri- naeum, with frequent aching pain in the glans penis. The tefticle remained in the above-mentioned ftate (without pain or in- treafe) till March 1806, when he received a blow from an accident on horfeback; no violent pain was immediately felt, nor did any apparent alteration take place till about a fortnight after, when he perceived the tefticle larger and much harder than it had hitherto been 5 and it gradually though (lowly increafed till the end of Auguft, when he faw Mr. Abernethy. The teftis was at this time of twice its natural fize, hard and pain- :. . fulI OF THE URETHRA, &C. 215 ful to the touch. Leeches were appHed once a week, and the tefticle v/as kept fafpended, and wyapped durhig the day in a cloth dip- ped in tincl: opii: and water, and an evapo- rating pouhice was applied at night. By this treatment it gradually became lefs, but the hardnefs ftill continued. He faw Mr. A. again in September, and was then dehred to rub camphorated mercurial ointment upon the teflicle, and cover it with a foap plafter. The tefticle ftill kept decreafmg, but re- mained equally indurated till the twentieth of November, when it fwclled wdth conft- derable pain and irritation, and began to adhere to the fcrotum *. He again faw Mr. Abernethy, who introduced a fmall bougie, and found a ftriflure about fix inches from the orifice of the urethra, and a fecond the eighth of an inch from the former. The bougie paffed without much pain or diffi- culty through the ftri6lures, till it came to the proftate when much pain and fenfation • The teftis was now about three times its natural fize, and at the upper part of the epidydimis, the fcrotum had adhered to the fubjacent part, and was fo inflamed as to indicate the probability of the formation of an abfcefs. P 4 ofON DISEASES of heat, irritation, and a ftrong inclination to make water were felt; the bougie, however, paffed into the bladder, and was clofely held by the fphin61:er. Theperinaeumwas then ordered to be bathed night and morning with warm water, and a bread and water poultice to be applied to the tefticle, which were done, and at the end of the week, the pain and irritation in the tefticle were greatly relieved ; the fame bougie was then paffed, but with greater eafe, and the painful fenfations which had before been felt on its entering the proftate were much diminifhed. The warm bathing and poultices were continued,and the fame bougie palTed at the end of the following week with ftill greater eafe and flighter fenfations. At the end of the third week the ftri6tures were touched with kali pur: which produced little irritation j and on the week following a much larger bougie paffed with ealej the warm bathing and poultices being continued in the interval. During the three following weeks the large bougie paiTed with great eafe; no irritation was felt after it, and the fenfation§, whilft it was going through the proftate, were flighter each fucceffive time. TheOF THE URETHRA, &C. dlj The tefticle at the end of this time, (feven weeks) was reduced to its natural fize, and was become nearly undiftinguifhable from one that had never been difeafed. Shortly after the firft introdu6lion of the bougie, all the {hooting pains and occafional uneafinefs of the teftis ceafed, and it fo ra- pidly and regularly declined as the ftate of the urethra amended, as to leave no doubt but that the amendment of the teftis is to be af- cribed to the relief of difprder in the urinary canal. CASE, A gentleman between twenty and thirty years of age, confulted me on account of an hydrocele, from which I difcharged about fix ounces of fluid. The tefticle did not ap^ pear enlarged, but both it and the bag of the tunica vaginalis feemed very tender to the touch. I recommended that the parts fhould be fupported, and that Goulard's wafh, fliould be applied. In about fix months the the tunica vaginalis was more diftended than at 6rll, and as the part was troublefome from its2l8 ON DISEASES its fize and fenfations, it was again punc- tured ; and the fame circumftances were noted upon the evacuation of the water.. The hydrocele again colle6led, and when it was full, which happened in about fiX months^ the patient was defirous of having the tunica vaginahs inje6led, in order that he might be made radically well. As there was nothing prohibitory except the. tendernefs, I confented to his defire ; but when the fluid was difcharged this time, he complained of greater pain than formerly, and could fcarcely bear me to touch the teflicle, v/hich made me diflike to perform the operation, and it was therefore poftponed till the next time that the hydrocele fhould become full. I thought it right, however, to dire6l the application of leeches, once a week, and of linen kept damp with Goulard's wafh*. Under this treatment the * I have known many cafes of hydrocele, the confequence of irritation and inflammation, cured by evaporating wafhes: and it would be right to diftinguifli the kind of hydro- cele, upon which fuch treatment may be expefted to have beneficial effeft. Without fuch difcrimination, a furgeon, feeing a hydrocele cured by thefe means, would profecute 6 theor THE URETHRA, &C. 219 ' the hydrocele filled very ilowly. After four montlis had elapfed, the patient confulted me relative to fores wliich frequently broke out upon the prepuce ; fome of which were very tardy in pealing. He alfo was fubje6t to a confiderable coileclion of that fiibftance which is fecreted to moiften and lubricate the prepuce. I told him that thefe fymptoms were the effects of irritation of the prepuce, and was led to enquire more particularly into the (late of the urethra than I had done before, becaufe 1 thought both the diforder of the teflis and the prepuce might originate in the fame caufe, that is, difeafe in the urethra. On examining that canal with a bougie, I found ftri6lures, and a tender flate of it where it paffes through the prolate. By local warm bathing, and the occaiional and gentle ufe of bougies, the morbid lenfibility of the canal the fame meafures in an indolent, and, as I may call it» dropfical hydrocele; or finding the means fail in many cafes from their indifcriminate ufe, he may be induced to confider the treatment upon the whole as inefficacious ; and thus negleft it in cafes, in which it is likely to be beneficial. was2fiO ON DISEASES ^ . was diminiflied. The ftri6lures were touched with kali purum, and in conclufion, I could pafs a large-fized bougie without occafioning any particular uneafmefs in one part more than in another. The effect of this treatment was, that the remaining fluid of the hydrocele was foon difperfed, and the teftis was no longer iiTi- table or painful when compreffed, fo that even the fufpenfory bandage was laid aj[ide,nor has any inconvenience been experienced fmce that time, which is more than four years ago. The fores alfo on the prepuce healed, and that part was much lefs irritable, but it ftill remains fo in fome degree; indeed, fores have been fmce contradled from fexual intercourfe, which circumftance may perhaps have con- tributed to prolong the diforders of that part. I alfo fufpe6l that the urethra may again have become^n fome degree irritable, Jn the foregoing cafe, it is faid, that the habitual occurrence of fores on the prepuce, ledOF THE URETHRA, &C. 221 led me to furpe6t diforders of the urethra ; and this is an efFe6l of fuch diforders, which I think has been but Uttle adverted to, and which is neverthelefs deferving of particular attention. That diforders of the urethra do, in many cafes, caufe temporary or con- tinual irritation in the external parts which are continued from its orifices, I fhall prove by the recital of a few cafes, CASE. A gentleman between forty and fifty years of age, had for fifteen years been fubje6l to fores about the prepuce and glans, fo as to oblige him to pay conftant attention to pre- vent and control them. He had confulted many eminent furgeons, who recommended various wafiies and modes of treatment. A new application had generally the effeft of healing the fores, but when perfifted in for fome time, gradually loft its effea. When the patient confulted me, the whole of the Ikin covering the glans, and lining the pre- puce, was thickened and white, and the pre- puce was fo thickened, that though it was naturally large and loofe, it was difficult to unfoldON DISEASES 922 unfold it. There were numerous fores of an oblong form in the tranfverfe direftion, appearing like chops, covered by adhering pus. I told the patient that it was neceffary to enquire whether there were any caufe maintaining this irritable ftate of the pre- puce, and mentioned that I had obfervcd it very frequently to depend upon ftri6lures of the urethra. The patient had no fufpicion that he Jiad fuch diforder, for he voided his urine readily, and not much more frequently than is common. Upon examining with a bougie, however, feveral much contra6led and very firm ftriftures were difcovered; and theie being relieved, the fores on the prepuce healed without any further attention, than what cleanlinefs required. The forefkin be- came foft and pliant, as did alfo the Ikin which lined it, and is extended over the glans. This cafe occurred many years ago; and as I have not feen the patient fnice, I conclude that the relief which he thus ob- tained was permanent. ToOF THE URETHRA, &C. 223 To fliew that ftj-iaures may cxlft in the urethra, and may perhaps prove the caufe of more vexatious diforders, though the original exciting caufe efcapes obfervation, I may mention an in fiance which occurred to a medical man. CASE. This gentleman had been fubje6l to fores which frequently broke out on the prepuce without any evident caufe. There was not, however, any ftriking evidence of general irritation in that part, as in the former in- ftance. Sometimes the fores which occurred, put on the appearance of chancres; and in confequence of the advice of his friends, he underwent a faUvation. The fores for which the mercury was employed, healed under the ufe of that medicine, but broke out upon its difcontinuance. He then confulted me, and upon my mentionhig my fufpicions of ftric- tures exifting in the urethra, he fmiled at the opinion, and faid that it might be given to patients in general, but not to thofe of the medical profeffion. I told him that nothing would convince me that I was in error, but hisGN DISEASES his permitting me to examine by means of a bougie. Two confiderable ftri^tures were found, and thefe being relieved, the fores healed under fimple drefTmgs. The gentle- man, however, did not refide in London, and I know not the farther hiftory of the cafe, which I mention merely for the pur- pofes that have been ftated in the beginning. I have alfo feen a very troublefome phy- mofis, in which the prepuce could not be retraced without great difficulty and pain, depending upon the fame caufe, in a cafe in which the patient had been long accuftomed to the daily ufe of bougies *j but after the ftri6lures * As ftri£lures of the urethra depend on a difordered ftate of parts of the canal, fo when the introduftion of fimple bougies fails to cure them, the too frequent ufe of thofe inflruments fometimes keeps up and aggravates an irritation, which might otherwife, perhaps, fubfide. This is a fubjeft foreign to my prefent purpofe; but I mention it, to introduce the following cafe, which deferves pub- lication. A gentleman more than fifty years of age, had for more than twenty years been in the habit of introducing bou- gies for himfelf, which he generally Icept in for an hour daily. At\ 0)F THE URETHRA, &C. 225 ftridures had been touched with kali, and the conftant ufe of bougies defifted from, the phymofis relaxed, and the prepuce could be At length his urethra became fo irritable, that he could fcarcely void his urine, which he was frequently called upon to attempt. ApprehenfiVe of cauftic bougies being em- ployed, he confulted me, and I found I could introduce a fmall bougie without much difficulty ; it halted at fe*- Veral ftri£lures, but with very gentle preflljre it pafled through them. I recommended him to bathe the peri- naeum and contiguous parts with warm water, by means of a fponge, night and morning, and told him, I wifhed to introduce the bougie again after three days had elapfed. He was extremely apprehenfive that the paflage would completely clofe during the interval, and ftrongly remon- ftrated againft fuch inefficient pradlice. On the third day he acknowledged that he pafled his urine more freely, ind the bougie which I had firfl: introduced went through the urethra without impediment. I took one of a little larger fize, and pafled it with the fame fort of refifliance which the firfl: had met with. The warm bathing was continued, and by purfuing thefe meafures for three weeks, I pafl"ed a bougie one-third larger than he had been able at the befl; of times to do for many years. The patient now voided his urine in a large fhream, and not more frequently than is common ; in ftiort he felt himfelf perfeftly well. Since that time, no bouo-ie has been Introduced, except once, annually by myfelf, that he might be aflured that the ftriaures had in no degree contrafted. ^oi"Q.. retraced226 ON DISEASES retra£led without the leaft difficulty or uneafinefs. Thefe cafes are related to Ihew, that irritation and difeafes may be induced in parts, which have a fympathetic connexion with the urethra, even where the original afFe6lion may have been too trivial to attra6t attention. It appears to me to be of the utmoft importance to inveftigate, as far as poffible, the caufes of difeafes; for how can we expeft to cure the effe6t, while the pro- ducing caufe continues to operate ? The fecondary difeafe may alfo become even of an eftablifhed or malignant nature, if there be difeafed propenfities in the conftitution or aife6led part. Difeafes in the canal of the urethra may not only caufe fuch effefts as I have repre- fented, by producing a ftate of irritation on the continued furface of the glans and prepuce, but they may alfo caufe fores con- traced from fexual intercourfe to be very irritable, pecuUar, and flow in getting well. I have feen many fuch inftances, but none m n whichOP THE^URETHRA, ScC. 627 which the fa6t was more ftrikingly apparent than in the following cafe. CASE. A gentleman, who had juft arrived in this country, had connexion with a female, which was followed by general irritation of the prepuce, and furface. of the glansw Shortly afterwards fix fores formed, three of which became of confiderable fize. I de- fired him to wafh the parts three times a day with the poppy-fomentation, and to encircle the penis by linen kept damp with it, in order to lelfen the heat of the part. He at the fame time took five grains of the quickfdver pill night and morning. After fome days, he could no longer re- tra£l the prepuce, fo that he was obliged to cleanfe the part by rrieans of a fyringe. After a little time; a v/eak folution of zincum vitriolatum was tried, but the pain it occa- fioned was too fevere to permit its continu- ance. It was therefore left off, but after four days tried a fecond time, when the pain which it occafioned was very tolerable, and 0^2 asON DISEASES' 2l8 as it diminifhed daily, it allowed us to irt-- creafe the ftrength of the wafh. After a few days he was able to retra6): the fore-lkin, when the fmaller fores were healed and the principal ones had granulated, fo that a fungus bulged forth above their fur- face ; they appeared of a tawny colour, and their edges were flightly thickened. I flightly touched thefe fores every third day with ar- gentum nitratum, which appeared to do them much good. The vitriolic wafli was con- tinued. In about five weeks from the com- mencement of the diforder, the patient was quite.welL The mercury had occafionally af- fe6led the bowels, which obliged the patient frequently to omit his pill in the morning. It never affefted the gums, nor did I urge the continuance of it, after^his fores were healed, becaufe I did not believe them to be fy- philitic. About three weeks afterwards, being in company with fome dilTolute females, he had his paffions much excited, and one of them forcibly compreiTed the penis with ha* hand.©F THE URETHRA, &C. 229 hand. The irritable ftate of the forelkin again took place, and a great number of fores broke out, particularly behind the glans, which appeared like chops, being long and nat wide, and the matter, which they difcharged, adhered to the ilirface. After a few days he could not retraft the prepuce, fo that I can give no diftinft account of thefe numerous fores. It appeared that they were very fretful, for the external fkin became inflamed oppofite to them j and they gave much pain when preflure was made on the inflamed part. The external inflammation and tendernefs on preflure changed their fituation, fliewing, that a fore which was moft fretful at one time, became lefs fo at another. The fores were, however, fo painful as to prevent the patient from fleeping; and as no amendment of the complaint took place in three weeks, though various local mea- fures were employed during that period, the patient wiflied to ufe mercury, and I ac- 3 quiefcedON DISEASES quiefded in his defire. As this medicine for- merly afFe£led the bowels, I defired him to rub in two drachms by meafure every night, which was done for one week, without any amendment in the fores, or indeed any per- ceptible effe6l 0*1 the conftitution. The patient now complained of a pain in the perinseum, when he voided his urine j and I directed him to bathe that and the conti^ guous parts for feven or eight minutes, with comfortably warm water by means of a large fponge, three times a day. This produced a moft evident diminution in the irritability of the fores, and convinced me that there was a fl:ri6lure j I therefore introduced a bou- gie, and found two ftri6lures, the front one of which was fo tight and tough, as to admit but a fmall bougie to pafs through it, which it grafped and indented. The warm bathing was continued. I touched the ftrifture with kali, as Mr, Whately has recommended. From the time that the ftrifture became an an obje6l of attention, the fores had fo ra- pidly amended, that in a few days the patient was enabled to retra6t the prepuce j when it was found, that though the fores had been numerousOF THE URETHRA, &C. numerous and extenfive, they had been merely fuperficial, and had not deftroyed any part. From the time that I firft paffed the ^ bougie and afcertained a ftrifture, the mer- cury was (lifcontinued, neverthelefs the fores healed fo rapidly, that in ten days they were perfe6lly well. After the fenfibility of the ftrifture had been heightened by the touch of the kali, the patient complained of acute pain in the fores when he made water; and once, when I touched fome of the fores with argenturn nitratum, he complained of equally fliarp pain in the perinseum. I lately attended a married man, who had been for many years tormented by occafional fores forming about the prepuce, which were fo irritable, as to be prohibitory of fexual in- tercourfe. In the laft attack they were con- fidered by feveral furgeons as fyphilitic, but as they had not the charafters of that difeafe, I dilTuaded the patient from the ufe of mer- cuiy otherwife than as an alterative. This patient upon taking food had the pain and inflamrON DISEASES inflammation of his fores fo aggravated, that he was obhged to rife from table, and bathe the affected parts with warm water. Thcfe fores immediately loft their irritability, and even rapidly got well, upon a ftri6tare in the urethra being relieved by local warm bathing and the ufe of bougies. I have ftill further to obferve, with re- fpe6l to the occafional confequences of dif^ eafes of the urethra, that many difeafes of the glands in the groin originate from them. I fhall not, however, detail any cafes in evi- dence of this fa61:. It will be fufiicient to fay, that I have feen feveral cafes of enlarged inguinal glands difperfed by relieving dif- orders in the urethra; and I have feen in- ftances of foul and irritable fores, lofmg their difeafed chara61:ers, and healing from the fame caufe. The latter event is not, indeed, likely to be a frequent occurrence. In a gonorrhoea, the glands in the groin are commonly irritated, and fometimes flightly fwollenj the fwelling rarely increafes and fuppurates, except in cafes where thereOF THE URETftRA, &C. IS a predlfpofitioii to difeafe in thofe glands. If then, irritation in the urethra, occurring from gonorrhoea, can thus afFecl the inguinal glands, it may be rationally inferred, that other caufes of irritation of the urethra may- produce fimilar confequences. Nofturnal emilTions are alfo commonly the erFe6l of morbid irritability or difeafe of the urethra; and it feems therefore irrational to attempt to cure them by tonic medicines or fedatives, without adverting to the flate of the urethra. Indeed in many of the perfons who are fub- je6l to thefe difcharges, the morbid fenfibility of the urethra is connefted with a difordered condition of the digeftive organs; which is of itfelf a fufficient caufe of great weaknefs and hypocondriafc feelings. After thus ad- verting to fuch caufes, we cannot wonder at the terrors felt and defcribed in cafes of tabes dorfalis. That difeafes of the urethra may exift without producing the confequent dif- eafes which I have been defcribing is very manifeft ; that fuch difeafes may arife, inde- pendently of the caufes to which I have at- tributed them, is alfo evident. My objedl therefore is merely to announce, that I have vei*y234 ON DISEASES, &C. very frequently obferved the difeafes, which make the fubje6l of this fe6tion, to aiife from a difordered ftate of the urethra, leaving it to the experience of the public to determine, how far fuch cafes may be regarded as fre- quent occurrences in general pra6lice. I Strahan and Piefton, .Printers-Street, London.I